*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

ARVARD CLASS

OF 1932
-nty-fifth Anniversary Report

 

CAMBRIDGE
Printed for the Class
I19§$7

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1932

Records of the Class

WILLIAM ABBOTT

HOME ApprEss: Woodley Park Towers, Washington, D.C.

BORN: Feb. 15, 1910, Dallas, Texas. PARENTS: John Simpson Abbott, Loui-
ville Blailock.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

OccUPATION: Government Service.

ARMEN GREGORY ABDIAN

HOME ADDRESS: 2809 Radius Rd., Silver Spring, Md.

OFFICE ADpRESS: U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, Washington, D.C.

BORN; Jan. 28, 1912, Somerville, Mass. parENTs: Gregory Nazareth Abdian,
Anne Boyajian.

PREPARED AT: Troy High School, Troy, N.Y.; Arlington High School,
Arlington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MarrieD: Madelynn Hope Watson, May 4, 1940, Wahiawa, T.H. (divorced
1941); Margaret Katherine McKnight, Aug. 29, 1946, Frankfurt-am-
Main, Germany. cHitpren: Charles Gregory, Feb. 21, 1948, Alan
Geoffrey, Dec. 30, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Haig Gregory Abdian, ’30.

occupation: Chief, Manpower Branch, U.S. Atomic Energy Commission,

AFTER studying the “enclosed sample biographies” which ac-
companied the form letter soliciting information for the Twenty-
fifth Anniversary Report, I was absolutely appalled by the idea
of writing an autobiography. I was finally moved to make this
humble effort by the inherent challenge of the idea itself, by mv
self-centered pleasure in reminiscing about the past quarter-
century, and finally by a selfish desire to achieve publication.
My “latest and most up-to-date handy-size” dictionary defines

[1]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

those years. Of course, in Oak Ridge itself, which is famous for
its infamously high birth rate, this event caused not a single ripple.
The long-subdued desire for metropolitan life and atmosphere
finally asserted itself, and we found ourselves returning to Wash-
ington once again in December, 1955. This move appears to be
the beginning of Phase IV, in new surroundings and a new area
of work as chief of A.E.C.’s Manpower Branch. Here, we oc-
cupy a modest home in suburban Silver Spring, watch our sons
play at their work and work at their play, participate now and
then in a session of duplicate, or go bowling when we can find
a tenpin alley in this mecca of duckpin enthusiasts, take in an
occasional concert or play, exchange visits with a few friends,
and wonder whether we'll ever gain any headway against the
ineluctable tide of bills, bills and more bills.

Along the way I should have mentioned the few chance con-
tacts I’ve had with others of the Class. They were fleeting and
transitory events in the long passage of time, but I remember each
one of them clearly — Warren Delano in Boston in 1938; Sumner
Greenberg in Honolulu in 1942; Warren Delano (for the second
time, believe it or not!) in Honolulu in either late 1942 or early
1943; Charlie Bound in New York in 1944; and Jake Deery in
Frankfurt, Germany, in 1946. Although generally far removed
from class activities and members, I have followed with genuine
interest the achievements of many of the more notable members
of the Class. Time and distance accentuate the pride of the
alumnus in his class, and I have shared equally in the pride with
which I know all of ’32 have viewed the many outstanding
accomplishments of individual members.

MOSES ABRAMOVITZ

HOME ADDRESS: 543 W. Crescent Drive, Palo Alto, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Economics, Stanford University, Stanford, Calif.

BORN: Jan. 1, 1912, Brooklyn, N.Y. Parents: Nathan Abramovitz, Betty
Goldenberg.

PREPARED AT: Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1032. DEGREES: A.B. sumzma cum laude, 1932} PH.D.
(Columbia Univ.), 1939.

marrieD: Carrie Glasser, June 23, 1937, Brooklyn, N.Y. cxitp: Joel Nathan,
July 19, 1950.

[6]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Professor of economics, Stanford University, member research
staff, National Bureau of Economic Research.

OFFICES HELD: Member editorial board, American Economic Review, 1951-54.

MEMBER OF: American Economic Association; American Statistical Associa-
tion; American Economic History Association, Royal Economic So-
ciety; American Association for the Advancement of Science.

puBLICATIONS: Price Theory for a Changing Economy; Inventories and
Business Cycles; The Economics of Growth; “Capital Formation and
Economic Growth,” editor, The Growth of Public Employment in
Great Britain (with Vera Eliasberg).

I LEFT Harvard supported by a Sheldon Fellowship and exhila-
rated by the prospect of a year in Europe — no small piece of
luck at any time and a pot of good fortune in 1932. Together
with Dave Popper, I saw Paris and the Rhine country as they
were before the second deluge. We saw our first Storm Trooper
rallies in Heidelberg and, if we were not too innocent, we were
certainly too full of good spirits to be greatly disturbed. But
those charming days were suddenly cut short. From Nuremberg,
I was called home by my father’s death.

Back in New York I began graduate work in economics at
Columbia and continued there until 1935. In 1936, I was lucky
enough to be brought back to Harvard as an instructor for two
years and had the fun and satisfaction of being again in Cam-
bridge as a teacher while my memories of life at college were
still warm. At Columbia I had met another young economist
whom I had known years before. I shall stick to the essentials.
The young economist was a woman. We were married in 1937,
so Carrie has had a year at Harvard, too.

In 1938, we were back in New York again, this time to work
at the National Bureau of Economic Research. In the years that
followed I learned what I know about scientific investigation
from Wesley Mitchell and Arthur F. Burns. Together they were
in the midst of their wide-ranging investigation of business cycles.
They set me to work studying inventory fluctuations. In the
fullness of time I got some results and published a book, a hefty
volume called Inventories and Business Cycles. It got some notice
and caused some controversy, and a certain number of copies
continue to serve as ballast for bookcases that might otherwise
be disturbed by a fresh breeze.

Early in 1942, I went to Washington to help Bob Nathan and

[7]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

the W.P.B. Planning Committee, first to goad the military into

laying out programs big enough to make use of a national pro-

ductive capacity they could not believe existed, and then to keep
them from losing the munitions they really needed under the load
of programs too ; large for even our capacity. A year later I was
at O.S.S. working for Professor Langer and Dean Mason on
German economic intelligence. My particular job was probably
of little use during the war itself, but it produced a collection of
materials and a few more or less knowledgeable individuals, and
both were needed after the German defeat. I became involved
in the negotiations about German reparations and in that way
came to see Moscow in the months right after V-E Day. Our
work, as we all now know, foundered in the general wreck of
American-Soviet relations. Together with many other stale-
mated delegations on many other subjects, ours eventually came
to Potsdam to be witnesses at the beginning of the partition of
Germany and Europe.

Since 1948 I have been a professor at Stanford. We have one
child, a boy now six. We think living here near San Francisco
as comfortable and delightful as it can be; so I rush back east
as often as I can to disgorge the lotus and discharge my guilt.

My chief activity is still, as it has been for many years, research
in economics — a stubborn, unyielding, frustrating and altogether
exasperating subject from which I don’t know how to shake
loose. What do I believe? One’s bent of mind is shaped by one’s
work Mine is inclined to skepticism, not beliefs, still less belief.

Very likely I have much to learn. Oh yes! I believe both parties
are right — in what each says about the other.

ALLAN WILFRED ADAMS

HOME ADDRESS; 1628 Emerson St., Beloit, Wis.

oFFIce ApprESs: P. O. Box 421, 419 Pleasant St., Beloit, Wis.

BORN: Aug. 23, 1910, Beloit, Wis. PARENTS: Harry Wilfred Adams, Prudence
Mary Bennett.

PREPARED AT: Beloit High School, Beloit, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932; LL.B. (Univ. of Wiscon-

sin), 1935.
marriep; Charlotte Amy Ray, Nov. 28, 1936, Chicago, Il, cuipren: Allan

[8]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Wilfred, Jr., April 18, 1941, Prudence Charlotte, Aug. 10, 1944; Polly
Holloway, Oct. 23, 1946; John Blanchard, Nov. 3, 1950.

occuPaTiIoN: General law practice; snack food manufacturer.

OFFICES HELD: Partner, Adams & Adams, Attorneys, since 1935, Adwaco
Associates, since 1956; director, Beloit Visiting Nurse Association, 1943-
45, Greater Beloit Association of Commerce, since 1953, Beloit Red
Cross, since 1954, Playtime Nursery School, since 1954, Beloit Y.M.C.A.,
since 1956; president, Beloit Bar Association, 1946, Rock County Bar
Association, 1946-47; general chairman, Beloit Community Chest, 1947;
vice-president and director, Beloit Historical Society, 1952; O-P.A.
Rent Director and Attorney, Beloit-Janesville, D.R.A., 1942-45; O.P.A.
Chief Rent Enforcement Attorney, Rockford-Dixon-Woodstock and
DeKalb Defense Rental Areas, 1943-45; secretary and director, Flakall
Corporation, South Beloit, since 1944, Dell Food Specialties Company,
Beloit, since 1948, National Celofab Corporation, Chicago, since 1948;
director and president, Adams Corporation, Beloit, since 1946, director

and general counsel, Allied Home Products, Beloit, since 1953, National
Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Company, Madison, Wis., since 1954;
director and treasurer, 1954-55, director and vice-president, 1956,
International Popcorn Association; acting professor of Constitutional
Law, Beloit College, 1943-44; trustee, 1949-53, chairman of trustees,
1955, 1956, First Congregational Church; president, Beloit Chapter,
University of Wisconsin Alumni, 1947; member, Committee on Wills,
University of Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation, since 1956.
MEMBER OF: Wisconsin Bar Association, since 1935; Beloit Country Club,
since 1935; American Bar Association; American Bar Foundation (fel-
low), since 1956; Federal Bar Association, since 1953; American Judi-
cature Society, since 1953; Young Presidents’ Organization, since 1954;
Delta Upsilon Fraternity, Harvard; Phi Delta Phi, legal fraternity,
University of Wisconsin; Harvard Club of Wisconsin (vice-president
since 1956).

PUBLICATIONS: “Declarations Against Interest,” Wisconsin Bar Journal, 1943.

UPON graduation I returned to my home in Beloit, Wisconsin,
where I was born and raised. In the fall of 1932 I entered law
school at the University of Wisconsin, my parents’ alma mater.
I selected Wisconsin primarily because I intended to practice in
Wisconsin. Contrary to my expectations, even though my name
wasn’t well-known on the Harvard Dean’s list, I soon discovered
chat a number of my law school classmates from other colleges
were apparently no less bright or determined than I. This chip
off the old ego really did me some good and I've since developed
: wholesome respect for others regardless of their education.
sackground, manners or appearance.

[9]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

stockholder’s suit. In other words, snack food manufacturing
occupational hazards are numerous and have a way of diverting
both energy and funds. I’ve not yet given up the general prac-
tice of law and I’m general counsel for a few firms in this area,
including one life insurance company.
In a small town (35-50,000) it’s essential to pull an oar in civic
affairs. Besides participating whole-heartedly in a number of
other projects in the past, I’m presently a director and/or officer
of the following community projects: Red Cross, Boy Scouts,
Association of Commerce, Beloit Historical Society, Y.M.C.A..,
United Givers and the Playtime Nursery School. I’m a rather
inactive vice-president of the Harvard Club of Wisconsin. For
several years I have presented the Harvard Book Prize Award at
Beloit High School. If they think about it at all, the august
Board of Overseers of Harvard College doubtless considers me a
maverick because, for principles which seem obvious to me, I’ve
suggested on two occasions that the balloting for directors, etc.,
be done without the alumnus having to sign his name on the
ballot. As a one-man protest, I consequently haven’t exercised
my right to the Harvard “free ballot.” I’m a past president of
both our local and county bar associations and am presently a
fellow of the American Bar Foundation. I’m also a member of
the Federal Bar Association and of the Judicature Society. I'm
also serving on the Wills Committee of the University of Wis-
consin Alumni Research Foundation. I am active in the First
Congregational Church of Beloit and am presently chairman of
its board of trustees. In connection with the decision of our local
church not to join with a majority of other Congregational
Churches in the proposed merger with the Evangelical and Re-
formed Churches, I drafted what have gained some widespread
use and are known as the Beloit Resolutions. During my O.P.A.
work I filled in as professor of constitutional law at Beloit College
(three seven o’clock classes a week) for a semester or so. I’ve
been and am active in various trade associations and was a director
and officer of the International Popcorn Association. In 1952 I
had the privilege of addressing the Sales Executive Club of New

York City. In 1949 1 qualified for the Young Presidents’ Or-
ganization and joined several years later.

My pet diversions are weekend golfing in the summer and

[12]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

bridge whenever it is convenient. Charlotte proved to be every-

thing I expected in a wife and we have four swell children:

Allan, Jr., now a lower-middler at Exeter; Prudence in the

seventh grade at junior high, Polly in the fifth grade, and John

in kindergarten. We like living in a small college town and find

neighborliness more common than pretense. Though the children

go to various camps during the summer, at least one or two of

them are most always home. Charlotte occasionally finds time

to take a West or East Coast business trip with me and we've
driven the kids to Florida for short winter vacations a number
of times. Somehow Charlotte and I managed a couple of weeks
by ourselves in Jamaica last year. Summer is a wonderful season
here and we usually spend a few weekends at nearby lakes as the
guests of friends or as paying guests at the quieter resorts. The
winter months are invigorating and give more opportunities to
spend time with the children.

All in all, though I probably do plenty of grousing, I feel
that we’ve been most fortunate, happy and content. I’m a great
believer in the American competitive and free-enterprise system.
I resent unnecessary government intrusion at any level. I’ve tried
to have a positive philosophy and have most always expected the
best from people and situations. This has enabled me to expect
and recognize opportunity more than otherwise, and has chan-
neled my energy into projects rather than brooding over dis-
appointments. A strong belief in the teachings of Christ has been
most helpful and a night hasn’t gone by without a prayer.

I count my four years at Harvard among my many blessings.
However, I’ve proclaimed freedom of choice and opportunity
-o my children. In the exercise of that privilege, I hope my sons
vill be sons of Harvard, too. Alas! the answer will be known
ll too soon.

CHARLES FRANCIS ADAMS

OME AppREss: Dedham Street, Dover, Mass.

/FIcE appress: Raytheon Manufacturing Co., Foundry Avenue, Waltham 54,
Mass.

RN: May 2, 1910, Boston, Mass, parents: Charles Francis Adams, "SS
Frances Lovering.

[13]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES; AB., 1932; D.c.s. (Hon.) (Suffolk
Univ.), 1953.

MarrieD: Margaret Stockton, June 16, 1934, Manchester, Mass. CHILDREN:
Abigail, April 29, 1935 (a. James C. Manny, June 11, 1955); Alison,

March 18, 1937; Timothy, Oct. 7, 1946. GRANDCHILD: Alison Manny,
March 16, 1956.

OCCUPATION: President and director, Raytheon Manufacturing Company,
electronics.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Bath (Maine) Iron Works Corporation, Liberty
Mutual Life Insurance Company, Boston, Massachusetts Higher Educa-
tion Assistance Corporation; trustee, Children’s Hospital, Boston, Woods
Hole (Mass.) Oceanographic Institution, Industrial School for Crippled
Children, Boston; member of corporation, Northeastern University,
Boston; member executive committee, Associated Industries of Massa-
chusetts; member, Harvard Board of Overseers Visiting Committee to
Department of Engineering and Applied Physics and Department of
Military, Naval and Air Science; member, board of visitors, Lowell
(Mass.) Technological Institute; vice-president, Greater Boston Cham-

ber of Commerce; member visiting committee for Defense Laboratories
of Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club, Boston; The Brook, New York; Eastern Yacht

Club, Marblehead; American Society of Engineers; New York Yacht
Club; Cruising Club of America.

ON leaving the Business School, it seemed to me that the invest-
ment banking business had become singularly unpopular, so I
picked it as an area of minimum competition to look for a job!
An association with several able and imaginative partners, as well
as with some interesting industrial companies that we financed,
made this a reasonably rewarding experience, both financially
and otherwise.

Following active participation in the Naval Reserve beginning
with the N.R.O.T.C. days, in 1940 I suddenly found myself first
lieutenant of a new destroyer. A good many months of activity
in the North Atlantic area perhaps added a fair bit of resistance
to the more rigorous aspects of life. A year at the Naval War
College was a real addition to my education, as it would be to
anyone’s. Later, as skipper of two destroyer-escorts, I had the
satisfaction of a command, the best experience one can have in
any military service. .

After the war, there seemed to be something lacking in the
‘nvestment business and when an opportunity came along to try

[14]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to work out some management problems at Raytheon Manufac-
turing Company, I grabbed the chance. The electronics industry
presents a fascinating and everchanging challenge and there has -
never been a dull moment since! Important contributions to the
military and building jobs here in Massachusetts where some of
the traditional industries were slipping badly, has made the effort
appear well worth while. It has been interesting to try to see how
a liberal arts education at Harvard can fit in usefully in an organi-
zation so largely composed at its upper levels of scientists and
engineers.

Outside of business, my major interests have been shooting
and sailing, with a summer cruise to Maine with my family the
high point.

+s MYRON RAYMOND ADAMS

BORN: Aug. 17, 1910, Reno, Nev. PARENTS: Brewster Adams, Edna Louise
Raymond.

TRANSFERRED FROM: University of Nebraska, Lincoln, Neb.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 19323 LL.B. 1936.

MARRIED: Elisabeth Woolman. cup: Henry Brewster.

DIED; Jan. 20, 1942, Reno, Nev.

AFTER graduation from the Law School, Adams entered the

practice of law in association with Judge Lunsford. He was ap-

pointed assistant district attorney and just prior to his last illness

was offered the position of district attorney. He was survived by

his wife and son.

MICHAEL JOSEPH ADAM ADLIS
SEE Appendix. ,

EDWARD HARRY ADZIGIAN
SEE Appendix.
[15]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

+: JAMES RUFUS AGEE

porN: Nov. 27, 1909, Knoxville, Tenn. parents: Hugh James Agee, Laura
Whitman Taylor.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE! A.By 1932.

MaRRigD: Mia Agee. CHILDREN: Three.

piep: May 16, 1955, New York, N.Y.

wipow: Mrs. James R. Agee, 12 King St., New York, N.Y.

JAMES RUFUS AGEE was co-author of the Academy Award
motion picture, “The African Queen,” and author and narrator
of the film, “The Quiet One,” which depicted the life of an
underprivileged Harlem boy.

When two years out of college he published his first book,
Permit Me Voyage, a book of poetry. He was on the editorial
staff of Fortune magazine from 1932 until 1935 and on the staff
of Time from 1939 until 1948.

He also wrote film criticism for other magazines, including
The Nation, Partisan Review, Harper's and Forum. From 1948
he devoted much of his time to the film industry. He wrote the
script for Stephen Crane’s “Red Badge of Courage” and “Night
of the Hunter,” directed by Charles Laughton, and wrote the
English narrative for the Italian picture “Green Magic.” He was
the author of the book Let Us Now Praise Famous Men and the
novel, The Morning Watch, published in 1951.

SAMUEL NELSON ALDRICH

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Oak Terr., Newton Highlands 61, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Continental Casualty Co., 4o Broad St., Boston, Mass.

porN: March 5, 1910, Boston, Mass, parents: Harry Macfarland Aldrich,
’90, May Douglas Brown.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

Marariep: Emily Littlefield, May 14, 1947, Brookline, Mass. cuitp: Susan
Jane, Aug. 29, 1948.

occupaTION: Lawyer.

WE are a small family living in Newton Highlands, Massachu-
setts. Mine is the busy life of a claims attorney and so much of
a general practice as I have time to manage. Marriage in 1947

[16]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to Emily Littlefield, Mount Holyoke, ’29, has given us Susan
Jane, a fine energetic little girl, now eight, whose curiosity and
ability to think and to learn constantly amaze me.

Since 1938 I have been associated with the Continental Casualty
Company of Chicago, and its affiliates, handling a large volume
of litigation at Boston. |

Lower Cape Cod has always been to me a most interesting
and delightful place. I am building and developing there on a
small scale. We are usually at North Truro when the demands
of the good old Continental permit.

ALBERT ALLEN
SEE Appendix. |

HOWARD HOLLIS ALLEN

HOME apprEss: 46 Cleveland St., Holyoke, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Nonotuck Manufacturing Co., Holyoke, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 29, 1911, Manila, P.I. parents: Horace Deschamps Bloombergh,
Helen Lee Howard.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933. DEGREES: S.B., 1932 (33).

MarrieD: Dorothy LeBaron Barrett, Aug. 3, 1934, Annisquam, Mass. cHIL-
pren: Anne LeBaron, Sept. 27, 1937 (7. James M. Washington, Aug.
18, 1956); John Hollis, Dec. 29, 1940; Lee Howard, Oct. 23, 19433
Christina Grace, Sept. 1, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Hollis Bloombergh, ’34; Joseph Allen, °37.

OCCUPATION: President, Nonotuck Manufacturing Company.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Holyoke Savings Bank, since 1949; director, 1950-54,
and since 1956, president, 1953, Holyoke Rotary Club; chairman, Budget
Committee, 1954-55, president, 1956, Holyoke Community Chest.

MEMBER oF: Holyoke Rotary Club; The Wire Association; Harvard Club
of Springfield (Mass.); Annisquam Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: One semi-technical article in Wire and Wire Products.

SINCE I lacked sufficient credits to graduate with my Class, I
returned to Harvard and finally received my degree in June,
1933. Almost everyone will remember how hard it was to get a
job in those days. After a succession of temporary jobs around
Boston, I went to work early in 1934 as a laborer in the Indiana

[17]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

JORDAN LOUIS ALPERIN

HOME ADDRESS: 950 Commonwealth Ave., Newton Center, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Eastern Smelting & Refining Corp. 109 W. Brookline St.,
Boston, Mass.

BoRN: May 27, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Shol Alperin, Annie Usem.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Esther T. Epstein, Dec. 15, 1935, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Jona-
than Lazare, June 2, 1937; Jeremy Ethan, April 11, 1940.

HARVARD SON: Jonathan Lazare Alperin, ’59.

OccUPATION: President, Eastern Smelting & Refining Corporation, bullion
dealers.

MEMBER OF: University Club.

I ALWAYS felt that three years was enough for a college educa-
tion and at the end of my fourth year I could not wait to get out,
despite the fact that by waiting another few days and taking an
exam I could have graduated cum laude. I left college on a Satur-
day, and on the following Monday morning I was at work with
the Eastern Smelting & Refining Corporation in the field of
smelting and refining precious metals, such as gold, silver and the
platinum family metals, as well as mercury. Those early depres-
sions days, and especially the first year, were quite discouraging
and required a lot of hard work. That first year I began to travel
all over the country from Quebec to New Orleans, and in the
course of a few years I covered the principal cities of the country.
From there I moved into inside administrative work and in the
course of the years have had the satisfaction of building an enter-
prise from humble origins to one that is well known, not only
in this country, but in all parts of the world.

I have done every type of work in the plant in every phase of
operation, until at the present time I am principally concerned
with setting company-wide policy and making major decisions,
coordinating, organizing and delegating. In other words, I have
become a businessman from the practical side.

Another very important event in my postgraduate years was
marrying my wife, a graduate of Radcliffe, ’34. Curiously, I
never met her during undergraduate days. In 1937 we went
suburban and purchased our own home in Newton Center, an
excellent city in which to bring up a family.

[20]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My elder son, Jonathan, is now entering his sophomore year
at Harvard and shows great promise. He completed his fresh-
man year in Group I with all A’s and has intentions of becoming
an actuary. During the past summer he worked for the John
Hancock Life Insurance Company as a student actuary. My
younger son, Jeremy, is entering his junior year in high school
and seems to be headed towards Harvard. As a family we have
traveled quite a bit—-to South America, Bermuda and other
spots, and for business purposes I have traveled in Europe. As a
matter of fact, we all like travel and consider it one of our
hobbies.

I have always been a member of Temple Emanuel in Newton,
which is a conservative Temple, and I have participated for a
time as a member of the School Committee and as a member of
the committee directing the Boy Scout activities. At various
times I have participated in helping in fund-raising in my area
for various causes.

For a time I continued playing tennis, especially with my boys,
and I have been a Leica enthusiast. Over the years one of my
hobbies has been to try to grow as perfect a lawn as I could.
Up to recently I did all my own work and found it a challenge.
It seems as though it is an almost impossible thing to do, as there
are always adversities such as droughts, weeds and insects.

Within the past year, the Houghton Library at Harvard ac-
cepted my wife’s grandfather’s manuscript due to a very unusual
circumstance. This man was a rabbi and scholar and spent his
mature lifetime of approximately fifty years in writing some
scholarly works. These manuscripts filtered through the family
until they came into our possession. They proved to be a group
of notebooks written in a Talmudi Hebrew, which is Hebrew
plus Aramaic. They did not look significant, but since I once
took a course in Semitics with Professor Wolfson, I sensed that
these might be of value. I got in touch with Professor Wolfson,
and after looking the manuscripts over, he recommended that the
Houghton Library accept them in their archives as valuable
manuscripts, and they are now catalogued for scholars in that
particular field. It was quite thrilling to me to be able to rescue
from oblivion the lifetime works of an old-time scholar.

Since college I have always made it a point to maintain and

[20]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

further my education by having an intellectual curiosity about
everything and by doing a lot of reading. I have read the New
York Times every weekday for the past twenty-odd years, and
have constantly read mostly non-fiction books of every type, as
well as current magazines. As a matter of fact, about ten years
ago, I became very much interested in the study of Semitics,
Judaica and cognate learning, as well as comparative religions
and ancient civilizations.

JOSEPH WRIGHT ALSOP, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 2720 Dunbarton Ave., N.W., Washington 7, D.C.

BorN: Oct. 11, 1910, Avon, Conn. PARENTS: Joseph Wright Alsop, Corinne
Douglas Robinson.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932.

occupation: Newspaperman, co-author with brother Stewart, of column
“Matter of Fact,” for New York Herald Tribune Syndicate.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Board of Overseers, Harvard College.

MEMBER OF: Metropolitan Club, Washington; Links Club, New York City;
Brook Club, New York City; Porcellian Club.

PUBLICATIONS: The 168 Days, co-author with Turner Catledge, 1938; Men
Around The President, 1938, American White Paper, 1950, co-author
with Robert Kinmer; We Accuse, co-author with Stewart Alsop, 1955.

MY career, such as it has been, had its origin in the conviction
of my family that three more years of Harvard would be far too
pleasurable to do me any good. This ruled out the Law School,
where I had hoped to proceed after graduation from the College.
A job in business was also ruled out, partly because jobs in busi-
ness were not easy to get in 1932, but mainly because of my
family’s unanimous conviction that I was one of nature’s bank-
rupts. By the simplest sort of reductio ad absurdum, the family
council was therefore led to the thought that I might become a
newspaperman. It was noted that I could, after all, read and write.
It was further noted that we had tribal connections with the
Reids, the publishers of the New York Herald Tribune. It was
decided to see what could be made of these connections. My
grandmother got me my first job, and I was apprised of my future
career in a letter from her.

[22]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

_ Despite this rather odd beginning, I have never felt any real
regrets about the trade that was chosen for me. Especially if you
are a bachelor, as I still am, and are therefore able to go where
you please for as long as may be useful, the life of a newspaper-
man is various, active and generally enjoyable. It has taken me,
by now, to almost every country on earth that I have wanted to
visit. It has involved me in many curious, amusing, exciting or
interesting situations. It has not begun to bore me in the least,
even at the end of twenty-five years. During the war, I was in
China, mainly with General Chennault in his American Volun-
teer Group and then in the Fourteenth Air Force, although there
was also an interlude in the hands of the Japanese at Hong Kong
and another after that as an adviser to the Chinese Nationalist
government in Chungking. With this wartime exception, my
headquarters have been in Washington since just before New
Year’s day, 1936, when the Herald Tribune detailed me to its —
Washington staff. Again with the exception of the war years,
I have written a nationally syndicated political column since
1937, first with the present executive vice-president of the Na-
tional Broadcasting Company, Robert E. Kintner, and since 1946
with my brother, Stewart Alsop. I have also contributed, by now,
to most of the better known magazines published in the English
language, ranging from the Saturday Evening Post and Life, for
which I wrote its first text article, through the middlebrow
Atlantic and Harper’s to Encounter at the highbrow end of the
spectrum.

As I write these words, the increasing tempo of world events
and the prospect of a sort of chain reaction of crises overseas
have just forced a major change upon me. As firemen must go
where the fires are, so newspapermen must go where the crises
are; and in order to do this more easily, I am transferring my
base abroad. My headquarters will be in Paris, but I shall not be
there much longer than will be necessary to catch my breath
and pick up a few clean shirts from time to time. Mainly, I shall
be on the road, wherever events are moving most rapidly. One
of my chief regrets about this rather serious alteration of my
way of life is the likelihood that it will cause me to miss the
Twenty-fifth Reunion. But I shall do my best to be there, even
if I have to fly from Kabul.

[23]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

I have no hobbies except reading. I dislike the age we live in
and all of its contraptions, to the point of seeing no movies, own-
ing no television set and being unable to drive a car. I consider
myself a conservative, but I know of no way to convey my social,
political and religious convictions with any precision in anything
short of an essay. Except for our brief bursts of energy and sacri-
fice, our generation has, I fear, persistently mortgaged the future
to make the present more comfortable; and I do not think, there-
fore, that we can look forward to a future that will be either
pleasing or familiar. But as long as my feet hold out — to a news-
paperman, they are far more important than his head —I shall be
content to follow my trade of observing and reporting events.

JEROME JOSEPH ALT

HOME AbprEss: Johnson Circle, Sidney, N.Y.

BORN: March 4, 1909, New Washington, Ohio. parents: Edward Alt, Rose
D. Shell.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1930.

RICHARD MELTON ALT

HOME appRESs: 7 Pine St., Winchester, Mass, :

OFFICE ADDRESS: New England Mutual Life Insurance Co., 501 Boylston St,
Boston, Mass.

BORN; Sept. 19, 1910, Seattle, Wash. parents: Emil C, Alt, Ida May Myres.

PREPARED AT: Garfield High School, Seattle, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932, A.M.
1940; PH.D., 1946.

MarRiED; Martha Boyden, April 6, 1941, Winchester, Mass. CHILDREN: Eliza-
beth, Feb. 13, 1942; James Boyden, Sept. 13, 1945; Edward Melton and
Christopher Boyden (twins), Dec. 23, 1948.

occupaTion: Insurance; Director of Research, New England Mutual Life
Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Seattle Harvard Club, 1934-35; secretary, Johns
Hopkins University Chapter, American Association of University Pro-
fessors, 1949-51; consultant, Planning Commission, City of Baltimore,
1950-1951; director, Boston Chapter, American Marketing Association,
1952-53; member, editorial advisory board, Industrial Development,
1954-56; Town Meeting Member, Town of Winchester, since 1955.

MEMBER OF: American Economic Association; American Industrial Develop-

[ 24 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ment Council; American Institute of Planners; American Marketing
Association; Harvard Club of Boston; Regional Science Association,
Tamworth Outing Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Business Economics: Principles and Cases, Irwin, Chicago,
(in collaboration with Prof. W. C. Bradford of Northwestern Uni-
versity); many articles on industrial development and marketing and
economic research in Quarterly Journal of Economics, Journal of
Marketing, and similar publications.

IN the twenty-five years since June, 1932, most of us have sur-
vived the depression, got jobs, been in the Armed Forces, raised
families and done a few things for civic betterment. My chron-
icle follows this familiar pattern.

After an inauspicious start at the Harvard Law School in the
fall of 1932, 1 was forced by eye trouble to abandon the law.
‘In the dreary winter of 1932, with no job available, I spent much
of the time skiing with unemployed friends in the Washington
Mountains. Roosevelt and N.R.A. brought a burst of public
confidence and, for me, a job. I went to work as a fifteen-dollar-
a-week assistant to the manager of a Seattle department store,
a unit of the Allied Stores Corporation.

With good skiing and, in the summer, good climbing with
the Seattle Mountaineers, inside employment was tolerable. But
I was restive, and five years in an unchosen occupation provided
funds and the determination to enroll in the Harvard Graduate
School to begin the study of economics. Two years of library,
lectures and seminars brought me through general examinations.
Then, in June, 1940, financed by a Sheldon Traveling Fellow-
ship, I set off for the University of California to begin work
on a dissertation. Shortly after arriving in Berkeley, I reported
to Professor Grether, with the announced intention of working
on a thesis under his supervision. ‘That summer slipped by in a
most delightful manner. I can’t recall having seen Grether again,
but I did meet Martha Boyden, who later became my wife. In
the fall of 1940 I took up a teaching appointment as an instructor
in economics at Princeton. Martha and I were married in April,
1941, and took an apartment on Nassau Street. She learned the
domestic arts empirically while I plugged along on my thesis
in the chicken-wired stalls of the old library.

Pearl Harbor drew me quickly into active duty; I had been
in the Naval Reserve since 1937. As a Supply Corps officer, I

[25]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

JAMES BARR AMES

HOME AppresS: 85 Sparks St., Cambridge, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Ropes, Gray, Best, Coolidge & Rugg, 50 Federal St., Boston,
Mass.

BorN: April 20, 1911, Wayland, Mass, PARENTS: Richard Ames, ’07, Dorothy
Abbott.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932; LL.B.
cum laude, 1936.

MarrieD: Mary Ogden Adams, June 14, 1941, Lincoln, Mass. CHILDREN:
Elizabeth Bigelow, Sept. 3, 1942; Richard, April 23, 1944; Charles
Cabell, April 3, 1947.

occupation: Lawyer; partner in Ropes, Gray, Best, Coolidge & Rugg.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Massachusetts Hospital Life Insurance Company,
Fiduciary Trust Company, Boston, Adams Securities Company, Lee
Higginson Safe Deposit Company, Cambridge Community Services,
Animal Rescue League of Boston, International Student Association,
Cambridge; former member of council, Boston Bar Association, former
member of council and director, Cambridge Civic Association; corpo-
rator, Cambridge Savings Bank, Suffolk Savings Bank, North Avenue
Savings Bank, Cambridge, member of governing board, Greater
Boston Hospital Council; trustee, Mount Auburn Hospital.

MEMBER OF: American Law Institute; Boston Bar Association; Massachu-
setts Historical Society; Somerset Club; Cohasset Yacht Club; Thurs-—
day Evening Club, Boston; Cambridge Tennis Club.

THE year after graduation I spent studying and traveling in
Europe —three months in England, six months living with a
German family in Munich, a month in Greece, six weeks in
Italy, mostly in Rome, and a final six weeks with a French family
—friends of Rene Champollion— in Paris, I then returned to
enter Harvard Law School, graduating in June, 1936. After a
last long summer vacation—spent again traveling in Europe,
this time mostly in southern Germany, Austria and Hungary —
I went to work for the law firm of Ropes, Gray in Boston where
I have been practising law ever since, except for a four-year
period of service on the U.S. Air Force staff during World War
II,

Before the war my law work was mainly in the field of cor-
poration finance. We worked long hours in those days and the
idea of a five-day week for lawyers was unheard of. I spent a
good deal of time away from home working on sccuritics issucs

[28]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in New York and elsewhere. At the same time I enjoyed taking
some part in local community activities, serving as a member of
the Town of Wayland Planning Board and also on the local
Board of Public Welfare.

Shortly after Pearl Harbor I was commissioned as a lieutenant
in the U.S. Army Air Force and assigned to duty at headquarters
in Washington, serving under Colonel F. Trubee Davison in the
newly organized Appointment and Procurement Division of the
A-1 (Personnel) Section of the Staff. After six months there, I
was reassigned to General Arnold’s office as a member of his so-
called Advisory Council. This was a group of four officers, two
West Point colonels and two “civilians in uniform” of whom I
was one. Our main function was to brief General Arnold on all
papers coming before him as a member of the Joint (U.S.) and
Combined (U.S. and British) Chiefs of Staff. The Joint Chiefs
consisted of Admirals Leahy and King and Generals Marshall
and Arnold. We thus became quite familiar with the way the
war was conducted at top level. Incidentally, it was interesting
to see how little influence the State Department exercised at that
time and how much responsibility the military chiefs had to
assume in diplomatic and political as well as military matters.

In March, 1944, after eight weeks’ training at the Command
and General Staff School in Fort Leavenworth and a month at
the Air Staff School in Florida, I was assigned to General Spaatz’s
U.S. Strategic Air Force headquarters near London, England. In
addition to serving in the Plans Section of General Spaatz’s staff
in England and later in France, I also served in 1944 as an adviser
to Ambassador Winant in his capacity as U.S. representative on
the European Advisory Commission, a U.S.-British-Russian
agency set up in London to make plans for the surrender and
joint occupation of Germany. At the end of 1944, I was assigned
as executive officer of the U.S. Strategic Bombing Survey, going
with them into western Germany and later to Berlin, with various
side trips, including one that took me via Cairo to Teheran and
would have taken me to Moscow if the Russians had not decided
at the last moment to reject any idea of collaboration with the
Bombing Survey. Early in 1946 I was separated from the service
with the rank of colonel.

Since the war, my law work has been mainly in the ficld of

[ 29 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

trusts and estates, I have lectured on estate planning at the New
England Law Institute and served as chairman of the Boston Bar
Association’s Committee on Probate Law. Outside of the law,
I have again participated in various community activities, having
been chairman of the executive committee of the Cambridge
Civic Association and, more recently, chairman of the trustees
of Mount Auburn Hospital.

I guess my major interest these days is my family. Our three
children are still at an age where they seem to enjoy doing quite
a few things with the old folks, such as sailing and playing tennis
(which I do badly but enjoy very much). The summer before
last I took six weeks off and we all drove out to California and
back, camping out along the way and covering about 8,000 miles
altogether. Besides visiting our relations and friends in California,
we spent several days riding horseback at a ranch in Wyoming
where I had been years before, and we had a fine three-day
camping trip in the Sierras. We had a great trip and look for-
ward to others like it, but we were glad to get home. Although
the distant hills may often look greener, Voltaire said: “Work
in your own garden,” and I have always thought that was pretty
good advice to follow, whether you take it literally or in a
broader sense.

JOHN STANLEY AMES, JR.

HOME ADDRESS; Spring Hill, North Easton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 96 Ames Bldg., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: March 26, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: John Stanley Ames, ’or.
Nancy Filley.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B 1932; LL.B. (Univ. of Virginia),
1936.

MARRIED: Isabel Biddle Henry, Oct. 12, 1935. CHILDREN: John Stanley, 3d,
Oct. 18, 1936, Mary, March 17, 1939; Charlton Henry, July 30, 1941;
Isabel Biddle, Feb. 27, 1945.

HARVARD SON: John Stanley Ames, 3d, ’58.

HARVARD BROTHERS: David Ames, ’34; Oliver Filley Ames, "43.

OCCUPATION: Trustee.

oprices HELD: President, Easton Lions Club, 1938, trustce, Children’s Hos-
pital, since 1946, Boys’ Club of Boston, since 1946, Milton Academy,

[ 30]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

since 1952; member, Massachusetts Governor’s Council, 1946-48; direc-
tor, Old Colony Trust Company, since 1956; special assistant to
American Ambassador, London, 1953—55.
MEMBER OF: Masons; The Country Club, Brookline; Somerset Club, Boston,
Camden (Maine) Yacht Club; Megunticook Golf Club, Camden,
Maine; Brook Club, New York; Plantation Society, Charleston, S.C.

TO summarize, possibly the best way would be to say, Ames,
J.S., Jr., a “Jack of all trades and master of none.” Twenty-five
years have contained a series of varied ambitions. First to be a
lawyer, beginning with an LL.B. from the University of Virginia
Law School, a delightful spot and a good change for a New
Englander born and schooled, as it were, almost always under
the shadow of Blue Hill. Next, after a short time at the bar, a
yearning to master the vagaries of the stock market took over
and several years in various positions in a brokerage and invest-
ment counsel firm followed. |

Then along came the war and with it three and a half years’
service in the Navy, mostly anti-submarine operations from
Charleston, South Carolina, followed by a few months’ duty on a
carrier, unglamorous but I hope useful. I graduated a lieutenant
commander. All this time I had an ever-increasing interest in
politics and in 1946 I was elected to the Governor’s Council
representing fifty-six towns and five cities in southeastern Massa-
chusetts, as a Republican. With 1948 came a political reverse
and along with other Republicans, I was defeated. I returned to
the securities business and became a trustee in the family where
I now am. We are still located where we were in 1893 and
though times have changed, not so the roll-top desks and potted
plants so familiar to George Apley.

The most interesting experience of all came in 1953 when I
was sent to London as special assistant to our Ambassador to the
Court of St. James’s. Work in the Foreign Service was fasci-
nating and rewarding and I must say I came away with a very
high opinion of the English people.

All this time I have been active in community affairs working
_ for good and worthy causes at home in Easton and in Boston as
well. I have been an avid Ike fan and attended the Chicago
Convention of 1952 as a delegate and the San Francisco Con-
vention of 1956 as an alternate from Massachusetts.

[31]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

We own a small plantation in South Carolina where we raise
Herefords and pine trees for the market and shoot duck and
deer for the table. We spend most summers in Rockport, Maine,
where we sail and cruise on Penobscot Bay and when ashore, I
serve as the commodore of the Camden Yacht Club.

It has been a varied and happy life and through it all Isabel
and I find our greatest pleasure in our growing family: Johnny,
now a junior at Harvard; Mary, nicknamed “Heidi,” at Foxcroft
and president of the school; Charlton Henry and little Isabel,
both at Milton Academy.

NATHAN AMES

HOME ADDRESS: 14 Lincoln Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Calvert Distillers Co. 405 Lexington Ave., New York 17,
N.Y.

BoRN: Dec. 29, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Wolf Ames, Nettie Bonfeld.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929. DEGREE: A.B. (Univ. of North Carolina), 1932.

occuPaTION: National salespromotion manager, Calvert Distillers Company.

JAMES THIM ANDER

HOME AppRESS: 9 Melville Rd., Somerville 45, Mass.

BoRN: April 26, 1904, Treska, Albania. parents: Andrew John Tsetsi, Jane
Spira.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933. DEGREE: A.B., 1932 (33).

JOHN WILBERFORCE APPEL

HOME ADDRESS: 319 Baintree Rd., Villanova, Pa.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Institute of the Pennsylvania Hospital, 111 N. goth St.,
Philadelphia 39, Pa.

BoRN; May 19, 1911, New York, N.Y. parents; John Wilberforce Appel,
‘06, Ethel M. Smith.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln School of Teachers College, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: 8.B., 1932; M.Dy 1936.

Markiep: Marian Kirk, Jan. 4, 1941, Washington, D.C. crtpren: Deborah,

[ 32 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
Nov. 2, 1941; Mary Jameson, Oct. 24, 1944 (died July 10, 1948);
Kenneth Goodrich, June 6, 1946; Lydia Selden, April 3, 1950.
OccuPATION: Physician, specializing in psychiatry and psychoanalysis,
_ private practice, research, teaching; assistant professor of psychiatry,
School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania.

OFFICES HELD: Chief, Mental Hygiene Branch, Office of the Surgeon Gen-
eral, 1943-46, consultant to Surgeon General, 1946-56, U.S. Army;
chairman, Preventive Psychiatry Committee, American Psychiatric
Association, 1948-52, president-elect, Philadelphia Psychiatric Society,
1957; lieutenant colonel, Medical Corps, U.S. Army (Legion of Merit).

MEMBER OF: Philadelphia Psychiatric Society, Philadelphia Psychoanalytic
Society; American Psychiatric Association (fellow); American Medi-
cal Association (fellow); Merion Cricket Club; Harvard Club of
Philadelphia; Dublin Lake Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Discovering Ourselves,” co-author, Macmillan, 1951; “Pre-
ventive Psychiatry-—~an Epidemiologic Approach,” with Beebe, Gil-
bert in American Journal of Psychiatry, 1946; articles in various sci-
entific journals.

I SUPPOSE it is difficult enough for anybody to write a twenty-
fifth reunion autobiography, but how about a psychoanalyst,
what will he say? Not that he is so different from other mortals,
but he is supposed to be an expert on how to live one’s life; also,
he is supposed to be an expert on the subject of himself.

Certain of the facts are clear enough. After ten years of educa-
tion at Harvard, I came to Philadelphia where I have remained,
except for the war years. In my practice I do primarily long-term
intensive treatment. This means that my professional life has
been devoted to intimate and long association with relatively
small numbers of people who, because of nervous breakdowns
or serious difficulties in living, are attempting to change them-
selves in the expectation of functioning more satisfactorily in
this age of anxiety. Although wearing at times, this work always
engrosses me utterly. Indeed, I am one of those who is convinced
that the concepts of human nature deriving from psychiatry have
a power to effect civilization comparable to that of physiology,
or religion, or modern physics.

As for the rest, my personal life, I am frankly going to beg
the issue. I find that if I try to report my hobbies, or to give
humorous accounts of the battle of the waistline, I feel sill y.
Subjects I would really like to write about are, for example, the
significant events in my relations with my eldest daughter, or

[ 33]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

the means by which I have maintained my position in the peck-
ing order. I am fortunate in being blessed with a highly satis-
factory wife and delightful children. My wife tells me that if
I do write on these subjects it would be outrageously alarming
to everybody. And as an expert, I know that she is right. One
thing I can say, however, is that as time goes on I become, as
have so many others, increasingly aware of and grateful for the
values I gained at Harvard. I am not very clear as to what these
are, but they have to do, I think, with veritas, a basic value per-
haps particularly needed by a psychiatrist.

JOHN APPLETON

HOME ADDRESS: 570 Columbia Ave., Palmerton, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New Jersey Zinc Co., Delaware Ave., Palmerton, Pa.

BorN: March 1, 1910, Beverly, Mass. parents: Daniel Appleton, Ethel
Darling Foster.

PREPARED AT: Beverly High School, Beverly, Mass., Cambridge High &
Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933. DEGREE: S.B. IN ENG. (MINING), 1932.

MarrigD: Dorothy Alice Fiske, Sept. 16, 1939, Palmerton, Pa. CHILDREN:
Donald John, Feb. 12, 1942; Roger Fiske, Aug. 5, 1949; Bruce Foster,
Oct. 17, 1951.

occupaTION: Smelting; foreman, Zinc Oxide Treatment Division, Oxide
West Department, New Jersey Zinc Company of Pennsylvania.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, 1953, member board of directors, since 1954,
Palmerton Community Chest; chairman, Landscaping Committee,
Palmerton Memorial Park Association, since 1955. .

MEMBER OF: Engineers Club of Lehigh Valley; Palmerton Board of Trade,
Palmertoni Magyar Szovetkezet; Operating Bowling League.

+ OWEN APPLETON

BORN: Nov. 1, 1909, Springfield, Mass, parents: Allen Lansing Appleton,
Lydia Dexter Owen.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B, cum laude, 1932.

piep; Oct. 17, 1937, in Spain.

AFTER graduation Appleton traveled to Russia to make a study

of the Communist Five-Year Plan and on his return to this coun

[34]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

try worked in its behalf. When Spain became involved in Civil
War, he offered his services to the Loyalist side and was killed in
action in Spain.

THOMAS LANE ARCHIBALD

HOME ADpREsS; 121 Walbridge Rd., West Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 39 Woodland St., Hartford, Conn.

BorN: April 23, 1911, Pittsfield, Mass. PARENTS: Warren Seymour Archibald,
’03, Mary Ernst.

PREPARED AT: Kingswood School, West Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; LL.B. 1935-

- MARRIED: Dorothy G. Clark, July 5, 1950, Hartford, Conn.

HARVARD BROTHER: Warren Seymour Archibald, Jr., ’31.

OCCUPATION: Professor of law.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee and secretary, The Open Hearth Association, 1938-40,
since 1946; director, since 1946, president, 1950-53, Hartford Grenfell
Association; director, New England Grenfell Association, 1950-53;
trustee, Stowe, Beecher, Hooker, Seymour, Day Memorial Library and
Historical Foundation, since 1953; director, Hartford School of Music,
1938-40.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association, State Bar Association of Connect-
icut; University Club of Hartford; Harvard Club of Connecticut;
Hampstead Hill Club; Hartford Tennis Club.

AFTER graduation from the Harvard Law School, I went into
practice in Hartford, Connecticut. This most agreeable occupa-
tion was ended by a low draft number, which introduced me to
the Army in January,:1941. My military duties ended with a
two-year period in England (1943-45) as a Judge Advocate. For
most of that time, I was assigned to the gth Air Force and at the
end of the war I was promoted to major. When I came out of
the service, I accepted a teaching position at the University of
Connecticut School of Law in Hartford, where I have been for
the past eleven years. That completes my occupational history.

I no longer play much tennis, because of a knee injury two
years ago, and I haven’t climbed a high mountain in some time.
Nevertheless, there are other worlds, as Dottie and I have found
in traveling. We have had pleasant summers in the Afaritimes
and in the western United States and Canada and future summers
are likely to find us headed north and west again,

[35]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

REGINALD GEORGE ARGUIMBAU

HOME ADDRESS: 300 East St., Sharon, Mass.

por: Feb. 1, 1912, Brooklyn, N.Y. parents: Reginald De Courcy Arguim-
bau, Grace Lillian Baker.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930, 1932-193}.

marriep: Barbara Osborne, 1938, Dedham, Mass. cxitp: John Lawrence,
1939.

occUPATION: Farming.

HERVEY FOSTER ARMINGTON
SEE Appendix.

ARTHUR SOPER ARMSTRONG

HOME ADDRESS: 3045 Fairmount Blvd., Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio.

oFFice appress: Cleveland Twist Drill Co, 1242 E. 49th St. Cleveland 14,
Ohio.

BoRN: Feb. 2, 1911, New York, N.Y. parents: Arthur Soper Armstrong,
Mabel Stella Rinker.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MaRRieD: Janet Morrill, April 5, 1932, Cleveland, Ohio (divorced 1937);
Jean Harvey, Aug. 17, 1940, Romeo, Mich. (divorced); Ann Dickin-
son, Nov. 17, 1951, Cleveland, Ohio. cutpren: Joan Prentiss, Dec. 18,
1932 (m7. Robert Schmidt, Sept. 8, 1956); Virginia Cox, Dec. 25, 1934;
Elizabeth Mary, July 6, 1942; Jennifer Harvey, Nov. 15, 1944; Arthur
Soper, Jr. Aug. 31, 1946; Peter Dickinson, Jan. 6, 1953.

OCCUPATION: President and general manager, Cleveland Twist Drill Com-
pany.

OFFICES HELD: President, Cleveland Twist Drill Foundation, since 1952;
director, Cleveland Twist Drill Company, since 1947, Cleveland Twist
Drill (GB.) Ltd., since 1956, Cleveland Twist Drill (Canada) Ltd.,
since 1957, Cleveland Trust Company, since 1953; trustee, Calvary
Presbyterian Church, since 1953, St. Luke’s Hospital, since 1953, Fenn
College, since 1956, member board of governors, Capital Accounts
Committee, Welfare Federation of Cleveland, since 1945, Associated
Industries of Cleveland, since 1955, Home Service Advisory Com-
mittee, Cleveland Chapter, American Red Cross, since 1946; treasurer,
Machinery & Allied Products Institute, since 1956.

MeMper or: Harvard Club of Cleveland; Union Club; Fifty Club of Cleve-
land; Chagrin Valley Hunt Club; University Club; Cleveland Engi-
neering Society.

[ 34 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MY biggest criticism of life is that there are too few hours in
the day. Perhaps this is a confession that I continue to be the
most inefficient member of our class, and I cannot deny it. Six
children, from twenty-four to four, keep the Armstrongs from
becoming bored and conspire to fill up—or should I say take
away — our leisure hours. For now they suffice as hobbies. This
is not a complaint, for we would not have it any other way. And
my arithmetic is razor sharp.

I have the same patient employer who offered me my first and
only job back in 1932. At that time I started a two-year appren-
ticeship in our factory, and since then I have been busily engaged
trying to learn other facets of the cutting-tool business. In 1952
I became president of the company and since that time I have
come to realize how much more there is to learn about it. It has
been a challenging experience to be associated with a company
which has had no labor difficulties during its eighty-one years,
and I am proud of this association.

In 1953, | welcomed an opportunity to become a bank director,
especially since I had had no formal financial training. The
present moment finds me on their trust, collateral loan, commer-
cial loan and appraisal committees, which I find intensely inter-
esting. Banks also are patient. I claim to be a Jeffersonian Demo-
crat, and I believe the Federal Government has assumed alto-
gether too many responsibilities over altogether too many areas
of our lives. Mine is a rather unfashionable philosophy these
days, but I shall continue to be out of step.

In short, I am happily married, I have six children of whom I
am very proud, I enjoy my work immensely, and I have peace
of mind. No one could want more — except perhaps a little more
leisure. I shall start working on that against the day I slip into
middle age.

THOMAS ELIAS ARMSTRONG

HOME ADDRESS: 1522 Tijeras, N.E., Apt. 2, Albuquerque, N. Mex.

OFFICE apprEss: College of Law, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque,
N. Mex.

BORN: July 3, rg1t, Dallas, Texas. parents: Volney E. Armstrong, Texie
Spikes Erwin.

[37]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

PREPARED AT: North Dallas High School, Dallas, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

marrieD: Kathryn Lou Joyner, May 26, 1956, Roswell, N. Mex.

occupation: Student, College of Law, University of New Mexico, com-
pleting requirements for admission to practice law in the State of New
Mexico.

OFFICES HELD: Member, State Bar of Texas and Oklahoma Bar Association.

MEMBER OF: Idlewild Club, Dallas; Speakers’ Club; Iroquois Club; Varsity
Club, Cambridge, Mass; Harvard Club of New Mexico.

IN May, 1933, fortune smiled upon me and I secured a job as file
clerk with an insurance company in Dallas at fifty dollars per
month, This magnificent opportunity was too good to pass up
by continuing on as a student across the Charles at the Babbitt
Factory (H.G.S. of B.A.), so I saddled up and lit out for the
state whose flag bears but the single star. After thoroughly
snafuing the company’s filing system in the year that had seen
me rise to a salary of sixty-five dollars a month (thanks to the
N.R.A. and its Blue Eagle), I headed for the East Texas oil patch
where I received $6.40 a day roughnecking on drilling rigs when
there was room for a boll-weevil to make a tour. In Louisiana,
Fast Texas and West Texas, I did various oil field chores from
pipe-lining, roustabouting and dry watching to doodle-bugging
with a torsion-balance contraption.

Came 1935 and I entered the Law School at Southern Method-
ist University in Dallas. In early 1938, I was dubbed a lawyer
by the Supreme Court of Texas. Interested in aviation law, it
seemed a good idea to be a flying cadet, so I went to Randolph
Field (A.C.P.F.S.), San Antonio. My wings were clipped after
five months, since I was a dodo at heart. Then I went to New
York City and worked in a law office for a year.

In January, 1940, an oil company in Oklahoma lured me and
in January, 1941, the U.S. Army lured me as a B.A.P. at twenty-
one dollars per month. This went on until November, 1946, and
I drug it to Dallas for terminal leave. In 1947, I went back to
the oil company and stayed in Okie until 1952, when I became
a Hoosier until 1953. The following year I came to New Mexico
and have been breathing the air of the Land of Enchantment ever
since. Decided that this might be the place for me since my wife
is a native New Mexican and may know where the uranium
deposits are located. As of this writing, 1 am humming the

[ 38 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

University of New Mexico alma mater tune which is the same as
Cornell’s—— “High Above the Rio Grande,” and taking final
exams.

ARNOLD ARONSON

HOME ADDRESS: 41 Oakwood Ave., Rye, N.Y.

OFFICE abpREss: National Community Relations Advisory Council, 9 E.
38th St., New York, N.Y.

BORN: March 11, 1911, Boston, Mass. Parents: Simon Hirsh Aronson,
Jeanette Celia Cohen.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; A.M. (Univ. of
Chicago), 1943.

MarRRiED: Annette Yaffe, Sept. 4, 1939, Newton, Mass. CHILDREN: Simon
Hirsch, Sept. 13, 1943; Bernard William, May 16, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Intergroup relations consultant.

OFFICES HELD: Consultant, President’s Committee on Fair Employment
Practice, 1942-45; member, Minority Groups Advisory Committee,
War Manpower Commission, 1942-45; secretary, Chicago Council
Against Racial and Religious Discrimination, 1942-45, National Council
for a2 Permanent FEPC, 1946-50, National Leadership Conference on
Civil Rights, since 1949, Consultative Conference on Desegregation,
since 1956; director, Bureau on Jewish Employment Problems, 1942-
453 member executive committee, Association of Jewish Community
Relations Workers, since 1955; member board of directors, 1950-52,
treasurer, 1953, president, 1957, National Association of Intergroup
Relations Officials; member board of trustees and chairman, Religious
School Committee, Rye Community Synagogue, since 1956.

PUBLICATIONS: Postwar Employment Discrimination; FEPC Reference
Manual; Job Equality and the Jewish Worker; articles in American
Jewish Year Book, Crisis, Economic Outlook, Labor Reports, Inter-
racial Review, NAIRO Reporter and other periodicals.

4

THE death of my father within a month after graduation put
further schooling out of reach. In the immortal words of Jimmy
Durante, “the conditions that prevailed” were not especially
conducive to fame and fortune. Nevertheless, armed with the
majesty of a Harvard degree, I was able to obtain a job with a
manufacturer of men’s neckwear at the munificent sum of fifteen
dollars a week.

Madison Avenue had not yet perfected the art of “sincere”
selling and the advice of my tutor, Paul Doolin, to “make neck-

[39]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

wear selling holy,” no easy task under any circumstances, became

increasingly difficult to follow in the face of the rising threat of

Naziism and war.

By the fall of 1938, I decided that I had had it and I left the
business world to enroll in the graduate school of social service
administration at the University of Chicago. I completed the
courses leading to a degree within the year (I did not get around
to writing my thesis until four years later) and went to work
for a guidance and placement agency.

Annette was a fellow student at the University of Chicago.
The only variation from the standard script was that instead of
being the girl next door, she had, it turned out, lived across the
street from me in Boston for ten years, during which time we
had never once met. Beyond this, she was a Radcliffe grad. The
combination of circumstances — and the girl — proved irresisti-
ble. We were married on September 4, 1939, and I recall that the
attention of the guests, if not of the bride and groom, was focused
less on the ceremony than on the radio reports announcing that
England and France had declared war.

If our wedding coincided with the outbreak of hostilities, our
marriage has been singularly serene and peaceful. Simon made
us parents in 1943 and Bernard was born a little less than three
years later. To spare Annette the fate of a solitary female in an
exclusively male household, we acquired Ginger, a thoroughbred
mongrel, whose unknown parentage was no deterrent to her
quickly becoming the undisputed favorite of the entire family.

Over the years, we've taken of the trappings and characteristics
of the conventional suburbanite, a house with a two-car garage,
an outdoor barbecue, and crabgrass. Simon’s hobby is magic.
Bernard’s interests are divided equally between cowboys and
rock and roll. Annette paints and I, to my never ending amaze-
ment, manage to do household repairs and to turn out odd pieces
of furniture that are actually usable.

The baby sitter problem, happily, is behind us and we now
get four tickets for the theatre instead of two. Long Island Sound
is but a short walk from the house and we take full advantage
of its facilities for an extended season of water sports and sun-
bathing. One set of tennis or an hour on the ice, however, is
usually sufficient to induce me to assume the spectator’s role.

[ 40 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

For vacations we take to the road. California is on the agenda for
next year. After that? Well, Annette has already intimated, not
too subtly, that if we rent the house for the summer, the long-
dreamed-of European trip might not be too expensive.

Since 1942, I have been working in the field of intergroup
relations. The work involves research on various aspects of inter-
group relations, including housing, education, employment and
immigration, assistance to public agencies administering civil
rights statutes, and to religious, labor and civic groups in the
organization and conduct of programs to eliminate discrimina-
tory practices and improve intergroup relationships, and lobby-
ing, or, as it is euphemistically called, public relations for needed
new legislation and for more effective administration of existing
laws for the protection of individual rights and liberties. On the
federal level, this latter activity has brought me into frequent
contact during the past four years with classmate Mack Rabb.
Although he is a presidential assistant in a Republican administra-
tion, and I an Independent with a Democratic bias, we have
maintained not only a close personal friendship but a cooperative
and, I think, mutually productive relationship as well.

I like my work. ‘True, the pressures are great, the frustrations

_many and the pay not substantial. But I have all my hair and no
ulcers. I consider the race question our single most important
domestic issue and the extension of equal rights and equal op-
»portunities the great unfinished business of our democracy.
Thus, my work affords me the unity of belief and purpose that
I was never able to achieve in business and that for me is the
essence of a satisfying job.

The stairs do seem steeper and the hills a bit longer. Still, I
feel very much younger than the image I had twenty-five years
ago of a twenty-fifth-year grad.

JOHN EDWARD ASHWORTH, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Stuyvesant Oval, New York 9, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Columbia University, New York, N.Y.

BORN: Dec. 23, 1909, Bath, Maine. parents: John Edward Ashworth, Mina
L. Slayton.

[41 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

PREPARED AT: Bartlett High School, Webster, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932, DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1932; A.M. 1933.

MARRIED: Fannie McLean, 1936, Cambridge, Mass. cairo: John Edward, 3d,
Feb. 1, 1939.

OccUPATION: Education.

HENRY VALPEY ATHERTON

HOME ADDRESS: 65 Foster St., Cambridge, Mass.
OFFIcE ADDRESS: Herrick, Smith, Donald, Farley & Ketchum, 294 Washington
St., Boston, Mass.

porn: May 6, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Percy Arad Atherton, ’oo, Louise
Newhall Valpey.

PREPARED AT; Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 19323 LL.B. 1935.

MarRIED: Barbara Beach, June 28, 1941, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Margaret
Louise, Dec, 31, 1943; Charles Arad, Feb. 9, 1946; Frances Judd, April

2, 1949.
occupation: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: President, Young People’s Religious Union (Unitarian), 1939-
40; treasurer, Unitarian Service Pension Society, since 1948.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Musical Association; Massachusetts Bar Association;
Boston Bar Association,

AFTER graduation from law school I served for several years as
law clerk for Judge Hugh D. McLellan, United States District
Court Judge for the District of Massachusetts. When he resigned
to become a member of the Boston law firm of Herrick, Smith,
Donald, Farley, and Ketchum, I remained with him and have’
been associated with that firm to the present time, except for
three years during the war. In 1941 I was married to Barbara
Beach of West Newton. We have three children. I find life
married to her very satisfactory. My only major problems at
home are those concerned with the rising cost of living. |
Although a near winner in the drawing of the fish bowl, the
various armed services at first considered me too near-sighted
for their requirements. As time went on, however, their views
in this respect were modified, until in 1943 I found myself a private
in the Army. I went through the usual experiences of a 1932
vintage enlisted man, I attended officer candidate school at the
University of Michigan Law School. At the end of the war I
was a first lieutenant in the Judge Advocate General’s Corps.

[ 42 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In June of 1945, I was assigned to the staff of Justice Jackson,
then beginning to prepare for the international trial at Niirnberg.
In this capacity, I went first to London and then to Niirnberg,
Germany, and had some small part in the trial before the Inter-
national Military Tribunal. I returned to the United States in
February, 1946, and went back to civilian practice a few months

later. “This assignment was none of my choosing, but I returned

with the conviction that at least as far as this trial and these
defendants were concerned justice was done. My views on this
have not since changed.

I now live in Cambridge in the winter and at my family’s farm
in Harvard, Massachusetts, in the summer, with annual excur-
sions to visit my wife’s family at Hancock Point, Maine. I re-
gard Harvard as my permanent home and continue to vote there.
My only persisting hobby is amateur radio. | have now held an
amateur license for thirty-two years, and while I have been cured
several times during this interval I invariably relapse.

SAMUEL GREENLEAF ATKINSON

HOME AppRESS: 38 Heath St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE apprESS: Boston University School of Public Relations and Com-
munications, 84 Exeter St., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 17, 1911, Brookline, Mass, parents: Robert Whitman Atkinson,
’9t, Elizabeth Bispham Page. _

PREPARED AT: Rivers Country Day School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.B.A., 1935; LL.B. (North-
eastern Univ.), 1939.

MARRIED: Julia Leavitt, Feb. 14, 1942, Brookline, Mass. cHILpREN: Jonathan
Pierpont and Susan Ashley (twins), Dec. 15, 1942; Stephen Hart, July
10, 1945; Edward Page, July 27, 1949; Mary Day, May 6, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Eliot Heath Atkinson, ’29.

OCCUPATION: Professor, Boston University School of Public Relations and
Communications, teaching in areas of Economics and Government and
acting as Project Coordinator for the International Cooperation Ad-
ministration, U.S. State Department; counsellor, practitioner and execu-
tive director, New England Regional Conference for President’s Com-
mittee on Education beyond the high school; consultant to Massachu-
setts Council for Public Schools,

OFFICES HELD: State Representative, Massachusetts, 1941-42, 1947-48; mem-
ber advisory committee, Town of Brookline, 1938-40; Brookline Town
Meeting Member, 1937-42, 1947-48, since 1955; chairman, Brookline

(43 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Republican Finance Committee, 1954-55; delegate, Republican State
Conventions, 1940, 1946; associate chairman, Brookline Community
Fund, 1938; trustee, Rivers Country Day School, 1933-46, president,
Brookline Council for Public Schools, 1952-53; director for New
England of National Citizens Commission for Public Schools, 1953-55-
MEMBER OF: Republican Club of Massachusetts; Norfolk and Suffolk County
Republican Clubs; State Club; Massachusetts Civic League; New Eng-
land Council; Elks; American Legion; Veterans of Foreign Wars;

Brookline Taxpayers Association; Brookline Citizens Committee;
Brookline Community Council.

puBLicaTions: Short articles in The Lens of the Massachusetts Civic League,

the Public Relations Journal and the Alunmi Magazine of the U.S.
Naval Academy.

DURING the past twenty-five years, life has been tremendously
rewarding and interesting. Candidly, I am unable to explain why
I have been so fortunate. I am not at all sure that I am carrying
out my proper function on this earth but believe that this stage
of maturity — this self-awareness — arrives for some later than
others. The situation can be perplexing but not at all distressing.
I am deeply convinced that perfect freedom for the individual
is found in the service of God and that the second most important
function of any one of us is to serve his fellow men as usefully
as he knows how. It would be audacious to attribute the richness
of my life to the observance of these two principles. So I simply
report that a whole quarter-century has elapsed packed full of
joy and with but few misfortunes. :

After graduation I went to the Business School for one year
and then became employed by Jackson & Curtis in Boston, in
their statistical department. This period of employment enabled
me to afford the second year of Business School from which I
graduated in 1935. After a glorious and adventurous trip through
parts of England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales and France —a good
part of it on a bicycle —, I went to work in the fall of 1935 for
Minto, Kendall & Company, as a statistician, trader and salesman,
attending law school at night at Northeastern from which I
graduated in 1939.

Meanwhile, I became engrossed in the politics and civic life
of Brookline, holding local offices and then becoming a State
Representative in 1941. This year was truly a shining one, be-
cause it was the one in which I became engaged (and then mar-

[44]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ried in 1942) to a lady with whom I have remained in love ever
since. We make a swell team even though our motto is some-
thing like: “We simply must get organized — next week!” Be-
sides sharing many interests, we also are delighted with our family
of five and frequently wonder why they are so remarkable (if
we may be allowed a reasonable amount of favorable prejudice).
Jonathan, fourteen, is at Andover; his twin sister, Susan, at
Beaver; Stephen, eleven, at Heath (Brookline) and Ned, seven,
and Mary, five, both at Baldwin (Brookline).

To return to a chronological account, in the fall of 1941, I
joined the Navy and reported for duty in November at the U.S.
Naval Gun Factory in Washington. The Navy astutely deter-
mined this was hardly the place for a fellow who got a “D” in
Physics B, so I was quickly transferred to the Bureau of Ord-
nance where for almost three years I was the security and
counter-intelligence officer for the Bureau. Then at the end of
the summer of 1944, I was assigned as assistant plans officer on
the Philippine Sea Frontier Command and saw a year of duty in
the Southwest Pacific. I was honored by the award of the Bronze
Star “for meritorious service.” Upon return at the end of 1945,
I had a few weeks’ duty at the First Naval District in Boston and
then went to work with Doremus & Company. Copywriting
certainly did not suit my temperament (though, because I was
so run down, in retrospect perhaps it would have been hard to
enjoy any task right after the war), and when I was again elected
as a State Representative in the fall of 1946, I resigned from my
job with Doremus.

The year 1948 was as energetic a year in many ways as I have
ever lived through. As House Chairman of the Committee on
Public Service in the Legislature and as a most strenuous cam-
paign worker in that election year, 1 became completely worn
out and did not stand for reelection.

In 1949, I became a member of the faculty of the then new
School of Public Relations and Communications of Boston Uni-
versity, where I am at present. It has been a very exciting ex-
perience to grow with this new institution and to partake in its
expanding utility to industry, nonprofit organizations and gov-
ernment. I love to teach, and also to act in an informal way as
a career counsellor. This position has carried with it the opportu-

[45]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

nity to engage professionally in many public relations activities
for a variety “of organizations in business, philanthropy and gov-
ernment. Though sometimes it becomes a bit confusing to wear
three or four hats simultaneously, the diversity such a life repre-
sents is most stimulating.

Certainly it becomes time to draw to a close. So, in capsule
form — Hobbies: tennis (not often enough), walking, working
around the house (more imagined than real), parties. Political
convictions: Liberal Republican (I aspire to hold elective office
again in the future). Religious convictions: Episcopalian.

MICHAEL ANTHONY AULETA

HOME ADDRESS: 2162 46th St. Long Island City 5, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 304 E. 42d St. New York, N.Y.

BorN: April 24, 1911, New York, N.Y. parents: Vincent Henry Auleta,
Anna Schoenherr.

PREPARED AT: St. Ann’s Academy, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREES: A.B. (Manhattan Coll.); LL.B. (New
York Univ.).

MARRIED: Joan Burkard, New York, N.Y. cHitpren: Laurel, Sept. 21, 1951;
Vincent, Sept. 16, 1954.
occuPATION: Manager, food and beverage business.

CAREER was probably a reflection of the writer in its variety
and lack of direction. Entering the restaurant business was very
deliberate and revealed sharply the insane “border” on which all
are supposed to teeter. Can’t seem to discover to which side of
the border I’ve fallen. Having at long last married and fathered
two, I may now be on the sane side.

Politically, the change in thinking is somewhat frightening;
from Tammany Hall Democrat to Independent Democrat to
semi-conservative voter. Could be the future sees a hide-bound
" conservative, or even a damned old reactionary in my dotage.
Heaven help me! —and it is!

War service was an odd admixture that only the services can
conjure up. From “sergeanting” a “Test Section” to a language
school for three years, then to the Infantry and then to the hos-
pital for a long spell, Oddly the writing out of the career seems
to give it a logical sequence it never had before. Time has

[ 46}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

softened the distaste for the imposed subjection, but not the
distaste for the career. Learned volumes about people and added
to it with a three-year spell in the Veterans’ Administration.
Went from telling off to being told off! Very interesting.

In the present business there is some of both, but it is so ab-
sorbing and time-consuming that the telling and the being told
are sloughed off with the passing of the incident.

Hobbies: 1) Golf — were there the time and, if there were
the time, then the energy. 2) Sleep — when there is the time.

ROBERT McCORMICK AYER

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Sea Cove, Bar Harbor, Maine.

BORN: Sept. 26, 1910, Madison, Wis. parents: Walter Ayer, ’93, Phoebe
Lord McCormick.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.
MARRIED: Jean Campbell Neal, Dec. 19, 1953, New York, N.Y. cut:
Robert McCormick, Jr., June 22, 1956.

occuPATION: Self-employed.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Cruising Club of America; Bar

Harbor Yacht Club; Amateur Ski Club of New York.

THE year after graduation was spent mainly in travel. I lived
in old Pekin and circumnavigated the globe. The following year
saw me as a student in the Harvard Business School. After finish-
ing the first year in good standing, I withdrew and took employ-
ment in the steamship business in New York. Shipping and the
sea were my great interests. C. D. Mallory and Company took
me on, and it was satisfying work. I had been at sea in the Mer-
chant Marine and was a licensed mate. Now on the other side of
the picture I progressed through the departments on shore. At
the same time I was active in the Naval Reserve, having been
commissioned on graduation.

In the fall of 1940, as a lieutenant j.g., 1 was ordered to active
duty and so remained until the spring of 1946. I served mainly
on destroyers. I commanded two vessels, one destroyer escort
and one destroyer. I was promoted to commander.

After World War II, the shipping business had a ditferent
look. My old concern had been drastically altered. Everywhere

[47]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932
now the program was retrenchment. I decided it was not for me.
Instead, I established and managed the New York branch of Ran-
dolph Laboratories, Inc., a Chicago concern which manufactures
carbon dioxide fire fighting equipment. Four years later, in 1950,

I resigned and bought a controlling interest in Fairfield Litho-

graph Corporation, an offset printing plant in Stamford, Con-

necticut“ I ran the company until 1952 when we sold out to a

larger New York printer.

The ensuing winter I spent in the Alps. In St. Anton I met
Jean. The next December we were married in New York. Now
we live here in Bar Harbor, Maine. The house faces the ocean
on one side and the forest on the other. I have retired from the
conventional form of business, although when Fairfield was sold
it was in the belief that in a few months I would be at work again.
Family and other interests bring me to New York periodically.
I participate in the Naval Reserve and this summer was promoted
to captain. We do our share of cruising and have spent two more
winters in Switzerland. Now we have a boy who next June will
be one year old. His name is Robert, too,

As for convictions, they are better discussed than written, it
seems to me. Social convictions is an impressive phrase. You
could say I believe in gradual desegregation, equal opportunities,
and the dignity of man. I attend the Episcopal Church here. On
the political side I am for Ike from the bottom of my heart.

DWIGHT TAYLOR AYRES

HOME appress: 323 Atlantic St. Scamford, Conn.

OFFiceE ADDRESS: The Perkin-Elmer Corp., Norwalk, Conn.

BORN: Oct. 31, 1907, Allston, Mass, parents: Philip Wheelock Ayres, Alice
Taylor.

PREPARED at: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931.

occupation: Manufacturing.

[ 48 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DAVID CYRUS BABCOCK, JR.

LAST KNOWN ADpRESS: 451 S. Telegraph Rd., Pontiac, Mich.

BoRN: March 5, 1908, Chicago, Ill. parents: David Cyrus Babcock, Helen
Millard.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928~1929.

BABCOCK has been carried as a “lost” man on our records
since 1952.

DAVID LEVEAU BABSON

HOME ADDRESS: 27 Clovelly Rd., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: David L. Babson & Co., Inc., 89 Broad St., Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 16, 1911, Gloucester, Mass, PARENTS: Elmer Warren Babson,
Emma Gustava Leveau.

PREPARED AT: Gloucester High School, Gloucester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B. cum laude, 1932.

MARRIED: Katherine Lockhart Allen, Sept. 29, 1934, Manchester, Mass.
CHILDREN: David Leveau, Jr., March 28, 1938; Susan Allen, June 22,
1939; Katherine Lockhart, Jan. 5, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Warren Babson, 727, M.D., 730.

OCCUPATION: Investment counsel; president, David L. Babson & Company,
Inc.; writer on economic and investment subjects.

OFFICES HELD: Wellesley Town Meeting Member, 1935-57; member and
treasurer, 1949-56, chairman, since 1956, Wellesley Housing Author-
ity; director, Sierra Pacific Power Company, since 1935; president,
Aberdeen Fund; trustee, since 1952, treasurer, since 1956, Common-
wealth Housing Foundation; trustee and treasurer, Home For Aged
Colored Women, since 1952. |

MEMBER OF: Boston Security Analysts Society; Investment Counsel Associ-
ation of America; Wellesley Club (president, 1951-52).

I WAS one of the fortunate members of our class to have a job
waiting for me upon graduation. I started my business career
in the investment advisory field at Babson’s Reports in Wellesley
Hills, Massachusetts, where I was employed for the following
eight years. In 1940 some of my associates and I formed the
investment counsel firm with which I have been connected ever
_since and which has grown into one of the larger organizations
in its field.

In 1934, I was married to Katherine (Kit) Allen of Manchester,
Massachusetts. We established our home in Wellesley and have

[49 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

lived there ever since. Our first two children (David and Susan)
were born in 1938 and 1939, and our third child (Katherine)
came along in 1947.

During the war I spent several years as a staff member of the
Radiation Laboratory at M{L.I.T., where I served as the business
representative on several large radar development projects.

The past few years seem to have been the busiest of my life.
In addition to the problems of a rapidly-growing business, an
active (and fortunately healthy) family, keeping up with my
hobbies of bird hunting, gardening and stamp collecting, my
wife and I have spent a good deal of time in various community
affairs. For my wife, the latter include, among others, the Ameri-
can Field Service Student Exchange program, Girl Scouts and
teaching Sunday School; and public housing projects for veterans
and the elderly for me. Our two older children are finishing
their secondary education this year and will be entering college
next fall, destinations unknown at the moment. The youngest
is just old enough to make the Reunion this June.

My big project at the moment is writing a book on investing
which is to be published by Macmillan later this year. Looking
back, the twenty-five years since graduation have been full,
pleasant and rewarding years.

JOHN AUCHINVOLE BACKUS

HOME apprEss: 106 Upton St., Rockville, Md.

BORN: July 20, 1908, Buffalo, N.Y. Parents: Frederick Letts Backus, Elsie
Alice Auchinvole.

PREPARED AT: Washington Irving High School, Tarrytown, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931.

Marriep: Ann Griffith, Rockville, Md. cuip: Sarah Ann, 1954.

occuPATION: Electrical engineer.

BACKUS, an electrical engineer, now heads up the VT Fuze
Field Firing Branch, formerly a section of the Electrical Branch,
Product Engineering Division. Since coming to NOL in January,
1947, he worked for three years with the OVT Fuze Group and
served another three years as section chicf of the Schedule and
Acceptance Group. He came to NOL after four years in the

[ 50 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

VT Fuze Program of the Johns Hopkins University Applied
Physics Laboratory in Silver Spring. From 1934 to 1942, he was
with the Columbia Broadcasting System and had major responsi-
bility for rebuilding and installing transmitting equipment for
the Buffalo (N.Y.) Broadcasting Corporation.

Citizens of Olcott, New York, north of Buffalo, may recall
him as the owner of a radio and appliance service business. How-
ever, he is much better known in northern New York State for
his ownership and operation of a 300-acre peach and apple
orchard from 1923 to 1948. Each year he produced between
40,000 to 50,000 bushels of U.S. No. 1 Grade fruit, including
Crawford, Elberta, Hale Haven and Rochester peaches and Bald-
win, Mackintosh and Rhode Island Greenings apples.

He is a ham radio operator, an amateur photographer and a
fellow with the ability to cut corners on the construction of his

new home by finishing the interior.

NORVAL FOSTER BACON, JR.

HOME ApprREss: Lawrenceville, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N_J.

BORN: June 29, 1908, Arlington, Mass. PARENTS: Norval Foster Bacon,
Margaret Christian Du Vernet.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928~1932. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1932.

MARRIED: Elisabeth Jane Osborne, June 12, 1935, Arlington, Mass. CHILDREN:
Anne Osborne, June 8, 1940; Denison, Sept. 29, 1943-

OCCUPATION: Teacher.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, 1949-55, secretary, 1952-55, William Alexander Proc-
ter Foundation; cub master, Troop 27, George Washington Council,
Boy Scouts of America, 1950-52; vestryman, Trinity Church, Prince-
ton, N.J., 1954-57; Republican District Committeeman, 1956.

UPON graduation I entered the teaching profession and have

remained with it ever since, the last fifteen years at the Lawrence-
ville School in New Jersey. My duties are twofold: teaching
US. history and serving as assistant director of admissions. This
affords variety and a broad view of the school world. Finding
a job in a good school in the thirties was hard, and it was ten
years before I came to roost in the sort of situation I wanted.

[5]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Only four of these years do I remember pleasantly; they were
spent in a very fine ranch school in Arizona, where my wife,
Betty, and I were able to indulge our tastes for travel, riding and
the like.

Church work has always been a strong avocation for me. At
Trinity Church, Princeton, I have taught Sunday School regu-
larly and at present am a member of the vestry. For six years I
served on a foundation which supports Episcopalian activities
at Princeton University.

In 1940 our family began summering in Blue Hill, Maine, and
two years ago we bought a house there. Betty and I are New
Englanders from way back, so Blue Hill we increasingly come to
regard as home. Our daughter, Anne, goes to St. Catherine’s
School in Richmond, Virginia. Son, Denison, is at Lawrence-
ville School. We have not been able to do much traveling with
them aside from a trip through the West a few summers ago.
Most of my hobbies are of the routine sort. One I enjoy is as
different as it is hard to account for — knots, any and all kinds.

WALTER PERKINS BAILEY

HOME ApprEss: Woodstock, Vt.

BORN: Feb. 14, 1911, Boston, Mass, parENTs: Walter Channing Bailey, ‘94,
Ruth Perkins.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-10932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Ruth Montgomery Higginson, 1954. cHILDREN: Three step-
daughters.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Welles Bailey, ’34.

occupation; Landscape painter; school teacher (remedial reading); silk
screen printing.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-chairman, United World Federalists of Vermont, 1955,
1956; chairman, Democratic Committee, Pomfret, Vt.; president, Wool-
house Players, Woodstock, 1956, 1957.

LOOKING back, even briefly, is rather a novel experience for
me and, therefore, probably a valuable one. The fact that the
“good old days” seem less interesting than the newer better days
does not make the former any the less valuable. I’m not quite
sure where the value lies in reviewing the past. Even if there
were something significant in the last twenty-five years of my

[52]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

life, I should probably be the last one to see it. I know that I
have been one of the fortunate ones, and I believe that the
twenty-five years have been preparing me for the period of my
greatest usefulness. Beyond that there is nothing I can say with
any degree of certainty.

No doubt we color the past to suit ourselves much as we color
our dreams of the future. I have some rather garishly colored
memories of the days immediately after leaving Cambridge when
I moved across the Charles to study drawing and painting at
the Boston Museum School. I did learn some technique, some-
what to my astonishment, —a small facility; but I didn’t put
much heart or mind behind it. I was too busy having an ir-
responsible good time.

The need to pay for my good times brought me to a happy
choice, — a job as a school teacher and three years at the Forman
School in Connecticut, It was an ideal introduction to a solidly
satisfying profession, as well as to a specialty which has been an
absorbing interest to me ever since, remedial reading. My devo-
tion to the teaching profession brought its complications for I
knew also that I wanted to paint. For twenty years, therefore,
I have been a determinedly split personality and see no good
reason to abandon either the painting or the teaching. I did leave
the teaching temporarily in 1938 in order to return to a part of
the country I knew and loved and do some painting. At least
that is what I told myself at the time.

Actually, I wanted as much as anything to be in the country
and do as I damn well pleased. That this included wanting to
paint did not mean that I was willing to starve in a garret; indeed,
I think I chose to concentrate on landscape painting because I
so much enjoyed being out-of-doors in the hills of Vermont,
especially when I could be on skis. Even when the weather drove
me indoors, I probably had a glass in my hand as often as a paint
brush. Add to all this a wealth of good friends, and my world
was a very pleasant world indeed.

I have raised my sights unassisted. I was about to take several
steps including marriage, when the war ended that along with
other dreams. I volunteered for the ski troops and spent three
strenuous years in the 87th Mountain Infantry Regiment. We
trained in Washington and Colorado and then took off for an

[53]

HAR

anti-climactic five months in the Aleutians and back to the State,

for more training. Having been a machine-gun squad leader fo,

several aeons, I was finally sent to Infantry School and spent the

rest of the war as an infantry platoon leader administering basic
training to the young.

The war made me angry and ashamed. Today the sense of
shame is as strong as it ever was, but the anger perhaps has become
something a little more useful. In 1945 I began looking for some.
thing that might help us from having to resort to the absurdity of
war in the future. Two years later I began to read the World
Federalist proposals, and I have been trying ever since then to get
other people to consider them and act upon them.

It is heartening to know that the concept of world law anda
stronger U.N. make even more sense today than they did ten
years ago, but people are slow to alter the thinking habits of a
lifetime, and progress seems slow for that reason. My wife, who
is wise as well as beautiful, manages the local Federalist organiza-
tion, while I putter about on the edges. Among my putterings
is a story-telling technique which I call a Show Talk. Six years
of work have not brought it to the necessary degree of perfec-
tion, but we are close.

Because we enjoy life so much on our Vermont hilltop, we
don’t think very much about vacations, but we do take a few
days in New York when we can, and then we have a gorge of
theatre which we both love. We cultivate that love rather ac-
tively at home, too, being members of the amateur dramatic
group which attempts to produce four shows per year. It’s
crazy, but it’s fun. In the summer, my wife grows flowers some-
how in our somewhat unresponsive soil while I try to keep the
wrong things from growing in the wrong places in our thirty
acres. In the winter, we ski and work on the apple trees, Once
in a while I turn out a painting. I teach school three days a week
and find it good.

Being a firm believer in the two-party system, I am struggling
to establish the Democratic Party in one of the most thoroughly
Republican sections of the Deep North. Progress is impercepti-
ble, but then I like stone walls. As to religion, I once went to
the Episcopal Church. The relationship proved to be unproduc-
tive, and has never been resumed.

[54]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

As to the future, I want very much to do more work in adult
education, and otherwise try to improve the work I am doing
now. That seems to be it. | am amazed that anything that sounds
so dull can have so much magic in it.

KENNETH GEORGE FRANCIS BALFOUR

HOM® ADoRESS: Quoitings, Marlow, Buckinghamshire, England.

orrice aporess: 65 London Wall, London E.C, 2, England.

Born: June 14, 1909, London, England. parents: Kenneth Robert Balfour,
May Eleanor Broadwood.

preparep at: Eton College, Buckinghamshire, England,

YRARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B, 1932.

UN MARRIED.

occupation; Mercantile Business,

THIE year 1932 was not a suitable year to look for a job in the
United States unless one was an American citizen. No amount
of pull (of which I had none anyway) could enable a non-
residential alien to remain as a wage earner at that stage of the
depression, so August found me on the Bremen on the way
back to England.

I spent the next seven years learning the insurance business in
Lloyd's of London. I found this a most tedious profession and
on a trip back to America in 1938, when I was hoping to mix
business with pleasure, I was assured by a prominent New York
insurance broker that I had made a very bad impression on him.
A most useful tip. During these years I took three holidays in
Spain where I acted as a free-lance war correspondent and took
a very minor part in several military operations. I was on the
side that won.

The Call-up was rapid in England in 1939 and by November
I was in Palestine with a cavalry regiment, the 1st Royal Dra-
goons. We fought the Syrian Campaign still horsed, a tragic
affair against our best friends, and I took part in what must cer-
tainly be one of the last cavalry charges this side of the hydrogen
bomb. A most exciting confusion. After that we got armored
cars and eventually motored to Tunis and thence to Naples and
later on from Normandy to the Elbe.

Css]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

us a lesson” by applying to us oil sanctions not applied ta Musso-
lini. Is it not ‘time to dispel these clouds? Already the American
tone is strengthening the school which urges Western Furope
to unite in order to be less dependent on the United Srates, less
menaced by Russia. But would such unity of itself really meet
the needs of a world in which Soviet imperialism grows ever
more presumptuous and dangerous by reason of American
divergencies?

Britain and the United States must keep their connections
because both will perish without them. Fortress America iS
Cloud Cuckooland without us. The Americans are more im-
mediately necessary to us than we to them, but when both are
indispensable to each other the degree docs not matter. I fear,
however, that the inner warmth, which so many of us most
value, may be gone unless Americans soon drop the attitude of
birch and pi-jaw. Fortunately, there are many on both sides
who see this point that we both have grievances better buried.
But somebody should say so, and get a shovel.

CARLOS HERRICK BALL

HOME ADDRESS: 212 Main St, Mfonson, Mass.

BORN: May 7, 1909, Dayton, Ohio. pasents: Freclon Quincy Ball, Lucy
Johnson.

PREPARED AT: Monson Academy, Monson, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

marriep: Evelyn Grace Schaefer, July 6, 1938, Caldwell, N.J. cumtpres:
Cynthia Martha, May 19, 1939; Naomi Lily, Dee. 28, 1940, Geoffrey
Carlos, Jan. 12, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Insurance.

ARTHUR PETER BALZFERINI

HOME AppRESS: 1132 Seventh St, Santa Monica, Calif.

orrice appaess: E. F, Hutton & Co, 427 Wikhire Blvd. Santa Monica,
Calif.

BORN: June 23, 1909, Weehawken, NJ. paaests: Petce Balzerini, Gertrude
Razzetti.

PREPARED AT: LaSalle Military Academy, Oakdale, Long bland, NLY

[58]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Account executive, E. F. Hutton & Company, securities.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California; Santa Monica Tennis
Club; Deauville Club, Santa Monica.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in Fitch Survey, Fitch Publications.

WHEN the original call came to me for an autobiographical
sketch of the last twenty-five years, I was in a negative mood.
I just could not be that old! My execution of tennis strokes was
better than ever, although coverage of the court left something
to be desired. Where has this quarter of a century gone since
leaving the Yard? — at least as far as I personally was concerned.
The national and international events, true enough, were momen-
tous in history, although not always monumental. But how much
or how little of this passing scene was I? This was the challenge,
and an urgent plea that there were still missing five hundred and
forty-eight sketches prompted me to do something about it. So
here goes.

I recall only too vividly that the law of demand and supply
“laid an egg” in our learned Japs that proud June morning in
Sever quadrangle way back in 1932. Our demands, of course,
were many, but the supply of jobs was meagre, and we served
to distort the supply side of the equation. In searching for a
career, and going from job to job, I took small consolation in
the thought that few could escape the wrath of the greatest
depression in history. Why I ever selected the securities ficld I
shall never know, especially when securities at that time were
“a girl’s worst friend.” I must have been inspired by Wiliams
(Money and Banking) and Ripley (Railroads) or driven to it
by “Concentration in Ec.” Anyway, I kicked (or was kicked)
around in several securities firms in several capacities, ranging
from statistician to customer’s man.

This erratic past in an erratic period for want of a more pun-
ishing word to describe the Blue Eagle and the New Deal, brings
me up to World War II and my role in the country’s new mission
of destiny, this time to avenge the infamy of the Ni ipponese war
lords and the unrighteous ambitions of a corporal of obscure
origin, I served mostly in the maneuver-worn area of Leesville
and Camp Polk, Louisiana, as an anti-aircraft officer, umpiring

[59]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

mock warfare! Neither did I come close to a Croix de Guerre

nor even to a gangplank of embarkation. I had very little to do

with ending the war, but finally was extricated from that Loui-
siana pine after what seemed like an endless commitment, and
returned to mufti.

By way of getting my feet wet again in the world of finance,

I became associated with Fitch Publications where I analyzed
company reports and contributed copy to the Fitch Survey.
When invited to join the organization of E. F. Hutton and
Company, I jumped at the opportunity, particularly since it
meant deserting the seasonally unpleasant Canyon of Wall Street
for the ideally sunny clime of Santa Monica, California. I have
been here nine years in their branch office. We have just moved
into new quarters and advertised our opening as the first broker-
age office in Santa Monica with an electric board. I did not
follow Horace Greeley’s advice, “Young man, go West,” but
West I did go, though belatedly, to find a rainbow and a Utopia.
I found out later that the rest of the country followed me — as
a matter of fact there are two dozen of us bearing the label of ’32

in the environs of Los Angeles.

Before disposing of this brief and probably boring personal
account of myself, I am aware there is a vacuum. Unlike King
Henry VIII, I have not had five wives—not even the first, I
must confess. And although I have not been blessed (or un-
blessed, as the case might be) by matrimony in all these years,
I am grateful for many other blessings, not the least of which is
being a member of the Class of 1932 of an institution such as
Harvard where Veritas shines like a beacon in this troubled
world of ours.

JAMES BANNISTER

HOME ADDRESS: 723 Lincoln St., Evanston, Ill.

oFFice appress: Dallas Jones Productions, Inc., 1725 N. Wells St., Chicago,
14, TL. |

BORN: March 5, I9giI, Skelmorlie, Ayrshire, Scotland. Parents: James
Robert Kelly Bannister, Mary Stewart.

PREPARED aT: Manchester High School, Manchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES! A.B, 1932; AM. 1933.

[ 60 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MarRIED: Delta T. Hinkel, Jan. 24, 1942, Urbana, Ill. camp: James Stewart,

Sept. 15, 1943.

occuPATION: Account executive, Dallas Jones Productions, Inc. com-
mercial motion picture producers.

OFFICES HELD: Member of corporation, Kendall College, Evanston, Ill.; com-
mitteeman, Troop 11, Evanston Council, Boy Scouts of America, honor-
ary curator of fine prints, Associated American Artists, New York

City.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Chicago; National Geographic Society.

WRITING this report in the midst of the Christmas season no
doubt has influenced its tone. As I ponder the Christmas message
of “Peace on Earth, Good Will Toward Men,” and view the
present state of world tension, I find myself in a state of frus-
trated mixed emotions. On the one hand, we all know that force
never settles anything, but on the other hand, every fiber of my
being cries out for us as a nation to take a more forceful position
in this basic conflict between the free and the Communist worlds,
and let the chips fall where they may. Fortunately, I feel that
the organization through which we can exert a forceful leader-
ship already exists, the United Nations. If only we could give
it some teeth in the form of a police force strong enough to
handle any emergency situation before that situation gets out of
hand and starts another world war, we might yet someday
achieve the goal of the Christmas message.

Recognizing that I am not an authority on world affairs, I
still find it rather difficult to swing my thoughts from matters
of such magnitude to commenting on twenty-five years in the
life of one individual and his family. All of my business life has
been concerned with the dissemination of information in one
form or another, first of all on a weekly newspaper for two
years; from then until the war with a publishing house in their
college textbook department; for four years of the war in a
Training Film Preparation Unit of the Air Force; and since that
time with commercial film producers.

Naturally, I believe wholeheartedly in the visual means of
communication and feel that it has not as yet nearly reached its
full potential. In the coming years of the predicted teacher
shortage, it could well be that films and television will come into
their own and help to prevent the widespread decline in educa-

[61]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

tional standards that so many people today feel is inevitable. But
then I guess each of us thinks the best of his line of activity.

Although we are only a family of three, we have a lot of fun
doing things together. Old hobbies such as collecting paintings
and lithographs have given way to family hobbies: rocks and
shells, butterflies and wildflowers, stamps and coins, ship and
airplane models and, of course, our model railroad. We all love
the great outdoors and hightail it to the country at every op-

ortunity. Our son, “Jay,” and I are active in the Boy Scouts
of America and hope to earn our Eagle Scout award together;
that is, if I can find the time.

The high spot for all of us each year is the day we load our
trailer and head out for the Tetons and Jackson Hole. There,
this last summer, we fulfilled a dream of years and had built a |
log cabin halfway up Teton Pass, which at this writing most
likely is under eight feet of gorgeous snow. And there it will be
twenty years from now, if I may hazard a prediction, that my
wife and I may be found, her eyes glued to binoculars spotting
Big Horn sheep for me to bag with a telephoto lens.

GEORGE GARDNER BARKER

HOME AppRrEss: 38 Grozier Rd., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Raytheon Manufacturing Co, Waltham 54, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 18, 1908, Plymouth, Mass. parents: LeBaron Russell Barker,
98, Amy Hutchins.

PREPARED aT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929, 1930-1933. DEGREE: A.B. 1932 (33).

MarRiIED: Hazel Tompers, Sept. 17, 1938, Boston, Mass. cuttp: Marilyn
Tompers (adopted), Aug. 15, 1930 (m. Arthur Bradford Wood, Aug.
I, 1953). GRANDCHILD: Bradford Gardner Wood, Feb. 19, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: LeBaron Russell Barker, Jr., °26.

occupation: Head, Technical Section, Public Relations Department, Ray-
theon Manufacturing Company, electronics engineering and production.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston, Cambridge Boat Club.

IN 1935 I joined with two other Crimson editors, Joscph M.
Boyd, ’35, and Edmund Greene, ’35, in founding a suburban
weekly newspaper, the Brookline (Mass.) Citizen. Our theory
was that the old suburban papers around Boston were hopelessly
handicapped by heavy prose, dwindling circulation and the loss

[ 62]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of large advertisers to the metropolitan dailies. ‘The first ill we
could cure by writing like Crimson men; the second, by free
distribution to the entire town. Free-circulation “throw-aways”
filled with large market ads but little else were already flourish-
ing in low-income areas and gaining attention by brute force.
Well then, by combining free circulation and enlightened jour-
nalism we would create a new kind of suburban press on recep-
tive soil and the advertisers would beat a path to our door. Ergo,
the Brookline Citizen.

The first year of operation did indeed stir up a lot of friendly
interest among the townspeople — they even said the paper filled
a real need — but the big advertisers were still thinking in bigger
terms than Brookline alone. So, in order to offer them a signifi-
cant slice of suburban Boston, we started three more Citizens in
adjacent areas. Advertising picked up and we struggled on with
the four papers until 1940, but only the Brookline paper gave
us any journalistic satisfaction. The business was finally sold to
other publishers who had the business experience and rotary
presses needed for profitable chain-paper operation, and all
four papers still survive. Today, after nearly twenty years, the
three founders and three more Harvard men who joined us later
recall their Citizen days as an incredible but valuable experience
— a brave, quixotic leap into the depression economy.

I spent the next two years (1941-42) as a free-lance writer
following a bent that had shown up in early school years —
translating the language of science into plain English for the
general reader. A keen interest and fairly wide reading in science
made up for my lack of formal training to the extent that I found
myself pretty much at home in the laboratory and able to report
esoteric goings-on to the world outside.

As a hobbyist in science I had started with amateur radio in
the early 1920’s and had graduated to sound recording, which
I made a spare-time profession during the Citizen days. Conse-
quently, I was already gravitating towards electronics. Shortly
after Pearl Harbor it became evident that electronics was going
to play a major part in the impending struggle. Thousands of
technicians would have to be trained in the operation and main-
tenance of electronic equipment, and much of this training would
have to be done by the printed page. On Labor Day, 194:, I

[ 63 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

went to work at Raytheon as technical writer of instruction
manuals for radar equipment. As the publications department

rew I became technical editor and finally editor-in-chief. Al-
though I continued in the same position after the war, I became
increasingly interested and involved in the less technical publi-
cations of the company, particularly those having public relations
value. In 1955 Raytheon’s stature as a major electronics organ-
ization called for a greatly expanded public relations department,
and I was appointed to head the technical section.

My main job is to secure recognition of Raytheon’s technical
achievements by providing liaison between our engineers and
scientists and the technical press. But there are many pleasant
excursions into less technical areas of public relations, such as
encouraging gifted young students to decide on engineering
careers. Better than technical editing I like the variety of per-
sonal contacts and the variety of technical levels that each day’s
work involves.

JAMES SHERMAN BARKER

HOME ApprEss: 17 Auburn St., Concord, N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mechanicks National Bank, Concord, N.H.

BoRN; June g, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Williston Wright Barker, MD.
’o6, Gertrude Russell Sherman.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 19325 M.B.A, cum
laude, 1934.

MARRIED: Barbara Kilbourn Willard, April 27, 1940, Nashua, N.H. cuiz-
DREN: James Sherman, Jr., May 22, 1942; Alison Willard, Oct. 6, 1944;
Stephen Kilbourn, Feb. 28, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Robinson Franklin Barker, ’35; George Leverett Barker,
”38 (deceased). |

occupaTION: Vice-president and trust officer, Mechanicks National Bank.

OFFICEs HELD: Director, Mechanicks National Bank, since 1952, Greater
Concord Chamber of Commerce, since 1956, Family Service of Con-

cord, since 1956, Nashua Fresh Air Camp, 1940-52; trustee, Merrimack
County Savings Bank, since 1953; assistant treasurer, 1954, vice-presi-
dent since 1955, director, Concord Regional Development Corporation;
president, Harvard Club of New Hampshire, 1955-57; treasurer, Heron
Island Village Improvement Society, since 1956, Community Council
of Nashua, 1939-52; trustee and treasurer, St. Mary’s-in-the-Mountains,

[ 64]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

since 1946; member Trust and Legislative Committee, New Hampshire
Bankers Association (past chairman of both); general chairman, 1944,
president, 1946, United War Fund and Community Chest of Nashua;
trustee, Protestant Episcopal Church in New Hampshire, since 1946;
treasurer executive council, 1952-55, treasurer, since 1955, member
standing committee, since 1952, Diocese of New Hampshire; vestry-
man, St. Paul’s Church, Concord, since 1954; vestryman, 1941-44,
treasurer, 1946-52, Church of the Good Shepherd, Nashua; past
master, Rising Sun Lodge, No. 39, F. & A.M., Nashua.
MEMBER OF: Scottish Rite bodies, Nashua; Newcomen Society.

AFTER three years at the Business School, including a year on
the research staff, I departed my native Massachusetts and moved
to New Hampshire. For nearly seventeen years Nashua was my
home. Here I began a career in banking and when I left I had
been trust officer of the Indian Head National Bank for several
years. Elere we were marricd and here our children were born.
Our roots had grown deep, but opportunity beckoned and, in
June, 1952, we moved to Concord and I joined the staff of the
Mechanicks National Bank, where I am now a vice-president
and trust officer and a member of the board of directors.

The foregoing list of activities, memberships and offices held
indicates a reasonable activity in community affairs — too much
in the opinion of my family. But the combination of demands
made upon us in the banking business plus a firm belief that com-
munity responsibilities must be assumed by all citizens has made it
difficult to say “No.” I also believe that everyone has a duty to
serve his church where best his talents can be used, and that con-
viction has resulted in both parochial and diocesan responsibilities.
Such extra-curricular activities have both their material and
spiritual rewards, however. Bankers’ conventions do provide op-
portunity for travel and if I had not been elected a deputy to the
1955 General Convention of the Protestant Episcopal Church, I
doubt if we ever would have visited Honolulu and experienced the
pleasure of living there for two weeks.

So we are happy to live in and to try to be a part of a small
community. The joys of such a life far outweigh for us the
glamour of life in metropolitan centers and the problems of
commutation. Our summers are spent in Maine—on Heron
Island in the mouth of the Damariscotta River. There is no elec-
tricity and no telephone and we can be reached only by boat.

[65]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

With daily mail service which delivers the morning newspaper
not much later than it is received by many on the mainland and
with radio to keep us in daily touch with the Red Sox, our isola-
tion is not complete. Relaxation, exercise with an axe and saw
and cold Atlantic water all make for a refreshing vacation and
good weekends.

In politics I am a middle of the road Republican. I am con-
sidered too liberal by some of my friends and too conservative
by others, so it is well that I don’t aspire to political office. By
faith I am a Christian and a member of the Episcopal Church -
because I believe that church comes closest to being the Church
of Christ. Denominational affiliation is not, however, what is
really important, for as long as men are free and continue to
search for the truth, we shall have theological and ecclesiastical
controversies — and that is good if they bring us closer to the
truth. What is important is that men acknowledge that they are
children of God and that they should order their lives in accord-
ance with His laws and His will.

JOHN MORTON BARNABY, II

HOME ApprEss: Concord Road, South Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Athletics, Harvard University, 60 Boylston St,,
Cambridge 38, Mass.

BORN; Sept. 9, 1909, Tenafly, N.J. PARENTS: John St. Clair Barnaby, Caro-
line Louise Robbins.

PREPARED AT: Hackensack High School, Hackensack, N.J.; Williston Acade-
my, Easthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1932.

marrigp; Charlotte Leonora Bouton, June 15, 1940, Cambridge, Mass. cHtt-
DREN: John Robbins, March 14, 1943; Charles Spencer, April 7) 1946;
Margaret Bouton, May 12, 1948.

occupation: Coach, Tennis and Squash Racquets, Harvard University;
teaching; sale of tennis court surfacing.

OFFICES HELD: President, New England Intercollegiate Tennis Association,
1955-57, Intercollegiate Squash Racquets Association, 1955-57, Har-
vard Coaches Club, 1956-57; chairman, Cub Scouts’ Committee,
Lincoln, Mass., 1953, Lincoln School Association, 1956-57.

NOT wishing to lean longer financially on my parents, who
[ 66 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

made many sacrifices to put me through Harvard, I took a job
in ’32, as assistant coach to Harry Cowles. This I envisioned as
a depression stop-gap, but soon discovered that teaching was my
natural inclination, Other fields tempted only because they
offered more money in the long run. In 1937 I succeeded
Cowles, when illness forced his withdrawal. Bad eyes confined
my wartime activities to office work at United Carr Fastener
Corporation. Thereafter I again decided that I preferred coach-
ing to business.

In 1939 I met a lady from Smith; in 1940 we were married and
we are still living happily ever after (to quote Churchill). 1
should add that, being moved from the center of the circle to the
periphery by the arrival of the first baby, and being kept there
by subsequent arrivals and developments, was a large and salutary
addition to my education. These arrivals took the form of two
boys and a girl, now thirteen, ten, and eight. One boy is an ob-
vious scientist who scores heavily at the annual school science
fair; the other loves games, fishing, music, all kinds of fun; and
the girl breaks her neck trying to keep up with the boys but is
still too young to be independent.

Our politics have been Republican locally, independent na-
tionally. Like all curious people I took a good look at the “isms”
in the troubled thirties and decided I disliked Communism not
only for the usual reasons but because it preaches that the end
justifies the means: a fundamentally dishonorable fallacy com-
mon also to Hitler, Mussolini and the Japs. In spite of these
orthodox conclusions it is probable that my mental temerity
would have excited the hero from the Midwest were I not such
a small academic potato. It was a very great pleasure to witness
the firmness with which Harvard met and repulsed those who
trespass on our mental freedom, I never before realized how
massively immovable Harvard can be in matters of truly deep
import. The performance enlarged my comprehension of the
meaning of Harvard and its leaders in our national scene.

In living, my wife and I are confirmed small towners, feeling
our choice is based on experience since we lived long in the
city. In a small town (Lincoln, pop. 3000) one knows everybody
and almost everyone does things; schools, churches, scouts,
Square dances, etc., with committees on everything from local

[ 67 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

recreation to long-range capital expenditures. For two years |
was a “widow” —and answered the phone — while my wife
headed Lincoln’s active L.W.V. and the church guild. Lincoln
is filled with a wide variety of people, from solid successful dirt
farmers to experts in the most intellectual fields — and this makes
it even better than most small towns. Most of these people share
in some degree that very American, slightly irrational but very
desirable feeling: there’s no such thing as a better town than
Lincoln, except that we’re making it better all the time.
Hobbies: 1) Town affairs. 2) Friends of Harvard Squash and
Tennis. 3) Duxbury, Massachusetts, where I teach in the sum-
mer, own a house, and run a program involving 160 children,
three assistant teachers, four teams and twenty-three annual
tournaments. 4) Squam Lake, New Hampshire, where I own
two summer houses and split my free time, spring and fall, be-
tween preparing the houses for tenants and catching buckets of
fish. In the endless war with the finny tribes I feel that I am
holding my own: the fishing remains the same (excellent), but
I am ahead by many pan fries, deep fries, baked fish and huge
chowders — chowder for ten is not uncommon. To this one
could add many tall tales: shall I relate how I landed a thirty-
pound turtle on a fly-rod? Or how I narrowly missed a seagull
this season? I hope some day for an owl, though this is very
difficult, as the owl is a wise bird. 5) Writing, which I haven't
begun yet. But like all coaches, I suspect I know a little extra,
and feel an obligation to bring light into the prevailing gloom.
Don’t miss the first editions: they will make your grandchildren
rich. (You don’t have to read them; just buy them.)

In conclusion, a word about coaching and why it can hold a
man. Certainly there is little chance for fame and fortune. A
coach is closer to the boys than anyone in college. He has a
very great opportunity to help them grow as people, to reaffirm
values taught them in home, church and school; to teach’ them
how to work — many do not know this; to give them a taste of
what mastery in anything demands of the aspirant; to teach them
to make decisions with courage (indecision is worse than error);
in general, to help educate them in the broad sense of that word.
Further, there is no better place to coach than Harvard, where
these first values are with few exceptions kept to the fore, and

[ 68 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

secondary objectives such as “we gotta win” are seldom allowed
to discolor the judgment of responsible people. Long may it
be so.

GEORGE NASON BARRIE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 24 Hibben Rd., Princeton, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, 120 Broadway,
New York 5, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 14, 1909, Brookline, Mass. PARENTs: George Nason Barrie,
Eleanor Muriel Berkeb.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass. °

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932 (33).

MARRIED; Elizabeth Felton, Nov. 9, 1940, Elkins Park, Pa. cui~pren: Diane,
Sept. 28, 1942; Tina, Dec. 8, 1944; Bruner Felton, Sept. 10, 1947; Bruce
Reed, Jan. 12, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Regional director, National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis.

EDWARD MILTON BARRON

HOME ApprEss: 1A Kensington Heights, Worcester, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREsS: 507 Main St., Worcester, Mass.

BORN: June 30, 1911, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Herman Bernard Barron,
Celia Epstein.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. Cur laude, 1932; M.D, 1936.

MARRIED: Beatrice Shapiro, June 25, 1935, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Elisa-
beth Deborah, Dec. 1, 1942; Henry David, May 6, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Bertram Barron, ’38, D.M.D., 40.

OccUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Member medical staff, Worcester City Hospital, member
courtesy staff, Fairlawn Hospital; formerly cardiologist, Cambridge
City Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Worcester District Medical Society; American Medical Asso-
ciation; Temple Emmanuel, Mount Pleasant Country Club; Harvard
Club of Worcester; B’nai B’rith; Worcester Art Museum; Natural
History Museum; National Board of Medical Examiners (diplomate).

PUBLICATIONS: “Rat Mite Dermatitis,” E.T.O. Medical Bulletin, Office of the
Chief Surgeon, European Theatre of Operations.

COLLEGE over, I lazed around the beach all summer basking
in the sun and in the glory of having gained admission to the

[ 69 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF [932

Medical School. I was on the way to realize an ambition pos-
sessing me since childhood, — namely, contemplating myself as
the all-knowing doctor. (To anticipate a bit, I never quite got

to be the omniscient healer that I dreamed, but once in a while

I do make a pretty fair diagnosis and sometimes my patients find

my advice good.) | :

Studying medicine at Harvard was every bit the fascinating

delight I had imagined. The wonder of the structure of the
human body, the spontaneity of its behavior, and the natural
desire to experience one’s self as an isolated, purposeful unit in
a greater Destiny have been never-ending objects of interest and
admiration. And those men who taught us were among the great
of our time, inspiring us with the possibility of gaining the
knowledge of the art we had determined to master. The years
at medical school were satisfying indeed and my life was
especially enriched at the end of the third year when I married
Peg, my love of many years.

Soon school and internship were over and the challenge ahead
was to establish a practice based on competence and understand-
ing of the needs of those we would serve. This has always been
the conscious daily task—some days flavored joyful with suc-
cess, others tasting of disappointment and failure. I settled in
Worcester in mid-1938 as a family doctor and was soon self-
supporting, The community needed doctors and I found my
place. In 1942 our first child, Elisabeth, was born. She was
lovely from the first and grows more so every day. This month
she’s not in love and it’s a pleasure around the house.

One month after she arrived I was in military service. Four
years later ] was out, with the rank of major. I had served
with the Station Hospital, Camp Shelby, Mississippi, the 129th
General Hospital in North Wales, the 155th General Hospital
in England and the Lovell General Hospital in Fort Devens,
Massachusetts. My military occupational specialties were internal
medicine and cardiology. |

Our boy, Billy, made himself known in 1947 and has been
laughing and blasting away at the world ever since. He loves
conversation, competitive sports and television, but finds study-
ing revolting. There is a remote possibility he will learn medi-
cine some day. We have a good life,—not much long-range

[70 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

planning to achieve distant goals. Fulfilling the day’s needs and
desires provides our excitements and satisfactions. We have our
work, our children, friends, summer weekends at Gloucester,
golf, New York and Caribbean holidays. So far, so very, very
good.

+ HARRY ELI BARRON

porn: April 6, 1910, Waterville, Maine. parents: Morris Barron, Sarah
Levin.

PREPARED AT: Waterville High School, Waterville, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

piep; Killed in action, June 19, 1944, in the English Channel.

AFTER six months at the Harvard Business School, Barron
entered the car parts business. During World War II, he was
a captain in the Engineers’ Corps, U.S. Army, and was killed in
action when an LST boat carrying him t to France was sunk in
the English Channel.

x

JOSEPH ALOYSIUS BARRY, JR.

HOME ApoRESS: 211 Highland Ave., Newtonville 60, Mass..

OFFICE ADDRESS: Raytheon Manufacturing Co., Waltham, Mass.

BORN: May 2, 1909, Winthrop, Mass, PaRENTs: Joseph Aloysius Barry,
Mary Garrigan.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-10932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; LL.B. (Boston Coll. Law
School), 1939.

marRiED: Helen M. Foley, April 18, 1933, Dover-Foxcroft, Maine. cxtL-
DREN: Joseph Aloysius, 3d, Feb. 6, 1934 (7 Linnea Bulford, March 23,
1956); William F., April 17, 1935; Joan E., Sept. 7, 1939; Philip M.,
Feb. 28, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Reardon Barry, ’27, M.p., 31; Philip Barry, °36.

OccUPATION: Administrative assistant, Microwave Power Tube Research
and Development Laboratory, Raytheon Manufacturing Company.

OFFICES HELD: Corresponding secretary, Charles River Industrial Manage-
ment Club, 1956; chairman, Nominating Committee, Warren Jr. High
School P.T.A., 1956; chairman, Special Events Committee, National
Doubles Tennis Tournament, 1956; member executive committee,
New England Jr. Tennis League, 1955-56; member, Engineering
Management Group, Institute of Radio Engineers, 1956.

[71]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

on politics — some are intense Republicans and others are loyal
Democrats. oo . |

It’s an honor for me to be part of the leading electronics manu-
facturing company in the United States, particularly when it
is piloted by a classmate.

So, this factual portrayal is indicative of my interpretation of
a truism. The pendulum of my twenty-five years has swung
from the zenith to the nadir, and back to the zenith, Faith,
Hope and Determination are my Harvard heritage. You, who
are my Classmates, have earned the right to an unadulterated
résumé of my affairs because of your loyalty and understanding,
without which the zenith could never again have been attained.

+ BROOKS BARTLETT

BORN: Sept, 22, 1909, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Frederick Orin Bartlett,
Katherine James. - :

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

pieD: Feb, 26, 1930, Cambridge, Mass,

BARTLETT died during our sophomore year.

MORTON BARTLETT

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 15 Fayette St., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 20, 1909, Chicago, Ill. parents: Warren Goddard Bartlett, Arline
Morton Brown.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

UNMARRIED.

OccuPATION: Printing designer, coordinator, broker.

PusLications: Manual of Groundwork and Finishing, —a book for painting
and finishing; Manual of Decorative Painting, Stenciling and Gilding.

CHRONOLOGICALLY, my business career runs like this.
Upon leaving college, I became a free-lance advertising photog-
rapher; spent six months with an ad agency on all phases —a

sort of ad man’s devil; returned to photography. The dark room
side of photography began to affect my health, and I took to

[74]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

management of a gas service station; definitely not my line, and
in six months I was back in photography again. But after an-
other year there was no further dickering with the health prob-
lem and I went on the road selling furniture. Out of my line
again, and I shifted to creating and manufacturing art objects
for the gift trade. Then came the war.

“Gifts” struck me as scarcely a worthwhile contribution, in-
dustry wanted no truck with a man of my draft status, so I en-
listed, After a hilarious (in retrospect) six weeks in and out
of hospitals with measles and kindred incapacitating inflictions,
I got going in basic training as an engineer at Fort Belvoir, then
O.C.S. Went to Camp Campbell as a shavetail, was adjutant for
the 365th General Service Regiment. Requested transfer to a
topo outfit, got it, joined the 649th Engineer Topo Battalion as
supply officer at Camp Picket. Landed in North Africa with
the Battalion and became, in addition to unit duties, a liaison
between Survey Directorate of AFHQ and the Engineer Supply
Officer at SOS NATOUSA. Was transferred out of the Battalion
to SOS as Engineer Topo Supply Officer. Stayed in this capacity
through MTOUSA and SOLOC until the war’s end, then home
and out. —-

Resumed the gift business, added teaching decorative painting
during slack seasons, increased this by selling art supplies by
mail with instructions for using them. This gravitated into a
publishing business in art crafts.. Was losing my shirt in a maga-
zine venture, turned my equipment and experience into prepara-
tion of material for offset lithography to pay the bills and keep
the magazine afloat. Couldn’t do both, decided to stick with the
one that was paying — although “Bench & Brush Publishers” is
still a small side issue.

Today I do business as Morton Bartlett & Associates. The -
business is the compilation and production of catalogues, flyers,
brochures, all forms of printed matter. I call myself a printing
designer and coordinator. I know where and how to shop for
value (by which I mean the appropriate cost-quality balance),
and I handle anything in the line of creative printing from in-
ception through the finished piece. My “specialty” is the know-
how for cost-cutting “tricks of the trade;” I act in a way as
my customer’s own employee to get the most for the least. Some

[75]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

of the production is handled in my own studio, some “farmed
out.” My hobby is sculpturing in plaster. Its purpose is that of
all proper hobbies — to let out urges which do not find expres-
sion in other channels.

As for religion, I seek to become more perceptual than con-
ceptual. Being an old hand at concept, I do not find this easy.
It can be highly gratifying and satisfying to put one’s trust in
a concept: it can be wrapped up nicely and filed for ready refer-
ence. But a concept is an end product of the human intellect,
and as such it must always be either fixed within the scope of
intellect, or it must be subject to change upon presentation of
persuasive evidence, upon which it depends for its formulation.
In the former case, I see it as confining and limiting, terminating
in its own death; in the latter, 1 see it as unsteady, unreliable,
untrustworthy. Whereas in percept, there are ever new horizons
opening, new visions and understandings of the meaning and
truth of life, a broader fulfilment, comfort, security strength,
peace in the truth one sees and placement of trust in God.

WILLIAM SHEPARD BASKERVILL

HOME ADpRESS: 39 Remington Pl., New Rochelle, N.Y.

BoRN: Oct. 5, 1910, Lexington, Ky. Parents: Erasmus Lafayette Baskervill,
Mary Taylor.

PREPARED AT: Avery Normal School, Charleston, S.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933. DEGREE: A.B., 1932 (33).

MEYER ALBERT BASKIN

HOME ADDRESS: 1819 Ferdinand St., Coral Gables, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1410 Pacific Bldg., Miami 32, Fla.

BORN: July 25, 1911, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Maurice Baskin, ‘11, Bella Low.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: 8.B. IN IND, CHEM., 1932; 8.M. (Mass,
Inst. of Technology), 1934; LL.B. (New York Univ.), 1939.

marrieD: Florence Goustin, Feb. 19, 1937, Baltimore, Md, cutpren; Jona-
than Noel, July 25, 1939; Kathy Margot, Jan, 5, 1944; Mare N., Feb.
28, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Leonard David Baskin, ’50.

[ 76 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Patent attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Leader, Great Books Discussion Group, 1951, 1952; president,
Temple Judea of Coral Gables, 1953-54; vice-president, Harvard Club
of Miami, since 1954; member board of governors, Greater Miami
Jewish Federation, since 1954.

MEMBER OF: Dade County Bar Association; American Bar Association;
New York Patent Law Association; American Legion, Masonry; Scot-
tish Rite; Shrine; Reserve Officers Association; M.LT, Club of South
Florida; Harvard Club of Miami; Zionist Organization of America;
American Technion Society.

AFTER graduation and obtaining an S.M. degree at M.LT.,
where I also picked up an Army Reserve Officer’s commission,
I worked for the Gulf Oil Company in Philadelphia and the
U.S. Patent Office in Washington. From 1938 to 1942, the
Patent Division of Allied Chemical & Dye Corporation in New
York used my talents. During this time, my law work at New
York University was finished, having begun at George Wash-
ington Law School.

Right after Pearl Harbor, I went to active duty in the Army
and spent a year and a half doing procurement for the Chemical
Warfare Service and about two and a half years working on the
atom bomb for the Manhattan Engineering District. At the end
of the war, my father, Maurice Baskin, Class of 1911, passed
away. This brought me to Miami where my parents had made
their home and I have been here ever since. I have found Miami
a very wonderful place to live and have become involved in
numerous activities in the local community. Civic and religious
affairs occupy a great deal of my time, but I have found this work
very rewarding. A rather accelerated social life characterizes
this community, as friends from all parts of the country can be
expected to visit sooner or later; this certainly adds to the fun
of Florida living. A very lively family, now in the process of
growing up, has been my good fortune.

In June, 1956, I had the honor of being a Marshal at Com-
mencement in Cambridge, and had a great time, despite the heat,
running around the Yard in a tall silk hat and tails greeting and
being greeted by innumerable people whose names I wish I could
remember. We have a very active Harvard Club of Miami. I
have enjoyed working as an officer in it, especially at the Asso-
ciated Harvard Clubs meeting here in 1956.

[77]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

ABEL JACOB BATES

HOME ADDRESS: 292 Stevens Ave., Portland, Maine.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 415 Congress St., Portland, Maine.
porn: Dec. 15, 1909, Webster, Mass. PARENTS: Sumner Lot Bates, Anna

Marie Hyrkas.
prePARED AT: Bartlett High School, Webster, Mass, |
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B. IN CE., 1932.
marriep: Amelia Elizabeth Shedyak, May 30, 1941, Webster, Mass. cur-
pren: Libby Ann, Sept. 1, 1942; Abel Jacob, Jr. Sept. 28, 1947.
occuPaTIoN: Vice-president and chief engineer, Sanders Construction

Corporation.
oFFices HELD: Member Committee on Contracts and Specifications, Asso-

ciated General Contractors of Maine; member, Joint Apprenticeship
Council for Maine; registered professional engineer in Maine.
MEMBER OF: American Society of Civil Engineers (associate member);
Maine Engineering Society.
IT is not necesary to state that for several years after graduation
jobs were scarce. Fortunately, I lived on a farm and used this
as a refuge between the many short-term jobs I was able to
obtain between 1932 and 1940.

Early in 1940 1 went to work as an engineer for Charles T.
Main, Inc., on the construction of a new shipyard in Portland,
Maine. (The company I am now associated with was the con-
tractor.) I married during the course of this job. When the
job was completed the contractor offered me a position which
I accepted because it gave promise of rapid advancement and a
chance to have a home.

Although deferred due to the nature of my work, I applied for
a commission in the Civil Engineer Corps, U.S. Navy, early in
1943, and was commissioned as a lieutenant, j.g. I spent the first
eighteen months of my service at the Bureau of Yards and Docks
on the development of advance base equipment. Late in 1944
I went overseas as company commander of the 81st Naval Con-
struction Battalion. We landed with the Marines at Okinawa,
then went to Guam to restage for the invasion of Japan. The
war ended and I accumulated enough points to get home the
day before Christmas, 1945.

Early in 1946 I returned to my job as engineer for Sanders
Construction Corporation, was made chief engineer later that
year, and in 1947 became a vice-president of the company. Erik

[78]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

K. Sanders, son of the founder of the company and a 1940 gradu-
ate of Yale’s Engineering School, took over as president of the
company in 1950. Like his father, he appreciates the ability of a
son of Harvard and has convinced the board of directors that

I am indispensable.
My wife and I are ardent fishermen and with our children

spend many pleasant weekends at Moosehead Lake, our favorite
spot in Maine.

OTTO SIGMUND BAUM

HOME AppREss: 20 Warren Ct., South Orange, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 406 Centre St., South Orange, N.J.

BORN: Sept. 10, 1911, Rogasen, Germany. parents: Felix Baum, Lillie
Hofheimer,

PREPARED AT: South Side High School, Newark, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B, magna cum laude, 1932; MD.
cum laude, 1936.

MarRiED: Margaret Whitney Moore, Feb. 2, 1932, Cambridge, Mass. cxr-
DREN: Thomas Henle, June 1, 1940; Jonathan Sheffield, Sept. 30, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Intern, 2d Medical Division, 1936-38, resident physician,
Chest Service, 1938-41, clinical assistant visiting physician, 2d Division
and Chest Service, 1941-46, assistant to associate visiting physician,
Chest Service, since 1946, Bellevue Hospital, captain to major, rst
General Hospital, A.U.S., 1942-46; assistant to instructor to associate in
medicine, Columbia College of Physicians & Surgeons, since 1941;
senior visiting physician, Medical Service, St. Mary’s Hospital, Orange,
N.J., since 1948.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Jersey; Harvard Medical Society of
New York; American College of Chest Physicians (fellow); American
Medical Association; Essex County and New Jersey State Medical
Societies; American Trudeau Society; New Jersey Diabetes Associa-
tion; New Jersey and American Heart Association; American Associa-
tion for Advancement of Science; American Board of Internal Medi-
cine, 1947 (diplomate).

PUBLICATIONS: Case reports, research reports, clinical studies in Azrerican
Journal of Physiology, 1932, Annals of Internal Medicine, 1938, 1940,
American Journal of Medical Science, 1940, American Review of
Tuberculosis, 1942, 1947, New Jersey State Medical Journal, 1948, 1949.

UPON graduation I was spared the trials of job-seeking during
the depression by going to the Harvard Medical School and

[79]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

FRANK SAWYER BAYLEY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 14301 Third St., N.W., Seattle 7, Wash.

OFFICE ADRESS: 725 Henry Bldg., Seattle 1, Wash.

BORN: June 7, 1910, Seattle, Wash. PARENTS: Frank Sawyer Bayley, °97,
Mary E. Bass.

PREPARED AT: Queen Anne High School, Seattle, Wash.

YEARS IN OOLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932 (33); LL.B. (Univ. of Wash-
ington), 1936.

MARRIED: Frances Ann Stumson, June 24, 1938, Seattle, Wash. CHILDREN:
Frank Sawyer, 3d, July 14, 1939; Thomas Stimson, Aug. 4, 1941;
Douglas Charles, March 27, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Emery Perham Bayley, ’28.

occuPaTION: Lawyer; partner, Bayley, Fite, Westberg & Madden.

OFFICES HELD: Past state chairman, American Veteran Committee, 1947;
member board of trustees, 1947-56, president, 1954-56, Ryther Child
Center; president, Northwest American Association for United Na-
tions, 1948; regional counsel, National Production Authority, 1951;
member board of trustees, Child Welfare League of America, 1954-57.

MEMBER OF: Seattle Golf Club; Seattle Yacht Club; University Club of
Seattle; Seattle Bar Association; Washington State Bar Association;
American Bar Association; Navy League.

PUBLICATIONS: “Risky Rescue,” Naval Institute Proceedings, April, 19515
“Duties of a Trustee,” Child Welfare Magazine, 1956.

FOLLOWING graduation I spent a year building and living in
a log cabin in the woods near Seattle. After several months of
trying to write a book, an acute shortage of funds convinced me
that it would be better to study law. In 1936 I became a lawyer,
thus perpetuating my previous financial condition. In the sum-
mer of 1941 I went on active duty in the Navy. Since my return
I have practised law in Seattle, with the exception of a few
months as a consultant to the general counsel for the Economic
Cooperation Administration in Washington in 1948, plus a year
as regional counsel for the National Production Authority in
1951.

Since my marriage in 1938 I have acquired three sons, the
eldest being almost ready for Harvard if I can convince both him
and the College that it is the thing to do. For the last four years
we have sailed an eight-meter sloop converted for cruising and
have spent many wonderful days in local and Canadian waters
in the summer months.

In politics I have, since the war, been a Democrat with an

[ 82 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ardor equal to that which impelled me for Landon and Willkie
in earlier years. ;

From 1941 to 1945 I was a reserve officer in the U.S. Navy,
mostly in patrol craft. My last command was a combat rescue
ship, with which I spent (it seemed) many years of my life on
the radar picket line at Okinawa. At the end of what was in
fact only three months of this campaign, I received the Navy
Cross and subsequently have retired with the rank of captain.
In retrospect, I enjoyed the Navy and sea duty, but this is only
a recollection in tranquillity. My civic interests are now pretty
much limited to board work, primarily in the field of child wel-
fare and particularly as it relates to emotionally disturbed chil-
dren.

LYNN STALEY BEALS, JR.

HOME ApprEss: Water Lily Cottage, Georges Mills, N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Quarters “L,” U.S. Naval Hospital, Chelsea, Mass.

BORN: March 11, 1910, Buffalo, N.Y. Parents: Lynn Staley Beals, ’oo, Eliza-
beth Pearl Potter.

PREPARED AT: Nichols School, Buffalo, N.Y¥.; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.D., 1938.

MarRiED: Helen Elizabeth Stanley, April 29, 1934, Farmington, Conn.
CHILDREN: Barbara Potter, May 25, 1936; Lynn Staley, 3d, July 19, 1938
(died Oct. 11, 1942); Patricia Stanley, Sept. 19, 1940; Elizabeth Stanley
March 17, 1944; Stephanie Gay, Jan. 20, 1949; Margaret Spencer, Feb.
22, 1951.

occuPATION: Neuropsychiatrist; chief of neuropsychiatry, U.S. Naval Hos-
pital, Chelsea, Mass.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American Psychiatric Associa-
tion; Philadelphia Psychiatric Association; Kappa Sigma; Nu Sigma;
St. Paul’s Lodge, No. 14, F. & A.M.; American Men of Science.

PUBLICATIONS: “Some Considerations of Aeromedical Research,” “Integrated
Instrumentation for Modern Aircraft,” “The Human in Closed Loop
Control Circuits,” “Human Engineering Problems in Training Devices,”
“The General Practice of Training,” “The Challenge of Air Safety to
Human Engineering,” “Humanistic Instrumentation,” “The Aviation
Physical Examination,” “Borderline Adrenal Cortex Insufficiency.”

WHILE Omar Khayyam was entitled to his own ideas, it is obvi-
ous that condensing the events of twenty-five years into a very

[ 83 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

my mental attic—have been the building of ship models fo;
forty years, infrequent fishing, a more or less continuous repair
and refinishing of odds and ends, and a bit of writing. Some may
regard wives and children as their chief hobbies, but for me
they are the reason [ live.
In a world where doubt and suspicion seem to characterize
the relationships between Man and Man and between Nation
and Nation, most of us look more anxiously to the future than
reflectively upon the past. Yet it is from the Past more than from
the Present that we must draw to answer the challenge of what
our convictions are. In so answering, only honesty and objective
self-criticism can separate opinion and prejudice from genuine
conviction. For my part, it seems an impossible task to decide
whether my convictions are political, social or religious — since
they often seem to be all three, or of a particular kind in the
political application, for example, because of what they are ina
social and a religious sense. Accordingly, I must report my basic
convictions without regard for classifications, and at the same
time I must insist that these are only the partial framework
around which I have constructed a very personal philosophy.
I believe unequivocally that all men need Faith of the kind 5t.
Paul described as “the knowledge of things not seen.” Without
this there is nothing now or ever. I believe in the morally un-
deniable rights of all human beings from birth to death — re-
gardless of any circumstance of birth. I believe that good exists
in all men in various degrees and that all men, no matter how
good, have the capacity for more, regardless of political affilia-
tion or other mundane whimsy. I believe that only under the
democratic process can the rights of people be recognized. And
lastly — but humbly —I submit that I believe in the relationship
I have with my God, to Whom I feel I continuously must ad-
dress the prayer by an author I am unable to identify:
“God grant me the courage to change the things I can change,
the serenity to accept those I cannot change, and the wisdom
to know the difference.”

[ 88 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD BANCROFT BEAMAN

HOME AporEss: 5718 Fifth Ave., Pittsburgh 32, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Carnegie Institute of Technology, College of Fine Arts,
Pittsburgh, Pa.

BORN: June 28, 1909, Waltham, Mass. parents: George Burnham Beaman,
Mary Burnham.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: S.B., 1932; B.D. (Union Theol, Semi-

nary), 1935.

MARRIED: Jeanne Hays, March 12, 1944, Berkeley, Calif. cuipren: Peter
Hays, July 23, 1945; Joanna, Feb. 3, 1947; Valerie, Oct. 20, 1948; Chris-
tina, May 23, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Burnham Beaman, ’27, M.D., '34.

occuPATION: Associate professor of painting and design; artist.

MEMBER OF: Art Association of Pittsburgh; American Association of Uni-
versity Professors; Museum of Modern Art.

PuBLICATIONS: “The Cubist Witch,” South Atlantic Quarterly, April, 1949;
“Creative Imagination,” Arts and Sciences, Education Magazine, Sep-
tember, 1953; four watercolors were published by the Lincoln-Mercury
Times, designed a few homes and a store in Southern California.

A SMALL boy pursuing a butterfly, tripping, falling flat on a
thistle only to look up into the angry face of farmer Clark, who
was loudly berating all who trample down his hay field — this
boy almost summed up his life before it started. Almost. In
the dark of that evening he did. The butterfly had bounced off
to its own abandon but sparkling now in the forgotten net was a
jewel not even pursued, a firefly caught by chance.

Those of us who went to Harvard with some faint hope of
becoming artists should have gone elsewhere for we soon learned
that the fragrance of turpentine was scarcely tolerated. Not the
doing, but only the history of the doing was the emphasis at
Harvard College. There were hundreds, thousands of slides to be
memorized by whatever association with anecdote (or crack in
the lower left corner perhaps) one could make. Work completed
since 1850 was to be ignored — “We're too close.”

But across the street in Emerson there were philosophers of
- international distinction, Whitehead, Lewis, Hocking among many
others, and none was afraid of the turpentines of his discipline,
so to speak. Here questions were honestly asked and re-asked,
answered and re-answered, the old masters venerated and the

[ 89 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

which we hardly dare take much personal credit, a glimmer
alight in the promise of the very children who “circle the same
old round.” Are they, then, the fireflies? One suspects as much,
And Pll bet that’s your story too!

LOFTUS EUGENE BECKER

HOME appreEss: 5 North Ct., Port Washington, N.Y.

OFFICE appREss: Cahill, Gordon, Reindel & Ohl, 63 Wall St.. New York 5,
N.Y.

porn: April 29, 1911, Buffalo, N.Y. parents: Reuben Ezra Becker, Helen
Mary Gilmartin.

PREPARED AT: Bennett High School, Buffalo, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932; LL8.
magna cum laude, 1936.

marrieD: Ellen Van Der Voort, Dec. 25, 1933, Pittsburgh, Pa. CHILDREN:
Susan Elizabeth, May 24, 1938, Gretchen Ellen, July 19, 1940; Loftus
Eugene, Jr., Dec. 28, 1944.

occupation: Attorney, partner in Cahill, Gordon, Reindel & Ohl, general
practice of law.

MEMBER OF: Various Bar Associations; University Club, New York; Metro-
politan Club, Washington; Downtown Association, New York.

NOTES on dossier of Becker, L. E.: After graduation in 1932,
subject went to Vienna, Austria, where he studied German and
other subjects. His sole accomplishment during the year was
his meeting with an American ’cello student, one Ellen Van Der
Voort, whom he married on Christmas, 1933. Subject studied
law at Harvard Law School, graduating LL.B. magna cum laude,
in 1936. During 1935-36, subject served as note editor of the
Harvard Law Review. In July, 1936, subject became associated
in the practice of law with the firm of Anderson, Marx, Wrenn
& Jenks, Honolulu, This pleasant interlude ended in January,
1938, when subject joined the Wall Street firm of Wright, Gor-
don, Zachry & Reindel, as an associate. Subject’s practice of law
was interrupted in July, 1942, when he enlisted as a volunteer
officer candidate, Infantry. In the meantime, subject and wife
had acquired two daughters, both born in New York. Susan,
born in 1938 and Gretchen, born in 1940. After basic training,
subject attended Field Artillery Officer Candidate School,
graduating with Class No. 51 in February, 1943. Thereafter

[92]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

subject served with various units in various activities in U.S.,
Africa, Italy and on the Continent. His principal activity was
as intelligence officer with HQ. Ninth U.S. Army. During this
chaotic period, his son, Loftus Eugene, Jr. (Mike) was born,
specifically on December 28, 1944, at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
At the conclusion of the European War, subject returned to the
U.S. to work on intelligence of Japanese and then, from Sep-
tember to December, 1945, as a member of the inter-allied team
of advisers on German military organizations at Ntirnberg, Ger-
many. Subject was released from the Army at the beginning of
1946 as a major, Field Artillery, and rejoined his law firm as a
partner. His practice of law was again interrupted when he went
to Washington to serve under Walter Bedell Smith in Central
Intelligence Agency, where he became deputy director (intelli-
gence). In May, 1953, subject again rejoined his law firm as
resident Washington partner, and in May, 1956, subject returned
to the New York office of what had become over the years,
Cahill, Gordon, Reindel & Ohl. Subject’s only sports are book
collecting and sailing. He is a Republican (a little right of Mc-
Kinley) and has strong conviction on practically everything.
Subject is a Dodger fan.

HARRY BECKWITH

,

HOME appress; 49 Astor St., Lynn, Mass,

OFFICE AppREsS: General Electric Co., West Lynn, Mass.

BORN: March 13, 1910, Seymour, Conn. parents: Henry Witter Beckwith,
Genevieve Jolley.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

occupation: Manufacturing.

WILLIAM SHERWOOD BEDAL, II

HOME aAppREsS: 10 Goodwin Ct., Marblehead, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 22, 1910, St. Louis, Mo. parents: William Sherwood Bedal, ‘03,
Susan Farrington Dreas.

PREPARED AT: Roosevelt High School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

UNMARRIED.

[93]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

MEMBER OF: U.S, Naval Institute; Animal Rescue League of Boston; Massa-
chusetts Society of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals; New England
Anu-Vivisection Society; National Anti-Vivisection Society.

IN retrospect: two especially interesting jobs; serving as cadet

officer aboard a passenger liner, and later on, distributing chests

of books and bundles of magazines to merchant ships, the Coast
Guard and lighthouses. A “hitch” in the horse Cavalry. Collect-
ing a Navy “E” and Maritime “M” for war work.

My interest in animal welfare has prompted me, on the anti-
vivisection question, to stand behind such names associated with
Harvard as Phillips Brooks, William James and Dr. Henry J.
Bigelow, who was professor of surgery at the Medical School, and
wrote: “There will come a time when the world will look back
to modern vivisection in the name of science as they now do
to burning at the stake in the name of religion.”

The year 1957, so far, has been tough. My mother experienced
heart failure early in January. [ am the only one at home, and
it was necessary for me to leave work for a maximum of three
wecks to take care of her. The shipyard for which I had been
purchasing agent and assistant superintendent almost six years,
lived up to its reputation as the worst in the Boston area, and
fired me instead of granting a leave of absence, which disquali-
fied me from unemployment compensation, further complicating
things, as I haven't been able as yet to find another job.

[am thankful to report my mother much improved, and our
White standard poodle, Salmagundi’s Aphrodite (“Princy” to
you) is doing her best to keep us happy.

WILLIAM ETHELBERT BELKNAP, II

HOME apprEss: 68 Smith Neck Rd., South Dartmouth, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 558 Pleasant St., New Bedford, Mass.

BORN: Sept, 4, 1909, Evanston, Ill, parenrs; Robert Ernest Belknap, Eliza-
beth Treat Lyon. ;

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: $.B., 1932. ;
Marriep: Estelle Dow Judd, Sept. 14, 1934 (divorced 1937); Katharine
Burrows Vanderoest, August, 1938 (divorced 1946); Constance Young,
Aug. 10, 1950 (died Feb, 18, 1956). CHILDREN: Elizabeth Treat, Jan. 26,

1940; William Howard Lyon, Sept. 11, 1952.
[94]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Investment counsellor with law firm of Prescott, Bullard &
McLeod.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, Luncheon Club of New Bedford, 1949-55.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York, Boston and New Bedford;
Wamsutta Club; New Bedford Yacht Club; Luncheon Club of New
Bedford.

AS I am skeptical that my life since graduation is of much interest
to my classmates, I hesitate to write the following and it is only
because I have had a deal of trouble to get an impression of my
ancestors that I now set this down to give some future descendant
a sketch which might be of some interest and perhaps some com-
fort.

My feelings on leaving Cambridge were like those on em-
barking in a skiff at the ocean shore without an island destination
in sight. One might say that I was swept by the tide to New
York. There, thanks to a small burst of activity in the stock
market, I found myself a runner in the brokerage house of
DeCoppet & Doremus. And in particular, I made deliveries about
once an hour from the 31st to the 22d floor of the Equitable
Building. On the 21st floor, my distant cousin, Steve Millett,
’29, worked, and I usually managed to get in about five minutes
with him at the end of each run to discuss our plans for a quiet
evening. And among the more pleasant memories I have, are
those of a square meal once a week at the Harvard Club of New
York. After a year and a half, the firm posted a notice one day
that anyone who wanted to take their vacation in the winter
could have three extra days. So a Princeton man (really very
nice) and I drove to Miami. We returned to New York, but
I drove down again that fall to stay. There, I pushed a pencil
for a building contractor for a while; married a while; taught in
a school run by a Yale man (a most agreeable soul and a most
pleasant experience). Then I lived in a boat —sleeping, swim-
ming, but not much fishing.

Then I married again — to a most wonderful pianist, and be-
came father to a very charming daughter. I found myself —
looking at responsibility, war and inflation —all enemies of the
pursuit of happiness. So good-bye to the twenties in the
“thirties.”

My next ten years are pretty well summed up in the 1947

[95]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Report — when I was treasurer of Palmer Scott & Company, Inc.,
boatbuilders in New Bedford, Massachusetts, Some make much
of the wonderful invention of coinage and credit, but it’s hardly
one, two, three to that of extracting a golden liquid from the
grape. Thanks to this invention I found myself one afternoon
having a most pleasant conversation with Oliver Prescott, ’20;
to wit, a position with his old line law firm — watching out for
“all the rest, residue and remainder, wherever or however lo-
cated” —left by New Bedford whaling merchants now long
deceased but now happily enjoyed by beneficiaries all over the
globe. Hardly a challenge to today’s young graduate and de-
spite its sometime routine and boring aspects, it’s as pleasant a
way to kill time as any I have encountered, — and when it gets
a little dull I can do what I like to do the best — read — the old
musty files of long departed clients— their letters — of parents
bewailing the fraudulent activities of their black sheep — of
nephews and nieces, indignant that they were left out of their
uncle’s will — of bachelors instructing their attorneys to put in
their will, “next I leave $2000. to the fallen women of New Bed-
ford.” What a gold mine for a Balzac!

So now my classmates—and my descendants — if you have
been silly enough to read all of this, you will perhaps decry a
purposeless life. But I take comfort with the Arabs who say the
reason “is written somewhere in the book,” or with Kipling’s
“the end of it is sitting and thinking.” Then, too, you should
hear my daughter sing or look into my son’s thoughtful discern-
ing eyes.

ALFRED DENNIS BELL, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 933 W. Santa Inez, Hillsborough, Calif.

OFFICE AppRESS: Hobbs Wall Lumber Co., 2030 Union St., San Francisco,
Calif.

BORN: Sept. 3, 1909, Yonkers, N.Y. panents: Alfred Dennis Bell, Dorothy
Perry.

PRreparep AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: 8.8. cum laude, 1932.

Maraiep: Marjorie Ramsay Blyth, Sept. 28, 1940, San Mateo, Calif, camupaen:
Alfred Dennis, 3d, Oct. 2, 1941; Diana Blyth, Jan. 7, 1943; Ramsay

[96]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Perry, Sept. 4, 1949; Christy Thomas, July 1, 1952.

occupaTION: President, Hobbs Wall Lumber Company; wholesale lumber
dealers. ,

OFFICES HELD: Director and president, Hobbs Wall Lumber Company, Red-
wood, Inc.; director, Woodside Lumber Company, National-American
Wholesale Lumber Association, Travelers Aid (San Francisco); past
member, Supreme Nine, International Concatenated Order of Hoo-
Hoo; past president, San Francisco Hoo-Hoo Club No. 9; member,
Budget Study Committee, Community Chest of San Francisco.

MEMBER OF: Pacific-Union Club; Burlingame Country Club; Cypress Point
Club; Bohemian Club; University Club; Harvard Club of San Francisco;
California Historical Society; American Geographical Society.

THE chronological facts are easy:

1932-1934. Hammond Shipping Company, San Francisco.
Office boy, meal cost accountant, billing clerk,
freight solicitor, operating manager (wet nurse
to S.S. Brunswick — 525-ton steam schooner).

1934-1938. Hammond Redwood Company, Samoa, Cali-

| fornia. Manager, efficiency department (Be-
deaux — ugh!), yard foreman, night shift (Jan-
uary to April—never had my rain clothes
off), mill sales manager.

1938-1941. Hammond Lumber Company, San Francisco.
Eastern sales manager, general sales manager.
Director: Hammond Shipping Company, Ltd.,

. California Redwood Distributors, Inc.

September 28, 1940. | Married (see above and below).

1942-1945. U.S.N.R. First class at Quonset as lieutenant
(j.g.), A-VS. Then in succession N.A.T.C.,
Corpus Christi, Hedron FAW-16, Brazil
(Recife, Natal, Sao Luiz and Recife again),
N.A.S. Alameda. To inactive duty as lieu-
tenant commander (A).

1945-1946. Hammond Lumber Company, San Francisco.
General sales manager.
1946-1948. President, Redwood, Inc., Willits, California

(a personal venture).

1948 to date. Hobbs Wall Lumber Company, San Francisco.
Vice-president and president. Wholesale red-
wood. Owner (with another).

[97]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

If you have read this far, you have noted that I'm a lumber-
man, ‘but even narrower than that —~a redwood man. That would
seem to leave a broad field for other interests. Fortunately or
unfortunately, depending on the point of view, other fields have
been largely neglected, with one exception — wife, children and
home.

The carefree years of bachelorhood before 1940 are hard to
recall. The work and the play—in about equal portions day
and night — were fun, I guess, but the lasting impression is one
of vague purposelessness. Much of the Navy years seems the same.
The jobs were routine; my memories for the most part blank for
three and a half years.

But a great thing happened in 1940. “The Girl That I Mar-
ried” made her appearance, consented, and has since borne four
wonderful children and made life happy, contented and fun.
God bless her! Our oldest, a boy, is at Milton; our next, a girl,
is at Katharine Branson School; the third grade will claim our
younger daughter next fall, and the younger boy heads for
kindergarten. A growing family seems to provide enough enter-
tainment and mental challenge to keep one busy and alert.

I have recently taken more interest in community affairs and
intend to develop it as time and opportunity permit. I do a little.
duck hunting, read a lot, and would like to get interested in
sailing. I continue to vote Republican, enjoy Jack Daniels whis-
key, “Ative Chrysler products and, like my beloved redwood
trees, hope my wife and I live forever.

BENJAMIN BELL

HOME appress: 1890 Beacon St, Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Veterans Administration Outpatient Clinic, 17 Court St
Boston, Mass. .

BoRN: Jan, 1, 1911, Kief, Ukrania, Russia. parents: Nathan Bell, Basheva
Newman,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DPGREFS: AB, cum laude, 1932, M.D. (Jefferson
Medical Coll. of Philadelphia), 1936.

mareep: Esther Fleishman, Oct. 1, 1942, Manchester, NH. cintoren:
Martin Louis, July 27, 1943; Maynard William, Oct. 10, 1948.

[98]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Physician; Chief of Eye, Ear, Nose and Throat Service, Vet-
erans Administration Outpatient Clinic.

OFFICES HELD: Resident physician, Jefferson Medical College Hospital, 1936-
38; outpatient physician, Massachusetts General Hospital and Boston
Dispensary, 1939-42; examining physician, local Draft Board, Boston,
1940-42; instructor, First Aid, Red Cross, 1940-42; medical officer,
A.U.S., 1942-46, as assistant chief and chief of EENT in military hos-
pitals; separated from active duty as major, M.C.; chief of Eye, Ear,
Nose and Throat Service, Veterans Administration Outpatient Clinic,
since 1946.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; Norfolk District Medical So-

- ciety; New England Rheumatism Society; New Century Club, Boston;
Temple Ohabei Shalom, Brookline; Brotherhood Temple Ohabei
Shalom; Jewish Community Center, Brookline.

pusLications: “Office Ophthalmology, Abnormal Fundi,” “Office Ophthal-
mology, Normal Fundi,” Mass. G.P. News, 1956; “Deafness and its

Problems” (TV presentation, September, 1954, under auspices of Blue
Cross-Blue Shield, in cooperation with Massachusetts Medical Society);
“Un Historique Des Premieres Recherches Sur La Composition De La
Caseine,” Le Lait, March, 1932; “The Optical Activity of Amino Acids

_as a Function of pH,” 1932.

GEORGE Bernard Shaw once said that every man is an omnibus
in which ride all his ancestors. To this recognition of the role
of heritage, we might add, “and a host of forgotten little inci-
dents.” It is not willful procrastination but a reluctance to
reawaken the memories of these incidents which have inexorably
shaped our lives, that makes autobiographical writing so exceed-
ingly difficult. Class lives are really studies in comparative moti-
vations. |

Following my four years at Harvard, destiny turned my steps
to Philadelphia, and I spent the next six years at Jefferson Medical
College and Jefferson Medical College Hospital. The years were
filled with all manner of rewarding and maturing experiences.
My plans for the future, however, were influenced by family
ties, and I returned to Boston, late in 1938, to begin private
medical practice. Devoting my mornings to clinics and my after-
noons to earning a living, I had an opportunity to develop in-
sights in the areas of interpersonal relationships, tact, and judg-
ment which have stood me in good stead over the years. I
consider this period part of my basic training, and can say little
more for that experience. The advent of World War II sh: aped
my life in an entirely new pattern, At the beginning of my

[99 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

service, I married, soon became the proud father of a fine son,
and life took on new meaning. The four years | spent in the
Army gave me a new feeling about government service. Al-
though my plan was to pursue private practice at the end of the
war, I found myself quite willing at that time to relinquish a
possible potential for greater material prosperity in favor of a
career of service in the Department of Medicine and Surgery of
the Veterans Administration.

During the Army years, I had a good opportunity to examine
many communities, but decided to return again to family and
friends. We made our home in Brookline, Massachusetts, where
our second son was born, and have remained to enjoy the con-
veniences and the satisfaction that living in a town such as ours
affords. Life is filled with my work as chief Eye, Ear, Nose
and Throat, at the Veterans Administration Outpatient Clinic
in Boston. The work affords opportunities to write, lecture,
travel a bit, and meet many interesting personalities. There is
satisfaction in developing and implementing large-scale and long-
range facilities to make men’s life more tolerable. For example,
I had the privilege, here in the Veterans Administration in Bos-
ton, of playing a major role in the development of a hearing and
speech center, which services most of New England, and affords
the most professionally advanced and physically equipped facil-
ities for the testing and communicative re-education of acousti-
cally handicapped veterans.

My wife and sons occupy the rest of my day with numerous
other demands, but we manage to share some common hobbies
and enjoy short vacations together. The years fly, and we look
forward to more extensive and broadening experiences in the
days to come. Martin, our eldest, will enter high school next
year. Maynard, our youngest son, keeps us moving with his
extra-curricular activities.

In a period of world-wide economic expansion, promotion,
speculation and inflation, it is easy to feel that life, in some meas-
ure, has passed us by, and the grand ambitions of our youth have
not been fully realized. They occasionally crop up and over-
whelm us with a nostalgic flood, but not often enough to inter-
fere with our now-established niche in life. Yet it is the con-

[ 100 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tributions of individuals, large and small, on which progress
ultimately depends.

It is gratifying, on meeting classmates or Harvard contem-
poraries, whether they are men of destiny or small business or
professional people, that most have a common denominator in
conservative and informed political philosophy, devotion to
family, adherence to and interest in their traditional religions,
community responsibilities, and confidence in the American
heritage.

is JOHN STARK BELLAMY

poRN: March 5, 1910, Cleveland, Ohio. PaRENTs: Paul Bellamy, Marguerite

tark.

PREPARED AT: Shaw High School, East Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 19323 LL.B., 1935 (36).

MmarRiIED: Molly Lucretia Doan, Feb. 8, 1943, Cleveland, Ohio. cHILpREN:
Susan Doan, Dec. 18, 1943; Constance Elizabeth, June 4, 1946; Frederick.

pieD: Feb. 15, 1948, Cleveland, Ohio.

wipow: Mrs. John Stark Bellamy, 3024 Huntington Rd., Shaker Heights 20,
Ohio.

JOHN STARK BELLAMY, Cleveland attorney, died on Feb-
ruary 15, 1948, after an illness of slightly less than three months.
Stricken suddenly with poliomyelitis, he entered City Hospital
in November of 1947. The eldest son of Mrs. Marguerite S.
Bellamy and Paul Bellamy, editor of the Cleveland Plain Dealer,
he would have been thirty-eight on March 5, 1948.

After grammar school education in the public schools of
Evanston and Greater Cleveland, he was graduated from Shaw
High School in East Cleveland in 1928 as a member of the Na-
tional Honor Society. He received his Bachelor of Arts degree,
cum laude, from Harvard in 1932. On graduating from the Har-
vard Law School three years later, he stood second in the group
with whom he took the Ohio Bar Examination. In 1936 he be-
came associated with the legal firm of Shuler, Smith & Freer in
the Union Commerce Building.

Six years of law practice were interrupted on July 29, 1942,
when he was inducted into the Army. He received his pre-
liminary training at Fort Knox, Kentucky, and then went to

[ ro1 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Officer Candidate School at Mississippi State College in Stark-
ville, Mississippi, where he was commissioned a second lieutenant,
Assigned to the Transportation Corps, he was transferred to
Washington, D.C, for seven months and then to Cincinnati,
where his duties involved legal work in the procurement section
of the Corps.

Following his discharge from the service on April 17, 1946,
with the rank of major, Bellamy returned to Cleveland and be-
came a partner in the law firm of Smith, Bellamy, Dill & Hop-
kins in the Union Commerce Building. Shortly after this he was
named a member of the executive committee of the Cleveland
Bar Association. . .

Bellamy was married to Miss Molly Doan in February, 1943.
She is the daughter of Mrs. Margaret P. Doan and Mr. T.
Heberton Doan, president of the Foote-Burt Company. Besides
his widow and parents, he was survived by three children, Susan,
Constance and Frederick; two brothers, Richard K. of Larch-
mont, New York, and Peter of Cleveland; and his paternal
grandmother, Mrs, Edward Bellamy of Springfield, Massachu-
setts.

M.D.B.

CHARLES RANDOLPH BENNETT, JR.
SEE Appendix.

HOLLAND BENNETT

HOME ADDRESS: 117 Parker Rd., Osterville, Mass,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Puritan Clothing Co., 408 Main St. Hyannis, Mass.

BORN; Aug. 14, 1909, New York, N.Y. parents; Harold Whitman Bennett,
os, Lillian Mitchell Barbour.

PREPARED AT: Riverdale Country School, New York, N.Y.,; Winchester
High School, Winchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

Marriep: Anna Carolyn Magnuson, Dec. 18, 1948, Medford, Mass. citp:
Edwin Joseph, Dec. 19, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Philip Barbour Bennett, ’29,

{ 102 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPaTION: Bookkeeper, Puritan Clothing Company of Cape Cod, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Bookbinders Guild of New York; Harvard Club of New York;
Osterville Community Church (youth fellowship and church school
worker for last six years); Great Books Club (leader).

WORKED with my father as assistant treasurer of Bennett Book
_ Studios, Inc., 41 West 57th Street, New York City, from gradua-
tion until the war. Business consisted of a rare book business,
mostly wholesale, and a hand bookbindery. Very interesting,
but a constant struggle for survival.

Drafted in May, 1942, in Panama, July 4, 1942, and at an air
base in Salinas, Ecuador for two and one-half years. Did not
see the U.S. again until June, 1945. Worked hard in Base per-
sonnel and finally attained the grade of staff sergeant. There
was no O.C.S. board the first year down there and after that
I did not give a “hoot.” We were down to myself and three
others from our original shipment when we finally got orders
to return to Panama, waited three months more for replacements
and left on one hour’s notice in a general’s plane. Have often
wondered who caught hell over that deal. The climate was fine,
the swimming wonderful, the fishing fantastic and the comrade-
ship a deep experience.

After the War I changed my work and joined a family busi-
ness, The Metropolitan Ice Company. They put me to work
trying to tie in our frozen foods division with the various home
freezer dealers in Greater Boston.

In 1948 I came to the Cape with a cousin and purchased a
small iron foundry. Among other things, we did not have enough
capital to survive the recession which closed half the foundries
in New England just before the Korean War. I stayed on the
Cape to clean up the mess, working at various odd jobs until
I landed my present one at which I have been working for the
last five years. Born and raised in New York and having lived
and worked in metropolitan areas all my life, I found the Cape
a revelation to me. I am a small town boy. My wife, Anna, our
son, “Ned,” and his dog, “Sandy,” all agree with me that Oster-
ville is the place for us.

Travels: none, except as above, service connected. Hobbies:
kids, books and small town life. Religious convictions: 1) The

[ 103 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

power of Love is unbelievable, 2) Generally speaking, hate and
fear are synonymous, and its result is self-destruction.

Reflections on nearing fifty: how unfailingly the good and
bad in our lives catch up with us. How things do even up. How
much more meaning the old maxim, “Live each day,” has ac-
quired in twenty-five years.

EMILE BENOIT
(formerly Emile Benoit-Smullyan)

HOME ADDRESS: 450 Riverside Drive, New York, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 201, Graduate School of Business, Columbia University,
New York, N.Y.

BORN: July 14, 1909, New York, N.Y. parents: Isidore Benoit-Smullyan,
Rosina Freeman.

PREPARED AT: Far Rockaway High School, Far Rockaway, Long Island, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932; AM,
1933; PHD., 1938.

MaRRIED: Mary Louise Mincher, March 13, 1936, Cambridge, Mass. (divorced
1954). cHiLD: Jon Lawrence Benoit Gohn, July 13, 1949.

occuPATION: Professor, Columbia Graduate School of Business; formerly,
editor, civil servant, diplomat.

OFFICES HELD: Senior economist, U.S. Department of Labor, 1942-47; pro-
fessor of economics and department head, Associated Colleges of Upper

- New York, 1947-48; foreign service reserve officer, second grade, with
rank of attaché, U.S. Embassies in London and Vienna, 1948-53; econ-
omist, McGraw-Hill Publishing Company, 1954-56, member, eco-
nomics staff, Business Week; economist, Electrical World.

MEMBER OF: American Economic Association; Columbia University Men's
Faculty Club; Phi Beta Kappa, United World Federalists.

PUBLICATIONS: “Competitive Coexistence: Can We Win?” Aztioch Review,
summer 1956; “The Conditions of Disarmament” (Joc. cit., fall, 1955)
“The Sterling Area, An American Analysis,” London, 1952; “On the
Meaning of Full Employment,” Review of Economics and Statistics,
May, 1948; “An American Foreign Policy for Survival,” Ezhics, July,
1946; “Value Judgments in the Social Sciences,” Journal of Philosophy,
April, 1945; “Net Investment Consumption and Full Employment,”
American Economic Review, December, 1944, “An Introduction to the
History of Sociology,” 1948, “Social Thought from Lore to Science,”
1938, contributor.

LOOKING back over my life for the last quarter-century is to
me a rather disconcerting experience, as I suppose it is to a good

[ 104 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

many others. Very likely it is a good thing to be doing: more
frequent stocktakings are certainly in order. Being as objective
as I can, I would say that the record indicates a certain restless-
ness, a dissatisfaction, an inability or unwillingness to hold on to
and develop what initially came my way. Rather I have wanted
to explore, to innovate, to broaden my experience. Partly, this
was no doubt the result of accident. But also it probably re-
flected temperamental characteristics. All of which is to say that
it’s high time I “settled down.”

Having obtained my doctorate in sociology I immediately
began teaching economics. Just getting under way as an academic
economist, I went to Washington and began practising the art
of applied economics. After five years of this I returned briefly
to the academic community and then spent five years in the
foreign service in London and Vienna. This was a fascinating
experience which I would hate to have missed, but I’m not sure
just what it added up to. Thereafter, I spent a couple of years
as an economist in a large business. I can now say I’ve completed
the triangle of business, government and academic experience
sometimes held to be desirable for the “compleat economist.”

Along the way I published a number of technical and non-
technical pieces in economics, sociology, political science and
philosophy. Most of my writing, however, has been in the form
of classified memos which will never see the light of day. Finally,
I’ve returned once again to the academic community, but in a
post that gives me some outlet for my practical as well as theo-
retical interests and which utilizes much of the bits and pieces
Pve picked up along the way. This is the teaching of inter-
national business, with special emphasis on the problems of
American businesses investing and operating branches and sub-
Sidiaries abroad. These problems are intellectually fascinating and
of very great practical importance, since the way in which
American business functions overseas, and particularly in the un-
developed areas, may largely determine which way the bulk of
the world’s population will swing in the fateful decades ahead.

Two unifying strands in my experience I can see. The search
for the answers to the two fundamental social problems of this
century: depressions and wars. My contributions to these prob-
lems have been minute, but I would rather contribute a little to

[ 105 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

a large problem than largely to a small one. Again a matter of
temperament!

During my years in Washington I worked chiefly on the de-
pression problem, finally having a small part in drafting the “Em-

loyment Act of 1946.” I am satisfied that we now have the
main lines of the answer to this problem. We know a way that
will work, and that won’t imperil our free private enterprise
economy. Whether this is the best way is still open to debate,
but that’s of secondary importance. Of course, there’s still an
immense labor to be performed in getting the conclusions of the
specialists over to the practising businessman and politician, so
that they can see what’s so clear to us. I hope to make some
further contribution along both these lines.

My concern about peace goes back some twenty years and has,
as underpinnings, my Quaker convictions. However, it’s only in
the last decade, with atomic annihilation staring us in the face,
that I’ve actually done anything much about it. Even so, the
word “done” has to be read chiefly as “thought.” The moment
the atomic bomb was dropped, I began thinking furiously about
the changes mankind would have to make in its political arrange-
ments if it hoped to survive. I published a few pieces on this,
some of which had some impact. Professor Edward S. Corwin
of Princeton has summarized my ideas in his book, A Constitu-
tion of Powers in a Secular State, and over-generously asserts
that the World Federalists have taken the main features of their
program from one of my articles. Actually, I disagree rather
strongly with many Federalists and One-Worlders.

I have been trying to work out a method of strengthening the
U.N. to a point where it could take over certain functions vital
to the preservation of peace (control over atomic energy, dan-
gerous research, disarmament and the settlement of international
disputes in certain categories) with minimum impairment of

national sovereignty in other areas. I realize that an enormously
difficult accommodation with the Russians must precede that.

As impossible as such an accommodation now seems, 1 am con-
vinced that a real opportunity will shortly appear. My reason
for thinking so lies in what the specialists call, “The Fourth
Country Problem, namely the likelihood that other countries

[ 106 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

(including perhaps some very irresponsible ones) will shortly
obtain atomic weapons and be in a position to start a world
holocaust on a moment’s notice, especially if they resort to what:
I have entitled “anonymous warfare.” The problem is of terrific
urgency. The longer we wait the more drastic the powers we
shall have to surrender to the U.N. authorities responsible for
inspection and enforcement — and the less assurance we will have
against successful evasion of controls.

Recently, I have been thinking and writing about the problems
of “competitive coexistence,” and particularly the rapid rate at
which the Russians are overtaking us in science, technology and
industrial output. I have made the rather startling recommenda-
tion that the federal government accept the training of scientists
and engineers as part of its defense responsibilities. Most people
who read my piece admit that no other solution hitherto pro-
posed looks like being adequate, but they shy away from mine.
At any rate, my material has served, along with a lot of other
stuff, to sharpen awareness among top policy people of the urgent
nature of the problem.

Back in 1947, the University of Chicago Press offered me ad-
vance royalties to do a book tying together a number of these
issues. 1 have never quite forgiven myself for not taking them
up on it, but at the time, it didn’t seem I could financially afford
to take enough time off to complete such a project. It remains
the main ambition of my life to write that book. I trust that by
the time of our next Class Report, if we, and our civilization, are
still here, Fl be able to report that it has finally been written.

CHARLES EDWARD BENSON, JR.

HOME aApprEss: 24 Mountainview St., Springfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 45 State St., Springfield, Mass.

BORN: May 14, 1909, Chicago, Ill. parents: Charles Edward Benson, Bessie
Dryden Watt.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; LL.B. 1936(37).

MARRIED: Katherine Haight, Dec. 18, 1940, Springfield, Mass. CHILDREN:

[ 107 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Katherine Bruce, June 21, 1942; Charles Edward, 3d, June 29, 1944;
Monroe Haight, May 20, 1949.

occuPATION: Life insurance salesman.

memBeR OF: Hampden County Bar Association; National Association of
Life Underwriters,

] ENTERED the retail store field from college and entered the
Law School in 1934. I practised law until 1944, then served two

ears in the U.S. Naval Reserve, and after release from active
duty I re-entered law practice in Springfield. In 1947 I became
employed in the Trust Department of Safety Fund National
Bank in Fitchburg, Massachusetts, returning to Springfield in
1956 to enter life insurance field work.

My religious convictions are the same as ever, namely that God
reigns over all. Political conviction is that so long as the U.S.
has a strong two-party system we'll make out fine. Social con-
viction is that responsibilities are as important as privileges. My
children continue to grow in stature and knowledge and occa-
sionally obey me. My wife continues to grow in stature and
knowledge.

May all of you, my classmates, continue to grow in stature
and in knowledge.

PHILIP G. H. BENZENBERG

HOME aporess: P.O. Box 644, Visalia, Calif,

BoRN: Aug. 4, 1910, Milwaukee, Wis, parents: Louis Mayer, Frieda Benzen-
berg.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932.

Married: Olive Law Ling, June 26, 1935, Pawling, N.Y.

occupation: Publishing.

ALBERT BERGER

HOME ADDRESS: 933 Hickman Rd., Augusta, Ga.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1015 Broad St., Augusta, Ga.

BORN: Oct. 2, 1910, Baltimore, Md. Parents: Harris Nathan Berger, Frieda
Rebecca Fox.

PREPARED AT: St. Matthews High School, St, Matthews, S.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929. DEGREE: LLB. (Augusta Law School), 1940.

[ 108 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

maanieD: Esther Lena Daitch, Oct. 27, 1936, Columbia, S.C, crip: Evelyne,
Oct. 8, 1937.

oocupaTion: Merchant, Berger's Jewelers.

offices HELD: Member board of directors, S. E. Region, Z.0.A., 1951-56;
chairman, Augusta District, Zionist Youth Committee, about seven years;
member board of directors, Y.MI.H.A.; member, Adath Yeshurun

Synagogue.
member oF; Z.OA.; B'nai B'rith organizations.
MANY trials and tribulations have elapsed since last 1 was en-
rolled at Harvard. Hlave been in business, then an employee, and
now back in business for myself. Still waiting for that lucky
break that they say comes once in a lifetime.

After some few years of languishing around, I took unto myself
a wife (maiden name, Esther Daitch), on October 27, 1936, at
Columbia, South Carolina, at about nine o’clock in the evening.
Must not forget, however, that through my usual negligence I
had to race and stop at several county seats before I could obtain
a marriage license which in itself tended to delay my marriage
some thirty to forty-five minutes. On October 8, 1937, we were
blessed with a daughter weighing 7 Ibs. 13 0z., whom we named
Evelyne. That was as far as we got with children, but we feel
that we have a most prectous one, who has been a very good
average student through grammar and high school and who is
now enrolled as a sophomore at Newcomb College in New Or-
leans. Our daughter has taken part in many youth activities,
many of a cultural nature, and devoted quite a few years as a
Sunday School teacher.

Well, back to our first married days. At that time, finances
were real tight, yet while working I did take evenings out for
several years to attend the Augusta Law School and in June,
1940, graduated with an LL.B. degree. About this time I became
quite interested in youth work, helped reorganize our Y.M.H.A.
and began to do what I could in promoting some of their ac-
tivities. I also served as chairman of the Augusta Zionist Youth
Commission for some seven years. This, I am sure, led me to
greater interest in our house of worship. I was elected to the
board of governors of the Adath Yeshurun Synagogue and served
as their treasurer for two years. Over the period of years I have
taken an interest in the civic affairs of the city of Augusta, and
have served on many of their worthwhile drives for the better-

[ 109 ]

Sc namrennancnte

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

ment of mankind. It has also been my privilege to have served

as an officer on both the Z.O.A. and B’nai B’rith organizations.

In reference to the war period, I never was aware whether |

would be going into service or not, for one day I was 1A, the
next I had gotten another breather. Of course, my daughter is
responsible for all of this, since she was a pre-Pearl Harbor child.
I had already had my salutations right after the Bulge incident,
however, as [ was getting ready to report, the Allies made ad-
vances sufficient to cause the cancellation of my orders. At this
time, the late President Roosevelt made an address asking that
men over their thirties to please get into defense work, so that
others that were younger and more useful to the Army could be
relieved for military service. 1 immediately found myself a
defense job and remained with it until V-J Day. Other than this,
my only defense affiliation was through the Civil Defense as an
air raid warden.

As the war drew to an end, | began my way up the line of
Masonry which I felt very worthwhile and an affiliation I shall
always treasure. I went through the three phases: Blue Lodge,
Scottish Rite, and Shrine. I am now a member of Social Lodge
No. 1 of Augusta, the Augusta Consistory and Alee Temple of
Savannah, Georgia, and the Augusta Shrine Club. For the past
seven or eight years I have portrayed parts of the Venerable
Master in the fifteenth degree of Scottish Rite Masonry in the
process of adding new members to our fraternal group. For the
past five years I have also had the honor of being appointed to
and serving on the board of directors of the Zionist organization
for the southeastern region of the United States.

In 1944 we started a drive towards the goal of an erection of
a new and more modern House of Worship. Much work was
put into its becoming a reality and in 1954 it did become that
reality. 1 am proud of the opportunity given me in serving as
a member of this building committee and seeing its completion.

With the usual ins and outs, so passed my days from the time
that I left Harvard until the present time.

[ 110 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARRY BERGSON, JR.

HOME appRESS: 50 Park Lane, Newton Center, Mass.

OFFICE aporess: Bergson & Wolf, 209 Washington St. Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 6, 1911, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Harry Bergson, ’04, Augusta
Cook. |

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932} LL.B. (Boston Coll.), 1939.

MaRRiED: Elizabeth Paul, Oct. 21, 1939, Newton, Mass. cump: Henry Paul,
Dec. 22, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Herbert Augustus Bergson, °30, LL.B. ’33; Philip Bergson,
"34, Lbs. ‘38.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Director, since 1947, president, since 1955, Civic Symphony
Orchestra of Boston, Assistant U.S, Attorney, 1948-52; committeeman,
since 1953, chairman, 1954-56, Troop 5, Norumbega Council, Boy
Scouts; member, Committee on Civil Procedure, Boston Bar Associa-
tion, since 1952; director, Newton Taxpayers Association, 1948-52,
Dehydrating Process Company, Woburn Process Company, Gloucester
Ice & Cold Storage Company; clerk, Drew Investment Associates, Inc.,
A. J. Elliote Motor Transportation, Inc. Elliott Stevedoring, Inc., In-
dustrionics, Inc.

MEMBER oF: Afassachusetts, Federal and Boston Bar Associations.

WHAT has happened to me in the twenty-five years from 1932
to 1957? In retrospect, everything and nothing. A depression,
a world war, inflation and a cold war have made this a far
different world from that existing at the time we entered college
with so many high hopes and shining ideals. Now the words
are hedged about with cautious adjectives and the ideals are a
little tarnished, but they are still the same in essence, and even at
this late date the tendency is still to look forward and not back-
ward. This is itself reassuring, for it denotes that we still retain
some of the characteristics of youth; reminiscence and nostalgia
being the symptoms of incipient senility.

Today finds me engrossed in the practice of the law, the last
thing I anticipated when I left the protection of these ivied walls
to seek my fortune. Having a father, an uncle and two brothers
in the legal profession, it was simply assumed by my family that
I would join them. That of itself was, at the time, sufficient
reason for me to say it was exactly what I did not want to do.
But time and experience have a way of changing one’s viewpoint.

After graduation, armed with my diploma, I searched for a

[ru]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

job and after months of refusals, finally landed a good one, un-
loading freight cars, ten hours a day, six days a week for the
munificent sum of twelve dollars a week. After that I went from
one job to another, worked with an engineering firm, tried to
be a salesman, and finally found myself working in a bank. After
a few years there, I was told to start a trust department. Think-
ing that a knowledge of the law would be helpful, if not essential
in this field, I enrolled in the night classes at Boston College Law
School. Strangely enough, after a few months, I came to the
shocking realization that I liked it and that this was where I
really belonged. I took my law degree in due course, married
and begot a son, of whom I am inordinately fond. The problem
of making a change from banking to the law, while still coping
with the responsibiliry for my dependents, was solved very
handily by our Uncle Sam who gave me a temporary job in his
armed forces. After the war, my father invited me to join his
firm and accordingly in 1946, I embarked on full time active
practice.

In March, 1948, Justice Tom Clark, then Attorney General,
appointed me Assistant United States Attorney for Massachusetts,
and J served in that capacity for four years, until June, 1952. I
found this a most rewarding and instructive experience, for it
enabled me to crowd into this short period more legal experience
than most practitioners acquire in twenty years. Since that time
I have gone back to general private practice which has grown
steadily, and which remains always stimulating and challenging.

My family and I have a little house and garden in the Newtons
and spend our summers in Chatham on Cape Cod. We have a
boat and devote a great deal of our spare time to being on the
water. My son and I combine this with our enthusiasm for fish-
ing and consequently share many companionable hours together,
a state of affairs which is dear to my heart. In the winter months
we are active in the Boy Scouts, my wife in charitable and church
affairs, and I with the management of the Civic Symphony Or-
chestra of Boston. As for traveling, I have been to Europe twice
and once to Latin America, this last at government expense. In
matters of religion, I stand aloof. Politically, I am a national
Democrat and a Massachusetts Independent.

Altogether, we lead a comfortable and satisfactory sort of

[112 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

existence. We haven’t set the world on fire and indeed we don’t
want to. My family has no desire to see me the richest man in
the cemetery and with that sentiment, I heartily agree.

EDWARD GORDON BERNARD

HOME ADDRESS: 145 E. 37th St. New York 16, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 13t Livingston St., Brooklyn 1, N.Y.

BoRN: Jan. 29, 1911, Brooklyn, N.Y. parents: Simon Ginsburg, Doris
Gotlieb.

PREPARED AT: Wright School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930, 1931-1932. DEGREES: 8.B. cum laude, 1932; A.M.
(Columbia Univ.), 1936; ep. (ibid.), 1949.

marrieD: Wanda Alexander, Oct. 3, 1935, New York, N.Y.

occupation: Director, merged visual and auditory instruction organizations,

New York Public Schools.

DURING my junior year, away from Harvard for study in
Munich and Vienna, I became interested in both my subsequent
occupation, audio-visual instruction, and my wife—a brown-
eyed Scottish concert pianist from Washington State — with
altogether happy outcomes in both instances.

My first few years out of college were devoted to distributing
European educational films to schools and universities, accom-
panied by study at Columbia University. In 1937, I shifted from
the industry to the profession, obtaining a position with the
Board of Education of the City of New York.

From June, 1942, until December, 1945, I served in the Navy
at the Bureau of Naval Personnel, Navy Department, Washing-
ton, and aboard the U.S.S. Texas. As officer in charge, Training
Aids Production and Distribution Section, my work included
Supervising the establishment and administration of field units
around the U.S. and in the overseas theatres of war, as well as
production and distribution units.

Since the war I have been at the headquarters of the New York
public schools, first as coordinator of the instructional materials
programs and since 1955, as the result of an open, nationally ad-
vertised competitive examination, as director of merged visual
and auditory instruction organizations.

In 1949 I completed a program of doctoral studies at Colum-

[113]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

bia’s Teachers College and received the Ed.D. degree. At the
end of the war, we solved our housing problem by acquiring,
for a relatively small down payment, a brownstone with a little

arden in Manhattan’s Murray Hill. Trying to raise anything
but bulbs under city conditions is too exacting a sport, however.
In 1950, we were able to supplement this by a house in the woods
in northern Westchester (Yorktown Heights), where we live
half of each year in an enthusiastic lather of combat with bugs,
weeds, droughts and rocks for floral trophies.

ARNOLD JEROME BERNSTEIN

HOME appress: 9 Cotswold Way, Scarsdale, N.Y. .

orrice appress; Abeles & Bernstein, 745 Fifth Ave., New York 22, N.Y.

porn: Aug. 3, 1910, New York, N.Y. parents: David Bernstein, Ruth B.
Helborn.

PREPARED AT; Ethical Culture School, New York, N-Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: AB. magna cum laude, 1932; LL.B.
(Columbia Univ.), 1935.

MaRRIED: Jeanne P. Postley, July 1, 1940, Scarsdale, N.Y. CHILDREN: Barbara
Anne, May 11, 1941; Linda Ruth, May 13, 1944; Carol Mary, April
6, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Morton Bernstein, ’35.

occupation: Attorney, partner in firm specializing in copyright law.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Hospital for Joint Diseases, New York, Blythedale
Children’s Orthopedic Hospital, Valhalla, N.Y.

MEMBER OF: Beach Point Yacht Club; Quaker Ridge Golf Club.

FREDERICK JONES BERTOLET

HOME apprEss: 1541 Mineral Spring Rd., Reading, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lafayette College, Easton, Pa,

BORN: Oct. 8, 1912, Reading, Pa. parents; Wellington Maybeury Bertolet,
’o4, Helen Fletcher Jones.

PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville Academy, Lawrenceville, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932, DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 19323 LL.B 1935.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Jean de Benneville Bertolet, ’35.

OCCUPATION: Teacher.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of managers, Reading Hospital, 1938-56, presi-

[114]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

dent, Reserve Officers Association, Reading, 1947-50, Reading Public
Library, 1954-56; chairman, Republican Finance Committee of Berk-
shire County, 1950-54, Reading Chapter, UWF, 1950-56.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Union League of Philadelphia;
Berkshire Country Club, Reading; Wyomissing Club, Reading.

IN 1936, after the Pennsylvania Bar examination, I began the
general practice of law in Reading, Pennsylvania, with my father,
"og, and was joined several years later by my brother, ’35. In
1938 I was appointed Deputy Attorney General for the Common-
wealth, which developed into a full-time job. The war years
sent me to Europe for a long tour of duty with the Army, and
I was lucky enough to end up on General Eisenhower's legal
staff, which was an assignment of compelling interest. For the
last two years I have been studying for my doctorate in the field
of political science, at the University of Pennsylvania, and I am
also engaged in teaching courses in constitutional law and labor
law at Lafayette College. So far I find teaching more fascinating
than the law.

I spend my summers in Islesboro, Maine, where I am planning
to build a new house. I like sailing, stock car racing, modern art
and bridge. I was going to conclude by saying that I am sorry
I have never married, but in all honesty I am not so sure.

NORWOOD PIERSON BEVERIDGE

HOME aAppreEss: 816 University Blvd. E., Silver Spring, Md.

OFFic® ApprEss: Eastern Junior High School, Old Bladensburg Road, Silver
Spring, Md.

Born: Aug. 15, 1911, North Haven, Maine. PARENTs: Orris Lyford Bever-
age, Rose Emma Pierson.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 19325 A.M., 1936.

MarrieD: Dorothy Woodrow, 1932, Nashua, N.H. (divorced 1955); Eliza-
beth Babb Foxwell, 1955, Camden, Maine, cumpren: Deborah Wood-
row, April 18, 1935; Norwood Pierson, Jr., Nov. 7, 1936; Arthur
Woodrow, May 13, 1943-

HARVARD son: Norwood Pierson Beveridge, Jr., ’58.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Lyford Pierson Beveridge, ’22, ED.M., 30; Arnold Pierson
Beveridge, ’24; Lowell Pierson Beveridge, ’25, a.M., '28, PH.D., 43; Eliot
Pierson Beveridge, ’30, A.M. 31, ED.M., 34.

[rs]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

occupaTion: Director of Music, Eastern Junior High School; general music
classes and choruses.

oFFICES HELD: Former chairman, Music Committee, chairman, Professional
Standards Committee, Association of Private School Teachers of New
York City; member, Music Committee, Secondary Education Board,
chairman, Music Committee and conductor for Song Festival of the
Guild of Independent Schools of New York City; faculty representative
to board of trustees, Allen-Stevenson School, New York City; assistant
to principal, The Maret School, Washington.

MEMBER OF: Montgomery County Education Association; Maryland State
Teachers Association; National Education Association. °

puBLicaTions: “Captains of the Sea,” Lifetime Living, July, 1953; “The Shark
Boats Are Coming Back,” Down East Magazine, August 1955; “Yankees
From Suomiland,” Down East Magazine, December, 1956; miscellaneous
items in The Camden Herald, Camden, Maine, summer of 1951.

DESPITE a natural desire to help make our Twenty-fifth Report
a success, I undertake the following biographical sketch reluc-
tantly. In my youth I was deeply impressed by the story of Lot's
wife, and even now, in the security of quasi-maturity, I cherish
many doubts regarding the wisdom of looking backwards.
Furthermore, I object to autobiography on principle and would
prefer to be a Boswell to a classmate rather than a Franklin to
mysclf, I suspect that none of us is in a good position to write
an objective, yet colorful, history of his career during the past
twenty-five years. With these reservations in mind, I take type-
writer in lap. .

Upon graduation in '32 I was fortunate enough to obtain em-
ployment as a teacher. With the exception of a year off in
pursuit of higher learning (1935-36), I have been teaching ever
since. At the present time I am head of the music department of
Eastern Junior High School. My present salary is a matter of
public record, but I will not here specify the amount, lest the
prestige of our alma mater should suffer from the revelation.

Much has been written regarding the important role of the
teacher in American society. My only comment on this score
is that the “rewards” of teaching may be many — but I do not
recommend the profession for my children. So much for my
professional career. |

It may be that after a perusal of the foregoing paragraphs you
will feel that I am the bitter type. The truth of the matter — or
so I hope — is that I am one of the merriest men imaginable, and

[ 116 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have few regrets regarding the past, in respect to either profes-
sional or personal life.

I am continually grateful, for example, that I was able to study
at Harvard. I am grateful, too, for the equally fine educational
opportunity offered to my children, Debby (Smith, ’56) is now
in the Harvard Graduate School of Education and Norwood,
Jr. °58, enjoys both the educational diet offered by Harvard
and the culinary security afforded by his sister’s nearby apart-
ment. Arthur, youngest of our tribe, is the pride of the trumpet
section in the Takoma Junior High band. And above all I am
grateful for my wife Betty (acquired in ’55) who has scen me
through some very difficult years. Finally I am grateful for
associations formed in undergraduate years, and here it is perhaps
fitting to pay tribute to two of our former classmates who have
moved on to other areas of activity — Jim Gaul and Jim Agce
—two of the most interesting guys it has been my privilege to
meet,

Beyond this I have little to report. For those who may be
interested I will report briefly that my hobbies are writing, square
dance calling and sailing. Politics also fascinate me, but I have
learned to resist said fascination in order to retain my small circle
of cherished friends. I find that my opinions on many issues are
less positive than formerly, but of one thing I am sure: I shall
do my level best to attend the Twenty-fifth Reunion.

WALTER ARCHER BEYER

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Sias Lane, Milton 86, Mass.

OFFice aporess: Milton Academy, Multon, Mass.

BorN: Sept. 30, 1909, Cape Elizabeth, Maine. parents: Henry G. Beyer,
Helen Smith.

PREPARED aT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932 (33).

MargieD: Audrey White, July 20, 1940, Portland, Maine. cHiLtpren: Henry
Gustav, 2d, Dec. 18, 1943; Edmund Brand, Oct. 24, 1946.

IN June, 1933, I completed work for an A.B. degree at Harvard.
I was employed at Portland Junior College as professor in history
and registrar until June, 1943, when the entire student body

[117]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

either volunteered or was drafted into the service. (Polio pre-
vented my being accepted by any branch of the armed services.)
Since 1943 I have been teaching mathematics at Milton Academy
and coaching younger boys in sports.

FRANCIS PITMAN BICKNELL ~

HOME appRESS: 11 Estabrook Rd., Shrewsbury, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: State Mutual Life Assurance Co., Worcester, Mass.

porn: May 16, 1909, Swampscott, Mass. parents: Ralph Emerson Bicknell,
MD.,, ‘00, Blanche Bowler Pitman.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932, DEGREES; AB, 1932(33); M.D. (Univ. of
Rochester), 1936.

marrigD: Barbara Bee, Nov. 15, 1938, Swampscott, Mass. CHILDREN: Nancy,
Dec. 20, 1939; Robert Bee, June 20, 1942; Harrison Scott, March 25,
1953»

occupation: Physician; medical director, State Mutual Life Assurance
Company.

OFFices HELD: President, Shrewsbury Lions Club, 1944-45, Badminton Club,
1946, Men’s League, First Church, Congregational, 1947; adult adviser,
HiY, 1943-50; member, School Committee, 1945-48; chairman, Troop
114, Boy Scouts Committee, 1943-45; Town Meeting member, since
1955.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; American Medical Association,
Association of Life Insurance Medical Directors of America; Medical
Section, American Life Convention; Board of Life Insurance Medicine;
Lions Club; Masons; Men’s League; University Club of Worcester;
United States Power Squadron; Allen Harbor Yacht Club.

THE fall of 1932 found me at the University of Rochester Medi-
cal School in Rochester, New York, to embark on the first steps
of my childhood ambition. Little did I realize at that time
that I would be a patient five days after school started.
Thanks to the generous donation of nine pints of blood by little
known classmates in the next ten days, I started on the road to
recovery. Back in the medical school after Thanksgiving, I
determined to keep abreast of the class so that I might graduate
with my benefactors. It took a couple of summers at Michigan
to make up work lost, but everything turned out fine.

After interning at the Memorial Hospital in Worcester, 1
returned to Swampscott to establish my practice. Everything

{118 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

went along quite satisfactorily and looked good for the future.
One day I received a phone call from the medical director of
the State Mutual Life Assurance Company of Worcester. He
offered me a job as assistant medical director. That, of course,
required a decision. Should I stay in Swampscott where my
father had been practising since 1900 (and is still going strong)
or should I take a job with regular hours? We discussed the pros
and cons of both jobs and finally made a decision.

On November 15, 1938, Barbara and I tied the nuptial knot,
took a trip to Nassau and Havana, and planned much of our
future voyage of happiness together. On January 1, 1939, I
joined the Strate Mutual as assistant medical director and moved
to Shrewsbury.

Now just a word about Shrewsbury. It’s a fine residential
town adjacent to Worcester and gained a bit of publicity by the
tornado of 1953 when Scott was only ten weeks old. Then, as
now, Larry Lougee, a fellow classmate, was active in the public
interest. Efe worked untold hours for the Red Cross. He has
also been Town Moderator for years, but the title tells little
about the work he actually does. If you move to the Worcester
area, Larry and I suggest that you settle in Shrewsbury.

My experience with the State Mutual has been rewarding in
many ways. It has necessitated a limited amount of travel
throughout the entire country giving me the opportunity to see
not only the geographical variations, but occupational and en-
vironmental variations. As my value to the company increased,
I was given further responsibility with concurrent changes in
ticle until I am now in charge of the medical branch of the com-
pany. So much for business activity.

With daughter Nancy and newborn son Robert to consider,
I went to Boston in 1942 to offer my services to Uncle Sam for
World War IIL He thought my past medical history sufficient
to lead to a subsequent pension so he said “No” to my offer.
Then he went on to take others less physically fit and to subse-
quently pay them pensions for the flat feet they had when ac-
cepted. In the meantime, yours truly stayed home trying to help
with Civil Defense, U.S.O. Drives, Bond Drives, and other civic
activities. Some small measure of success resulted from each
attempt.

[119 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

After that war was over, we built a place in Harwichport on
Cape Cod. Enjoyed it and a small boat, but the wanderlust bug
bit in 1951, so we closed the cottage and took off for California,
Had a marvelous trip visiting most of the national parks while
educating two children and collecting our share of useful and
useless souvenirs. Amazing what you can see in a month in this
great land of ours!

Shortly after Scott arrived in 1953, the tornado mentioned
earlier struck a devastating blow while Bob and I were getting
the Cape cottage ready for the summer. Imagine listening to
the radio while driving along at five-thirty in the morning and
hearing the announcer say, “Worcester and Shrewsbury were
hit by the worst tornado in New England’s history. ‘The Kenil-
worth Section of Shrewsbury was particularly hard hit.” Then
later to have a gas station attendant less than a mile from home
say, “There's no point in your going home, Kenilworth’s flat.”
And finally to have the National Guard tell you you couldn’t
go into the area, It sure was a relief to get in finally and find
the family safe.

Barbara and I have really enjoyed our family. We've had the
time to spend with them that (we hope) will make them a credit
to the community. We all get to church with some regularity
and those of us eligible vote in the hope of a lasting peace in our
time or at least in our children’s.

It has been nice visiting with you to tell you a bit of our ac-
tivities since 1932. We hope you've all done likewise as we enjoy
knowing about our friends even though we do not see them.
We hope to see you at the Reunion. If we do we'll wish you
GOOD HEALTH in person, but in case we miss you, consider
this our personal wish of GOOD HEALTH to you.

MILTON FREDERICK BIGELOW

HOME ADDRESS: 179 New Meadow Rd, Barrington, R.1.

BoRN: May 31, 1910, Providence, RJ. parents: Charles Frederick Bigelow,
Annie Warren.

PREPARED AT: Wenonah Military Academy, Wenonah, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1920.

[ 120 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PRESCOTT BIGELOW

HOME ADDRESS: 258 Booth Ave. Englewood, N.J.

OFFicE aporess: Armour & Co., 120 Broadway, New York 5, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 29, 1909, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: Prescott Bigelow, ’o8, Marion
Burdett.

preparen at: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1930.

mMarrieD: Elizabeth K. Kochler, October, 1937, Buenos Aires, Argentina
(divorced 1943); Mildred C, Core, December, 1943, Washington, D.C.
CHILDREN: Prescott, Jr. Aug. 15, 1938; Marion Ehzabeth, June 5, 1941;
Richard Ford (stepchild), July 1, 1931 (vt. Bridie Heaps, April, 1956);
Mildred Caroline (stepchild), Jan. 13, 1934; Mary Catherine (stepchild),
July, 1935 (me. Jerry K. Bettle, September, 1956); Natalie Elizabeth
(stepchild), May 1, 1937.

occuPaTION: Export manager, New York office, Armour & Company, meat
packers,

MEMBER OF: Elarvard Club of New York; Englewood Field Club, Southern
Cross Club, Export Managers Club of New York; American Arbitra-
tion Association.

I PRESUME that many of our Class had ideas of quick profit
when we stepped out into the world after Icaving college. As
we were one of the depression classes, this idea was quickly
dispelled.

My first job was with a brokerage firm in Boston but was of
short duration. Next came a period with one of the chain stores.
Then, on to Chicago where I joined Armour and Company.
While in Chicago several of our classmates and friends from
other colleges banded together until we went off to various parts
of the United States and other parts of the world.

I went to Buenos Aires, where we lived for ten years. This
was a very interesting and satisfactory experience. From Buenos
Aires we were transferred to Sao Paulo, Brazil, which is one of
the most modern and fastest growing cities in the world. My
work made traveling a necessity so there weren’t many places
in either Argentina or Brazil that I didn’t have an opportunity
to see.

Just about the time we all mastered Portuguese, which is quite
different from Spanish, we were transferred to the States. At
present, I am the export manager in New York for Armour and
must say it’s good to be home. All of us do get nostalgic when

f 121 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

we see our friends “off” for various parts of the world as the
ships’ fog horns blow as they slide into the Hudson River and
slowly start on their way. |

Since we have been home, we have lived in Englewood, New
Jersey, where we have become involved in the usual civic affairs
such as community chest, Red Cross, hospital drives, etc. Right
now our children have gone their separate ways and after having
had a houseful for so long we find the quiet a bit difficult to get
used to, but are looking forward to the time we will have grand-
children to keep us from becoming too complacent.

RICHARD ASHLEY BIGGS

HOME AppREss: The Glen Briar, Riverdale 63, N.Y.

orFice appress: Crucible Steel Co. of America, Chrysler Bldg., New York,
N.Y. |

BORN: March 24, 1910, Cleveland, Ohio. paRENTS: John William Biggs,
Martha Cecilia Harmon. .

prePareD AT: Allegheny High School, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933.

Marie: Bertha May Yeany, June 10, 1935, Mercer, Pa. (died May 13,
1945); Madelyn Adell Oesterling, Nov. 19, 1949, Pottstown, Pa. cHiL-
prEN: Richard Ashley, Jr. (died June 19, 1940) and Robin A. (twins),
Aug. 28, 1938.

occupation: Manager of product development, Crucible Steel Company of
America, producer of specialty steels.

OFFICES HELD: Member executive committee of board of directors, Franki
Foundation Company; secretary, committee E-6 on Methods of Testing
Structure, Committee C-19 on Structural Sandwich Construction, Ameri-
can Society for Testing Materials.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Harvard Engineering Society;
Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club of Pittsburgh; Society of Military Engi-
neers; American Society of Safety Engineers, American Society of
Heating and Air-Conditioning Engineers,

HAVING re-read the “poop” appearing in our Fifteenth Anni-
versary Report, it appeared perfectly clear to me that no one
would want any more of that! Accordingly, what follows will
cover the last ten years only. It has really been some decade,
hasn’t it? The Flourishing Fifties? My business activity during
this period found me finally “growing up” and pursuing more
effectively the marketing career now so clearly defined. During

{122 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the bulk of this period the sales development problems of the
Franki Foundation Company and the Crucible Steel Company of
America absorbed my energy and experience.

During this same interval, my family also grew up and “she”
will have completed her freshman year at Allegheny College
come Reunion time. As I write this, it would appear that she
will continue her outstanding scholastic and athletic record (so
thoroughly established in high school) along with that most
“electrifying experience” of becoming a young lady. That she
is the “apple of my eye” is obvious to anyone who looks my way
when I am looking at her. In my prejudiced way, I am frank
to admit that she must be seen to be appreciated.

Also, during these last ten years, I have taken unto myself a
new wife, who has contributed in no small measure to the polish-
ing process (remember, I started from the school of hard knocks)
in providing whatever “finish” presently accrucs to my personal-
ity. Like my daughter, she must be seen to be appreciated. I
know I would appreciate both of them more, if I could see more
of them. Part of my personal problem is the necessity for fairly
regular travel.

Speaking of travel, I had covered practically all of the United
States and a goodly portion of industrial Canada prior to World
War II. Since then, it has been possible for my wife and me to
visit Europe, a fair number of the Caribbean Islands, as well as
Mexico in our (now rather established) habit of taking our vaca-
tions during the winter. With the spread of air-conditioning
and long weekends, this past decade, vacations in the summer-
time seem almost unnecessary. Further, with my primary inter-
ests in the construction market, the winter vacation is easier to
arrange. With the rapid rise (and continuously lowered cost)
of air travel, we are looking forward to visiting South America,
Asia and, some day we hope, even South Africa and Australia.

My hobbies, if any, consist of attempting to keep my wife and
daughter happy, to keep up with current literature (it’s im-
possible) and to study the impact of developing American phi-
losophy and technology on our country and the world. Politi-
cally, I like to think of myself as an independent, but must admit
that I have little sympathy for much of the socialistic thinking
current with some members of both major political parties.

[ 123 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Having been a member of the “working classes” during my entire
lifetime and with many contacts, social and business, among the
mass of humanity who work with their hands and/or for a wage,
I believe that I have a reasonable familiarity with their hopes,
mores and fears. My greatest resentment, which I try to temper
with sympathetic understanding, when at all possible, is directed
towards unprincipled demagogues who are satisfied apparently
to mislead and misinform others in the hope of personal gain. As
Henry George once said, “I am not for the rich man, nor am I
for the poor man. I am for man.” As a society and a civiliza-
tion, we have made unbelievable (historically) progress; greater
future possibilities confront us, we have barely scratched the
surface; I believe that we have the wit and the wisdom to over-
come the difficulties ahead of us in providing all God’s children
with a much greater measure of peace, prosperity and, most im-
portant of all, opportunity! This is not to say that anyone (or
group) of us will “give” these things to anyone else; as I see it,
all of us must work towards these ends with as much energy and
intelligence as may be individually possible.

While neither the last ten years nor the last twenty-five years '
have been particularly easy for myself or members of my family,
I do not think that any of us would have an inclination to change
them for any other particular set of circumstances. It has been
work, but it has been fun as well, and we have all enjoyed (I
believe) the opportunity of living and growing with one another.
We all look forward to the Twenty-fifth Reunion with the
anticipation of renewing old acquaintances and the sure knowl-
edge that we will make new friends as well.

EDWIN LEE BILBY

HOME aDpRESS: 100 Bank St. New York 14, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Macy’s— New York, Herald Square, New York, N.Y.

BORN: Nov. 29, 1910, Lafayette, N.J. Parents: John Lee Bilby, Daisy Lenore
Mahaffey.

PREPARED AT: Cropsey High School, Cropsey, Il,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1032. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

Marriep: Eleanor Steber, Sept. 25, 1938, Newton Mass. (divorced 1954);
Charlotte-Ann Page, Nov. 25, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Clayton Bilby, ’31.

[124]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPaTION: Retail business as salesperson; also in executive work.

MEMBER OF: American Symphony Orchestra League, Inc.,; Harvard Club
of New York (formerly); Canterbury Choral Society; Les Confreries
des Chevaliers du Tastevin; Air Force Reserve.

GREETINGS! It took the ump-teenth goad from the Class
Office to stir me into this. So, here goes. What a Class Com-
mittee we have! I salute you.

Winding back the clock over twenty-five years can give a
person pause, particularly in a case such as my own when it is
being done during a period of transition. In brief, these years
hold a mixture of struggle, achievement, happiness, disappoint-
ment, frustration, gratification and many rewarding experiences.
Tying them all together have been unforgettable associations
with friends and loved ones who provided much richness and
true significance to the course my life took.

Music dominated my interests after graduation. I studied voice
in Boston and did some professional singing for a number of
years. My skill in the knowledge of foods came in handy too
during the early years as a means of additional support. While
the depression was still with us I served for three and a half years
as a supervisor of the Federal Music Project of Boston. The
Project, as some may recall, made a notable contribution to the
cultural life of the community during that period. Singing in
churches and other capacities added to my experience. After
the Project terminated I took a position as administrative secre-
tary of the Brookline Chamber of Commerce, until a search for
wider opportunity for myself and the talents and promise of
my wife brought me to New York in 1939

In the mid-thirtics, I crossed the path of a young lady by the
name of Eleanor Steber, then a voice and music student at the
New England Conservatory of Music. This meeting and shared
experiences over quite some time culminated in our marriage in
1938. We came to New York where her great gifts, abilities and
personality quickly brought her into the limelight as one of our
country’s leading singers. My own path took me into the field
of publishing. I worked for the Christian Herald and the West-
minster Press until called into the Service in 1943.

The Air Force absorbed the next three and a half years as an
enlisted man and a personnel officer with duty assignments at

[ 125 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Greenville, South Carolina, Army Air Base and Fort Dix, New
Jersey, after earning my O.CS. commission. The Air Force
again put the sign on me for a year and a half during the Korean
War, when I served in the Classification and Assignment Divi-
sion of First Air Force at Mitchel Field, attaining the rank of
captain, which I still hold in the Air Force Reserve.

On my return to civilian life after World War II, my wife's
career had advanced to the point where it was important to give
attention to her business affairs as personal business manager.
The career blossomed and grew, a solid business structure and
a gratifying investment program were established, and an attrac-
tive apartment in the city and a beautiful home in Port Jefferson
on Long Island became the centers of our personal and business
life. There were the work, excitement and joy in the achieve-
ments of a great career, musical experiences on the highest level
of art, stimulating associations socially and professionally with
people of accomplishment in many fields of endeavor, and some
wonderful living in its broad sense to punctuate and highlight
the years for this member of Harvard Class of 32. For a while
in 1953 and 1954, a personal urge and ambition found me at
work in Springfield, Massachusetts, as manager of the Spring-
field Symphony Orchestra, where the orchestra had grown and
expanded so impressively over recent years.

And too, fellows, there was the thrill and pleasure of con-
siderable travel — some in the Service, and more in civilian life.
This country has been covered from east to west and top to
bottom. Canada has been visited and a sojourn in the Hawaiian
Islands was delightful. There was a challenging and rewarding
trip to Europe to the Salzburg Festival, Bayreuth Festival and
the Edinburg Festival with a Rhine Journey, food and wine
tasting adventures in Germany, France and Paris and a stay in
London to give some additional diversional fillips along the way.

But in this saga, all did not remain sweetness and light. Some-
how “yours truly” fouled the ball and I was ejected from the
game when my wife obtained a divorce in the fall of 1954, thus
bringing to a close the longest chapter to date. There was some
rough going for a while with myself enjoying the harassments
of a nervous breakdown and the not-too-easy return to a full
expression of life and purpose once more.

[ 126 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

However, happily, it can be reported that the new life is in
the making. At Macy’s—New York, I am getting my teeth
into the arts, knowledges, systems and skills of the retail busi-
ness. Fortune smiled on me when a lovely girl by the name of
Anne Page decided to tempt fate with me and consented to
become Mrs. Bilby last November. We are residing in our new
apartment in the Village at 100 Bank Street and charting a
new course of life which holds lots of brightness and many
prospects. Never Ict it be said!

Extra-curricular activities have a place too, My interests in
the fine arts of eating and entertaining qualified me for member-
ship in Les Confreries des Chevaliers du Tastevin and the Wine
and Food Society. Somewhat facetiously perhaps I might add
that here and there I have learned to love “Old Crow” both
baked and on-the-rocks. But, everything being equal, there have
been outstanding gourmet experiences, fine musical expression
as a member of the Canterbury Choral Society, regular refresher
training with the Air Force Reserve, rewarding fun as an amateur
photographer, and a warm interest in musical, theatrical and cul-
tural events. Never a terrific sportsman, I have found relaxation
and fun in swimming, golf, riding and occasional boating.

There's a good deal to indicate that the next twenty-five will
have much to offer on the credit side of the Iedger. Here’s to
them! HElere’s to you all! May success, happiness and fulfilment
be your portion. And a rousing salute to our lustrous Alma
Mater!

GARRETT BIRKHOFF

HOME ADDRESS: 45 Fayerweather Sc, Cambridge, Mass.

orice aporess: Dept. of Mathematics, Harvard University, Cambridge,
Mass.

Born: Jan. ro, 19:1, Princeton, N.J. parents: George David Birkhoff, ‘os,
Margaret Grafius.

PREPARED aT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: a.B. summa cum laude, 1932; (HON.)
pocror (Univ. Nacional of Mexico), 1951.

MaRRIED: Ruth Wills Collins, June 21, 1938, Moorestown, N.J. CHILDREN:
Routh Wills, March 27, 1940; John David, May 6, 1943; Nancy Collins,
March 7, 1949-

[127]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

occuPaTION: Professor of mathematics, Harvard University; chairman of
department, 19§1-55.

oFFices HELD: Chairman organizing committee, Eleventh International Mathe-
matical Congress, 1950; various editorial and advisory positions.

MEMBER OF: American Mathematical Society; American Physical Society;
Mathematics Association of America; American Academy of Arts and
Sciences; Society of Mathematics, Mexico; Academy Ciencia, Lima,
St. Botolph Club; Thursday Evening Club; Cambridge Boat Club.

puBLicaTions: Survey of Modern Algebra, with Saunders MacLane, 1941,
revised edition, 1953; Lattice Theory, 1940, tevised edition, 1948; Hydro-

dynamics, 1950; Jets, Wakes and Cavities, with Eduardo Zarantonello,
1956; numerous articles.

I HAVE been fortunate in staying at Harvard almost continu-
ously since 1933. First in the Society of Fellows (1933-36),
and then in the Department of Mathematics on successive rungs
of the ladder of promotions. After being chairman (1951-55),
I have stepped down a rung and am enjoying the resulting in-
creases in freedom. I hope soon to have in my classes sons of
classmates, such as Nicky Winslow, ’60, who are interested in
mathematics. Some of you may be curious about the extra-
curricular activities of a modern mathematician. The next three
paragraphs are intended for such and may be omitted by others.

For ten years after graduation my research efforts were largely
devoted to an infant branch of algebra which I christened
“lattice theory.” This highly abstract theory of structure and
relative magnitude has achieved some stature, being now listed
in Mathematical Reviews as one of the five main branches of
algebra!

Then came the war. Besides teaching full-time at Harvard, |
tried to do my bit by analyzing mathematically the relative
effectiveness of proximity fuses, the action of shaped charges
like the “Bazooka,” and the complex phenomena accompanying
the entry of air-launched missiles into water. This analysis
aroused in me such an intense curiosity about fluid mechanics,
that much of my postwar research has been in this field.

Quite recently, I have also worked on nuclear reactor theory,
especially on techniques for computing neutron flux distribu-
tions. As nuclear reactors involve both fluid mechanics and alge-
bra, this work has more in common with my earlier interests
than it might seem.

[ 128 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

However, life is not all mathematics, even for a mathematician!
Tennis and squash have been replaced by the mellower pleasures
of gardening, in which I act as my wife’s willing assistant —
every second Sunday. Alas, being “busy” has taken such a grip
that my enjoyment of our garden is mainly through my study
window.

We have also had our full share of travel. Though the cost
of rearing three children has made it impossible to maintain my
premarital record (England, 1932-33, Russia, 1935, Scandinavia,
1936), a wedding trip to England, Ireland and France in 1938
whetted our appetite for more. Mexico (1945, 1949 and 1951),
our own Far West (1947, 1951 and 1956), England and France
(1948), and finally a wonderful Mediterranean trip in 1954 as
far as Istanbul have been our privilege.

Now, with daughter Ru in Radcliffe (why shouldn’t she be
listed above as a “Harvard daughter”? ), son John away at Exeter,
and younger daughter Nancy in school for the first time, an
unwonted quietness has settled on our home. We look around
us at the odd pieces of junk we have collected in our travels
and wonder “what next?”. Why, the Twenty-fifth Reunion, of
course! Our house, only a mile from Harvard Square, is con-
veniently located to welcome old friends and new whenever
there is the slightest let-up in the organized activities at the
College itself.

HAROLD LESLIE BISBEE

HOME AND oFFicg Aporess; Hackley School, Tarrytown, N.Y.

Born: Aug. 1, 1911, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Harold Bisbee, ’oo, Margaret
Strong.

PREPARED at: Milton High School, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: a.B. summa cum laude, 1932; AM.
1934; PHD. 1935.

UNMARRIED.

occuparion: Head of Languages Department, Hackley School.

DURING the academic year 1953-54, it was my privilege to
study at the University of Madrid on sabbatical leave from Hack-
ley School. Upon my return in September, 1954, I was made head
of the Languages Department, my present position here.

[129]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

GEORGE DerFOREST BISSELL, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Lake Ave., Melrose 76, Mass.

porn: April 24, 1910, Boston, Mass, parents: George DeForest Bissell, Sara
Fay.

prepareD AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1932(34); M.D. (Boston Univ.),

occupation: Medicine.

JAMES WALLACE BLACK

HOME ADDRESS: 209 Park Ave., Llangollen Estates, New Castle, Del.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Co., Wilmington, Del.

BORN: Jan. 21, 1911, Washington, D.C. parents: Otis Fisher Black, ’91, Lucy
Orrett Tatlock.

PREPARED AT; Western High School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREE: C.P.A. (District of Columbia), 1935.

marriep: Annie L. Campbell, Feb. 2, 1937, Washington, D.C.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Tatlock Black, ’34.

occupation: Financial analyst,

MY annals are short and simple. After leaving Harvard I entered
the public accounting field and in 1935 established my own prac-
tice in Washington. In 1941 I accepted a position with du Pont
and spent the next four years enmeshed in the intricacies of gov-
ernment contracts. Since 1945 we have been settled down in our
present home near Wilmington, Delaware.

My chief outside interests seem to be sailing — on Chesapeake
Bay as the weather permits and at our place in Maine during sum-
mer vacations — and chess, which | play very badly.

ROBERT PARKMAN BLAKE

HOME appREss: 47 Grove St., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Carter's Ink Co., 239 First St, Cambridge 42, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 2, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Robert Parkman Blake, ’94, Mary
Smoot.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: $.B., 1932(33), .

MarrieD: Marian Isabel Thomas, May 18, 1940, Rochester, N.Y. cHiLpRen:
Virginia Marian, June 3, 1942; Judith Elizabeth, Feb. 19, 1945,

occupation: Engineer (mechanical, general, plant, design).

MEMBER oF: Harvard Engineering Society.

[ 130]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IT’ seems to me I remember that 1933 was not a very propitious
year to find a job, but I found one — for cigarette money to start
—and stayed with it fourteen years through various ups and
downs and the late unlamented war, If one can live through the
crises with reasonable equanimity, starting with a starting com-
pany and seeing it struggle to prosper is exciting — and sometimes
devastating. In its prenatal and early days, Polaroid Corporation
was like that, but it lived. Research and development engineer
was my racket and I still remember the makeshift devices we
often used. (No money.) Once I had to rib a small steam boiler
made of a ten-cent-store teakettle for use in an experimental job.
It didn’t blow up, either. If the insurance company had ever
known some of the things we did, it would have ceased opera-
tions. As time progressed, problems became easier to subdue and
equipment easier to get, but I don’t think the later problems were
solved with quite such a feeling of triumph over both reasonable
and unreasonable obstacles as those of the early days.

In 1947 when I left Polaroid for greener pastures, a free-lance
opportunity to dabble in the textile industry fell into my lap.
This I enjoyed as fun and education for a few months, after
which I settled down at Carter’s Ink Company which, inciden-
tally, makes lots of things besides ink. To an engineer, a medium-
to-small company such as this offers a marvelous array of varied
problems to be battled, ranging all over the place from plant lay-
out and production problems to invention and design of new
special-purpose equipment. Necessarily in a small outfit a staff
man gets to know — and has to know —a good deal about the
operation; and battle with accounting, purchasing, merchandising,
production, and so on, results in a greatly heightened apprecia-
tion of the trials and troubles of all the many corners of a busi-
ness. This most interesting part of professional life frequently
is lacking to an employee of one of the larger companies.

Incidentally, speaking of sales, I have my own opinion now of
technical salesmen, and some day maybe I'll write a valuable book
on what should not be done in this type of selling. It will be
required reading. For instance, it can be particularly baffling to
find that you, a mere customer, know more about a salesman’s
line than he does. And don’t think that doesn’t happen, and with

[131 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

o a a
men — and sales managers — is not the highest,

Thanks chiefly to my favorite blonde, we now have a couple
of girl-kids with what I fondly believe are extra doses of talent
along musical and dramatic lines. (The blonde is a semi-profes-
sional actress and singer.) We are waiting to see what develops,
One young lady is already, impossibly soon, in high school and
the other soon will be,

Having been born with an itching foot, we have spent our best
vacations on the road looking at everything between Boston and
Salt Lake City, and recording by color photography choice bits.
This is a wonderful way to keep what you have seen, and also
may be inflicted later on carefully-chosen audiences at suitable
intervals, Unfortunately, such vacations don’t help getting the
house painted. Other than taking pictures, our chief family
extra-curricular activities are acting and singing. We have all
becn in plays, shows and entertainments of one sort or another,
and we two older characters have been in quite a few over the
years. This takes a bit of time and effort, but is such a rewarding
creative activity that we have never regretted the handfuls of
sleep lost during a show week.

The same as everyone else, we never have the time to do all
the things we should like to, but we're still trying.

alarming frequency too! I'm afraid my opinion of some sales.

LLOYD STANLEY BLANCHARD

HOME ADDRESS: 524 Sheridan Ave. Evanston, Ill.

BorN: April 12, 1905, Evanston, Ill. parents: Isaac Noel Blanchard, Clara
Johnson,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

JOHN MAXWELL BLEAKIE

HOME ADDRESS: 135 Border St., North Scituate, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: W. E. Hutton & Co., 75 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 14, 1907, Boston, Mass. parents: Robert Maxwell Bleakie, ’o4,
Marion Stone.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Texas University, Austin, Texas,

[132]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932.

marrigD: Eleanor Gleason, June 5, 1943, Cohasset, Mass. cuitpren: Howard
Gleason, Jan. 4, 1947; John Maxwell, Jr., Sept. 25, 1948, Michael Scott,
Sept. 15, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Stone Bleakie, °32.

occupation; New England sales manager and general partner, W. E. Hutton
& Company, investment banking.

orFices HELD: Clerk and trustee, South Boston Savings Bank, corporator,
Charlestown Savings Bank; officer and director, Boston Investment
Club; executive officer, Naval Aviation Reserve Unit 1-4.

MeMaeER oF: Union Club of Boston; Investment Club; Bond Club of Boston;
Long Table Syndicate of Boston, Harvard Club of Boston; Cohasset
Yache Club; Cohasset Golf Club; Wardroom Club of Boston; Tahanto
Fishing Club; Investment Luncheon Association of Boston.

GRADUATION in 1932 found me with a major in geology, a
minor in economics, and a large deficit. No one wanted a geol-
ogist in the depression, but having had only one meal a day for
a week, I found that I was not above washing floors for Theodore
Prince and Company at ten dollars a week. Thus I entered the
great field of investment banking.

This is not a rags to riches story, but it has taught me many
things I did not learn at college. The rags chapter of the story
had a sobering effect, and though I was a liberal by education,
I became a conservative through experience. It convinced me
that capitalism is the best economic system the world knows
today, and that the American businessman is the true liberal of
our age, Coming from a long line of Democrats, I became dis-
gusted with the New Deal, Fair Deal, etc., and resultant loss of
individual liberties.

From 1932 to 1942, I worked my way up, with the help of a
few night courses, to being a security salesman in the country
districts of New Hampshire and Vermont. In 1942 I left the
investment banking firm of W. E. Hutton and Company to enlist
in the United States Navy. After graduating from the first Off-
cers’ Training Class at the Naval Air Station, Quonset Point,
Rhode Island, I was commissioned a lieutenant, USNR. The
first two years were spent in Chicago, and the second two years
as operations officer in the Central Pacific. I am still active in the
Naval Reserve Air Corps, as a commander.

Although married in 1943, life as a home owner and family
man did not begin until 1947. At this writing, I have three sons

[ 133]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

who add to my pleasures and problems. I have an old farm in
the country where I like to grow vegetables and flowers in this
best of all possible worlds. Playing golf has given way to fixing
leaking gutters. Spare time is made for hunting and fishing and
vacations are spent traveling in Central and South America, with
the accent on archeology and geology. 7

Geology, although of no use in 1932, has been a great help in
recent years because I have specialized in oil securities, not only
in the United States, but in Canada. However, my pet interest is
railroads, and during the past ten years, I have inspected most of
the railroads in the United States, and I am now a railroad analyst.

I’m glad I am a Harvard man, and the courses at college most
valuable to me were history and economics, History teaches a
lesson of past mistakes and economics gives a foundation for
handling present and future problems. If asked to make a sug-
gestion about education today, I would like to see more en-

couragement given to the intelligent individual rather than the
socialist intellectual, . |

JOSEPH STONE BLEAKIE

HOME appRESS: 4619 N. Roseneath Drive, Houston 21, Texas.
oFFice appress; Tellepsen Construction Co., Houston, Texas.

BORN: Jan, 15, 1908, Boston, Mass. Parents: Robert Maxwell Bleakie, ’o4,
Marion Stone.

PREPARED AT: Main Avenue High School, San Antonio, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931.

MaRRIED: Peggy Quinn, Jan. 6, 1941, Houston, Texas. cHmLpREN: Sandra
Sue, Oct. 27, 1941; Mary Niven, Dec. 28, 1944; Joseph Stone, Jr., Nov.
11, 1948; Robert Maxwell, 2d, Dec. 10, 1950; Timothy Haywood,
Sept. 29, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Maxwell Bleakie, ’32.

occupation: Industrial construction; chairman, Petro-Chem Operating Com-
mittee, construction estimates and contracts.

MEMBER OF: Houston Engineers Club; Harvard Club of Houston; American
Association of Cost Engineers.

UPON leaving college in the dismal days of the fall of 1931, I

elected to join the Merchant Marine and see the world, and al-

though I found considerable competition from all walks of life for

the promise of three meals a day and a place to sleep, I managed to

[134]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ship out to Central America and around the world. These voy-
ages only proved to me that the world was not really very large,
that English was spoken in all seaports and that the U.S.A. was
probably the best place to live after all, and so I returned to
Boston in 1932 looking for something better.

Because my family had lived in Texas in the 1920's and be-
cause I had school and college friends there it seemed, after
studying the economic maps which were published monthly in
those days, that Houston actually was the bright spot in the
nation and according to my Texas friends it was the place for
me. They said all one had to do was drill an oil well and retire.
Therefore, when a proposition to make a survey of some oil
properties was offered I set out for Texas with the firm convic-
tion that Texans needed me, and arrived in Houston early in
1933, eager and broke. For the first few years I worked for three
oil companies in their geophysical and production departments
gaining experience in the techniques of oil finding, after which
a proposition to join a small wildcatting group in Shreveport,
Louisiana, was offered and I moved to that city until 1942. While
there and during a period of reasonable success, I met and mar-
ried a true Texan from Marshall in deep East Texas. Ever since
this memorable and lucky occasion I have been raising Texans
who are sure that East Texas is close to Boston and the Pan-
handle is just outside Chicago.

In early 1942, 1 decided that I could aid the war effort some-
what by helping to construct some of the many war plants
mushrooming on the Gulf Coast, especially since I was ineligible
for the officer group and there was a real shortage of engineering
personnel with a practical knowledge of industrial piping sys-
tems. I helped in the design and construction of seven or eight
of the new chemical plants with various engineering firms, and
found a great deal of satisfaction in this construction work, in
which one can physically see a plant grow from the first process
diagrams to the huge mounds of steel, vessels and flickering lights
where synthetic substances practically unknown twenty years
ago are produced today.

After twenty-five years I find that I am one of the directors
of the industrial division of a leading Gulf Coast contractor,
that I work much harder than I ever did at college, and although

[135]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

I never found that oil well with which I was going to retire, I
did find a very satisfactory engineering vocation, a beautiful and
healthy family and a deep desire to live under God and States
Rights and in air-conditioned comfort.

SIDNEY BLUHM

HOME abpRESS: 41 Woolson St., Mattapan 26, Mass.

oFFicé Appress: South Boston High School, G. St., South Boston 27, Mass.

BorN: May 20, 1911, Boston, Mass. Parents: William Bluhm, Fanny
Herschenbaum,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; M.ED. (Boston
Teachers Coll.); a.m. (Boston Univ.), 1952.

Maarrigp: Mary Woronoff, July 11, 1940, Boston, Mass. cuitp: Michael
Louis, March 30, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Education.

ARMEN BOGOSIAN

HOME ADDRESS: 269 Highland Ave., Wollaston 70, Mass.
OFFICE ADpREsS: Veterans Administration Hospital, Ft. Howard, Md.
BoRN: Aug. 23, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Paul Kazar Bogosian, Mary

Kazarian,

PREPARED AT: Fast Boston High School, East Boston, Mass.; Lincoln Pre-
paratory School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cumt laude, 1932; M.D. (Hahne-
mann Medical Coll. of Philadelphia), 1941.

UNMARRIED,
OccUPATION: First year resident in general surgery, Ft. Howard Veterans

Adininistration Hospital, Md.
OFFICES HELD: Lieutenant colonel, Medical Corps, U.S. Army, 1950-56.
MEMBER OF: American Medical Association.

THE past twenty-five years have figuratively flown. Considered
in increments of twenty-five years, a century would not seem to
be too long a period of time—simply 25 x 4. I had to get that
little computation out of the way before starting this little dis-
course.

My major field of study during my undergraduate years was
economics. During the period 1934-37, I returned as a special

[ 136 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

student and took all the pre-medical courses which I previously
had vowed I would never take. I have since learned to make flat
unqualified statements when no one is within hearing distance or
with some measure of reservation. You never know when you
have to retract your remarks. (I guess the married men will bear
me out on that.)

In 1941 1 was graduated from Hahnemann Medical College
and served a rotating internship for one year at St. Luke’s Hos-
pital, New Bedford. On August 22, 1942, I entered on active
duty and was assigned to the 375th Engineer General Service
Regiment, which did railroad and bridge repair work in Europe
during World War II. We were re-deployed to the Pacific area
and, halfway between Panama Canal and Manila, hostilities ceased
in the Pacific area. I remained in Manila until April, 1946, re-
turned to the States and was assigned as executive officer and
assistant in surgery at the U.S. Soldiers’ Home in Washington
on July 1, 1946, remaining there for four years. In August, 1950,
I received overseas orders for Korea and was assigned to the First
Mobile Army Surgical Hospital there, as chief of the Medical
Service and Receiving Section. We processed large numbers of
casualties and handled U.N. personnel and P.O.W.’s, both North
Korean and Chinese. I returned to the States after a year and in
December, 1952, was assigned as chief of the Professional Services
Division, Headquarters Third Army, Ft. McPherson, Georgia,
where I remained until my resignation from the service on June
26, 1956.

My primary professional interest has always been general sur-
gery. Therefore, I resigned from the service after fourteen years
of active duty in order to take a residency in general surgery at
the Ft. Howard Veterans Administration Hospital in Maryland,
at the age of forty-six.

The hospital is served by consultants from both Johns Hopkins
and the University of Maryland Medical Schools as part of the
residency training program. I like the work a great deal and
wouldn’t swap the practice of medicine for anything else in the
world.

[137]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

JOHN KENNEY BOTTOMLEY

HoME ADDRESS: 6 Hawthorne Ave., Auburndale 66, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 23 Broad St., Boston 9, Mass.

porN: May 15, 1909, Boston, Mass, parents: John Taylor Bottomley, Mary
Kenney.

pRrEPARED AT: Newton Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932.

marriep: Helen C. Ochmann, Nov. 15, 1945, Washington, D.C.

OCCUPATION: Insurance.

CHARLES FISKE BOUND

HOME appreEss: Bedford Road, Mount Kisco, N.Y.

OFFICE appress: Guaranty Trust Co. of New York, 524 Fifth Ave., New
York 36, N.Y. :

BorN: May 19, 1909, New York, N.Y. parents: Charles Fiske Bound, Jose-
phine Richards.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932.

marRiED: Alva Root, Dec. 14, 1935, New York, N.Y. cHiLpREN: Aida, May
25, 1937; Charles Root, June 30, 1939; Alva, March 3, 1943; John Fiske,
July 15, 1948, Virginia, Aug. 30, 1950. .

occupation: Vice-president, Guaranty Trust Company of New York.

OFFICES HELD: Vestry, St. Peter's Church, St. Louis, 1937-38, St. Mark’s
Church, Mount Kisco; treasurer, Regional Planning Commission, St.
Louis, 1937-38; vice-chairman of board, Grace Hill House, St. Louis,
1938; member board of directors, Boys Club of Mount Kisco, 1940-56;
member finance department and member of council, New York Dio-
cese of the Protestant Episcopal Church; former vice-chairman, Recrea-
tion Commission, Mount Kisco.

MEMBER OF: New York Yacht Club (fleet captain, 1953-54); Harvard Club
of New York (member board of managers, since 1954); Edgartown
Yacht Club (fleet captain, 1955); American Legion.

pustications; A Banker Looks at Book Publishing, published by R. R.
Bowker, 1950. |

HOW to sum up twenty-five happy, busy years? I am thankful
to the good Lord for many blessings: an understanding, patient
and inspiring wife, a large family, good health for all of us, good
friends, absorbing outside interests and a fine job.

I was fortunate to get a good job in the textile business in that
well remembered depression year, 1932, By comparison, an
year since has been good, In late 1934, I became midwest manager

[ 138]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

for Martindale-Hubbell, the leading legal directory, and for three
years lived in the Middle West investigating lawyers, selling the
directory and getting to know how Americans west of Albany
think. |

Alva Root and I were married late in 1935 and, after living in
Lake Forest, Illinois, for a year, moved to St. Louis where I entered
the banking business as a man of all work at the Security National
Bank Savings & Trust Company. In January, 1939, we moved
to Mount Kisco, New York, when I joined the Guaranty Trust
Company of New York. I have been with the Guaranty ever
since with the exception of four and one-half years on active
duty in the Navy. Since the war, I have been at our Fifth Avenue

office at 44th Street as a lending officer handling some of our
major corporate customers. This office is generally considered to
be the largest branch bank in the United States. Whether or not
this is so, there is plenty to do. :

Education goes hand in hand with banking. My experience
is no exception. After taking a course at the A.I.B. in St. Louis
I attended the Graduate School of Banking at Rutgers. My thesis,
“A Banker Looks at Book Publishing,” was published, so I be-
came an author, royalties and all. Never worked so hard for so
little and consequently think authors, like professors and clergy-
men, are very underpaid. Bankers keep about even with inflation.
Now I am participating in a financial management training course
which concludes with a third two-week workout at Tuck School,
Dartmouth, this summer. Between now and then another thesis.
Despite the thesis writing, I am very enthusiastic about commer-
cial banking as practiced at the Guaranty where I am surrounded
by able and cooperative associates.

The war found me on duty i in Naval Intelligence because of
special experience my previous work had given me. There I re-
mained from June, 1941, until October, 1945, on duty in the
Third Naval District, New York, never once on a ship, large or
small, despite NROTC at Harvard and a lifelong love for the
sea. I became a lieutenant commander, was attached to CNY
and handled liaison with other intelligence and government agen-
Cies as officer in charge of the investigation division of cable
censorship in New York. The grass (or maybe water) always
seemed greener on the other side of the fence, but thanks to a

[ 139 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

challenging assignment and several extraordinarily able associates,
including a number of Harvard contemporaries, life was by no
means dull and a job was done. |

Spare time. What is it? Where does one find it? Perhaps I
don’t know because at Harvard I got involved in something in-
nocently called “extra-curricular activity” and have been heavily
involved ever since. Later I married a lovely girl who supports
every worthwhile instinct I’ve ever had. She comes from a long
line of professors and statesmen and has inherited their persua-
siveness and horse sense and judgment. She is responsible for the
extinction of any spare time I may have had. First, she sold me
on having a large family for which I am everlastingly grateful.
Five children is no record, but by no stretch of the imagination
can they be considered creators of spare time. Then she found me
becoming interested in the church and because of her own faith
has been responsible for our getting deeply involved in many
related matters. We like the country — tough to bring children
up in the city —so we bought a home in Mount Kisco and be-
tween keeping the house and grounds in shape, which incidentally
keeps my waist line down, and other chores there has been no
time for golf but plenty for the children which is good.

Sailing. I can’t sail at Mount Kisco. I couldn’t sail in the Navy.
My wife doesn’t like sailing. Down hearted? No. Answer: In
the summer Alva insists we go to the Vineyard so the children
and I may sail. She loves the beach. We have a small sailboat
at Edgartown suitable for youngsters to learn in and fathers to
dream in. Occasionally we charter a forty-footer and go cruis-
ing. From time to time it has been my good fortune to race and
cruise on Bolero and Nina, two of the most suburb sailing craft
afloat. Happy days!

Children. Five children can’t be described adequately in a
paragraph. I'll merely tabulate. Aida (named for her maternal
grandmother who was Spanish) graduates from Bradford this
year. Charlie is at Brooks School in his final year. Alva, thirteen,
has one more year at Bedford-Rippowam where John Fiske is
in the third grade and Virginia is in the first. Including Daddy,
three graduate this year, we hope. There are not enough watches
to go around.

[ 140 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THOMAS WILLIAM BOWES

HOME ADDRESS: 7607 Adams St., Forest Park, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fruit Auction Sales Co., 1425 S. Racine St., Chicago, Ill.

BORN: Nov. 29, 1907, Winthrop, Mass, Parents: Louis M. Bowes, Harriet
MacGregor.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.; Cambridge
High and Latn School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

MarRIED: Rosamond Downer, Jan. 11, 1933, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1953);
Ethel Jackson, May 1954, Plymouth, N.H. cyiwpren; Cutler D., Dec.
11, 1933; Rodney D,, June 14, 1935; John N., May 4, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frank Richard Bowes, ’30.

OccUPATION; Vice-president, Fruit Auction Sales Company; auctioneer.

MEMBER OF: B.P.O.E, No. 112, San Mateo, Calif., 1020 Art Center, Chi-
cago, Harvard Club of Chicago.

I LEFT college at the end of my second year (in good standing,
I hasten to say) and started hunting for work during the begin-
ning of those years everyone will remember as “the depression.”
Perhaps I should have listened to others’ advice about staying on
in college, but like most kids, I was determined to get to work.
At long last, I located a job in the produce business with a firm
of auctioneers. I soon learned that, because of the irregular hours,
I had to lead the life of a hermit insofar as social activities were
concerned, and it was not until the advent of the Lucky Strike
program with its auctioneer’s chant that I was able to convince
my friends that I was working in a business other than a pawn-
shop selling distressed goods.

I stayed in Boston doing this work until 1951 (was made a
partner in 1940), except for two interesting years with the Navy.
After my discharge I found that I was at an impasse as far as the
business was concerned, so I took off for California to try to
better myself. After some time, I found myself in the produce
business and with worse hours than ever before in the auction.
In the spring of 1953, I accepted an opportunity to return to the
auction business in Chicago, where I have been located ever since
and hope to stay until I can retire and return to my adopted state
of California. At present, I am an auctioneer and have recently
been made vice-president in charge of public relations.

Currently, my family is somewhat scattered. My eldest boy,
Cutler, has completed four years with the Air Force and is now

[ 141 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

‘enrolled at Boston University, studying medicine. Rodney is on
his third year in the Air Force, stationed in the wilds of Oregon,
namely, Boardman; and John is in his second year at Boston Uni-
versity, also studying medicine.

Prior to going to California, I traveled extensively throughout
Florida, California and the Pacific Northwest, and when not
otherwise occupied, I spent my time golfing, fishing and farming.
However, since coming to Chicago, I have little time outside of
business for other than a mild interest in photography and a mad
passion for an infernal invention known as “‘double crostics.”

All in all, P've had one whale of a time since leaving college
and I’m one of those few people who wouldn’t choose to relive
a moment.

DAVID DODGE BOYDEN

HOME ADDRESS: 1208 Shattuck Ave., Berkeley 9, Calif.

OFFice appress: Dept. of Music, University of California, Berkeley 4, Calif.

BoRN: Dec. 10, 1910, Westport, Conn, parents: George Herbert Boyden,
’o5, Laura Louise Dodge.

PREPARED AT: North High School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: a.B. magna cum laude, 1932; A-M., 1938.

MARRIED: Ruth Grant Quimby, Dec, 19, 1938, Ojai, Calif. cHmpren: Thomas
Grow, Aug. 8, 1943; Richard Prime, Nov. 11, 1946.

occuPATION: Professor of music, University of California.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, American Musicological Society, since 1954;
chairman, Department of Music, University of California, since 1955.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Association of University Pro-
fessors; American Musicological Society; International Society of Musi-
cology; Music Library Association; Cosmos Club (Univ. of California);
Sierra Club.

pusLications: A Manual of Counterpoint, Carl Fischer, New York, second
edition, 1943; The History and Literature of Music, University of Cali-
fornia Extension Division, 1948; Geminiana’s The Art of Playing on the
Violin, facsimile edition, edited with an introduction, Oxford Uni-
versity Press, 1952; Am Introduction to Music, Alfred Knopf, New
York, 1956; various articles and reviews in The Musical Quarterly,
The Journal of the American Musicological Society, and Notes. In
progress: The History of Violin Playing, for W. W. Norton, New
York.

“IF the idea of an autobiography terrifies you, don’t worry.”
(From the Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report Instructions.) “An

[142]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

autobiography does terrify me and it is not because I don’t know
my subject. I can’t seem to sort my life into the neat categories
suggested, I feel like the Sultan who said to his first harem: “I
know what’s expected of me, but I don’t know where to begin.”

Well, to begin with my career. At present, I am a professor
of music and chairman of the Music Department at the University
of California. Twenty-five years ago I would never have pre-
dicted or suspected either of these titles because, as I look back
on 1932, I was confused in my direction and didn’t especially
want to teach and it took me some time to find myself.

Immediately after college I had more than my share of luck,
being awarded a Sheldon Fellowship for a year’s travel abroad
at a time when there were almost no jobs; and this year, spent
with David Popper, ’32, did a great deal for me. We traveled
over much of Europe and England during a time of great change,
economic misery, and the terrible scourge of Hitler and Musso-
lini. This was grim, to be sure, but at the same time we soaked
up a great deal of music, art, scenery, skiing, and the atmosphere
of a Europe that will never return.

While I was still in Europe, Avon Old Farms, a boys’ school in
Avon, Connecticut, offered me a job teaching music and mathe-
matics, which I accepted. In spite of the excellence of this school,
I soon realized that I wanted to teach music in a university. Con-
sequently, I left Avon and put in three intensive years of graduate
work. At this point, studying was beginning to bore me and
when Mills College (Oakland, California) offered me a teaching
job for the summer of 1938, I jumped at it.

California was a revelation. The air, the light, the beauty of
San Francisco and the Bay (all of which recalled my previous
travels in Italy), the extraordinary diversity of climate and geog-
raphy made a tremendous impression on me. Besides, the area
had a long musical tradition, and the students had a certain fresh-
ness of mind —a combination of naiveté, genuine desire to learn,
and acceptance of things on merit — that interested and stimu-
lated me. In this susceptible frame of mind, I met Ruth Quimby
(Radcliffe, 34) who was attending the Mills Summer Session.
She, too, made a lasting impression on me and we were married
in December, 1938, in the beautiful Ojai Valley near Santa
Barbara.

[ 143 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

happy ones. No complaints. Well, maybe just one. There isn’t
enough time for the things that, besides my work, I enjoy most:
my family, tennis, skiing, bicycling and string quartets. To end
on a note of good resolution: in the next twenty-five years, |
expect to change all that.

ROLAND WILLIAM BOYDEN

HOME appRESS: Marlboro, Vt.

oFFice ADpRESS: Nfarlboro College, Marlboro, Vt.

BorN: May 10, 1911, Beverly, Mass. parents: Walter Lincoln Boyden, ’87,
Elizabeth Beal.

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cl laude, 1932; LL.B., 1935; A.M,
1939; PHD., 1947.

maRRIED: Cynthia Carr, September, 1945, Winchester, Mass. CHILDREN:
Jennifer, 1947; Rebecca, 1949; Rachel, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Walter Lincoln Boyden, Jr., ’25.

OccUPATION: History teacher and dean, Marlboro College.

AFTER college I went directly to the Law School, graduating
in 1935. One pleasant year in Boston with what is now the firm
of Ropes, Gray, Best, Coolidge & Rugg, indicated that the law
was not for me. I returned to Harvard to work for a Ph.D. in
history and finally completed the requirements in 1947, after
several interruptions.

In the fall of 1941, I went to Black Mountain College, in North
Carolina, as a history teacher. Black Mountain turned out to be
enormously entertaining and instructive, but my sojourn there
was soon interrupted by United States participation in World
War II. In the spring of 1942, I was commissioned in the U.S.
Naval Reserve and after four months at Quonset Point was turned
out as a fully equipped Air Combat Intelligence Officer. My
first assignment was Kodiak, Alaska, and the Aleutians, which
was good for a year, windy weather and any amount of paper
work. The next permanent assignment was Pearl Harbor — for
the duration. The climate was milder, but the character and
volume of the paper work was the same,

In the fall of 1945, shortly before discharge from the Naval
Reserve, I was married to Cynthia Carr of Winchester, Massa-

[146 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

chusetts. We both agree that this has turned out extremely well.
We have three daughters ranging from ten to two years old.

In the fall of 1947, I came to Marlboro College, as history
teacher and dean. Marlboro was and is a small college, 1947 being
its opening year. At first it was attended largely by GIs but
since it has become coeducational. In 1950 I received a grant for
postdoctoral research and spent two years in Cambridge. Most
of my work was in Widener Library, but during the second year
I did some teaching at Boston University. In 1952 I came back
to Marlboro. We all like it and it looks permanent.

WILLIAM WHALLON COTTON BOZMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 5639 Glenview Ave., Cincinnati 24, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 617 Vine St., Cincinnati, Ohio.

BoRN: April 10, 1911, Cincinnati, Ohio, PAReNTs: Ira William Wharton
Bozman, Sophia Augusta Himburg.

PREPARED AT: Franklin School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932.

MarRiED: Meradith Ford Zetrouer, June 6, 1956.

occuPATION: Newspaperman.

I HAVE been in the news end of newspaper work during most
of my working life.

+ PETER NIELSEN BRAROE

BORN: Jan. 4, 1910, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Peter Lissen Braroe, Mary
Winther,

PREPARED AT: Beaumont High School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

MARRIED: Jeanne E. Braroe. CHILDREN: Michael Sterbenz; Niels Winther;
Lois May; Mary Elinor. ?

DIED: July 9, 1946, St. Louis, Mo.

wipow: Mrs. Peter N. Braroe, 6101 Southwest Ave., St. Louis 9, Mo.

OUR only information regarding Braroe’s work is that he was at
one time in government service.

[ 147 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

JOHN THOMAS BRAXTAN

HOME ADDRESS: 1225 Brownell, Glendale 22, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bemis Bro. Bag Co., 408 Pine.St., St. Louis, Mo.

BORN: Sept. 23, 1910, Baker, Oregon. PARENTS: Thomas Newby Braxtan,
Mary Stout.

PREPARED AT: Boise High School, Boise, Idaho.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: S.B., 1932; M.B.A.. 1934.

marriep: Mrs, Lorraine Wardlaw Thorn, Aug. 24, 1945, Boise, Idaho. cu-
preN: Thomas Newby, March 20, 19473 Sharon Elizabeth, May 12, 1950.

occupation: Assistant to comptroller, in charge of budgets and credits.

OFFICES HELD: President, Lakers Toastmaster; chairman, Board of Christian
Education, Union Congregational Church; vice-chairman, Govern-
mental Affairs Committee, Minneapolis Chamber of Commerce.

MEMBER OF: American Legion; Citizens League of Minneapolis, Toast-
masters International,

AFTER graduation, perhaps because it was easier to spend money
IT didn’t have than to make it in those lean years, I took a tour of
duty at the Harvard Business School, winding up in 1934 with
an ALB.A. .

Then off to St. Louis where I joined the accounting and audit-
ing department of Bemis Brothers Bag Company; later moved
into the company’s market research department, and then came
the war. Turned down for the draft the first time around in
June, 1941, because of eyes; Pearl Harbor brought the realiza-
tion that “Uncle” would soon be after me again, eyes or no eyes.
Followed a long battle with the Navy to prove I could read the
eye chart, if they didn’t mind what I called the letters. Finally
scored — appointed lieutenant (j.g.), assignment Communica-
tions, and ordered to Harvard Communications School for five
months of training and instruction,

Life goes in circles: out for ten years then right back to the
top floor of Matthews — but that carefree college life had been
slipped into a straitjacket. Hup, two! Touch your toes (ouch);
guard duty on those cold nights that winter of 1942-43. Com-
munications duty at Guantanamo, Cuba, then communications
officer on APA 122, USS. Kenton, being built at San Pedro,
California. Met an attractive girl in Los Angeles. Shakedown,
training exercises, invasion of Okinawa. Ship heading for US.
when the Japs gave up. Hit Seattle, granted five days’ leave; that

[ 148 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

girl from Los Angeles now at Cornell. Phone calls, frantic ar-
rangements, wedding in Boise, Idaho. Back to sea four more
months.

Then to St. Louis again with Bemis, in the general sales de-
partment; in 1949 to Minneapolis, still with Bemis — assistant
plant manager; in April, 1956, back to St. Louis, assistant to the
comptroller. One advantage of moving — extricate yourself from
the pressure of all those activities in which you get so enmeshed
you are threatened with divorce, get reacquainted with your
family. But it won't be a life of leisure for long; growing young-
sters get you involved in too many things,

FRANK MORISON BREMER

HOME ADDREss: 100 Walley Rd, Milton 87, Mass.

orrice appaess: Employers’ Liability Assurance Corp, Ltd, 110 Milk St.,,
Boston, Mass.

porn: March 17, 1908, Scituate, Mass. parents: Clifton Long Bremer, '96,
Leslie McGregor Morison.

parparen af: Deerticld Academy, Deerficld, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1928-1979.

Marrirp: Virginia Badger, Sept. 10, 1932, Cohasset, Mass, (divorced 1954).
cuitpren: Frank Morison, Jr, March 24, 1936; Grace, April 15, 1938.

HARvaRD BroTHERS: Robert Bremer, '33; John Lewis Bremer, 2d, ’40.

OCCUPATION: Casualty underwriter and general insurance business other than
life.

NO war record — got out of it because of hearing —seem to
get by fairly well with a hearing aid.

Frank Jr., is in the Navy — just through basic training and now
aboard ship. Grace recently graduated from school and is start-
ing junior college in Vermont.

Travels — nil so far — still hoping.

Hobbies — TV — golf — walking — beverages — movies —
sports watching and bird watching.

Looking forward to meeting classmates again, to review the

bidding.

[149]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

DAVID BREWER

HOME ADDRESS: 304 Shepard St., Cambridge, Mass.

Borw: Oct. 24, 1909, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Gardiner Brewer, Mildreq
Morrow.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

TURNER ANDERSON BRIDGES

HOME abbRESS; 160 Foster Rd., North Andover, Mass. |
OFFicE ADDRESS: Wipex, Inc., 350 Greene St., North Andover, Mass.

BorN: Oct 11, 1908, Louisville, Ky. parents: Grandison Spratt Bridges,
Lulie Simerall Anderson.

PREPARED AT; Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933. DEGREE: AB. 1932 (33).

MarRIED: Frances Elizabeth Prichard, Sept. 18, 1937, Jackson, Tenn. ci.
pREN; Prudence Anderson, March 1, 1942; Frances Anderson, Oct. 14,
1946.

occupaTiON: Manufacturing and industrial laundry; president and director,
Wiper, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1949-53, chairman, 1954, North Andover Advisory
Board; member, since 1948, director, 1955, Lawrence Rotary Club;
treasurer, Andover Skating Club, since 1953; director, Massachusetts
Instrument Products Company, Inc; member board of governors,
North Andover Country Club, 1956.

MEMBER oF; North Andover Country Club; North Andover Historical
Society; Thursday Evening Club of Boston, Newcomen Society of
North America; Associated Industries of Massachusetts.

THE years of recession, 1932-33, were rather hard years in which
to graduate and find jobs. It is always somewhat of a shock to
read in trade journals what salaries graduating students are being
offered these days. I, at least, got a job at the Mengal Company
in Louisville, Kentucky, making furniture. The company ro-
tated me through every manufacturing department in the plant,
all on the night shift, to see how serious I was about the job. In
those days the word overtime had not been heard of, so the
evening shift was ten hours, six days a week. This certainly
eliminated almost all social life with the opposite sex, which at
the time proved very fortunate after I tried to live on my wages.
In 1934 Mengal started a cooperage plant and I was chosen with
two others to run the plant.

[150]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In 1935 I went to work for the Morgan Lumber Company in
Jackson, Tennessee, in charge of their timber buying, logging
and manufacturing of lumber, dowels and wooden novelties. In
1939, becoming very much interested in moulded plywood, I
went to work for Universal Moulded Products in Bristol, Vir-
ginia, as production control supervisor and finally works man-
ager, Just before the war we made moulded parts for the British
“Mosquito Bomber.” After our entry into the war we made
various parts for the Air Corps, such as the empenage for the
C-76, a Curtiss Wright cargo plane, self-sealing fuel cells, life
jackets, and last but by no means least, carbon parts for Oak
Ridge, Tennessee, and the A-bomb. After the war, wanting a
business of my own and wishing to return east for a number of
reasons, schools for the children rather high on the list, there was
an opportunity to buy an industrial wiper plant in North An-
dover. Not being able to swing the whole deal myself, a friend
of mine who is a Yale graduate went in with me. This is one of
the few times when Harvard and Yale were pulling together
rather than sitting on opposite sides. After the first few years of
struggling to bring a run-down business back, things began to
look brighter and we have never regretted our decision to tackle
a business of our own,

Of the states we have lived in, Tennessee will always rank at
the top of the list for its ability to produce such a charming,
true southern gal as the one I was finally able to persuade to
become my wife. At present we live on a farm outside North
Andover, near the Boxford line, with our two daughters, We
have a camp on Squam Lake, New Hampshire, just opposite the
old Harvard Engineering Camp, where we go in the summer and
fall for weekends and a two-week stretch whenever we can
make it.

Hobbies are golf, photography and bird hunting, but now with
a farm and camp there never seems to be any time for golf, and
in the winter with time-consuming civic responsibilities we are
two years behind in developing pictures. However, Squam pro-
vides wonderful fishing, canoeing, swimming, with a sail on the
Sailfish when the girls aren’t using it, and occasionally a turn at
water skis to prove I can still do most of the things my daughters
can. Two summers we have cruised with friends down the coast

[151]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

of Maine and south to Long Island, but the Lake coun
is stronger. ae

Country life and a young family have kept me from gettin
too senile and it’s a shock to realize that this is my Twenty-fifth

JOHN DeQUEDVILLE BRIGGS, JR.

HOME appress: Westford Road, Concord, Mass.

oFFice ADDRESS: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

Born: Sept. 13, 1911, Duluth, Minn. parents: John DeQuedville Briggs, 'o,
Margaret Floyd Atwater.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul Academy, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: AB. cum laude, 1932.

MaRRIED: Delia Inglehart, July 8, 1939, Watertown, N.Y.- CHILDREN: Henri
etta, Nov. 10, 1941; John DeQuedville, 3d, May 9, 1943; George
Inglehart, May 29, 1948 (died Sept. 12, 1956).

HARVARD BROTHER: Winslow Russell Briggs, ’50.

occuPATION: Assistant to headmaster, Middlesex School.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Harvard Class of 1932, since 1932; treasurer, Inde-
pendent School Association of Greater Boston, 1953-55; trustee, Pilgrim
Society of Plymouth, Mass.; elected and appointed member and chau-
man, Library Committee, Town of Concord.

MEMBER OF: Various church, town and educational groups.

puBLications; A number of minor articles in Middlesex School publications,
and periodicals of educational groups.

THE life of a school teacher (address — above — unchanged for
the past quarter-century) doesn’t appear to offer much variety.
Yet, one can cover a surprising amount of ground, even staying
in the same place.

Of course, to be truthful, I have done some things other than
teach during these years, I’ve been a worker in the fields (a wat
summer). I’ve been (of all things) a radio announcer, extolling
the virtue of boat trips through the Thousand Islands and special
courses at the Normal School in Potsdam, New York, and com-
plete sets of furniture from Summerfield’s in Boston (everything
from the rugs on the floor to the pictures on the wall) and
(again, of all things) Bill Cunningham’s column in the Boston
Herald. I’ve worked as boss of Warehouse Number Seven of the
Dovre Ski-Binding Company. I’ve watched the dark skies at
night for enemy aircraft (the closest I came to the military —

[ 152]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

essor of one of the last draft numbers drawn from that orig-
inal goldfish bowl, I found that when it did come up, I was ad-
judged far too old to serve). I’ve even, in recent years, turned
tennis professional (what an opportunity the Davis Cup selection
committce missed), and for two summers taught and played at
the Thousand Islands Club, Alexandria Bay, New York.

All of which has contributed to teaching, the central thing.
Teaching English, teaching boys (not necessarily the same
thing). Teaching at one time or another every English course
the school has to offer, plus some history and arithmetic, coach-
ing debating, officiating football games, umpiring baseball games,
coaching squash teams (with several graduates who've gone on
to play for and even captain Harvard, and some who've played
for Williams and Trinity and Yale and Pennsylvania and Prince-
ton ...), supervising the dishwashing squad in the kitchen,
handling the work squad (discipline), occasionally signing up
and introducing important men as speakers, advising (and cen-
soring) the school paper and Year Book, writing the Alumni
Bulletin, making the schedule (somewhat akin to playing chess),
organizing and disorganizing and administrating and mecting
people who might send their sons here or might teach here. . .
these are bits of the job labeled teaching boys, and later their
sons, and I suspect pretty soon their grandsons.

Yet my life and teaching would mean little without other
essentials. There have been our marriage, three children, and in
the last year, our younger son's leukemia and his death last Sep-
tember, I can’t say enough for the Children’s Cancer Research
Foundation, with which we had such intimate relationship during
more than four months. But it has taken time to absorb what
happened. Time, and busyness. There have been our friends
in Concord, and town activities, the First Parish in Concord, and
the Library Committee, and the Class of 1932 Report, and our
always considerable interest in town affairs and town routine,
and our excitement in moving the family to a house off campus.

No, I've never been seriously dissatisfied with my life, and I
don’t expect to be.

{ 153]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

** LEWIS CLEMENT BRIGGS, III

porn: Aug. 3, 1908, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Lewis Clyde Briggs, Bertha
Ruff.

prePARED At: Roxbury High School, Roxbury, Mass.; Hebron Academy,
Hebron, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932.

marriep: Amy Garland Bryant, Nov. 6, 1931, Portsmouth, N.H. cHIcpren:
Peter Garland, April 30, 1937; Michael Bryant, Oct. 23, 1939.

piep: Feb. 10, 1956, Bodgesberg, Germany.

wipow: Mrs. Lewis C. Briggs, 3d, 35 Locust St., Marblehead, Mass.

LEWIS C. BRIGGS died while on a business trip to Germany.
He spent three years with the Pepperell Manufacturing Company
at Biddeford, Maine, learning the cotton textile business, and four
years in development, research and sale of numerous textile
machinery appliances. He became foreign sales manager of the
Saco Lowell Shops, concerned chiefly with priorities, alloca-
tions and export licenses pertaining to machinery orders for
South Africa, South America, Palestine, etc. During the war, his
company was converted for war work, but returned to produc-
ing textile machinery and he was put in charge of all foreign
sales. At the time of his death, he was associated with the Meade
Carncy International Corporation of New York.

Ee was active as a director of the New England Export Club
and was a member of the Harvard Club of New York and the
Tedesco Country Club of Swampscott.

PAUL FRANCIS BRINE

HOME appress: z Sutton Pl, S., New York 22, N.Y.

OFFiceE appREss: David Wider Association, Inc. 515 Madison Ave., New
York 22, N.Y.

BORN: May 12, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Elmer L. Brine, Mary-Ele
Hurley.

PREPARED AT: Tabor Academy, Marion, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

occupation: Business.

L154]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

t+ ARTHUR GRAHAM BRINNICK

BORN: Jan. 25, 1911, Gloucester, Mass. parents: Arthur J. Brinnick, Ethel
M. Graham.

prepareD aT: Gloucester High School, Gloucester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

DIED: June 26, 1929, Gloucester, Mass.

AT the end of his freshman year Brinnick drowned while bathing
at Gloucester, Massachusetts.

HARVARD HAMMOND BROADBENT

HOME ADDRESS: 32 Newton St. Hfyannis, Mass.

orrice apprEss: School Dept. Town Office Bldg., Hyannis, Mass.

poan: April 18, 1gio, Fall River, Afass. parents: Thomas Edward Broad-
bent, Edith Hammond.

PREPARED AT: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 19325 ED.M., 1934.

maraiep: Madeline T. Peck, Oct. 9, 1937, Woods Efole, Mass. crip: David
A. Nailor, April 7, 1936 (stepson).

occuPaTION: Superintendent of schools, Barnstable Public Schools, Iyannis,
Mass.

OFFICES HELD; President, Falmouth Kiwanis Club, 1938, Barnstable County
Teachers Association, 1950, Cape Cod Mental Health Association, 1954-
§6; director, Massachusetts Teachers Association, 1947-53, member
executive council, Cape Cod Council Boy Scouts, 1955-56; patron,
Goodwill Chapter, OES. 1955.

MEMBER OF: American Association of School Administrators; National Edu-
cation Association; New England School Superintendents’ Association,
Massachusetts School Superintendents’ Association; Harvard Club of
Cape Cod, Hyannis Rotary Club; Fraternal Lodge, A.F. & A.M.

PLUMBING fixtures, roads, lunchrooms, budgets, public rela-
tions, personnel problems, legal questions and the like all seem
to be an important part of my life. And to think when I started
teaching in 1934 that this would be my lot!

But such things must be taken care of in this Cape Cod com-
munity of 12,000 persons (probably 50,000 in the summer) and
that seems to be my job. Much of my confusion, of course, is
occasioned by the fact that, like most communities throughout
the nation, we are engaged in a frantic effort to house a con-
tinually-growing school population. This problem will soon be

[155]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

solved, however, and I have high hopes of once again devotin
most of my time to the improvement of education in this com-
munity —a task in which ] am vitally interested,

In the field of education, I am neither a radical nor a conserva-
tive — but a “middle-of-the-roader.” I am convinced, however,
of this one thing: The public schools should be concerned not
only with the academic development of pupils, but also with
their social, emotional and physical aspects. The above will suf-
fice as a dissertation on my educational philosophy arrived at
after teaching in private, junior and senior high schools, as well
as serving as a high school guidance director, assistant high school
principal, and assistant superintendent of schools.

World War II came while I was serving as a teacher. What
a period of frustration in an otherwise happy life! Despite every
effort on my part to give my best to the Navy, I was discharged
(honorable) after twenty-one months’ service just before Christ-
mas in 1945, having achieved the exalted rate of Seaman First
Class. Looking back at this period of my life, however, I can
now honestly say that I am happy to have served aboard the
USS. Cincinnati.

With regard to family, travels, hobbies and social, political or
religious convictions, let’s be brief with just a few remarks.
Family: A twenty-year-old stepson seems to have been condi-
tioned by his father’s experiences in the Navy. Travels: Not
much opportunity or financial wherewithal for one in my post-
tion. Hobbies: Work and occasional attempts to beat my wife at
a game of Scrabble. Social, Political or Religious Convictions:
Open-minded about such matters as seems wise and proper for
a person in the business of public education.

e

FREDERICK MILTON BRODIE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 362 Division St., Amsterdam, N.Y,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 47 E. Main St., Amsterdam, N.Y,

BORN: Nov. 12, 1910, Media, Pa. parents: Frederick Milton Brodie, Nellie
Marchant.

PREPARED aT: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN QOLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; LLB, 1936(37),

occuPATION: Law.

[ 156]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT STANLEY BRODIE

HOME ADDRESS: 283 Guy Park Ave., Amsterdam, N.Y.

OFFICE aporEss: Ritter Chemical Co. Amsterdam, N.Y.

Boan: Oct. 26, 1911, Media, Pa. parents: Frederick Milton Brodie, Nellie
Marchant.

PREPARED aT: Amsterdam High School, Amsterdam, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

occuPaTION: Manufacturing.

FRANCIS BERYL BROIDA

HOME ADDRESS: 320 Rushmore Ave., Carle Place, N.Y.

OFFICE ADoRESS: Sbicca of California, 214 W. 17th Sc, Los Angeles 15, Calif.

poan: Aug. , 1912, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Samuel Charles Broida, Isa-
bella Friedberg.

PREPARED AT: Peabody High School, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932; LL.B. (Univ. of Pittsburgh),
1935.

MarRRiED: Margery Kerngood, June 12, 1939, Wellsburg, W. Va. (divorced
1950); Mary Meissel Paley, Sept. 19, 1952, New York. cumpren: Kath-
ryn, April 9, 1941; Margaret Ann, Sept. 10, 1944; David Francis, Aug.
11, 1955; Catherine Paley, April 26, 1942 (stepchild); Wayne Paley,
April 4, 1944 (stepchild).

occupaTIoN: Eastern sales agent for Sbicca of California, ladies’ shoe manu-
facturer.

OFFICES HELD: Sales manager, Hall Manufacturing Company, Kent Manu-
facturing Company; welder, Federal Shipyard; review officer, National
War Labor Board, eastern sales agent, Park Sherman Company; manufac-
turer, Para Raffia Sales Company, Pittsburgh; secretary, Pittsburgh
Tennis Association.

IN twenty-five years in which I have been a sports reporter,
tennis professional, welder, economist, sales executive, manufac-
turer and salesman, I’ve decided that the most important job, the
most exacting in its demands, and the most rewarding in its pos-
sibilities is having a family. It’s a full time job and more, and the
wonder is that it leaves a man time and energy enough to make
a living.

[157]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

CHARLES VAN WYCK BROOKS

HOME ADDRESS: 506 W. Broadway, New York 12, N.Y. |

porN: Feb. 6, 1912, Palo Alto, Calif, parents: Van Wyck Brooks, ‘og,
Eleanor Stimson.

PREPARED AT: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932, DEGREE: AB., 1932.

MaRRIED: Inez Helen Seifert, Aug. 17, 1936, Monhegan, Maine (divorced
1949). cHILD: Peter Boudinot, June 19, 1940.

occupation: Cabinet maker.

SINCE graduation I have been a translator, writer, shipfitter,
steel metal worker, carpenter, and since 1952, a cabinet maker.

+ DAVID BROOKS

por: April 30, 1910, New York, N.Y. parents: Reginald Brooks, ’96,
Phyllis Langhorne.

PREPARED AT: Eton College, England.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

marRiFD: Adelaide Moffett, July 13, 1936.

pip: Nov. 15, 1936, New York, N.Y,

BROOKS left Harvard during our freshman year to go into the
brokerage firm of Winship Mitchell & Company in New York.
He was survived by his wife. .

WILLIAM FRANCIS BROOKS

HOME ADDRESS: 5325 N. 32d St., Arlington 7, Va. |
OFFICE ApprEss: National Grain Trade Council, 725 15th St., N.W., Wash-
ington, D.C.

BORN: May 30, 1910, Cambridge, Mass. parents: William Francis Brooks,
Jessie Isabel Waterman. .
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H., Cambridge High &

Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932, DEGREES: A.B., 1932; LLB., 1935.
maraten: Katherine Ross, July 3, 1937, Middlebury, Vt. cumpren: Elizabeth,

April 16, 1939; William Francis, Jr, June 14, 1942; Robert Thomas,
Dec. 16, 1946.

occupation: Attorney, trade association executive,
OFFICES HELD: Assistant Attorney General, Massachusetts, 1939-425 secretary
3

[158]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Cambridge Community Chest, 1942; member, Cambridge (Mass.) School
Committee, 1942; vice-president, Harvard Club of Washington, 1957.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington, Harvard Club of New York;
Union League Club, Chicago; American Bar Association; Washington
Golf and Country Club.

THIREE years at the Law School, seven years of law practice
in Boston, five years’ active duty with the Navy, and a few
months short of ten years as the general counsel and managing
director of a national trade association in Washington, comple-
mented by marriage in 1937 and by a fine family, make up my
post-1932 twenty-five years,

After graduating from the Law School in 1935 and following
a bricf abortive attempt to practice law in New Hampshire, I
went to work in the Massachusetts Attorney Gencral’s office. As
an investigator and law clerk and later as an Assistant Attorney
General, I tried, during the next five years, to represent the Com-
monwealth in some of the many legal matters which fall to the
lot of those who are employed in the chicf law office of a state
government.

In 1937 I had become associated with Charles Hamilton in the
general practice of law in Boston. Until I left the Attorney Gen-
eral's office in 1940, this had been a part-time activity. There-
after, and continuing until June, 1942, when I reported for active
duty with the Navy, this was a full-time activity exposing me to
all the varied legal problems never routine to the general practi-
tioner.

Naval service consumed the period from June, 1942, to June,
1947. During the war I was assigned to naval aviation. On shore
duty, I majored in gunnery training for patrol-plane pilots and
crewmen. On sea duty, island hopping in the Pacific with a
patrol-bombing squadron, I acted as squadron administrative and
personnel officer. After the war I was on duty in Washington
at the Navy’s Judge Advocate General’s office. Here my tasks
were of a legal-legislative nature: developing and drafting legis-
lation and reports on legislation for submission by the Secretary
of the Navy to Congress.

In mid-1947, on leaving active duty, I joined the staff of the
National Grain Trade Council. The Council is a national trade
association of grain exchanges and boards of trade and of other

[159]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

organizations from the grain handling, merchandising, ware-
housing, exporting and processing industries. The Council's
membership is both geographic and functional, I am now the
Council’s staff manager and general counsel. We are expected
to develop and carry on programs which further the interests of
the grain trade, We represent our members at the various de-
partments, offices, agencies and bureaus of the government and
before Congressional Committees. We attempt to present — we
hope effectively —our members’ views on administrative or
Congressional action in agriculture, particularly in the grain mar-
keting areas and in other fields, international and national. We
attempt to keep our members advised of developments which do
or may affect them or which may be of interest to them.

Our daughter, Elizabeth, is a freshman at Smith. Our sons at-
tend school in Arlington, Virginia: Bill in his last year in junior
high school, Bob in grammar school. A year ago, their good
mother who, when we were married in 1937, had abandoned
teaching, took on a teaching chore at St. Agnes School in Alex-
andria, Each summer we try to spend some time in Vermont.

Our family’s activitics and my professional activities have been
far from routine, The war moved us out of Cambridge and Bos-
ton, Military service deposited us in Washington. Here we have
stayed, busy and very happy.

WILLIAM TURNER BROOKS

HOME AppREss: 528 N.W. goth St. Oklahoma City 18, Okla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 102 First National Bldg., Oklahoma City 2, Okla.

BoRN: Sept. 2, 1911, Oklahoma City, Okla, parents: William Atwood
Brooks, Irene Turner.

PREPARED AT: Culver Military Academy, Culver, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREES: AB. 1932; M.B.A., 1934.

MarnieD: Katherine Elizabeth Gates, June 23, 1937, Bellingham, Wash. cHILD:
Elizabeth Kingsley, Aug. 31, 1948.

occupation: Account executive, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Beane,
securities.

MEMBER OF: Oklahoma City Golf & Country Club; Lotus Club; Embassy
Club. .

AFTER my graduation from Business School, I spent two years
[ 160 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in Wall Street. This period was not very rewarding, financially,
but an interesting way to start my post-college career. In 1936,
with war clouds ‘gathering, my mother and father thought it was
a fine time to marshal the family and take a world cruise on the
Franconia. Ie wasn't a hard decision for me to make, to interrupt
my business career, My brother, David, disassociated himself
from Stanford with alacrity, likewise my sister, Patricia, from
Sarah Lawrence.

We had a marvelous five months on the Franconia. On this
cruise | met my wife, Betty, from Seattle. We were marricd in
June, 1937. Ie took my best salesmanship to persuade her to leave
the beauties of the Pacific Northwest for the lesser topographical
charms of Oklahoma. But in the years since the war, a great
number of interesting people have come here, mostly in connec-
tion with the oil business, a fact which gives the Southwest
generally a somewhat cosmopolitan atmosphere. Ask Jim Parton
and Bob Wart. Since my return in 1936 I have been associated
with Merrill Lynch in Oklahoma City. Tw enty years scoot by
pretty quickly.

Along with most of us, I donated approximately four ycars of
my time to the Navy, starting with the exalted rank of ensign.
The first shock was not so bad, as I left Oklahoma City in the
dead of winter, about thirty-five degrees, and Ianded in Coro-
nado, California, for about six months. But this was too good to
last. I was ordered to Mine Warfare School in Yorktown, Vir-
ginia, and subsequently spent about a year in the Pacific on a
fleet mine sweeper. Tarawa was the main show on this go-
around. During this period I had to spend a few wecks in Aica
Naval Hospital, but the las¢ two were as an ambulatory patient.
I did most of my ambulating on Waikiki. Later, I was sent to
Amphibious W arfare School in Little Creek, Virginia, then as-
signed as commanding officer of U.S.S. LSM 241. Our main
activity was Iwo Jima, and the tail end of Okinawa. At war’s
end I had enough points to be separated but found myself headed
from Pearl Harbor to the Marshall Islands. It was too big an
operation to slow down the wheels very quickly.

We had our only child, Kingsley, on August 31, 1948. Inas-
much as Betty is from the west coast I found that the magnet
pulls in that direction far more strongly than the east. I am sorry

[ 161 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I 932

to say I haven't been back to Boston since 1934. But MY cor
respondents assure me it’s much the same, At the present time
3

I spend most of my weekends trying to get my golf game out of
the 80's into the 70's. i

DUDLEY BRADSTREET WILLIAMS BROWN

HOME AbprEss: 200 East End Ave., New York, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Suite 1730, 165 Broadway, New York 6, N.Y.

BORN: June 6, 1909, Concord, Mass. parents: Franklin Quimby Brown, Ida
Prescott Bigelow Eldredge.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: AB., 1932.

MARRIED: Jane Stanley Acheson, Sept. 27, 1941, Washington, D.C. cunp:
David Stuart, Jan. 25, 1943. |

HARVARD BROTHER: Franklin Quimby Brown, Jr. ’27, M.B.A. "30.

occupation: Vice-president, secretary and director, American Natural Gas
Company, public utility holding company owning natural gas trans-
mission and distribution companies. |

OFFICES HELD: Director, 1952-56, member advisory council, since 1956,
American Gas Association; director, Milwaukee School of Engineering,
1952-55, Better Business Bureau of Milwaukee, 1952-55; board member,
1951-55; vice-president, 1954-55, Milwaukee County Council, Boy Scouts
of America; member, Greater Milwaukee Committee, 1954-55; member
board, Columbia Hospital, Milwaukee, 1953-56; member, Committee of
National Fund for Medical Education, since 1954. |

MEMBER OF: Society of Mayflower Descendants; Colonial Order of the
Acorn; Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Varsity Club, Bankers
Club of America; National Press Club of Washington; New York Yacht
Club; City Island Yacht Club; Chevy Chase Club; Ardsley Country

Club; University Club of Washington.
A DIPLOMA from Harvard in 1932, as we will all remember,
did not entitle one to much of this world’s goods no matter how
hard one worked. This was fully proven during the summer
months following graduation while employed as a twenty-five-
dollar per week traveling salesman for a chemical company. (I
was lucky to be paid at all.) Having felt previously that the

world wasn’t quite ready for me as yet, I had applied and been
admitted to the Harvard Business School,

Graduate School life was an earnest business. Those who had
been complacently receiving “gentlemen’s C’s” in college, in-

[ 162 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

cluding myself, underwent a rapid metamorphosis regarding ap-
proach to work. Those who did not were not among us long.
The results were highly rewarding. My marks were consider-
ably better than for any year in college and useful knowledge
gained has been invaluable. At the end of the year, the school
was supposed to get us summer jobs which would enrich our
business acumen and experience. The possibilities offered to me
for that depressed summer of 1933 were limited to operating an
elevator in a granary or sewer construction work of a hardly
stimulating sort. The dean, however, was quick to suggest as an
alternative to any who were able to afford it — attending a sum-
mer school in Europe, Fortunately, I was able at the time to take
this desirable alternative and spent a delightful summer term at
the Geneva School of International Studies with several class-
mates. What this school lacked in pragmatic approach to the
solution of international problems was more than made up by
meeting, knowing and learning something of the thinking of the
students from thirty-six countries who made up the student body.
During the weekends spent climbing the Alps, boating on beauti-
ful Lake Geneva or the many other diversions possible, I was
everlastingly grateful not to have been working on that sewer
or grain elevator.

At the end of the summer an opportunity turned up to work
for the Agricultural Adjustment Administration in Washington,
as assistant to Professor John E. Dalton of the Business School.
My thought at the time was to take advantage of the experience
offered by this splendid opportunity for a year or two and then
return to the Business School to get a graduate degree, As matters
turned out, I never did return.

Once over the hurdle of “political clearance” (I had been a
staunch Republican), I stayed with the A.A.A. until 1936, in a
succession of most interesting jobs. We worked first on food
codes until the famous “chicken case” invalidated most of the
Agricultural Adjustment Act, progressing thence into the regu-
lation of alcoholic beverages which, for a short time after repeal,
was in the domain of the Department of Agriculture. Upon
_ passage of the Jones Costigan Sugar Control Act, Dalton was
made chief of the newly formed Sugar Division into which I fol-
lowed him as senior administrative assistant. This job was both

[ 163 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

working capital was a mortal malady. Ultimately, the company

was sold at a loss.

In October, 1947, I formed and operated with some success,

a separate sales company affiliated with the larger company en-

gaged in selling airframes and parts and performing research

projects. This sales company maintained offices in New York
and Washington. I was engaged in this pursuit and living in
Washington in 1949, when quite unexpectedly I received a fine
offer to go into the public utility business.

For several years preceding the war, I was a director of Ameri-

can Light & Traction Company (American Natural Gas Com-
pany since 1949) and in 1948, was reelected to that board. The
chairman of the company, a charming and able southern gentle-
man of the old school, offered me the position of vice-president
and assistant to the president of Milwaukee Gas Light Company,
a subsidiary of American Natural Gas Company. The utility
business seemed a far cry from the aircraft business. However, I
had enjoyed my previous stay in Milwaukee and the opportunity
was attractive and challenging, so I accepted. After spending the
summer of 1949 in Detroit, undergoing an intensive study of all
phases of a gas distribution company’s operations, we moved to
Milwaukee lock, stock and barrel that fall. I stayed in Milwaukee
for six years becoming successively executive vice-president and
in February, 1952, president of Milwaukee Gas Light Company.
During my stay the company converted from manufactured to
natural gas and a large expansion program completed. Life in
Milwaukee involved also a variety of civic and industrial ac-
tivities, These included, among others, serving as vice-president
and board member of the Milwaukee County Council of the Boy
Scouts of America; vice-president of the Wisconsin Utilities As-
sociation; board member of the Better Bureau of Milwaukee,
the Milwaukee School of Engineering, the American Gas Asso-
ciation, Columbia Hospital and the Greater Milwaukee Com-
mittee.

In 1952 we bought an old house high on a bluff overlooking
Lake Michigan, on which we performed a major internal opera-
tion. During the summers we were able to satiate in part my
great love of salt water sailing by chartering boats for a few weeks
at some eastern port and cruising New England waters.

[ 168 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In the spring of 1955, I became vice-president and secretary of
American Natural Gas Company, the parent corporation of Mil-
waukee Gas Light Company, with offices in New York.

We are now apartment dwellers in New York (commuting to
some distant suburb has no appeal for me) and the proud owners
of a forty-two-foor ketch, kept in commission six months of the

ear and only a subway ride away. We are also building a house
on Martha’s Vineyard Island, a favorite spot since childhood,
which can be used for winter weekends as well as summer vaca-
tions. Our son, David, thirteen, is completing his final year at
St. Bernard’s School in New York (which I also attended in the
dim dark past), preparatory to entering a boarding school as yct
unknown.

As to political convictions, with the exception of sincere and
active support of the early stages of the New Deal, I have always
supported the Republican party. I am at least open-minded
enough again to support the opposition party if convinced a
change is needed. My wife has always been an ardent Democrat.
From experience I can report political difference of opinion need
not be a disruptive force to home life if kept in proper perspec-
tive. On the religious side, she has done an effective job, in a
quite way, of converting me from a Unitarian to an Episcopalian.

FREDERICK GEORGE BROWN

HOME appress: 1428 Massachusetts Ave, Arlington 74, Mass.

Boan: Aug. 20, 1909, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Tobias Brown, Margaret
Sharpe.

PREPARED aT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

FREDERICK THORBURN BROWN

HOME ADDRESS: 11603-1818 A St. Edmonton, Alb. Canada.

OFFICE aporess: Headquarters, Western Command, Canadian Army.

Boan: May 18, roto, Brant, Alb, Canada. parents: Gordon Thorburn
Brown, Christine Jessie Taylor.

PREPARED aT: Asbestos High School, Asbestos, P.Q., Canada.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: 8B., 1932; 3.m. (McGill Univ.), 1950.

[ 169 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

MarRiED: Gertrude Kearney, November, 1932, Concord, Mass. CHILDREN:
Ethel Christine, Nov. 20, 1933; Gordon Thorburn, July 26, 1942.
HARVARD BROTHER: John Crichton Brown, ’34, D.M.D., °38.

occupation: Command Personnel Officer, Western Command, Canadiay
Army

OFFICES HELD: President, Home and School Association, St. Lambert, Quebee,
1948-50; chairman, Provincial Home and School Citizenship Committee,
Montreal, 1949-50; executive, Province of Quebec Psychological Asso-
ciation, 1943-52.

MEMBER OF: Jota Chapter, Phi Delta Kappa (Harvard); Canadian Psy chologi-
cal Association; Montreal and Edmonton United Services Institutes.

MORE than twenty-five hundred years ago the Greek philos-
opher Thales was asked, “What is the most difficult?” He an-
swered, “To know thyself.” And to the question, “What is
easiest?” he answered, “To advise another.” And now after
twenty-five years since graduation from Harvard College I find
myself, an Army psychologist, somewhat confused, yet serving
as a personnel counsellor. “Don’t do as I do, do as I say!”

Most of my close relatives entered the medical profession, a
calling I once anticipated. The pressures of the thirties, together
with enthusiasms of the Department of Philosophy and Psychol-
ogy, made it an easy compromise for me to attend the Harvard
Graduate School of Education, then set out as a teacher. But that
was not until after I spent a few months in a mental institution
—on the staff, of course! Indeed, it was at McLean Hospital in
Belmont, Massachusetts, that I met my wife, an accomplished
psychiatric nurse, whose training frequently has been put to the
test.

Well do I remember my first real job, or should I say our first
job? From 1933 to 1937, I was dean of boys and director of
athletics in Stanstead College in Quebec, bordering on Vermont.
But I am sure that although the college was pleased to employ
a Harvard graduate, the clincher came only when my wife con-
sented to care for any contagious cases that might occur.

In 1937 we moved from the rolling eastern townships to the
big city. I became educational and vocational counsellor as well
as classroom teacher in ’Ecole Technique de Montreal. The
militia artillery unit I joined in 1937 was not mobilized at the
outbreak of war, so I enrolled in the Army independently as a
personnel officer in 1941, and am now approaching retirement age

[ 170 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in the Regular Army. Most of my travels have been related to
Army postings. Largely because of my pleasant associations with
French-speaking Canadians and my subsequent reputation as a
Francophile, ten years of my Army career were spent in and
around Montreal.

In 1942 I was made responsible for the sclection of the First
Canadian Parachute Battalion and managed visits to Fort Bragg
and Fort Benning to compare notes with selection and training
staffs in the Unired States. I also had a tour of duty in the United
Kingdom during 1944-45. For the past four years I have been in
charge of Personnel Sclection Service in Western Command, sta-
tioned in Edmonton. My peacetime duties have permitted visits to
Goose Bay in Labrador, Victoria in British Columbia, Whitehorse

in Yukon Territory and many centers between those extremes.

On a number of occasions, we have been fortunate to travel
as a family group and have motored across the continent several
times, by different routes. We are ardent campers as well as
travelers and have vacationed in the Maritime provinces, in New
England, California and, of course, in both American and Cana-
dian National Parks, Boating, hunting, fishing and camping have
crowded out golfing, but since coming to western Canada I have
become an ardent curler. A fair share of my Icisure time has gone
to community activities, coaching hockey, football, track and
field, as well as working with home and school organizations.

We have lived in a variety of communities, The children have
attended more than a dozen different schools. We have twice
owned a home, but now we do not really have solid roots any-
where. In two years, I shall return to civilian life, perhaps to
industrial psychology or personnel management, but more likely
to teaching, and it does not seem to matter where we shall settle.

Along the way we have met many people and groups of people
and, I think, have become tempered with tolerance and humility
and an appreciation of the essential dignity of the individual.
There have been times when fighting was necessary, but more
often joining was the answer. A long while back I found that
more can be accomplished by whispering than by shouting. We
shall continue, I am sure, to drink our often repeated toast, “To
absent friends, and to new acquaintances!”

[171 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

HUGH GORDON BROWN

HOME appress: R.F.D., Northampton Road, Broadalbin, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: % The Adjutant General, U.S. Army, Pentagon, Washington
25, D.C. .
son: Dec. 26, 1909, Gloversville, N.Y. PARENTS: Windsor Garfield Brown,
Hazel Maria Bentley.
PREPARED AT: Broadalbin High School, Broadalbin, N.Y.; Utica Free Acade-
my, Utica, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: 5.B. 1932; A.M. (Columbia Univ.),
1946,
manrieD: Leila Estella Hillabrandt, Dec. 28, 1935, St. Johnsville, N.Y. cum:
James Peter, Sept. 9, 1937.
HARVARD SON: James Peter Brown, ’60.
occupation: U.S. Army Officer.
MEMBER OF: Free and Accepted Masons; Society of the First Division,
Military Order of Foreign Wars; American Legion.

BEFUDDLED but sober, as many of us were in “Thir(s)ty-
two,” I gratefully accepted a sales promotion job offered by my
roommate’s father. Rochester to Albany was my “beat” and it
intrigued me until the fall of 1933. I then gave up my job and
took to the land. There were several reasons for this transfer,
mostly stemming, however, from “Walter Mitty”-type dreams.
I pictured myself variously as a potato king, cattleman, horse
breeder and anti-machine Republican candidate for county com-
mittceman. For two years I worked hard to make the picture
come true, but the potatoes blighted, the cattle never materialized,
my brood mare lost an argument with a drunken driver, and 1934
was a bad year for Republicans all over.

Waving my 1932 R.O.T.C. commission, I was ordered to
active duty in 1935 as a second lieutenant in the Civilian Con-
servation Corps. When I married in December, 1935, the Army
reacted quickly and promptly shipped me to the West Coast,
3000 miles away. In 1936 I returned east and tried politics again.
Finally, with another defeat at the hands of the Old Guard, plus
the advent of Jim, it seemed time to settle down. For two years
the Gloversville High School kept me occupied as a teacher of
public speaking, debate and English. Returning from summer
school in 1940 and while I was painting the back barn door, I re-
ceived a telegram telling me to proceed to Fort Ethan Allen, Ver-
mont, and report to the C.O. of the Seventh F.A. Regiment (later

[172]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the Seventh, 32d and 33d F.A. Battalions) of the First US. In-
fantry Division.

In the frigid fall of 1940 the last three months were spent in
tents at the Artillery School in Fort Sill, Oklahoma, as a student
in the first Battery Officers’ Course. During 1941-42 I had a
firing battery of my own, and in 1942 I went to England as a
battalion assistant fire direction officer. Three D-Day invasions
(Africa, Sicily, Normandy), eight campaigns and three years
later, I was back in the U.S.A. in June, 1945. Employed the same
month in the executive department of New York State, I re-
mained there until my HIB. acceptance in the ranks of the Regular _
Army. Many fi files were lost by my excursions back to civilian
life, but it was a convincing period and probably well worth it.

During 1947-48 we moved our first echelon to Fort Sill, Okla-
homa, for the Advanced Artillery Officers’ Course. From 1948
to 1951 I was on the staff of the commandant at Fort Sill, except
for a six months’ tour with the Navy as Sill’s representative in
Operation Portrex, June, 1950, and the Korean conflict found
many of us with adequate troop expansions, but too few trained
soldiers to meet our plans’ requirements. During 1951-52 “we”
attended the regular course at the Command and Gencral Staff
College at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. Then, in September, 1952,
I was ordered to Turkey without dependents for a one-year tour.
It was interesting, but after a year, it was good to be back in the
States and in Washington with my family.

In October, 1954. we sailed from New York City aboard the
S.S. United States. We debarked at Le Havre with our car and
started our drive across France to Headquarters, U.S. Army, Eu-
rope, at Heidelberg, Germany, our new station. Caught several
times with our “ous” hanging out, we managed to remain solvent
in France and arrived intact at Heidelberg. Jim attended the local
Heidelberg school, his tenth school in eleven years. Lee “house-
wifed” and traveled. I broke into my new job. It was a good
year until Jim tried his college boards and Harvard turned him
down. We decided he should take a year of concentrated “prep-
ping” in Switzerland and try again. He did and it appears to have
been well worth while, for Jim is now enrolled in the Class of
1960.

Since October, 1955, we have been here in Schwaebisch Hall,

[173]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Germany, some forty miles northeast of Stuttgart. Command
assignments are not always easy to get, so I was pleased to take
over this 8” howitzer battalion. It is much more demanding than
any other job in my experience, but there is a measure of reward
in working with some of the fine young Americans who serve
our country abroad.

Our next move, we hope, will come in May, 1957, when we
expect to arrive in the U.S.A. in time for the June gth Reunion.
It would indeed be a happy occasion to be able to come back to
the Twenty-fifth, see my son in the Class of 1960, and be told
that I could be assigned to the R.O.T.C. staff at Harvard. Here's
hoping to see you all in Cambridge in June, 1957.

Decorations; Silver Star, Bronze Star (with “V” device), ETO
Ribbon (with eight battle stars, invasion arrowhead — for D-
Day invasion landings in Algeria, Sicily and Normandy), French
Fouraguerre, Belgian Fouraguerre. Rated Parachutist badge.

JOHN HARRIS BROWN

HOME ADDRESS: 1332 Santa Ynez Way, Sacramento 16, Calif.

orFics apbress: San Francisco Labor Temple, 2940 16th St., San Francisco,
Calif, .

porN: Alay 14, 1910, Lakewood, Ohio, parents: Grover Cleveland Brown,
Edith Hunter.

PREPARED AT: Lakewood High School, Lakewood, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: AB, cum laude, 1932.
occuPATION: Education.

NELSON LeCRAW BROWN

HOME appRESS: 38 Elm St., Marblehead, Mass,

OFFIcE ADpREsS: Police Dept., Marblehead, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 28, 1910, Marblehead, Mass, parents: Thomas Jefferson Phillip
Brown, Sarah Rebecca Glass.

prepared AT: Marblehead High School, Marblehead, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

marrige: Gertrude Jones, April 20, 1939, Marblehead, Mass. cum
Phyllis, Feb. 14, 1944.

occupation: Law enforcement, police patrolman.

OFFICES HELD: Membership committee, Charter Group, Marblehead Fish &

[174]

p: Karen

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Game Club, 1945; vice-president and president, Marblehead Police Asso-
ciation, 1949-50; first aid instructor, Red Cross, since 1950, merit badge
examiner, Boy Scouts of America, since 1952.

MEMBER OF: Marblehead Fish & Game Club; Marblehead Police Association;
Massachusetts Police Association; American Red Cross.

I'M a cop. Following the abrupt termination of my attempt to
swim against the tide of college expenses in 1930, I held various
jobs of manual nature. These labors maintained physical support
with litle accumulation in the line of material gain. Like many
of us, at first it was any kind of a job, with desperation a frequent
companion. Civil service exams were a seeming opportunity. |
took several and, having the knack in those days, passed them
and waited. One was for the local police.

At that ume during the prewar years, my job in a small leather
concern was to produce in quantity, and then to produce more,
always increasing the norm with a reward of shorter hours, rarely
a longer share of the proceeds. Then to the U.S.M.C. factory
in Beverly that took on armament contracts at the advance of
war; so I spent my time making guns — not using them. Next
transferred to the Lynn G.E. plant on turbines. After the war
I accepted appointment to the regular police and have since car-
ried a gun so long it is like an old shoe. Have now put on two
hash marks in blue while accumulating a knowledge of my town
and its folk.

Travel has not been as extensive as I’d like. Saw D.C. on a
visit to my brother's home there and have fished and hunted in
Maine, New Eflampshire and Nova Scotia, with little else but
books to fill in on the outer world.

Politically, this is a small Republican stronghold and I am just
one of the party. Though not active in politics, I am interested
in our local Town Meeting form of government. Many attend
these meetings with preformed opinions and vote likewise. Some-
times they are swayed by a display of oratory, personality or
plain common sense. There is color, conservatism and humor in
our expression of free government and always a desire for home
rule.

The Old North Church has long been a part of our family
life. Airs. Brown is a member of its choir, having joined when
She was a young girl; Karen has her Girl Scout troop there; and

[175]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

we participate in its social and Sunday gatherings. Mrs. Brown
and I are expecting a new edition soon, a customer for our home-
grown baby sitter, Karen, now thirteen.

ROBERT KUHNEN BROWN:

HOME ADDRESS: 1790 Hudson St., Denver 20, Colo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1624 Gilpin St Denver 18, Colo.

BORN: Sept. 2, 1911, Colorado Springs, Colo. PARENTS: James Horace Brown,
Edna Caroline Kuhnen.

PREPARED AT: Colorado Springs High School, Colorado Springs, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: 8.B, magna cum laude, 1932; M.D., 1937.

MARRIED: Phyllis Emily Kenyon, Nov. 28, 1940, Tully, N.Y. CHILDREN:
James Kenyon, Sept. 17, 1942; Stephen Richard, March 4, 1944; Mark
Kuhnen, Sept. 13, 1945; William Kenneth, Jan. 31, 1947; Charles Joseph
and Robert Kenyon (twins), Dec. 21, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Physician, practice limited to thoracic surgery.

OFFICES HELD: Associate clinical professor of Thoracic Surgery, University
of Colorado Medical School; president, Colorado Trudeau Society,
1955-56, Colorado Section, American College of Chest Physicians, 1956-
57, The Bullbears of Denver, Colo.; president-elect, Denver Academy
of Surgery, 1957; delegate, Colorado State Medical Society, 1952-56.

MEMBER OF: Nu Sigma Nu; Aesculapian Club of Boston; Boston Medical
Society; American Association for Thoracic Surgery; American Tru-
deau Society; American College of Chest Physicians, American Medical
Association; Colorado State Medical Society, Denver Medical So-
ciety; Osler Club; The Bullbears of Denver; Valley Country Club;
Certified by American Board of Surgery and Board of Thoracic Sur-
gery.

PuBLications: Occasional biochemical and surgical papers in Journal of
Thoracic Surgery, Rocky Mountain Medical Journal, ete.

“THERE is no hope for the satisfied man.” If this is so I am
hopeless. Despite war, wanderings, and general ups and downs,
I guess this has been a very satisfying twenty-five years. But to
set it down on paper is something else. I have sweat and stewed
and made many false starts, and now at the last minute it will
have to come as I think of it, in one big chunk.

At graduation I received a Sheldon Traveling Fellowship
and with it spent the year 1932-33 wandering over Europe, cov-

ering pretty thoroughly everything but Russia and the north
countries. My base, to which I returned for three short but

interesting stops, was the Institute of Biochemistry at Cambridge

[ 176 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

University. This was a delightful and most profitable year. The
next four years, 1933-37, were spent at Harvard Medical School
ending on schedule with the degree of M.D. Next, with an al-
most imperceptible transition, I was successively surgical house
officer, assistant resident and resident surgeon on the West Sur-
gical Service at the Massachusetts General Hospital, finishing in
June, 1942. I then stayed on as assistant to Dr. Edward D.
Churchill helping in the clinical teaching at the school and visit-
ing in general and thoracic surgery at M.G.H. From January,
1944, to August, 1946, I was first lieutenant, then captain, M.C.,
A.U.S. Following brief stops at Carlisle Barracks, Fitzsimmons,
Torney, Hammond, and Baxter General Hospitals, I was put in
charge of a mobile surgical team and sent to Saipan. There,
attached to the 148th General Hospital, we had a busy year
caring for thoracic casualties from Iwo Jima and Okinawa. There
was no great excitement and I didn’t get any wounds or medals.

Since September, 1946, we have lived here in Denver and have
enjoyed every minute of it. I am practising thoracic surgery,
which is largely heart and lung surgery, and endoscopy. In the
volunteer teaching assignment at the University of Colorado
Medical School, there is some undergraduate teaching but mainly
at the postgraduate level, supervising some of the resident surgical
training in my specialty. In this latter endeavor I am sure I learn
more than the boys do. It is a most stimulating and “keep the
old man on his toes” experience. The center of all this and the
main reason for being here is, of course, my family. I am particu-
larly proud of them. Phyllis is a fine and relaxed mother who
golfs and skis and swims and camps with the boys and me and
enjoys every minute of it. This winter we have acquired a cabin |
at Winter Park, the local ski area, which we are going to remodel
and use the year round for weekends and longer stays. We all
ski together and do a lot of touring and camping in the summer-
time. Jim, the oldest boy, is an Eagle Scout, in ninth grade, a
good student, and excellent skier and swimmer. Steve and Mark
are in seventh and sixth grades and are Scouts also. Bill is in the
fourth grade and is a Cub Scout. The twins, Charlie and Rob,
at six are first graders and already good swimmers and skiers. The
six boys are a pretty closely knit group, and we hope that by
doing as much as we can with them we can keep them out of

L177]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

jail as they grow up. We go to the nearby Presbyterian Church
and Sunday School, and all family members over twenty-one
are registered Republicans. Altogether, this has been a wonder-
ful twenty-five years, often surprising and exciting, usually fun,
and sometimes dismaying, but never dull.

CLAYTON EDWARD BROWNE

HOME ADDRESS: 522 Highland Blvd. Richardson, Texas.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1515 First National Bank Bldg., Dallas 1, Texas.

BoRN: Oct. 2, 1910, Dallas, Texas. parents: Clayton D. Browne, Mary
Isabel Johnson.

PREPARED AT: Kemper Military School, Boonville, Mo.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

marriep: Margaret Montgomery, Nov. 7, 1937, Dallas, Texas (divorced
1946); Gloria Nadine Sanders, May 15, 1948, Dallas, Texas. CHILDREN:
Margaret Ann, Nov. 8, 1941; Paula Alison, Jan. 6, 1951.

occuPaTion: Realtor, owner, Clayton E. Browne, Real Estate. |

MEMBER OF: East Dallas Exchange Club; Dallas Real Estate Board.

WHEN you sit down to write an account of your life over a
twenty-five year period, the first thing that comes to mind is
what went with twenty-five years? The next thing, and not an
easy one, is how to put it down on paper. English “A” was a
problem that has stayed with me all these years.

As of this year, 1956, it seems that I have quite a number of
the things a person wishes for in life. With a swell family, com-
posed of Gloria, and two children, Peggy, who is fourteen and
Paula who is six, plus a home with a big yard —too big, con-
sidering our Texas drouth—in the suburban town of Richard-
son, a couple of dogs, the usual rolling stock and so on, this adds
up to large measure of satisfaction, The main thing I wish for
now is for more time to devote to my family and time to enjoy
our material things.

After graduation, I returned to Texas to find things in a mess,
with the same kind of depression everyone else had. All this
added up to no possible jobs. So with the help of my family, I
went back to school, to try law at Southern Methodist University,
That lasted one year, and then no more funds were available,
which meant I had to get a job. Since no payroll turned up to

[ 178 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

which I could attach myself, I started selling insurance with my-

self as the only available employee. I might add that as an em-

ployer the salary I paid could have been better, but with a few
real estate commissions, the pay was not too bad. Along the way,

I gathered a partner with whom, thanks to F.D.R. and the newly-

formed FHA, I entered the construction business, specializing in
the building of residences. Those were the days when house
building was more experience than profit.

All this time, war clouds were gathering, building and real
estate began to be curtailed, and then came Pearl Harbor. Taking
stock of the fact that the building business and to an extent the
real estate business was about done for the time, and that able-
bodied salesmen were decidedly non-essential to the war effort,
I volunteered for the Air Forces. My application went through
finally, and in January 1943, I was commissioned first lieutenant,
AC, and ordered to duty at Foster Field in Texas, I thought as
flight instructor. Instead, I was assigned to gunnery school on
Matagorda Island, Texas. (The fishing was excellent.) This was
my closest assignment to overseas duty, being about two miles
off the Texas coast. Transferred back to Dallas, for duty with
the Eighth Service Command Headquarters as staff pilot, there
I remained until the war ended. I was finally discharged in 1946
as captain, after having fought the whole war at home. I would
not have missed it for anything but .

Return from service meant the re-entry into real estate, and
into the development and brokerage business, with the added task
of settling the estates of two deceased members of my family.
This has since resolved itself into the operation of a real estate
brokerage office with commercial and industrial sales and prop-
erty management predominating.

Travels? I revisited a considerable part of the United States
at government expense, as duty flying about the country. Some-
how, looking down countryside spoils its charm, so I set out to
look at some of it close up. However, before we got very far at
this, we discovered that dude ranches in Colorado were the most
fun for vacations, so have been back there for most of our sum-
mer trips. In the process we have explored most of Colorado,
New Mexico, and some of Arizona and Utah. With travel time
usually restricted to summers, Texas heat deters us from much

[179]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

desire to go south although we have managed one trip to Mexico.

Hobbies seem to be neglected somewhat due to lack of time.
An occasional fishing trip, and when the time allows, a deer hunt
either to South Texas or, preferably, to Colorado is about all I
manage. There was a time when the chief hobby was flying, but
during World War II it became vocation, and after that it no
longer has the appeal, so now the desire to do much more than
hangar flying is about gone. |

Social life for the Browne family tends towards the informal,
chiefly built around the home activity and patio living, inter-
mittent bridge sessions and an occasional dance. I have always
been an Episcopalian, and now, along with the rest of the family,
am a member of St. Margaret’s Episcopal Church of Richardson,
although I confess not a very active one.

For a number of years, I have been a member of the Dallas
Real Estate Board and have belonged to various service groups,
but the one that has offered me the most enjoyment and worth-
while activity has been Exchange. From time to time I have
worked with the Red Cross and Community Chest fund drives.

Politics in Texas, for the most part, is a one party deal, where
the vote is that of the Democratic Party. However, on a national
level, I have always tried to vote issues and for the individual
rather than along party lines. The net result has been that most
of my votes have been for the loser. My one entry into local
politics was for alderman for the City of Richardson in April,
1956, in which I was defeated but polled enough votes to en-
courage me to try in the next election.

So much for the last twenty-five years, and with the hope that
the next will be as eventful.

FRANK ADOLPH BRUGGER
SEE Appendix.

{ 180 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JEROME WILLARD BRUMMEL

HOME ADDRESS: 329 E. Hickory St. Hinsdale, Ill.

OFFICE ADpREss: United Air Lines, 5959 S. Cicero Ave., Chicago, IIl.

BORN: July 17, 1910, Oak Park, Ill. parents: Henry Christopher Brummel,
Mabel Caroline Taylor.

PREPARED AT: Loyola Academy, Chicago, IIl.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.B.A., 1934.

MARRIED: Julia Camp, Nov. 7, 1937, New York, N.Y. (divorced 1941);
Mary Ann Matthews, Oct. 29, 1947, Evanston, Ill. camp: Jerome Wil-
liam, Sept. 23, 1952.

occupation: Superintendent of operating budgets, United Air Lines.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Harvard Business School Club of Los Angeles, 1942,
Oak Meadows Home Owners Association, 1949-50.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Business School Club of Chicago; Edgewood Valley
Country Club.

I WAS not convinced that Economics A would not teach any-
one how to make money. So I went on to the Business School.
Progress in business came rather slowly for me. Looking back,
I believe I never stayed anywhere long enough for recognition
of whatever merits were mine. There were too many jobs, for
family and other reasons. I finally settled down for five years
at Lockheed Aircraft Corporation, and the twelve years since
then at United Air Lines.

My war experience was with Lockheed as administrative man-
ager at their aircraft reassembly factory near Glasgow, Scotland.
Those early jobs were nearly all in the investment field, which
is now my hobby. And I have a steady enthusiasm about golf,
although the scores are erratic. Currently, I am breeding poodles
and installing a Hi-Fi.

In 1947 I found and married the girl I needed to give life a
real purpose. And in 1952 we adopted a two months’ old boy
from The Cradle in Evanston, Illinois. I have found great happi-
ness in being devoted to Mary Ann and Terry, as we call our
boy. Mary Ann is Episcopalian and I am Catholic. We pray
for each other’s conversion, but I must say the Lord has been
very good to both of us as we are. _

[ 181 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

THOMAS CROWELL TAYLOR BUCKLEY

HOME ADDRESS: 65 Second St., Geneseo, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Lincoln Rochester Trust Co. 183 Main St., Rochester 4,
NY.
Born: July 14, 1909, New York, N.Y. parents: Julian Gerard Buckley, ’87,
Josephine Louise Gilbert.
PREPARED AT: St. George's School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: S.B., 1932; A.M. 1937; C.L.U. (Ameri-
can Coll. of Life Underwriters), 1949.

marrieD: Elizabeth Simpkins Cheney, June 25, 1937, Manchester, Conn.
CHILDREN: Elizabeth Bacon, June 2, 1938; Thomas Crowell, Jr. May
28, 1942; Louise Cheney, Jan. 5, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Julian Gerard Buckley, Jr. '28.

OCCUPATION: Assistant trust officer, Commercial Bank and Trust Company,
estate planning.

OFFICES HELD: Colonel, A.U.S. Retired, since 1946; chairman, Race Com-
mittee, Genesee Valley Hunt, since 1949, Livingston County War Sav-
ings Bond Committee, 1949-50; trustee, Columbia School, Rochester,
1951-53; president, Rochester Association of Life Underwriters, Inc,
1953-54, Rochester Life Managers Association, Inc., 1955-56, member
of council, since 1953, chairman, Central Committee of Bishop’s Men,
19§2~-53, trustee, since 1956, Episcopal Diocese of Rochester; vestryman,
since 1947, senior warden, since 1954, St. Michael’s Episcopal Church,
Geneseo; treasurer, 1954-55, vice-president, since 1955, Harvard Club of
Rochester; visiting instructor, University of Rochester, 1951—55-

MEMBER OF: University Club of Rochester; American Society of Chartered
Life Underwriters; Retired Officers Association; Geneseo Community
Players; Harvard Club of Rochester, Livingston Country Club;

Geneseo Valley Hunt; York Opera Company; American Legion,
Rochester Downtown Post, V.F.W.

IN going to Law School following graduation, the family pat-
tern of the legal profession seemed well on the way towards
fulfillment. In spite of my good fortune in squeaking by the first
year, it just didn’t appear that the law was my dish. A chance
came in the summer of 1933 to ship to the Antarctic as a seaman
and dogdriver on Admiral Byrd’s Second Expedition. My ex-
perience in the Antarctic has formed a good conversation piece
ever since. Although most so-called “adventure” seems to consist
of undergoing a lot of hardship and unpleasant living and return-
ing to tell about it, I’m glad I went.

In the fall of 1934 St. George’s School hired me as a teacher
and coach. Those were lovely days and I was to continue in the

[ 182 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

teaching field until Hitler started parcelling up Europe into small
lots. Teaching is a grand and satisfying profession and the long
summer vacations provided opportunity to travel. In 1937 I ac-
quired an A.M. in history from Harvard, a wife from a Yale
family, and a new situation at Avon Old Farms. The A.M. en-
titled me to a two-hundred-dollar per annum increase in salary,
and the wife has brought great joy and comfort ever since. In-
cidentally, it was quite a feat in 1937 for a married junior master
to find a school willing to employ him.

Since receiving a commission from the horse-drawn ROTC,
I had managed to keep it fairly active through summer training
periods. In 1940 I was convinced that it was just a matter of time
before the United States became fully involved in the shooting.
For my money it made sense to get into active service and be-
come better educated in things military rather than stand around
and wait for the inevitable call.

The next six years saw a great variety of experience and assign-
ments. During the first four of these years I was in this country
and the family was able to be together at most of our stations.
This was a rare blessing, even though at times some of the living
conditions were little short of medieval. To all intents and pur-
poses, my military career ended on April 6, 1945, when a Kraut
rifleman drilled me neatly but not completely effectively, and I
ended up in a German hospital as a prisoner of war. Now that
was a funny place for a colonel of Field Artillery to be, but this
was an unorthodox war, and it was particularly screwy during
its last three months in the European theatre. My last command
there was the 333d Field Artillery Group of the Third Army.
After an extended period of hospitalization and recuperation, I
was retired for physical disability.

By 1946, I had been successively an explorer, teacher, and a
soldier. None of these are very remunerative professions, and it
was quite obvious that a better paying position was a prime
Necessity in view of the increase in the cost of living and an
expanding family. Lacking business training, I found a job selling
life insurance, and three years later went into agency management
as a general agent. In 1956 I gave up the life insurance business
and am now in the Trust Department of the Lincoln Rochester
Trust Company. —

[ 183 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

As to politics, I am again a Republican after a period of support
of FDR during the war years. It’s true my parents and friends
thought me a bit odd, but let’s just imagine Landon in the White
House in those days. Our three children keep us busy and young
with all sorts of sports, but particularly riding, skiing (both water
and snow), gunning and boating. We live in the Genesee Valley,
truly a lovely part of the country, try to get to Cape Cod for a
while each summer and to take a few ski trips each winter. As
life has been very good and generous to us indeed, we participate
in a broad variety of community and church activities, not only
from a sense of obligation, but also because we enjoy it.

Perhaps if I had stuck it out at Law School in that dim by-
gone year of 1933, I'd now be corporation counsel for an up and
coming pickle factory and really worried about the progressive
effect of the income tax instead of merely annoyed. On the other
hand, mine has been a real fine clambake, and I don’t think I'd
swap for a re-run even if such were possible.

WALTER JAMES BUDGELL

HOME ApprEss: 8 Howard St., Salem, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ideal Supply Co., 378 Somerville Ave., Somerville, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 4, 1910, Salem, Mass. parents: Elmer Walter Budgell, Grace
Foster Sneden.

PREPARED aT: Governor Dummer Academy, South Byfield, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.
UNMARRIED.

occuPaTioN: Bookkeeper, Ideal Supply Company, plumbing supply house.

OFFICES HELD: Commander, Salem Post 23, American Legion, 1954-55; com-
missioner, Salem Little League; clerk and director, Salem Legion Asso-
ciates, Inc.; vice-president, Salem Legion Club, Inc.; secretary, District
8, Junior Legion Baseball Committee; manager, Post 23, Legion Junior
Baseball Team; publicity chairman, Immaculate Conception Holy
Name Society.

MEMBER OF: Salem Post 23, American Legion; Voiture 633 40/8; Immacu-
late Conception Holy Name Society.

pusLications: Post 23 Legion Bulletin, “At Your Command,” (Army musi-
cal); radio scripts; press releases for Post 23 Legion, District 8 Legion,
Salem Little League and Immaculate Conception Holy Name Society,

TWENTY-FIVE years — yet it seems only yesterday that I left
Harvard College and went to New York City armed with the

[ 184 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

great American novel and bounding ambition. The novel was
never published for excellent reasons, but I enjoyed ten years of
free-lance writing, including radio-scripts, my own radio pro-
gram, book-advertising copy and blurbs, ghost-writing and other
hack work before settling down to the steadier but less exciting
toil of junior accounting and bookkeeping at which position I
am still working.

On August 24, 1942, I was inducted into the Army and served
until October 14, 1945, and was for most of my army career a
sergeant-investigator with the Provost Marshal and later Intelli-
gence. I took an eight weeks’ course in criminal investigation at
Provost Marshal General’s School at Fort Custer, Michigan, and
Jater a three-months’ course in German at the University of
Michigan. In 1945, at Fort Leonard Wood, Missouri, I was trans-
ferred to the Public Relations Branch of the Army where I served
as sports writer for the Fort Leonard Wood News and wrote
feature stories for home-town papers. This, in turn, has led to
my current hobby which is baseball of the Junior Legion and
Little League variety. I have been manager of the Salem Post 23
team for ten years as well as secretary of the District Legion
Baseball Committee and secretary and scorer for the Salem Little
League since it was started seven years ago and am currently
serving as its commissioner. To those of you acquainted with
the program, I need not say how fascinating a field it is. As for
my writing, that is limited currently to press releases for the
Legion, Little League and Holy Name Society, to a monthly
bulletin for the Salem Post and, of course, to box scores and
stories of the youthful baseball stars which have a most appre-
ciative audience. Nevertheless, I may at any moment turn back
to more serious writing. After all, there is still need for that great
American novel.

ROBERT JOHNS BULKLEY, JR.
SEE Appendix.

[ 185 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

SETH WARNER BURCHARD

HOME ADDRESS: 33 Tudor Lane, Scarsdale, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % International General Electric Co. 150 E. 42d St., New
York 17, N.Y.

BoRN: July 30, 1910, Omaha, Nebr. parents: Charles Colman Rosewater,
Julia Warner.

PREPARED AT: Gunnery School, Washington, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932.

marriep: Frieda Lewe, April 10, 1934, London, England (died Oct. 9,
1953); Ariel Phillips, Nov. 25, 1954, Ithaca, N.Y.

occupation: Accountant with International General Electric Company,
division of General Electric Company.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, 1939, president, 1940, Harvard Club of East-
erm New York; editor, 1947-52, adjutant, 1954, member executive com-

mittee and board of corporation owning the building and grounds, Scars-
dale Post 52, American Legion.

MEMBER OF: Whippoorwill Country Club, Armonk, N.Y.; Scarsdale Post
52, American Legion; Bronxville Antiques Club; Eastchester Camera

Club.

DURING my last months in Cambridge I began research on a
life of Benjamin Thomson, Count Rumford, inspired by a note
which you may have read on the menu at the Old Oyster House.
Thompson was born in Woburn, Massachusetts, and was suc~
cessively a tutor to a rich woman, whom he married and deserted,
a spy for General Gage, secretary to Lord George Germain in
London, colonel of Tory troops in the Carolinas, prime minister
to Bavaria, scientist, inventor, and Count of the Holy Roman
Empire. He founded the Rumford Chair of Applied Science at
Harvard and was immortalized in 1857 when the incumbent Rum-
ford Professor named a baking powder in his honor. My history
of the Count is still on index cards in a back drawer, but the
work took me to the British Museum in London in the fall of
1932, and has given me an interesting avocation ever since.

I left London abruptly when a volunteer job with a German
affiliate of General Electric turned up. I spent a year in the fac-
tories of Berlin during the fall of the Weimar Republic and the
consolidation of Hitler’s power. Living and working amon
Germans, I saw at first hand the full impact which Dr. Goebbels’

propaganda had upon Germany. In the spring of 1954 I was
married in London and returned to an uneventful life with the

[ 186 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

General Electric Company in Bridgeport, Schenectady and New
York. We export all types of electrical equipment and accessory
items and maintain manufacturing and selling subsidiaries in the
principal countries of Latin America, South Africa, etc. I spe-
cialize in foreign investments and foreign claims arising out of
World War II.

In 1943 I was drafted and spent a while in the Corps of En-
gineers as a basic ditch digger. Eventually the Army discovered
that I spoke German and I graduated to a prison camp full of
the Afrika Korps, which was gradually beginning to lose faith
in the Fuhrer. In 1944 I went overseas as a master sergeant in
Military Intelligence. I spent a while in London under the buzz
bombs, for which I got no official credit but was awarded a com-
bat star for the Battle of France in which my outfit, but not I,
participated. I joined them in time for the Battle of the Bulge
and went on into Luxembourg and Germany. As the war drew
to a close we were assigned the mission of investigating the order
of battle of the German Army and Gestapo intelligence. This
entailed the custody of many of the top Nazis, including Sepp
Dietrich, commanding general of the 6th SS/Panzer Army, who
has recently been released from prison, and Ernst Kaltenbrunner,
ranking head of the Gestapo at the end of the war and eventually
hanged at Niirnberg. The Army soon found that we had facili-
ties for handling all types of high custody prisoners, and we
ended up by keeping a little “Magic Mountain” of ill-assorted
persons, some of whom were not prisoners at all but merely
people of importance to G5, who had to be put up for a few
days or weeks while in transit across wartime Germany. These
people were under little more restraint than they would have
been in a good sanatorium, and it will be a wonder if someone
does not eventually write a book about their days with us.
Among those present were a nobleman who had recently been
released from a concentration camp, a female Gestapo agent who
had been Countess Ciano’s private secretary, Field Marshal von
Rundstedt and his scholarly son, and the senile old Ritter von
Epp, who had been a man of importance in Bavaria in the early
days of Hitler’s career but now had no idea of what was happen-
ing in the world.

After the war I returned to Scarsdale, where we had settled

[ 187 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

just before the war. Someone urged me to join the local Ameri-
can Legion post. It was then and is still my Opinion that the only
constructive way to influence the opinions of the veterans’ or.
ganizations is to join them, and not sit on the sidelines and gripe
about what they are doing. They will continue to set themselves
up as representing all veterans, with us or without us, and I feel
that over a ten-year period I have been able to make myself
heard much more effectively, even in a small way, than if I
had remained on the outside.

We spent the year 1949 in Mexico City for the General Elec-
tric Company, where I installed systems in our new factory for
the most part. After our return, my wife’s health began to fail
and our activities were quite curtailed until her death in the fall
of 1953. About a year later ] met one of my distant cousins from
Ithaca, New York, and we have now been married for almost
two years. We have recently bought a house and hope to have
moved in long before you read this Report. Right now we are
standing around in the midst of all sorts of kitchen and bathroom
fixture catalogs, surplus furniture we have picked up, and other
things that load our apartment to the bursting point.

RALPH WENDELL BURHOE

HOME Appress: 6 Ventura St. Boston 24, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Academy of Arts and Sciences, 77 Massachu-
setts Ave., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: June 21, 1911, Somerville, Mass. parents: Winslow Page Burhoe,
Mary Trenaman Stumbles.

PREPARED AT: Reading High School, Reading, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932.

marrieD: Frances Bickford, Aug. 4, 1931, South Berwick, Maine. CHILDREN:
Winslow Newton, Aug. 21, 1935; Laura Jean, Dec. 7, 1936 (a. Joseph
John Maier, Oct. 15, 1955), Thomas Allen, Sept. 9, 1938; Diana May,
Oct. 11, 1945. GRANDCHILD: Jean Gale Maier, Aug. 8, 1956.

occuPATION: Executive officer, American Academy of Arts and Sciences.

orFices HELD: Observer, research assistant, librarian, assistant to director,
Blue Hill Meteorological Observatory, 1936-47; assistant secretary, 1936~
47, treasurer, 1942-47, American Meteorological Society; secretary-
treasurer, New England School Science Council, 1948-53; member,
Program Committee, Institute for the Unity of Science, since 1950;

[ 188 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

trustee, Washingtonian Hospital, Boston, circa 1950-53; councilor, New
Boston Committee, 1951-53; Prudential Committee, Arlington Street
Church, Boston, since 1953; chairman of Constitution and Program
Committees, Society for the Scientific Study of Religion, since 1953;
co-founder and secretary-treasurer, Institute on Religion in an Age of
Science, since 1954.

MEMBER OF: American Association for the Advancement of Science; Ameri-
can Meteorological Society; Harvard Club of Boston, Harvard Faculty
Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional contributions to scientific, educational and re-
ligious journals; inaugurator of Meteorological Abstract and contribut-
ing developer in editorial and business ways to a number of other
publications.

HARVARD COLLEGE from 1928 to 1932 opened up many
windows for me and presented as many marvelous views of man
and the world he lives in — an experience which has provided a
guide and a set of tools by which I have been living during the
past quarter-century. The views that impressed me most were
opened up by philosophers and psychologists in Emerson Hall
and by physicists, biologists, anthropologists, and other scientists
over between the Law and Divinity Schools. Here I was com-
pletely sold on the value and power of reason and the scientific
method for handling any and all human problems.

I had problems. Some of them were what you call personality
problems, matters of satisfactory relations with other people and
personal security. These were not unrelated, I suppose, to un-
fortunate conditioning experiences in childhood. But also these
difficulties were created and sustained, I believe, by confusion
and errors in my personal beliefs about values, a confusion which
paralleled the recent evolution of value beliefs of western civiliza-
tion. In me, as in the population of Christendom generally, the
faith of the fathers evaporated in the light of the new knowledge.

Probably this faith would not have been entirely adequate even
if I could have believed in it. But it did have its values, and in
my case it did not disappear before I had experienced some of
the powers of those beliefs to transform human outlook and
behaviour in fundamental and useful ways. I felt that a new trans-
lation of meanings or values had to be made, and I began to seek
the logical transformation equations that might yield equivalent
aesthetic, emotional and behavioural characters in terms of the

[ 189 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

scientific conceptual scheme instead of in terms of the no longer
credible cosmology of traditional Christianity,

In the fall of 1932 and again in 1935-36, I attended Andover
Newton Theological School. But, although there were men on
the faculty there who opened new windows that let me catch a

view of the solid and ingenious scholarship of the textual critics

and historians of religion and see the evolution of religion and

its impact on human history, there was naturally not much under-

standing, in that school for preparing conventional preachers, of
what it was that I wanted to do.

My twelve-year sojourn with the meteorologists was pleasant

and fruitful, and with some of the nicest people. I had a chance
to get acquainted pretty broadly with the whole fraternity and
what they were doing. I was duly impressed with the way the
frontiers of knowledge were pushed ahead in a specialized field
of science. But I could never cease reflecting on the broader
human predicament. Personal and social tragedies were not ab-
sent among meteorologists right at hand. And from the top of
Great Blue Hill I could look down upon the homes of a million
people of Greater Boston where, from my own lifetime of inti-
mate experience with a seemingly characteristic sampling of that
population, I could picture so much needless suffering and
tragedy — of hates, fears, suspicions, anxieties, frustrations, etc.,
matters kept secret from parents and spouse, to say nothing of
the neighbors, to keep face. And the darkness of this domestic
picture was not brightened any by the world-wide regressions
since 1939, in the name of various conflicting political, economic,
and ideological banners, to primitive hysterias of fear and to
barbaric slander or slaughter of fellow-men who are feared.
Knowledge about whether or how it would rain or shine seemed
relatively insignificant help for resolving such general problems
of the human predicament. But I felt sure that in the broad
realms of knowledge there were possible solutions.

I was naturally delighted, therefore, when in 1947 I was pre-
sented with the opportunity to serve an institution which was
dedicated to the proposition that the whole spectrum of our in-
tellectual departments needs to be integrated to circumvent cul-
tural chaos. In connection with my work for the American
Academy of Arts and Sciences I have had the privilege of work-

[ 190 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing with many persons and groups concerned with our culture’s
intellectual indigestion and its relation to human welfare. At the
same time I associated with some liberal religious groups, won-
dering whether some way could be found for them to become
more effective motivators and integrators of humanity. Partici-

ation in an interdenominational conference on the Coming
Great Church in 1952 led to the opportunity to help develop a
Conference on Religion in the Age of Science, which in turn
led to the founding of an Institute on Religion in an Age of
Sciencé, in company with my friends in both the scientific and
religious professions. Many of us are finding this an exciting and
hopeful adventure in the direction of resolving some of the in-
tellectual problems that seem to us prerequisite for a better world.

I have already celebrated the twenty-fifth anniversary of my
blessed tie with Frances Bickford, Radcliffe ’30, and three of my
children have already started college, although one left last spring
to make me a grandfather. Gamma and Gampa still like to go
tenting and canoeing for vacations. We work together some
during the day at the office and evenings at home on religion-
and-science projects. Gampa doesn’t have much time for recrea-
tion and exercise during most of the year, and so he gets it by
riding a bike to work, about seven miles each way. This, even
in the day of the rapid transit and the rocket-powered automo-
bile is, believe it or not, the fastest commuting transportation
across the city of Boston, requires less than one-tenth of one per
cent of the horsepower, and delivers you with the fine feeling of

physical flush.

OLIVER WALLIS BURKE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1238 Berkshire Rd., Grosse Pointe Park, Mich.

OFFICE Appress: Burke Research Co., 11281 E. Nine Mile Rd., Van Dyke,
Mich.

BORN: July 10, 1910, South Bend, Ind. parents: Oliver Wallis Burke, Char-
lotte King.

TRANSFERRED FROM: University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932, 1936-1937. DEGREES: S.B., 1932(37); PH.D. (Univ.
of Munich), 1939.

occuPaTIon: Owner, Burke Research Company.

[191 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

IN 1935 I went to Germany for graduate studies and in 1939
received the Ph.D. degree in chemistry from the University of
Munich.

From 1942 to 1950, I was deputy director, Office of Rubber
Reserve, Washington. During the latter part of this period I had
the opportunity to coordinate the government’s synthetic rubber
research and development program.

In 1951 I organized the Burke Research Company, of which I
am the manager. Our organization is engaged in fundamental
chemical research, especially in the field of rubber and plastics.
Our research work is principally for government agencies such
as the Ordnance Department, Bureau of Ships, Office of Naval
Research, National Science Foundation and the Air Force.

My leisure time has been taken up with traveling and I espe-
cially enjoy a periodic trip to Europe.

ARCHIBALD BUSH CALLENDER

HOME ADDRESS: 114 Edgewood Rd., Towson 4, Md.
OFFIcE appress: Glenn L. Martin Co., Baltimore 3, Md.

BoRN: March 3, 1911, Bridgeport, Conn. parents: Herman Bush Callender,
Effie East Hallock.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; s.M. (Mass. Inst. of Tech-
nology), 1933.

Margiep: Edith Kathleen Craig, Feb. 25, 1939, Philadelphia, Pa. CHILDREN:

Nancy Hallock, Feb. 7, 1943; Deborah Ann, June 27, 1946, Edith
Kathleen, Sept. 23, 1951.

occupation: Chief structural test engineer, Glenn L, Martin Company, air-
craft engineering.

MEMBER OF: Committee on Metal Fatigue, American Society for Testing

Materials; Washington Section, Society for Experimental Stress Analy-
sis; Harvard Club of Maryland.

FOR a starter we will make a pass at the job history — which has
been engineering and seventeen years in aircraft. In 1933, the
Budd Company in Philadelphia hired a few engineers to work on
their new design trains. Engineering graduates were a dime a
dozen then, but my new Master’s degree must have impressed
them. Anyway, I was glad to hire on for twenty-two dollars

[192 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and fifty cents a week. The number I remember. It went a long
way in purchasing power.

During the thirties we engineered and sent out rail cars and
trains, many of them still running. But business was up and
down, and by 1939, with the rumble in Europe awakening a
baby and long dormant aircraft industry, I thought it was time
to give the business I had studied a try. So I moved to the Martin
Company in Baltimore, where I have been ever since. The early
years were spent as a stress man who, for the benefit of those
unitiated, is an aircraft engineer who calculates stresses and strains
and says whether things are strong enough or not.

The war years were a hassle of airplanes of which I imagine
the old B-26 Marauder and the PBM-3 flying boat were the best
‘ known. A lot of us had the night shift duty for production
modification and salvage. It was about as near to the front line
as we ever got. There has been a long succession of aircraft since
then, mainly military, leading up to the present era of missiles
and weapon systems described in the public press. Somewhere
in there my own history took on more of an administrative flavor.
The business has long since become deglamorized, but the combi-
nation of sky, space and nuclear energy generates much anticipa-
tion.

The family end belongs to my wife who, during all this, has
presented me with three fine daughters, ages as of this writing:
fourteen, ten and five. We were a while getting started, and the
string is spread out. This enables us to handle all age level prob-
lems simultaneously. It also makes for a crowded house, with
cowgirl games displacing the teen chatter in rotation. ‘The older
girls are in different schools, and the youngest officially starts
next year. My wife claims that she won’t be able to stand it, and
I must admit that to me the little thing looks much too young.
For vacations we plan all kinds of trips and invariably wind up
at the New Jersey seashore. There have been a couple of close
Shaves from hurricanes, but the sun, sand and salt water generally
reward us.

As to hobbies, I picked the wrong ones in college — skiing
and mountain climbing. It never snows in Baltimore — well,
hardly ever, and real mountains are a long way off. The only
thing I have done with high mountains in twenty years is to fly

[ 193 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

over them and, in umpteen trips to the West Coast, I have never
been up even Old Baldy once. So the hobby area is now mostly
local hiking and camping. The youngsters, bless their hearts,
love it and will go at the drop of a tent pole.

In conclusion: Politics — Republican; Religion — Protestant
Episcopal, with a stint every now and then in some fund-raising
enterprise for the church. All this seems to sound very conserva-
tive, which I suppose is the way many structural engineers are.
My wife, with mild irritation, occasionally remarks on it.

JAMES THOMAS CAMERON, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE abpress: 87 Columbian St., South Weymouth, Mass.

_ BORN: June 15, 1908, Kilmarnock, Scotland. parents: James Thomas Cam-
eron, Annie Stuart MacLaughlin.

PREPARED AT: Genesee Wesleyan Preparatory School, Lima, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: 8B. cum laude, 1932; MD. (Tufts
Coll.), 1936.

MargieD: Joan Taylor MacGregor, March 9, 1942, South Weymouth, Mass.
CHILDREN: Bruce, Aug. 8, 1944; Fraser, May 29, 1946, Duncan, March
T, 1949.

occuPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant pediatrician, Harvard Medical School, Children’s
Hospital, Boston; director, Well Baby Clinics, Weymouth, Mass.;

pediatrician, Richardson House, Boston; consultant pediatrician, South
Shore Hospital.

MEMBER oF: Licentiate, American Board of Pediatrics, fellow, American

Academy of Pediatrics, International Society of Pediatrics and New
England Society of Pediatrics.

I GRADUATED from Tufts Medical School in 1936. After
training at the Hartford City Hospital and the Children’s Hos-
pital, Boston, I entered private practice in pediatrics. During the
ensuing ten years I also taught pediatrics, as assistant in pedi-
atrics at Harvard Medical School. Since then my entire time has
been occupied with private practice.

In 1942, Joan Taylor MacGregor and I were married. Now
we have three sons, Bruce, thirteen; Fraser, ten; Duncan, seven.
My hobbies have been constant throughout the years, including
spring fishing in Maine, golf in summer and skiing in the winter.
Civic activities during my life have been confined mainly within

[ 194 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the field of medicine, e.g., helping to create a good community
hospital void of any political affiliations, establishing a health
system in our schools; contributing my services to Well Baby
Clinics and recently starting a series of lectures on health in our
Christian Training Center.

My philosophy of life is still intact, not quite as erect and
shining, minus a few chips, dulled by the winds of passing years
and sorely taxed at every level. I am politically confused. Who
isn’t? The country has advanced too quickly into a position of
economic leadership throughout the world. The lack of judicious
know-how among our leaders is puerile in character, and it seems
that personal aggrandizement and accumulation of profits is the
prime motivating factor at all governmental levels in our coun-
try. Stifling of individual business incentive through strangu-
Jating taxation and the creation of federal control in every en-
deavor seem to me the antithesis and destruction of the very
fundamentals on which this country was founded and became
the epitome of free men.

I hope and pray — as all thinking fathers must, that in a similar
report of a life twenty-five years hence, the person writing can
eliminate the above and say, “Our country is a true world leader
encompassing and giving to the world not only material wealth
but moral and spiritual abundance as well.”

ALAN JUDGE CAMPBELL

HOME apprEss: 11601 Lemoli Ave., Inglewood, Calif.

OFFIcE appress: Cooper Precision Products, 5625 Ww. Century Blvd., Los
Angeles, Calif.

BorN: Aug. 14, 1906, Sugar Valley, Ga. parents: William Jordan Campbell,
Mary Copeland.

PREPARED AT: Mt. Hermon School, Mt. Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1031, 1932-1934.

Occupation: Manufacturing.

[195 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

COLIN ALDEN CAMPBELL

HOME ADDRESS: 4 Claremont Ave. Danbury, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Westville Avenue Ext, Danbury, Conn.
Born: March 20, 1909, Redlands, Calif. parents: Eugene Chilton Campbell,
gz, Mary Alden.
TRANSFERRED FROM: Redlands University, Redlands, Calif.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1930.
MarrigD: Lulabelle Wilkinson, March 10, 1935, Pasadena, Calif. cHILpREN:
Barbara, 1940 (died in infancy); Joan Alden, Aug. 1, 1942 (died Aug.
28, 1955).
occupation: President, Colin Campbell Company, In¢., manufacturer of
transformers and electronic equipment.
PuBLications: Occasional contributions to trade papers on engineering
subjects.

LEAVING college during the “depression” and following the
inclination that led me at age fifteen to build a crystal set on an
oatmeal box, I served as radio technician and later as research
engineer with various companies — Altec Lansing, Submarine
Signal, Raytheon, Sperry Products. Continued designing and
experiment evenings and weekends in my home workshop re-
sulted in my quitting employment to open, in 1950, the Campbell-
Strachl Laboratories in Danbury, Connecticut. “he success of
this shoestring venture eventuated in the forming of the Colin
Campbell Company, Inc., Danbury, now a continually expand-
ing organization engaged in the production of original-design
transformers and electronic components custom-built to special
order of aircraft, missile and computer plants the country over.
I took up airplane flying as a hobby a few years ago, progress-
ing from “solo” to “private” to “instrument” rating. "The Colin
Campbell Company, Inc., soon found the single engine Cessna
practical for business trips averaging about 50,000 miles a year.
An interesting innovation is our Florida shuttle service —an
extra winter time vacation available to company employees —

naturally I qualify as chief pilot!

[ 196 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DONALD BURRISS CAMPBELL

HOME apprEss: Allende 41, Coyoacan 21, D-F., Mexico.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Instituto Mexicano de Administracion de Negocios, A.C.,
Avenida Morelos 110, Despacho 701, Mexico 1, D.F., Mexico.

BorN: March 14, 1908, Des Moines, Iowa. PARENTS: James Edmunds Camp-
bell, Clara Vail Burriss. .

PREPARED AT: Roosevelt High School, Des Moines, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

MARRIED: Margarita Malo y Martinez, March 14, 1936, Mexico City, Mexico.
CHILDREN: James Anthony, June 14, 1940; Clara, June 23, 1943.

occuPATION: Director, Mexican Institute of Business Administration (IMAN,
AC.).

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Overall Boy Scout Committee, 1943-47; member
board of directors, Scouts de México, 1943-47; secretary, Harvard
Club de México, 1954; member of board, American Society of Mexico
representing American British Cowdray Hospital, 1955; chairman,
Library & Publications Committee, Mexico City Friends Meeting,
since 1949.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club de México; American Society of Mexico; Mexi-
can Friends’ Service Committee.

PUBLICATIONS: “Loneliness” (short story) in Mexican Life, November, 1935;
various articles and editorials in Mexican-American Review, March-
December, 1938; “Pages from Diplomatic Notebooks,” in The American
Foreign Service Journal, May, 1950; “La Biblioteca del Congreso de los
Estados,” in Boletin Financiero y Minero de México, July, 1944.

FROM time to time it occurs to me that I am too fond of ex-
ploring life’s bypaths and that, if it were otherwise, | might
have amassed a greater store of the world’s goods.

The how and when of my sojourn in Mexico I have described
in the Decennial Report. I am still here. In April, 1952, after
eleven years and one day in the American Embassy here in
Mexico City, I took the big plunge and shook the bureaucratic
dust from my shoes and out of my brain cells.

A present I am director of IMAN (Mexican Institute of Busi-
ness Administration), a non-profit organization. This venture
began to shape up towards the beginning of 1955 and was for-
mally launched in January, 1956. My IMAN associates are
mostly M.B.A.’s from the Harvard Business School who are in
business in Mexico and who devote an occasional evening to
leading case discussions in our executive development sessions.
The Business School is much interested in our experiment and

[197]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

invited me to Soldiers Field last June for an eight weeks’ closer
look at their famous “case method” of instruction. This was my
first visit to Cambridge in exactly twenty-four years. I hope to
be there again with my family next June.

It seems strange to find myself engaged in pedagogic pursuits
again after so many years, and enjoying them very much indeed.
Not only does IMAN teach cases; we write them, too, and this
activity is giving me fascinating insights into Mexican character
as well as Mexican business life.

My journey through life began to make more sense to me once
I was able to find the pole star of a religious faith. In August,
1947, I joined the Religious Society of Friends and have been
more or less active in the Mexico City Monthly Meeting ever
since. My Catholic wife and children are tolerant of my religious
quixotism, I reciprocate by accompanying them to Mass once
a year on New Year's day. As I grow older I tend to look behind
religious labels in an effort to get at the heart of the matter.

I still love Mexico and hope to do something someday to help
Mexicans and North Americans understand each other better.

JAMES A. CAMPBELL

HOME ADDRESS: 665 Santa Anita Ave., San Marino, Calif.

OFFICE AppRress: Arthur Andersen & Co., 612 S. Flower St., Los Angeles 17,
Calif.

BORN: Jan. 6, 1911, Brooklyn, N.Y. parents: Philip Sheridan Campbell, ’06,
Gladys Livingston Tapscott.

PREPARED AT: Richmond Hill High School, Richmond Hill, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932; M.B.A.
cum laude, 1934.

MaRRIED: Dorothy C. Ray, March 26, 1938, Garden City, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Priscilla Ann, Aug. 18, 1940; Robert Allan, Feb. 8, 1944.

occupation: Certified public accountant; partner, Arthur Andersen &
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Various committee chairmanships in professional account-
ing societies.

MEMBER OF: California Club; University Club of Los Angeles: Annandale
Golf Club; American Institute of Accountants, California, Illinois and
New York State Societies of Certified Public Accountants, Harvard
Business School Club of Southern California, Merchants & Manu-

[198 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

facturers Association; California and Los Angeles Chambers of Com-
merce; Republican Associates; Town Hall.
PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in accounting publications.

AFTER majoring in English history, it was probably less than
a coincidence that I have spent the years since graduation in the
accounting profession, a field in which I cannot remember Har-
vard offering any undergraduate courses. Two years at the
Business School (which did offer some accounting) furthered
cause and effect, and in 1934 I went to work as a junior account-
ant on the staff of Arthur Anderson and Company in New York.
I have been with the firm ever since. .

I spent my first four years struggling with balance sheets and
income accounts in New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Illinois,
touching on adjoining states as assignments dictated. Another
four years or so can be summarized by saying that I used them
to learn more about income taxes than most of us ever want to
know. I should add that even that is nowhere near enough.

In 1942 I moved to Chicago, shifting my work into the area
of accounting systems, in which I spent ten years. Chicago
turned out to be a convenient home base for travel to a whole
lot of places I hadn’t had to know about before. I not only be-
came familiar with a number of widely-scattered hotels, I got
to be an authority on an even larger number of third-class ones.
Thousands of miles by venerable (“12-2-1”) Pullman, too, can
be very broadening to the outlook.

I have lived in Southern California since 1951, swapping smog
for snow shoveling and storm sash. I have since seen as much of
the west as I had of the east, but still regret that I never rode
on the Bangor and Aroostook when geographical location gave
me a better opportunity. Even without the B & A, my travels have
taken me on some forty railroads, not to mention airlines and buses.

Looking back, I can see that the problems of public accounting
have grown considerably in the past twenty-five years. At least,
experience has taught me to recognize more of them.

[199]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

FRANKLIN OLMSTED CANFIELD

HOME aporrss: 1g Avenue de Verzy, Paris 17, France.

OFFICE AppRess: Esso Standard, SAF, 82 Avenue des Champs Elysées,
Paris 8, France.

porN: Nov. 8, 1910, New York, N.Y. parents: George Folger Canfield,
05, Frances Maynard Marshall.
PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Concord, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. mlagna cum laude, 1932; 12
(Columbia Univ.), 1936.
MARRIED: Hope Brown, Sept. 9, 1933, St. James, Long Island, N.Y. curpren:;
Maynard Marshall, Aug. 10, 1934; Hope, Jan. 9, 1938.
HARVARD SON: Maynard Marshall Canfield, *57.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Maynard Marshall Canfield, ’28 (deceased); Robert
Warren Canfield, "30 (deceased).

occupation: Standard Oil Company (New Jersey); shareholder representa-
tive for France.

OFFICES HELD: Admitted to New York Bar, 1936; law clerk, Sullivan & Crom-

well, New York and Paris, 1936-40; assistant to Mr. Grenville Clark,
chairman, National Emergency Committee of Military Training Camps
Association and secretary of committee, 1940; lawyer with Investment
Company Division, Securities & Exchange Commission, 1940-41; U.S.
Economic Advisor and Vice-Consul, French Morocco, 1941; O.S.S. and
U.S. Army, captain to colonel, chief of O.S.S. Special Operations Plan-
ning Section, European Theatre; chief, O.S.S. Liaison Section, SHAEF
Forward Hq. Legion of Merit, Bronze Star, Order of British Empire,
1942-45; Producing Coordination Department, Standard Oil Company
(New Jersey), New York—director, MAORT and Romana Ameri-
cana, S.O. Co. (N.J.) affiliates respectively in Hungary and Roumania
— Middle East Adviser, New York — assistant shareholder representa-
tive for U.K., London, 1946-57; currently, director, United Petroleum
Securities Corporation (Standard Oil Company of New Jersey and
Gulf Oil Corporation); governor, American Hospital, Paris.

MEMBER OF: New York City Clubs: Harvard, River. Paris Clubs: Travelers,

Racing, Polo, Tennis Club de Paris, American Club, Golf de Fontaine-
bleau, (Seine & Marne).

THIS is written after receipt of Goad Number Three, in which
you appeal to the feminine gender to induce action. I am glad

to attest this recognition on your part of the importance of
woman in man’s life.

Last September, Hope and I had our twenty-third anniversary
and more than half of my life has now been spent in happy
married state. Our two children, Maynard and Hope, are now
in Greater Boston: Maynard in his last year at Harvard and Hope

[ 200 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in her first at New England Conservatory of Music where she is
majoring in piano. So the family is divided with the old folks
in Paris and the young in Boston, the real sacrifice of living
abroad. In spite of physical separation, the family remains united,
and this seems to me the real core of life.

In looking forward to our Twenty-fifth Reunion, I think of
my two brothers who preceded me at Harvard and never reached
their T'wenty-fifth. My brother Maynard, Class of 1928, was
killed in an airplane accident in New Mexico in September, 1939,
and my brother Bob was brought down in a daylight bombing
raid over Germany in August, 1944.

As the record shows, since leaving Cambridge I have spent
much time out of the United States. After graduation I went to
Vienna where I met René Champollion and spent the better part
of a year studying German and law. There I read Mein Kampf
and saw the first Nazi excesses. In the spring I pursued the quest
of my bride-to-be in Italy where she was traveling with family
and succeeded in obtaining her acceptance in Genoa. Our first
departure to take up residence abroad was in January, 1939, when
we sailed with our young children and all our worldly goods,
for me to make a living in the Paris office of Sullivan and Crom-
well. War clouds were already looming, and I recall the Cham-
plain rolled unduly because of crated American fighter planes
on the upper deck.

Statesmen and people talked, and war came as might have been
predicted. The war remained phony until May, 1940, when the
Hitler fury broke loose and engulfed all Continental Europe. We
were lucky to get out with many other refugees on the SS.
Washington in May, 1940, and although we spent a few un-
pleasant early morning hours dangling in a life-boat under the
threat of a German submarine, we reached New York safely.
On arriving in New York, I was fortunate in working with Mr.
Grenville Clark and the National Emergency Committee of dis-
‘tinguished “warmongers” for the passage of the Selective Military
Service Act. This was successful and in the fall of 1940, the
family moved to Washington to be close to the national short-
of-war effort. I seized the opportunity of serving the Govern-
ment in French North Africa and found myself in Casablanca
the morning of Pearl Harbor. On returning to Washington, I

[ 2018 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

entered the O.S.S. and the Army and was soon sent to the Euro-
pean Theatre, where I remained until after the end of the war.
After the war, I was more than ever interested in international
work and since my old firm did not propose reopening a Paris
office, I found employment with the Standard Oil Company of
New Jersey. This has certainly given me more than my heart’s
desire of foreign work and travel. Apart from living about eight
months in Venezuela, two years in London and now over three
and a half years in Paris, I have spent more or less time in the past
ten years in every country in Europe, except Norway, Sweden
and Finland, including a most interesting trip with Hope to Hun-
gary in October, 1947, before the Iron Curtain had fully fallen on
the magnificent Magyars. Business has also carried me to Algeria,
Tunisia, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Iran, Iraq, Syria and Leb-
anon.

Our only real estate in the world is a cemetery plot at St. Mat-
thew’s Church in Bedford, New York. We still hope to return
to New York before our time for Christian burial and to enjoy
at least a few years at home with family and friends. But there
is much to be done in living and working abroad, and we are
doing what we can to contribute to international understanding,
while earning an honest dollar as we can.

JACOB CANTER

HOME ADDRESS: 5209 38th St., N.W., Washington, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1776 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W., Washington, D.C.

BORN: July 13, 1911, Newton, Mass. parents: Max Canter, Sophia Helfman.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. sumtma cum laude, 1932; AM,
1933; PHD. 1940.

MaraizD: Alva I. Leo, May 29, 1947, Chicago, Ill. cup: Emily Alva, Jan.
II, 1950.

occupation: Chief, Cultural Operations Division, U.S. Information Agency.

MeMBeR oF: Modern Language Association, American Studies Association;
Harvard Club of Washington,

puBLications: Cuentos Norteamericanos (Crowell, 1956); various articles

in Latin American journals and publications of Pan American Union.
AFTER graduation from the College I went on to get my Mas-
ter’s degree and then the Ph.D. in Romance Philology. This,

[ 202 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

too, at Harvard. I spent a few years as instructor and tutor in
the Department of Romance Language and Literatures and dur-
ing 1937-38 went to Cambridge (England) and Paris with a
Sheldon Fellowship.

In July, 1941, I was appointed a civilian professor in the De-
partment of Foreign Languages of the U.S. Naval Academy
(Annapolis) and stayed on at the Academy during the war years,
in the Naval Reserve. In 1946 I went into the Department of
State’s overseas cultural and information program and have been
with that program ever since. I served as Public Affairs Officer
and/or Cultural Affairs Officer at our embassies in Managua,
Bogota, Caracas and Habana. I was reassigned to Washington
as Cultural Affairs Adviser (i.e. Policy Officer for our overseas
cultural programs) of the U.S. Information Agency. In August,
1956, I took over as chief of the Agency’s Cultural Operations
Division. In December, 1955, I was a member of the U.S. dele-
gation to a UNESCO cultural relations conference in Paris.

JAMES CARLETON

HOME ADDRESS: 1537 Willard St., San Francisco 17, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Standard Oil Co. of California, San Francisco 20, Calif.

BorN: Aug. 13, 1911, Berkeley, Calif. Parents: Homer James Carleton, ’03,
Ethel Dice.

PREPARED AT: Berkeley High School, Berkeley, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1932.

MARRIED: Eloise Warner, May 16, 1936, Berkeley, Calif. (divorced 1944);
Huguette Muller, Sept. 2, 1949, San Francisco, Calif. cump: Norman
Keith, Dec. 12, 1951. |

occuPaTION; Economist, Standard Oil Company of California.

MEMBER OF: Sierra Club.

YEARS of writing inter-office memoranda to other corporate
bureaucrats have not improved the style developed so long ago
by English A. And how did I get started writing such stuff? As
many of you will recall, it was simple to choose a career back in
the depression days. I merely took the first job offered, which
was with Standard Oil Company of California, and have stuck
with that company ever since. My progress was far from mete-
oric, but promotions did occasionally come my way. Soon I was

[ 203 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

making economic analyses; you know what they are — carefully
thought out recommendations made in order that the decision
makers can follow some other course of action. Somehow, per-
haps because of some Yankee ancestry, I wound up in the budget
end of the business. Strange as it may sound, this is interesting
work. Moreover it gives me an opportunity to ignore other peo-
ple’s analyses; naturally I don’t mention the fate of my own
recommendations.

My wife is a French girl who reversed the “War Bride” pro-
cedure by coming to the States before meeting me. Norman, our
five-year-old, defies attempts to make him bilingual and thereby
condemns himself to future struggles with French 2. As parents,
we scorn some of the child-rearing methods of yesteryear and
cheerfully follow others, hoping to do no worse than past genera-
tions, In view of Norman’s tender age, we procrastinate about
deciding whether to send him to Harvard and that strange, won-
drous part of America known as New England.

My hobbies are chiefly in the out-of-doors: tennis, hiking and
skiing. Gardening, my wife informs me, is to be added to my
hobbies, thanks to buying a house recently after having lived in
an apartment for years.

Vacations tend to reflect our hobbies. We enjoy getting away
from civilization and out into the high mountain wilderness of
the West. Several summers we have taken pack trips into such
places as the Mt. Whitney region of the Sierra Nevada, the Grand
Tetons and the San Juan Rockies. One summer we felt lazy and
drifted down the Yampa and Green Rivers on life rafts, contem-
plating the natural grandeur around us and floating by the pro-
posed site of the controversial Echo Park dam. We were pleased
later when many conservation groups succeeded in persuading
Congress to remove this dam from the upper Colorado River
Project. On the other hand, the year after our marriage we took
an all too brief vacation in Europe, where my wife showed me
France. It was a delightful trip. Today it saddens me to see the
difficulties confronting that unfortunate country.

In politics, I’m an independent Democrat, one of the numerous
but annoying (to the party) breed in California that at times vote
for a Republican. Not independent enough to vote for Ike sO
last November left me disappointed. ,

| 204 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ARTHUR RHODES CARNDUFF

HOME ADDRESS: 5011 Worthington Drive, Washington 16, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American University, Washington, D.C.

BorN: Aug. 5, 1910, Chicago, Ill, parents: Arthur Willard Carnduff, Alla
Mary Rhodes.

PREPARED AT: St. Alban’s School, Washington, D.C,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; LL.B. (Southeastern Univ.),

1935.

mMarrieD: Virginia Truxtun Glazebrook, Oct. 19, 1940, Washington, D.C,
CHILDREN: Virginia Rhodes, May 5, 1941; Arthur William, July 31,
1943; Margaret Cox, April 26, 1945.

occupation: Attorney, U.S. Government; assistant professor of business
law and taxation, instructor in mathematics, American University.

MEMBER OF: Capital Yacht Club, Washington; American Association of
University Professors; American Business Law Association.

AFTER graduation I returned to my home in Washington and
entered a local law school. A year later I got a job in the Bureau
of Internal Revenue and switched my law studies from day to
night. In 1935 I was appointed an attorney in the Bureau and
there I stayed for almost twenty years. This period was punctu-
ated mainly by marriage. I now have three wonderful kids and
the best wife in the world. After my resignation from the Bureau,
I was made an assistant professor of business law and taxation at
American University and for the last three years have taught such
subjects there. I recently resigned but was called back to teach
courses in mathematics. Teaching — classroom teaching — is a
thoroughly satisfactory experience.

My interests and hobbies have centered around my family and
immediate community. I have had a small share in furthering the
local interests of the P.T.A., Boy and Girl Scouts, Red Cross, hos-
pital, Community Chest and my church. But always this has been
at the lowest level. I am the guy who rings the doorbell.

Fifteen years ago a spark which was scratched during my col-
lege weekends at Duxbury generated into a flame and I bought
a sailboat. Then followed a long succession of boats, both sail
and power. For some years my family and I had great fun sailing
in the Lightning class on the Potomac and Chesapeake. Then a
few years ago I got the idea that, for a change, we ought to get
a weekend place away from the water. So I begged and bor-
rowed enough money to buy a couple of low-cost farms in West

[ 205 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Virginia, a two-hour drive from Washington. Flere the kids and
dad can hunt and fish and roam on their own square mile. We
lose a little money on the farms each year and the feminine mem-
bers of the family are now cooling on the whole idea.

Once in a speech at a local Harvard dinner, the late Lord Loth-
ian, then British Ambassador, stated that he had always been im-
pressed with the “effortless superiority” of Harvard Men. Pos-
sibly, if a man is truly superior he can “get by” effortlessly.
Possibly, superior Harvard Men were the only kind that Lothian
ever met. Possibly, he was merely speaking diplomatically. But,
woe unto the effortless Harvard Man who is not superior!!!

JOHN FRANCIS CARNES

HOME aboress: 211 Central St. Hingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADoRESS: 41 Pleasant St, Hingham, Mass.; Washington Street, Nor-
well, Mass.

Born: Feb. 3, 1911, Brockton, Mass. parents: John Carnes, Mary Agnes Fox.

PREPARED AT: Hingham High School, Hingham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: $.B., 1932.

MarRieD: Evelyn C. Reardon, Aug. 8, 1934, Brockton, Mass. CHILDREN:
John Francis, Jr, May 22, 1937; George R., May 10, 1948.

OccuPaTION: Assistant principal, Hingham High School, Hingham, Mass.;

owner and operator, Washington Park Pharmacy, Route 3, Norwell,
Mass, .

OFFICES HELD; President, Hingham Teachers Club, 1936-37, 1942-43, Hing-

ham Rotary Club, 1947-48; member, Hingham Playground Committee,
1941-42.

MEMBER OF: Hingham Teachers Club; Massachusetts Teaching Aids So-

ciety; Hingham Institution for Savings (incorporator); Hingham
Council, Knights of Columbus.

HAVING praduated in the midst of the depression, I offered my
services to the Town of Hingham School Department and was
permitted to get a year of teaching experience at the Lincoln
Junior High School at no salary. The fact that I had an under-
standing and benevolent mother and father made this year pos-
sible and gave me the experience I needed. The following school
year I was made a building assistant at the Hingham High School
at the rate of $200 a year. I supplemented my salary by working
long hours at a drugstore in Marshfield, Massachusetts. The first

[ 206 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

vacancy at the Junior High School at Hingham was mine and
I was on my way at $1,000 a year. The depression years with
their low salary and my previous drug store experience influenced
me into studying pharmacy. I enrolled at the night school session
of the Western Massachusetts School of Pharmacy at their Bos-
ton Office and continued until I passed the State Board in Decem-
ber, 1941.

The war years were spent at the Hingham High School teach-
ing wartime subjects, aviation science, radio and code, mathe-
matics for war service. My spare time was spent in conducting
a real estate and insurance business for my mother and father, a
business that had already been established for many years. My
teaching years spent in various positions, as assistant principal of
the Junior High School, director of Audio-Visual Education and
presently as assistant principal of the Hingham High School,
have been most interesting and inspiring, for in these various
positions I have had the pleasure of counseling many boys into
making Harvard their choice of college.

In January, 1952, I was granted a leave of absence from my
school position to start the Washington Park Pharmacy on Route
3, Norwell, Massachusetts, a fast-growing town next to my home
town. Entering into its fifth year of operation, I am rightly
proud of its accomplishment and justly humble to my many
friends who lent me their loyal support and encouragement. Any
spare time I can find between my duties as assistant principal
and pharmacist finds me seeking the quiet haven of the woods
and hills of Melvin Village, New Hampshire.

Under the wise care and understanding guidance of my wife,
two wonderful children make my home life one of which to be
justly proud. Jack, Jr., is enrolled as a freshman at the Massa-
chusetts College; George is a third-grader in our local elemen-
tary school. |

[ 207 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

RALPH EDWARD CASEY

HOME Appress: Tingley Road, Washington Valley, Morristown, N_J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: American Merchant Marine Institute, Inc., 11 Broadway,
New York, N.Y,

BorN: May 25, 1911, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Edward Joseph Casey, Ger-
trude Vincent Prowse.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; LL.B., 1935; LL.M. (George-
town Law School), 1941.

MarRIED: Virginia Mae Weddleton, Sept. 2, 1939, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Edward George, Aug. 6, 1940; Richard Warren, July 10, 1941; Bar-
bara-Ann and Bette Marie (twins), Jan. 13, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Warren Albert Casey, ’34, M.B.A., 36.

occuPATION: President, American Merchant Marine Institute, Inc., trade
association representing majority of American-flag shipping companies.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington; Annapolis Yacht Club; Ann-

apolis Country Club; Propeller Club; Whitehall Club; Downtown
Athletic Club.

IMMEDIATELY upon graduation from Law School I began the
private practice of law in Boston. This I knew would be no Sun-
day School picnic, but little did I suspect the “booby-traps” that
were ahead. All I can say is that during these first few years I
went through a toughening-up process that has made the bumps
of later life a lot easier to take.

In 1939 I went to Washington and entered the Government
service as an auditor in the General Accounting Office. Shortly
thereafter, I was married and simultaneously entered Georgetown
Law School as a candidate for a Master of Laws degree. I ad-
vanced through various levels of the Government service until
1948 when I was appointed associate general counsel in the Gen-
eral Accounting Office. In 1950 I was detailed to Capitol Hill
to serve as chief counsel for a Congressional Committee investi-
gating defense expenditures. For eighteen months I was engaged
in every conceivable type of investigation, varying from one
involving an Army general who had an Army truck transport
some shrubbery from the Middle West to his farm in Maryland
for transplanting (he was later court-martialed, reduced to the
rank of colonel and transferred to India), to another case involv-
ing three promoters who with $600.00 invested capital almost

[ 208 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

succeeded in obtaining a government loan of some two million
dollars to build a steel plant. This very interesting period cul-
minated in a trip abroad on an Army Constellation plane with
members of the Congressional Committee to survey the airfields
of Western Europe, North Africa and the Azores. In ten days
we flew 14,000 miles and visited London, Paris, Naples, Rome and
Casablanca. Towards the end of the 82d Congress I returned to the
General Accounting Office and resumed my duties as associate
general counsel.

Beginning in 1942 I had been increasingly involved in matters
affecting the American Merchant Marine. I was in the middle of
the much-publicized controversy between the Comptroller Gen-
eral and the former Maritime Commission over the subsidy con-
tracts for the super-liner, United States, and the liners, Independ-
ence and Constitution. Though most often in the role of an ad-
versary to merchant marine interests, I was appointed chief coun-
sel of the House Merchant Marine and Fisheries Committee with
the beginning of the 84th session. I served in this capacity
throughout the first session and part of the second session of that
Congress before being nominated and elected as president of the
American Merchant Marine Institute. This organization repre-
sents by far the great majority of the American-flag shipping
companies in matters pertaining to the negotiation of labor con-
tracts, maritime legislation, public relations, and a myriad of
other activities having to do with the shipping business. The
principal office of the organization is in New York City, and this
move necessitated a complete change in locale for the entire fam-
ily. We are presently very comfortably situated in Washington
Valley out past Morristown, New Jersey, where it is not unusual
to see deer grazing in the field across the road from the house at
breakfast time. We have acres of ground on each side of us and
right now, with the turn of the foliage, it is certainly a beautiful
Piece of country.

So much for my business career, I don’t know that I would
have had it turn out any differently, though as a matter of hind-
sight, I think at times I went out of my way to make mistakes.
But actually my family life has been the compensating factor at

all times. Virginia and the children have been loyal and devoted.

[ 209 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

They have taken the bad with the good and have shared equally
in success and failure. I only hope the next twenty-five years
produce for them the happiness they have earned and richly
deserve.

+ ALFRED LOWREY CASTLE, JR.

BorN: July 8, 1910, Honolulu, Hawaii. parents: Alfred Lowrey Castle,
Ethelinda Schaefer.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Oahu College, Honolulu, Hawaii.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1032.

marrieD: Divorced. crn: Alison, Dec. 11, 1935.

pieD: Nov. 3, 1937, Honolulu, Hawaii.

AFTER leaving Harvard, Castle took a course at the Babson
Business School and then returned home where he spent a year
working in his father’s law office. Later he was a clerk in the
Matson Navigation Company in San Francisco, but in 1935 re-
turned to Honolulu where he took a position with the Bishop
Insurance Agency.

HENRY JOSEPH CATALDO

HOME appress: 9 Whitman Rd., Quincy, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 131 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 5, 1911, Medford, Mass, parENts: Massimino Cataldo, Angelina
Luciano. |

PREPARED AT; Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; LLB., 1936.

Marriep; Georgina M. Nazzaro, Oct. 12, 1939, Dorchester, Mass. CHILD:
Joanne Marie, June 11, 1943.

occupaTion: Attorney-at-law; regional counsel, Boston Office, Small Busi-
ness Administration.

MEMBER OF: Holy Name Society; Archdiocesan Council of Catholic Men;
Harvard Law School Association.

I KNOW how the “Man in the Gray Flannel Suit” must have.
felt when asked for an autobiographical statement of his experi-
ences and accomplishments in connection with his application for
employment. I find it difficult to write about myself at the risk
of boring my former classmates with a recounting of twenty-

[210]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

five years of normal living, fortunately devoid of unusual or ex-
traordinary disappointments on the one hand, and yet unproduc-
tive of phenomenal achievements on the other.

Upon graduation, I decided to study law. After receiving my
LL.B. at the University, I joined the ranks of a then over-popu-
lated brotherhood of struggling attorneys who, in those days, had
little difficulty reducing valid claims to judgments, or should we
say uncollectible albeit liquidated expectancies, with the promise
of fees having no greater stability than the vesting of rights under
a contingent remainder. The general practice of law gave no
immediate assurance of adequate cash reserves for one making
plans for marriage and the assumption of added responsibilities.
Accordingly, I accepted a position with the United States Gov-
ernment and have been happy practising law in the federal service
ever since.

In 1939 I married a wonderful girl. Georgina and I wanted
three children; we were blessed with one daughter, Joanne, who
is just as precious to us as six little Indians could be to anyone
else. Joanne is a normal child in her teens, admires Elvis Presley,
leads cheers vigorously at her school football games, has many
noisy friends, plays the piano and just recently came home from
class with a violin to add to her musical accomplishments and
enhance, we hope, our appreciation of the highest of the fine arts.
We now live in Quincy, Massachusetts, having moved from Dor-
chester in the spring. |

I was drafted in December of 1943 and took a trolley to North
Station under escort en route to Fort Devens, leaving Fields Corner,
Dorchester, at four-thirty in the morning of the day after Christ-
mas. At the Induction Center, our select group was welcomed,
clothed and processed. Orientation films were shown with a
promise that we would be placed in manner befitting our apti-
tudes and capabilities. I’ll never forget the picture of a pigmy
trying to make a basket when opposed by an elongated profes-
Sional over six feet tall. The Army would examine and test us
to avoid the illustrated example of the wrong man for the particu-
lar responsibility, we were told. In my case the Army encour-
aged a career with the Infantry and in July of 1944 or there-
abouts, I joined ranks with the 28th Infantry Division, Company
H, 1ogth Infantry Regiment, outside of St. Lo, Normandy,

[arr ]

aspnhisbiniats otc OAT ae

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

France, as a heavy 30 cal. water-cooled machine gunner. After
an extensive tour of Europe, I returned home and “graduated”
from Camp Stewart, Georgia, in the fall of 1945 with the rank of
sergeant. I am proud of my military record and wouldn’t ex-
change my experiences for a million dollars.

At present, I am regional counsel for the Small Business Ad-
ministration in Region I, which comprises all of the New England
States with the exception of Connecticut. The work is most
interesting and the practice of law under the program both varied
and challenging.

PAUL JOSEPH CATINELLA
SEE Appendix.

EPHRON CATLIN, JR.

HOME ApprEss: 96 Eliot St., South Natick, Mass,
OFFICE ADDRESS: First National Bank of Boston, 67 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 26, 1910, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Ephron Catlin, ’06, Emma
Drew.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Priscilla Saltonstall, Nov. 22, 1935, Topsfield, Mass. cumtp: Ephron,
3d, Feb. 11, 1940. -

occupation: Vice-president, First National Bank of Boston, head of Business
Development Division.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Greater Boston Chamber of
Commerce; treasurer, Massachusetts Business Development Corporation,
Wells Memorial Association, Cerebral Palsy Association of Massachu-

setts, College Community Research Center, member of corporation,
Children’s Medical Center.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club; Dedham Country & Polo Club; India Wharf
Rats’ Club.

THE twenty-five years since leaving college have been, on the
whole, pleasant. On the business side, after a number of instruc-

tive, if not particularly profitable, years in Wall Street brokerage
and commodity houses, followed by a period in the utility and

apparatus sales field, I finally backed into the banking business
[ 212]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

as an industrial analyst with the First National Bank of Boston.

This led to general banking work and, in time, to helping the

resident of the bank with some of the problems that confront

the holders of such jobs in large banks. In time, as is not unusual
in banks, I was made a vice-president and finally head of the Busi-
ness Development Division. This is both pleasant and interesting, as
the bank’s dominant position in New England and its world-wide
business make the problems and general atmosphere quite similar
to the large New York banks without the inconvenience of living
in that city. In addition, my job requires me to get into various
legislative, political and civic affairs as well as ordinary bank
roblems.

We had a good time on Long Island in the ’30s and have had
an even better one in Boston since then. We play golf badly,
go to Maine in the summer, do a good deal of skiing — climaxed
by a trip to Austria and Switzerland last winter with Bob Liver-
more and wife. We get to Bermuda once in a while and particu-
larly like it there.

Like many people in Boston, I have spent a good deal of time
working for the Community Fund and raising money for almost
every cause. Being responsible for watching legislative matters
affecting the bank, I play around the edge of politics and would
like to have time to do more of it. Also, I make a hobby of try-
ing to get some football players to Harvard. This can be very

frustrating under existing admission policies but there have been
a few rewarding moments in the stadium.

MARIO CESARE CATURANI
SEE Appendix.

JOHN NICHOLAS CHAGARIS

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Tavern Rd., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 881 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

30RN: July 17, 1911, Boston, Mass. Parents: Nicholas John Chagaris, Stella
Kintis.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

[213]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933. DEGREES: A.B. 1932(33); Ep... (Boston Teach-
ers Coll.), 1934.

occuPATION: Supervisor, Unemployment Insurance, Massachusetts Division
of Employment Security.

MEMBER OF: Appalachian Mountain Club.

U.S. ARMY, World War II, 1943-46. No foreign service.

RENE CHERONNET CHAMPOLLION

HOME appress: Croydon Road, Newport, N.H.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Fortnight Magazine, 748 N. La Cienga Blvd., Los Angeles 46,
Calif

BORN: Sept. 21, 1909, Rumson, N.J. parents: Andre Chéronnet-Champol-
lion, ’oz, Adelaide Strong Knox.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Stella Mallett, June 30, 1949, Los Angeles, Calif.

occupation: Magazine publishing, advertising salesman, regional representa-
tive,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York (formerly); Advertising Club of |

Los Angeles (formerly); Blue Mountain Forest, Fish & Game Club,
Newport, New Hampshire.

I SPENT the first year after graduation in Vienna, Austria,
studying the German language and history with a view to enter-
ing the foreign service or the field of education. Neither was
practicable at the time, but the study of languages became an
enduring hobby. Always familiar with French, I have since ac-
quired a good command of Italian, Spanish and Russian. Besides
being an end in itself, it opened up a large vista in the study of
European history and culture, which has been a life-long pursuit
and satisfaction.

A brief period of employment at Time magazine led me into
a new publishing venture, Cue magazine in New York, where I was
engaged in advertising and sales promotion until entering the
Army in 1941.

My war record includes service with the Counter-Intelligence
Corps, the Army Air Corps and the Office of Strategic Services.
It covered all of North Africa, a piece of Asia Minor, plus Italy,
France, England and Germany. Duties included liaison with

[214]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

allied personnel, security measures, also counter-espionage and
counter-sabotage activity. _

After the war I settled in Los Angeles, where I helped found
Fortnight magazine, a publication concerned with the West
Coast, its politics, economics and phenomenal expansion. My
wife and I returned to Newport, New Hampshire, my old family
home, in 1954.

_] have traveled on business, pleasure or wartime duty in most
of Western Europe, including a large part of the Soviet Union,
North Africa, Asia Minor, the West Indies, parts of South and
Central America, Hawaii, Alaska and in forty-five of our states.

Outdoor hobbies include hunting, fishing, skiing, tennis, and
natural history. I am usually a Republican, but have been known
to deviate, and I attend the same 1¢ Episcopal church where I was
baptized.

SUKYOON CHANG.

LAST KNOWN apprEss: Seoul, Korea. __
Born: April 13, 1907, Hongseong, Korea. parents: Kiseol Chang, Mary Kim.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

CHANG has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since
1932.

SIDNEY ASHLEY CHANLER

HOME AppRESS: 3 E. 86th St., New York 28, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % H. Lee Lurie, 10 E. goth St., New York 16, N.Y.

BoRN: Nov. 16, 1907, Great Neck, Long Island, N.Y. parents: William Astor
_ Chanler, Beatrice Ashley.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

OccuPaTion: Business.

[215 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

LAURENCE MINOT CHANNING

HOME ADDRESS: 32 Crafts Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass.
OFFICE appress: 15 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: July 30, 1910, Wareham, Mass. parents: Henry Morse Channing, ’oz,
Katharine Minot.

PREPARED AT: Rivers School, Brookline, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; LL.B., 1937.

marriep: Mary Laighton Carter, July 12, 1941, Rye, N.H. cuitpren: Lau-
rence Minot, Jr, May 13, 1942; Ruth Katharine, Nov. 27, 1945; Anne
Elizabeth, Jan. 31, 1949.

occupation: Attomey-at-Law.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Unitarian Service Committee, Inc.; secretary,
Voluntary Defenders Committee, Inc.; member, Standing Committee,
Trustees of Reservations; director, Aeolian-Skinner Organ Company,
Inc. American Twine & Fabric Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Badminton & Tennis Club.

AFTER my graduation from college I spent a year in Washing-
ton as a secretary to Honorable Robert J. Bulkley, United States
Senator from Ohio. Thereafter, I attended the Harvard Law
School from which I graduated in 1937. On my admittance to
the Bar I spent three years with the Voluntary Defenders Com-
mittee, an organization started in 1937 by a group of forward-
looking attorneys here in Boston to provide defense to indigent
persons charged with criminal offenses. I joined the Price Divi-
sion of the Office of Price Administration in October, 1941. I
served as an attorney in and later as chief counsel for the Pulp
and Paper Branch of the Price Division and finally as its acting
head in Washington. In 1945 I returned to Boston to the practice
of the law which I have followed since.

My observation of the two world wars brought a conviction
that one should make such contribution as one can to less for-
tunate persons in other lands, and that the Unitarian Service
Committee provided a vehicle for so doing in the broadest sense
of liberal Christianity. I have derived great satisfaction from
this activicy and from the wider awareness it has brought me.
I am extremely fortunate in having a happy family life and three
children, all of whom give promise of being able to give more
than their father to the world around them. I derive a great deal
of pleasure from various outdoor activities. Although a con-
firmed Cape Codder and ardent sailor, I have learned to enjoy

[216]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the woods and hills of Vermont through a farm my good wife
brought into the family. This has led me to an interest in fores-
try and a membership in the New England Forestry Foundation.
I am thankful in a minor way to be able to chase a tennis ball as
well as ever, and in a major way to have had the fun of teaching
the children what little I know about what I have found to be

worth while.

WALTER CHANNING, JR.

HOME apprEss: Dedham Street, Dover, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Browning Laboratories, Winchester, Mass.
Born: April 16, 1908, Nice, France. PARENTS: Walter Channing, ’08, Cornelia

Post Higbee.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES A.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Elaine Taylor, Dec. 19, 1936, Rye, N.Y. cHiLpREN; Nina, April 23,
1938; Walter, 3d, Sept. 23, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Emlen Channing, 733.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and treasurer, Browning Laboratories.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Finance Committee and trustee, Dover Church; di-
rector of communications, Dover Civilian Defense.

MEMBER OF: Dedham Country & Polo Club; New Bedford Yacht Club; In-
stitute of Radio Engineers; Delphic Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles, including “Laminated Metals,” in Electrical

Manufacturing.

AFTER graduation from the Great University, I spent eight
years in the investment business, followed by a series of positions
in manufacturing, first at the D. E. Makepeace Company in Attle-
oro, Massachusetts, and recently at the Browning Laboratories.
Hlere we make a half dozen or so instruments used primarily in
radio and broadcasting work and produce moderate quantities
of a special purpose F.M. receiver called Multiplex, which is
inding increasing use in the background music field. This multi-
lex system developed by Browning is of great interest to the
rroadcast industry, as it permits one F.M. transmitter to send
ut two programs in addition to the main channel in either voice,
usic or facsimile.

The Channing family has lived in the same house in Dover
or the last twenty years. Every winter we have taken off for

[217]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

a week or two of skiing. Summer vacations are spent cruising
the New England Coast. Last year’s vacation was extended to
include New Brunswick, and the family sailed up the St. John
River, over the reversing falls into Grand Lake, then back along
the coast to South Dartmouth — an interesting trip.

RICHARD DAVIS CHASE

HOME ADDRESS: 1215 S. 16th St, Las Vegas, Nev.
OFFICE ADDRESS: P.O. Box 1391, Las Vegas, Nev.

BORN: March 31, 1910, Ware, Mass. parents: Arthur Chase, Alice Rond-
thaler.

PREPARED AT: Ware High School, Ware, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

occupation: Building Construction Superintendent.

THEODORE CHASE

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Sheffield, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 11, 1909, Dedham, Mass. PaRENts: Stephen Chase, ’86, Daisy C.
Taylor.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932.

marrieD: Anne Ramsey Hoguet, Sept. 19, 1942, Locust Valley, Long Island,
N.Y. cuipren: Mary Ramsey, Nov. 26, 1946; Anne Lowndes, Jan. 26,
1951, George Bigelow, May 14, 1954.

OccUPATION: Dairy farmer.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, Southern Berkshire Dairy Herd Improve-
ment Association, 1950-53.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Massachusetts Farm Bureau; South-
ern Berkshire Dairy Herd Improvement Association.

AFTER a couple of odd jobs, I started in the investment business
in Boston in late 1934 and finally wound up with the firm of
Ballou, Adams & Whittemore in 1935. This pleasant association
ended in 1939, shortly after the outbreak of World War II and at
the time of my mother’s death. I moved to New York where
I worked for an investment trust. When the draft came along in
late 1940, I received a 4-F classification. Finding this was due
to a faulty diagnosis, I enlisted in February, 1941, in the New

[218]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

York Seventh Regiment, which was shortly taken into federal
service as the zo7th Regiment C.A.A.A., and sent to Camp
Stewart, Georgia. In May, 1942, I was sent to the Anti-Aircraft
O.C.S. at Camp Davis, North Carolina, and ninety days later as
a second lieutenant was shipped to Barrage Balloon Training
Center (part of the A.A. Command), Camp Tyson, Tennessee.
I attended the Balloon School there for a month, at which point
I returned to New York on leave and got engaged. The follow-
ing month I was married in Locust Valley, Long Island.

The day after the wedding my wife and I flew to Tennessee.
I was assigned to a unit and the subsequent nine months were
spent in training recruits. In July, 1943, the unit, 1ozd Barrage
Balloon Battery, was ordered overseas. Our mission was to fly
small barrage balloons off landing craft on various amphibious
adventures around the Mediterranean, and in between times to
fly a static barrage around port installations. Half the outfit had
been with the Navy for Sicily, then came Salerno, Christmas at
Naples, Anzio in February, then Rome and north. In August
back to regroup for Southern France, landing at St. Raphael
with the Seventh Army. Christmas at Marseilles and all A.A.
troops in the theatre reassigned. I went to the Transportation
Corps and with it through eastern France into Germany. Finally
home via Antwerp on the good ship, John Harvard (a Liberty
ship), arriving in Boston Harbor on October 14, 1945. Shortly
thereafter I was released from active duty with the rank of
captain. |

While I was in Italy my wife had bought a farm in Sheffield.
In October, 1946, I went to the University of Massachusetts
where I attended the two-year course in animal husbandry, grad-
uating in the spring of 1948. Since then we have been living
here and have accumulated a dairy herd (Holsteins and Jerseys)
of twenty-eight cows and eighteen head of young stock, as well
as the children mentioned elsewhere. Last summer we were very
pleased to have been selected one of the three Massachusetts
winners in the New England Green Pastures Contest.

My hobbies are still shooting and skiing, but as a dairy herd
takes constant supervision as well as a lot of hard work, I find
less and less time for sports except occasional moments when I

[219]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

can sneak away. On the other hand the satisfaction of raising
top crops and high-producing cows is more than compensating.
I am also active in local farm and soil conservation groups.
Country life does wonders for the children, and is infinitely
preferable to my wife, a New York City girl, and to myself, to
an urban or suburban existence. We are both Republicans, my

wife is Catholic and, of course, the children are being raised in
that faith.

FRANCIS SARGENT CHEEVER

HOME Appress: 131 Yorkshire Drive, Pittsburgh 8, Pa.

OFFICE appress: Graduate School of Public Health, University of Pittsburgh,
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.

BorN: Aug. 20, 1909, Wellesley, Mass. pAreNTs: David Cheever, ’97, Jane
Welles Sargent.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1932; M.D. 1936.

MarRiED: Julia Whitney Martin, June 27, 1942, Ridgefield, Conn. CHILDREN:
Francis Sargent, Jr. Oct. 29, 1943; Julia Whitey, Nov. 4, 1944; George
Martin, Jan. 13, 1947; Henry Jackson, Jan. 20, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: David Cheever, Jr., °31, M.B.A., 34; Charles Ezekiel Chee-
ver, 34; Daniel Sargent Cheever, ’39, A.M. "47, PH.D., '48.

OccuPATION: Physician; professor of microbiology, Graduate School of
Public Health and lecturer in microbiology, School of Medicine, Uni-
versity of Pittsburgh.

OFFICES HELD: Consultant, U.S. Public Health Service, since 1952, Armed
Forces Epidemiological Board, since 1953; secretary-treasurer, Ameri-

can Association of Immunologists, since 1954; director, Enteric Disease
Commission, Armed Forces Epidemiological Board, since 1955.
MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical So-
ciety; Pennsylvania Medical Society; American Public Health Associa-
tion; American Association of Immunologists; American Epidemiologi-
cal Society; Society of American Bacteriologists; New York Academy
of Sciences; American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene;
Harvard Club of Western Pennsylvania; Harvard Club of New York;
Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club of Pittsburgh; University Club (Pitts-
burgh); Rolling Rock Club (Pittsburgh); Somerset Club (Boston).

PUBLICATIONS: Various scientific articles in professional journals and text-

books.

AFTER graduation I entered the Harvard Medical School. I was
permitted to take my second year in Cambridge University, Eng-

[ 220]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Jand, as the Lionel deJersey Harvard Fellow at Emmanuel Col-
lege, as successor to Oscar Sutermeister, ’32. This was a good
year which I enjoyed immensely. I rejoined my class in the
autumn of 1934. Following graduation in 1936, I went to New
York for two years as medical house officer at the Presbyterian
Hospital. As internships go this was one of the best. An excellent
and devoted staff taught me some medicine, and on my evenings
off duty I went to the theatre to the limits of my pocketbook.

While at medical school I had fallen under the spell of the late
Hans Zinsser, of “Rats, Lice, and History” fame. In the fall of
1938 I returned to Harvard to work under him in the Depart-
ment of Bacteriology and Immunology. The war interrupted
this. In college I had taken Naval Science and had been com-
missioned ensign, U.S.N.R. Later, at the appropriate moment, I
transferred from the line to the medical corps. In May, 1941, I
was called to active duty as a lieutenant j.g. After a summer of
malaria control work with the Marines at the recently acquired
site of Camp LeJeune in North Carolina, I spent three years at
the Naval Medical School, training doctors and corpsmen in the
epidemiology and control of infectious diseases. In June, 1942,
I was married to Julia Whitney Martin. In November, 1944, I
was assigned to U.S. Naval Medical Research Unit No. 2, and
sent to the Pacific. The backbone of this unit was drawn from
the staff of the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research. Head-
quarters were established in Guam but I was soon sent to Oki-
nawa for three months as part of a small reconnaissance group to
investigate threatening but fortunately exaggerated reports fur-
nished by medical intelligence. Our work was completed soon
after the island was secured. After a brief stay in Guam I was
assigned to the supply train of the fleet in Leyte Gulf in the
Philippines because of an outbreak of dysentery. V-J Day and
the gradual dispersal of the ships solved the problem. Ultimately,
the “Magic Carpet” took me home in time for Christmas and a
release to inactive duty, with the rank of commander, in March,
1946. It was a curious feeling.

After taking stock I cast my vote for the academic life and
returned to Harvard for teaching and research in microbiology
and infectious diseases. At the end of three years, a realistic ap-
praisal of Harvard’s necessarily pyramidal table of academic or-

[ 221 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

ganization convinced me that all good things must come to an
end, and so I accepted the position of professor of microbiology
at the newly established School of Public Health in Pittsburgh.
Starting a new school from scratch has been instructive. Re-
search, and the teaching of medical and public health students,
plus the inevitable administrative chores, occupy me principally,
while various consultant jobs to the Armed Forces and the U.S.
Public Health Service take me out of town too often for peace
in the family. The move away from New England has made me
all the more aware of Harvard’s many virtues, and of the debt
that I owe to the University.

Outside of professional activities, I am not particularly active
in civic affairs but my wife more than makes up for my defects
in this regard. Our four children are growing up as good Pitts-
burghers and looked askance at us when we voted for Stevenson
in 1956. The foothills of the Alleghenies are close enough to give
us a taste of country life on weekends. For the summer vacation,
we head back to New England and salt water — notably Buzzards
Bay. In the future, “when the children grow up,” more travel is
in order unless, as my wife predicts, I shall find myself too old
to enjoy it.

WARREN HUNNEWELL CHILD, JR.

HOME ApprEss: Perkinsville, Vt.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Vermont Homecraft, Perkinsville, Vt.

BorN: Dec. 9, 1909, Hingham, Mass. parents: Warren H. Child, ’o2, Sybil
Adams Hodges.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

Marriep: Lois Treat Petersen, Oct. 9, 1936, Cohasset, Mass. CHILDREN:
Betsey Hunnewell, Sept. 18, 1943; Linda Treat, Oct. 25, 1948.

occupation: Contractor, house builder and cabinet-maker.

SAMUEL DALLAS CHILDERS

HOME ADDRESS; 808 E, Oak St., West Frankfort, Il.
OFFice appress: Route 2, Carbondale, Ill.

[222 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

porN: March 13, 1908, Hewin, Ill. parents: Samuel Grover Childers, Eliza
Agnes Flowers.

PREPARED AT: Frankfort Community High School, West Frankfort, TIL;
Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

marrieD: Wilma Arlene Carlton, May 18, 1934, West Frankfort, Ill. ci-
DREN: Susan Jill, Dec. 8, 1936; James Richard, April 18, 1939.

occuPATION: Owner, Childers Poultry & Feed Company.

I WORKED for Swift & Company until the start of World War
II. I gave flight instruction at Bowman Airbase, Louisville, a short
while and then went to work for the Atlas Powder Company
T.N.T. plant at Paducah, Kentucky. For the past five years I
have been in the poultry and egg business.

My daughter, Susan, is a junior at Southern Illinois University.
Son Richard is a senior in high school and plans to enter the Uni-
versity of Illinois next year. |

: . : .f

4s GEORGE BURTON CHRISTENSEN

BORN: July 19, 1909, Menominee, Mich. parents: Peter Christensen, Sophia
Sorenson.

PREPARED AT: Menominee High School, Menominee, Mich,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1032.: DEGREE: A.B., 1932 (33).

MARRIED: Barbara Alberts. cup: Dana, Jan. §, 1951.

piIED; July 12, 1951, Tuxedo Park, N.Y.

wipow: Mrs, George B. Christensen, Harbor Hill Road., Woods Hole, Mass.

GEORGE BURTON CHRISTENSEN was assistant to the late
Fulton Oursler, editor of Liberty magazine, until 1939 when he
went to Tuxedo Park, New York, to assume the office of secre-
tary of the Tuxedo Park Association. He was also active in real
estate business.

In February of 1943 he entered the U.S. Army and was sta-
tioned at the New York Port of Embarkation in Orangeburg,
New York. In November, 1945, he returned to Tuxedo Park.
In March of 1951 he started a new career with the Fanmour
Shipping and Trading Corporation in New York City.

He died on July 12, 1951, at the Tuxedo Park Memorial Hos-
pital, survived by his wife and a daughter, Dana.

[ 223 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

CHARLES MERRITT CLARK

HOME aporESS: 14 Clark Ave., Derby, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Birmingham National Bank, Derby, Conn.

BorN: March 7, 1909, Derby, Conn. parents: Frank Merritt Clark, ’o2,
Mary Sterling Atwater.

PREPARED AT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929. pecREE: ck. American Inst. of Banking, ’34.

marrieD: Georgette B. Anderson, May 29, 1931, Brooklyn, N.Y. cHipren:
Merritt Charnley, June 20, 1934; Patricia Stoddart, Aug. 6, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Charnley Clark, ’37.

OCCUPATION: Assistant cashier, Birmingham National Bank.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Derby-Shelton Branch, American Red Cross, 1928-
29, Derby Public Library, since 1939, St. James Episcopal Church, 1956;
member board of governors, New Haven Chapter, American Institute
of Banking, 1941-43, 1948-53; president, Derby-Shelton Board of Trade,
1948; member, Board of Apportionment and Taxation, Derby, since
1955-

AFTER one year at Harvard, I followed the well-trodden family

path into the local commercial bank as the fourth generation’s

representative. How my grandfather and his father would spin
if they could see today’s small-town banking — installment loans,

Series “E” bonds, pay-as-you-go checking accounts, Government

Bills, G.I. mortgages, corporation income tax, C of I's and
machines everywhere.

Most of the last twenty-five years have been spent bringing
up our two children, trying to prepare them and us for the two
graduations which came off this spring — one at Dartmouth, the
other at Northfield. The usual small-town routine of piano and
dancing lessons, poker and bridge, rented apartments and then
our own home, politics and book clubs, air-raid wardening and
grass-cutting with every bit of it interesting and a lot of fun.

Until this year we have been stay-at-homes with the exception
of vacation trips as far as Maine, Quebec and Williamsburg, but we
finally achieved our goal in April and took six weeks to see south-
ern England, Copenhagen and Paris.

Politics as politics have not interested me (how can they when
the town is seventy-five percent Democratic?) but I have thor-
oughly enjoyed doing my non-political bit on the city’s financial
board.

[ 224]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE ROBERTS CLARK

HOME ApprEss: W. Valley Green Road, Flourtown, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Girard Trust Corn Exchange Bank, Broad & Chestnut
Streets, Philadelphia 2, Pa.

BORN: Jan. 12, 1910, Cynwyd, Pa. parents: Percy Hamilton Clark, ’96, Eliza-
beth Williams Roberts.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.B.A., 1934.

marrirD: May Denckla Howe, Sept. 18, 1937, Chestnut Hull, Philadelphia,
Pa.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Percy Hamilton Clark, Jr., ’30,; Thomas Williams Clark,
"34; William Lincoln Clark, ’36; John Roberts Clark, ’38, David Wil-
liams Clark, °42.

OCCUPATION: Commercial banking; senior vice-president, Commercial and
Banking Department.

OFFICES HELD: Member of board, Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia,
1939-52, Friends of Wissahickon, since 1956, Philadelphia General
Hospital, 1952-53; member, Board of Health, City of Philadelphia,
1952-56; vice-president and treasurer, 1953-56, president, since Jan-
uary, 1957, Pennsylvania Horticultural Society; trustee, since 1946, vice-
president, since 1955, Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia;
member, Cheltenham-Whitemarsh-Springfield Disposal Authority,
since 1956.

MEMBER OF: American Ornithologists Union; American Horticultural So-
ciety; National Audubon Society; Royal Horticultural Society; North
American Lily Society; Morris Arboretum (associate) ; Philadelphia So-
ciety for Promotion of Agriculture; Delaware Valley Ornithologists
Club; Zoological Society of Philadelphia; Harvard Club of Philadelphia.

PUBLICATIONS: Assisted James P. Baxter in writing, Scientist Against Time,
history of science during World War II, awarded the Pulitzer Prize
for History in 1946.

WRITING a brief autobiographical sketch has caused me to go
into more of a tailspin than the situation warrants.

Believing that outside interests reveal more of one’s personality
than one’s job, I will start by discussing a few of my innumerable
hobbies, While at college I took a few advanced courses in zool-
ogy, which J barely managed to get through, and followed up
with an expedition to Trinidad, collecting South American birds
in the area where most of them had been originally described.
My enthusiasm for studying ornithology has broadened into a
wider interest in all natural history. Today I am active in the

[225 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

board and shortly thereafter had the added responsibility of being
appointed to the Board of Health of the City of Philadelphia.
During the summer months sailing, mostly in the form of cruis-
ing, gives me great pleasure particularly on the Maine coast, but
usually my wife and I travel during our vacation. Other avoca-
tions are philately and photography. These seem to be more a
means of spending money than of achieving any particular dis-
tinction. Liking the outdoors, I am easily persuaded to go fly
fishing or duck shooting if a friend organizes these activities. Not
being a club man myself, I have shown little initiative indulging
in these hobbies.

Having a strong family affiliation with Harvard, I have taken
part in various alumni activities at a low level and served for two
years as president of the Harvard Business School Club of Phila-
delphia.

The vast majority of my friends are Princeton graduates.
Somehow I feel a satisfaction that I have had a richer educational
experience than they and I am affiliated with a higher intellectual
community. Except during the football season my pride in being
a part of the Harvard community gives me a very warm feeling.

RICHARD NORMAN CLARK, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 104 Chestnut St., Boston 8, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Houghton Mifflin Co., 2 Park St. Boston 7, Mass.

BORN: May 1, 1910, Atlanta, Ga. parents: Richard Norman Clark, Sarah
Campbell.

PREPARED AT: Boys’ High School, Atlanta, Ga.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1932.
UN MARRIED.

occuPATION: Editor, College Department, Houghton Mifflin Company.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Musical Association; Modern Language Association.

IT is odd that one who concentrated in English should, twenty-
five years later, be devoting a substantial part of his time trying
to improve the teaching of foreign languages in American col-
leges and universities. Perhaps it all began when I rebelled at
the old-fashioned type of instruction in French I was confronted
with my first week in Harvard College. (I know there have been
changes for the better since that day, and am not here criticizing

[ 228 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

foreign language instruction of 1956 at Harvard, but rather that
which I encountered in 1928.) Twenty-eight years ago I walked
out on the class which annoyed me, took and passed the reading
knowledge examination, and thereupon terminated my formal
instruction in any foreign language.

Two years, 1932-34, at Merton College, Oxford as a Rhodes
Scholar qualifying for an A.B. degree in modern history and
much travel in Europe at that time helped me perfect my lan-
guages, but I did nothing much more with them until the Army
dropped me into the Office of Strategic Services in 1944. ‘Then my
French and German got such a thorough workout that when I
returned to Houghton Mifflin, with whom I had been associated
since 1937, and was offered the job of building a college list in
modern languages I jumped at the chance. - Today I also have
editorial assignments in other fields, but probably the one I enjoy
most is finding and publishing good college texts in French,
Spanish and German. At the moment, the next twenty years
promise to be stimulating and rewarding ones. New ideas and
new methods abound, and American publishers are doing their
share to present them in attractive and usable (and profitable)
form to teachers and students. The most recent one — teaching
modern languages to children in the elementary school — is keep-
ing me busy at the moment, and if it succeeds your grandchildren
will probably amaze you by spouting fluent Spanish at you one
of these days, at an age when they are usually just starting the
third or fourth reader.

Editing the work of others, has, at any rate, provided an outlet
for the expression of all sorts of interests and minor talents, since
the job as I have known it involves not only the written word,
but the accompanying tasks of designing and illustrating and
marketing textbooks. Anyone who thinks such books are dull
should take a look at some of those his children bring home from
school or college. And if he thinks the job of editing them is
dull— well, a day with an editor at work should change his
Opinion,

[229 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

ROBERT BARNETT CLEMENT

HOME ADDRESS: 53 Fair Oaks Pk. Needham 92, Mass.

OFFICE AppREsS: Owens-Illinois Glass Co, 1206 Statler Office Bldg., Boston,
Afass.

porN: Dec. 17, 1909, Kansas City, Mo. Parents: Joseph Claude Clement,
Ruby Barnett.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: AB., 1932.

MARRIED: Rosamond Crosbie, Oct. 6, 1934, Exeter, N.H. cHmtpren: Carolyn,

July 12, 1937; Robert Barnett, Jr, Aug. 21, 1940; Elizabeth, Feb. 20,
1947.

oocupaTIoN: Sales representative for Owens-Illinois Glass Company, glass
container, closure and corrugated carton manufacturer.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-chairman of executive board, First Church of Christ,
Scientist, Needham, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Traveling Men’s Auxiliary, Massachusetts State Pharmaceuti-
cal Association; Boston Druggists’ Association.

FOR most of the past twenty-five years, I have worked for the
Glass Container Division of Owens-Illinois. My several assign-

ments have taken my family and me to Bridgeton, New Jersey;
Toledo, Ohio; Atlanta, Georgia and New York City. I was
happy to be assigned to Boston in 1946. For these past ten years
I have specialized in the production and sales of glass containers,
plastic and metal closures, and corrugated shipping cases to major
accounts in New England in the drug, cosmetic and household
products industries. My business consumes a great deal of my
time.

Leisure hours are spent in looking after our two homes, in
church activity, and on the many and varied jobs connected with
raising a family. We have a summer place on the ocean in New
Hampshire where we all enjoy a three-month change each year
from suburban Boston living. Both my wife and I are busy with
church work at First Church of Christ, Scientist, in Needham.
I am presently vice-chairman of the executive board.

Our oldest child, Carolyn, is a sophomore at Wellesley College.
A son, Bob, is a lower-middler at Phillips Exeter Academy. A
younger daughter, Betsy, is a fourth grader whom we are happy
to have still at home with us.

I feel fortunate to have a business and a family from which I

[ 230 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

derive so much pleasure that I can honestly list them both as
hobbies. The years since graduation have surely been spent in
acquiring and enjoying both.

' NELSON NOYES COCHRANE

HOME ADDRESS: 23 Governor Andrew Rd., Hingham, Mass.

OFFICE aDpRESS: Massachusetts Dept. of Correction, 120 Tremont St., Boston,
_ Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 6, 1909, Bourne, Mass. parents: Albert Hayward Cochrane,
’o9, Hannah Estelle Noyes. . ,

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MaRRIED: Margaret Ionta, Jan. 21, 1950, Weymouth, Mass. curLpren: Bruce
Hayward, Dec. 15, i953; Scott MacDougall, March 1, 1955.

occUPATION: Director of Classification, Massachusetts Department of
Correction.

OFFICES HELD: Occasional offices in various social, professional or recreation-
al organizations of comparatively minor importance.

MEMBER OF: New England Criminological Society; American Correctional
Association, United Prison Association of Massachusetts; Hingham
Tennis Club; Quincy Badminton Club; Sitzenstemmers Ski Club;
Harvard Club of Quincy.

PuBLIcATIoNs: A few articles in correctional journals.

MY criminal career began in the summer of 1932 when I did
volunteer research work for the Massachusetts Department of
Correction. That September I became employed by the Com-
monwealth as an “intern” to learn how to diagnose problems of
maladjustment and plan treatment for individual prisoners. For
that first year I received $500, but could keep only $400 as I had
promised to spend $100 for a graduate course in criminology.
Despite a continuing lack of high salary, I have found this field
to be fascinating as long as one can slough off the frustrations
caused by the lack of equipment, personnel and money needed
for the most effective treatment work. Adequate correctional
treatment of prisoners appears to be an unpopular way to spend
public money. However, I am still with the Massachusetts De-
partment of Correction and still get satisfaction from helping to
improve our operations. My position is Director of Classification
with certain responsibilities for assigning prisoners to the institu-

[231]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

tion most appropriate to each one and for getting the maximum
of individual social casework services out of the rather meager
facilities and personnel provided.

In 1948 I relinquished the security of a Civil Service job as a
head social worker to accept an appointive position as Director
of Classification. A change of administration resulted in my bein
removed from this position in 1951 so that a chap who had been
of political usefulness to the party in power could be substituted.
At the time, this seemed to me to be the end of my criminal
career. However, because I was able to secure employment in New
York in correctional and crime prevention work, I was able to

gain broader experience and learn a lot more about my business.

In early 1953 I was invited back to my old and present position.

In late 1955 and during 1956, things began to improve in the
Department of Correction because able and experienced top lead-
ership was imported and the legislature began to give us more
to work with. Nevertheless, the neglect of many years will not
be remedied in just a couple of legislative sessions. Continued
public support will be necessary to develop a really effective
correctional program in Massachusetts.

For many years after graduation, I continued to play lacrosse
with the Boston Lacrosse Club. I quit active play about 1949
when I found that it was taking me too long to recover from
some of the routine bumps that attack players are expected to
absorb. By continuing to officiate, I still enjoy a form of la-
crosse activity and thus keep in touch with college and prepara-
tory school personnel connected with lacrosse. During other
seasons I play tennis and badminton and ski as much as possible.
Although I am chiefly interested in sports participation, I am still
attracted as a spectator to the stadium during the football season.

At the outset of World War II, I enlisted in the regiment that
later was expanded into the 10th Mountain Infantry Division.
I remained with the same light weapons platoon for the duration,
eventually becoming its platoon sergeant. We were kept bus
in Kiska and were in combat later in Italy, but fortunately the
war halted a planned second expedition for us into the Pacific

Theatre again.
My participation in Civic affairs is currently limited to attend.
ance at Town Mectings, voting conscientiously at every opportu-

[ 232 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

nity, supporting the scholarship drives of my Harvard Club and
yearly participation in one way or another in our Red Feather
solicitation campaigns.

As to politics, although registered as a Republican (so I can
vote in the primaries), I don’t recall ever voting a straight ticket.
However, on occasions in my area I have had to look hard to
find a satisfactory Democrat. It might be the opposite if I lived
in some place such as Philadelphia.

I married late, in 1950, but now have sons aged three and two
years — possibly the youngest offspring of the Class. I now find
that I enjoy gardening, home maintenance, playing with the kids
and general family life even more than my many years of bach-
elor activities. In fact, I am somewhat astonished at how con-
tented I am with my humdrum life as just one member of a small
family in the suburbs.

HAROLD JACOB COHEN

HOME AppreEss: 1 Shepherd Lane, Roslyn Heights, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Telephone & Telegraph Co., 195 Broadway,
New York, N.Y.

BorRN: Feb, 12, 1913, Indianapolis, Ind. parents; David H Cohen, Lottie
Cohen. .

TRANSFERRED FROM: Butler University, Indianapolis, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-32. DEGREES: S.B. magna cum laude, 1932; LL.B. 1935.

MaRRiED: Rena Grace Alpert, June 6, 1937, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Diane Hope, May 2, 1942; Andrew David, March 14, 1944.

occupation: Attorney; legal department, American Telephone & Tele-
graph Company.

MEMBER: American Bar Association; Federal Communications Bar Associa-
tion; Phi Beta Kappa; Tau Kappa Alpha; National Honor Society.

AFTER graduation from the Law School, I was admitted to the
Illinois Bar and then went to Washington, D.C. There I was
employed as an attorney in various federal agencies, principally
the Railroad Retirement Board (1938-41), and the Federal Com-
munications Commission (1936-36, 1941-50, except for a period
in the Navy). At the F.C.C,, I held the positions, among others,
of chief rate counsel and assistant general counsel in the Law
Department. My last position there was that of chief of the then

[ 233 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

newly-established Common Carrier Bureau. While at the F.C.C.,,
I also served as a member of United States government dele-
gations to the International Telegraph Consultative Committee
Conference at Brussels, Belgium, in 1948, the International Tele-
graph and Telephone Conference at Paris, in 1949, and the Lon-
don Telecommunications Conference, in 1949.

In June, 1950, I became associated with the New York City
law firm of Root, Ballantine, Harlan, Bushby & Jalmer, at which
time I took up residence in Roslyn Heights, New York. In Sep-
tember, 1952, I left this law firm to take my present position as
an attorney in the legal department of the American Telephone
& Telegraph Company.

KERMIT COHEN

HOME ADDRESS: 6458 Pemberton Drive, Dallas 30, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dazian’s, Inc., 2014 Commerce St., Dallas 1, Texas.

BORN: Sept. 30, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Harry Cohen, Annie Fader.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932.

marrigD: Florence Rohr, Dec. 5, 1946, New York, N.Y. cHILpreN: Harlan
Peter, March 26, 1948; Nancy Jane, Feb. 17, 1951.

occupation: Branch manager, Dazian’s, Inc., decorative and theatrical fabrics.

DURING the bleak and gray years following 1932, I tried my
hand at selling an assortment of tangibles such as wallpaper and
paint, men’s neckwear, candy, boys’ clothing and the inevitable
intangible, insurance. From this vantage point, I cannot say that
my efforts in these fields were rewarded with crowning success.
In 1939, I became associated with Dazian’s, Inc., converters and
distributors of theatrical and decorative fabrics. With the ex-
ception of three years spent in the service during World War II,
I have been with this organization since then, At the present
time, I am manager of the Dallas stock branch.

The three years that I spent in the Army, from 1943 through
1945, were for the most part, completely devoid of charm. Early
in my military career, I attended an army administration school,
For reasons still unknown to me, 1 was assigned to an ordnance
outfit attached to the Army Air Forces. We went overseas in
August, 1945, to an Eighth Air Force Base in F'ngland and re-

[ 234]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mained there for the duration. I might add that my advancement
in grade was meteoric. Within two months after joining the
company, I was made a private first class. I might have remained
in this exalted grade because I was the last man to join the com-
pany and the T/O was filled. However, when we reached Eng-
land, military regulations were thrown to the winds and I was
made a staff sergeant.

The years following 1945 were crowded with great events.
I met Florence Rohr and we were married in 1946. Our man-
child, Harlan Peter, was born in Boston a year later. In 1949
we settled in Dallas —a lovely city but unbearably hot during
the summer. Nancy Jane, our little lady, came along in 1951.
The children would have me add that the family circle was com-
pleted in 1954 with the acquisition of a fine-looking Boxer named
“Biff.”

It is a little difficult to describe and reveal a family in a sketch
of this kind. Ours is that wonderful combination of joys and
apprehensions, rewards and exasperations that make a happy
family. We have two spirited children who try everything in-
cluding our patience. At this moment, Harley claims most of
my spare time with such varied activities as Cub Scouts, foot-
ball, darts, guided missiles (just the theory of!) and Indian guides.
Were I[ to write these notes next week, the list would be ex-
panded.

As for hobbies, my wife has urged me to play golf but I prefer
to stay close to the hearth and spend what little spare time I have
in reading and listening to music, with particular emphasis on
the latter. We are members of the congregation of Reform
Judaism in Dallas and are generally active in its affairs and the
affairs of the Dallas community in general.

MILTON HOWARD COHEN

HOME appreEss: 195 Green Bay Rd., Hubbard Woods, III.

OFFICE appress: % Dallstream, Schiff, Hardin, Waite & Dorschel, 231 S.
LaSalle St., Chicago 4, Ill.

BORN: Aug. 9, 1911, Milwaukee, Wis. parents: Louis Lappan Cohen, Rose
Horwitz.

PREPARED AT: Riverside High School, Milwaukee, Wis.

[235]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: AB. magna cum laude, 1932; 1.3.
magna cum laude, 1935.

marrieD: Rowna Chaffetz, Sept. 3, 1939, Washington, D.C. cumpren: Louis
Richard, Nov. 28, 1940; Mark Nathan, May 24, 1943; Rosalind, July 22,
1948.

occupation: Attorney; partner in firm of Dallstream, Schiff, Hardin,
Waite & Dorschel.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; Chicago Bar Association; Federal

Power Bar Association; Harvard Club of Chicago; Harvard Law Society
of Illinois; Standard Club.

IN capsule form, I can add up to twenty-five years this way:
3 years— Harvard Law School, Cambridge.

11% years — Securities and Exchange Commission, Washing-
ton and Philadelphia.

10% years — Private law practice, Chicago.

In a little more detail, it goes like this:

With some one hundred of our classmates I entered Harvard
Law School in the fall of 1932. For two years I was an editor of
the Law Review and devoted a remarkable amount of energy and
duodenal tissue to the production of certain legal masterpieces
which now lie entombed in Volumes 47 and 48.

When I got my LL.B. in 1935, the depression and the New
Deal were rampant, and the combination made Washington con-
siderably more alluring than private practice. Washington in
those days was a wonderfully exciting place to live and work in
and, despite all the unglamorous and inglorious connotations asso-
ciated with “feeding at the public trough,” I think I never worked
harder, or enjoyed my work more, than during my years with
the government.

Pretty much by accident I had started at the S.E.C., rather than
some other of the many new agencies in Washington, and I stayed
more than eleven years. During the first few years 1 worked on
early versions of the registration and report forms as well as the
proxy and manipulation rules, and while these have gone through
many later editions, I still occasionally have the pleasure of recog-
nizing survivals of my own draftsmanship in the registration
forms and the proxy and other regulations currently in use.

My later years at the S.E.C. were in the Public Utilities Divi-
sion which administered the Public Utility Holding Company

[ 236 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Act, and for my last three years I was director of that division
or, in other words, chief hatchet man in administering the famous
“death sentence.” Speaking even now with obvious lack of ob-
jectivity, I feel that the complete transformation of the utility
industry under the Holding Company Act was one of the gen-
uinely constructive and important accomplishments of the Roos-
evelt administration, and I am naturally proud to have had a
leading role. Towards the end of my tenure opponents of the
Act made their first major effort to amend it, and I was the Com-
mission’s principal spokesman in resisting amendment and de-
fending the administration of the statute in Congressional hear-
ings. During these years I attained my personal pinnacle of fame
by breaking into Who’s Who (from which I was quietly dropped
an edition or two later) and by being referred to in the course
of a three-column poisoned-pen letter to the editor of the New
York Times in the following fashion:

“How unsound it is to put a lad of thirty-one, like the present
director, still wet with the veneer of a college education, in
charge of a $16,000,000,000 industry!”

Veneer, indeed! What say you to this, men of ’32?

By the end of 1946 I decided it was now or never to begin
private law practice, and I felt the same compulsion to return to
the Middle West, whence I had originally migrated to Cam-
bridge. In 1947 I joined my present law firm in Chicago and for
the past ten years I have practised in the general field of corpo-
rate, financial and utility law. Within this field I have been
blessed with considerable variety in my work, ranging all the
way from natural gas certificate proceedings to transmuting the
St. Louis Browns into the Baltimore Orioles. My only real com-
plaint is that most of my clients seem to be non-Chicagoan, and
those in Chicago seem to have mostly non-Chicago business, so
that I am away from home much more than T like.

Of course, my greatest achievement during the twenty-five
years was to woo and wed a lovely lady named Rowna Chaffetz
(sister of Hammond E. Chaffetz, ’28, LL.B., ’30), without whose
cooperation I could not have produced my three fine children,
two boys and a girl. I have survived being a Cub Scout father
and a Boy Scout father twice, but still have to face being a
Brownie father this year. Hopefully, I will have a son in the

[ 237]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

College in 1958, another one three years later, and now that Rad-
cliffe is considered a respectable place, possibly a daughter there
in 1966.

PHILIP HENRY COHEN

HOME ADDRESS: 344 W. 72d St. New York, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Sullivan, Stauffer, Colwell & Bayles, 477 Madison Ave., New
fork, N.Y.

BORN: Aug. 15, 1911, Honolulu, Hawai, parents: Lee Cohen, Mary Norton.

PREPARED AT: Leonardo High School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1932.

MarrieD: Henriette Herz, Nov. 2, 1936, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN: Philip
Lee, Jan. 30, 1939; William E., Nov. 2, 1941. |

occuPaTIoN: Vice-president, Sullivan, Stauffer, Colwell & Bayles; director

OFFicEsS HELD: Director, U.S. Office of Education Radio Research, Library
of Congress Radio Project, American Broadcasting Station in Europe;
chairman, American Heritage Radio Committee; Institute for Educa-
tion by Radio, 1940-43.

MEMBER OF: The Lambs; Harvard Club of Washington, D.C.

IN my last year in college I became interested in radio broad-
casting when the Harvard Debating Team argued with Oxford
by wireless and ever since then I have stayed in the business. In
1947 some genius added pictures to the business and I was
tempted to quit, but I realized that at the age of thirty-six one
doesn’t start over. At least this one didn’t. I offered... let's
face it, pushed my talents on a brand new advertising agency,
Sullivan, Stauffer, Colwell & Bayles, and there I shall stay.

JAMES GORDON COLBERT

HOME appress: 85 Montview St., West Roxbury 32, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Editors, Inc., 18 Tremont St., Boston 8, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 12, 1909, St. John, N.B., Canada. parents: James Edward Col-
bert, Clara May McDonald.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

margiep: Mary J. Grant, July 17, 1937, Boston, Mass. cHiLprEn; James
Gordon, Jr., Dec. 7, 1938; Mary Elaine, Aug. 7, 1941.

[ 238]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD SON: James Gordon Colbert, Jr., ’60

occuPATION: General manager, Editors, Inc., public relations.

OFFICES HELD: Political columnist and political editor, Boston Post, general
manager and treasurer, Editors, Inc.

WHILE an undergraduate, I worked as Harvard correspondent
for the Boston Post, and I continued with the Post following my
graduation in 1932, becoming, in turn, sports writer, general staff
reporter, City Hall reporter, State House reporter, political col-
umnist and political editor. I remained with the Post until it
suspended publication on October 4, 1956, and at that time
opened a public relations office at 18 Tremont Street, Boston,
with two former executives of the Post.

The experience of spending an adult lifetime with a metro-
politan newspaper which goes out of business just before the
Twenty-fifth Anniversary of your graduation is not one I would
recommend. However, I did have a ringside seat at many of the
big political news events of the past quarter of a century. I cov-
ered the Eisenhower, Truman and Roosevelt presidential cam-
paigns, the Warren and Nixon vice-presidential campaigns, na-
tional conventions of the two political parties, and numerous
contests for election as mayor of Boston, governor of Massachu-
setts and United States senator. While the newspaper for which
I wrote was basically Democratic, the nature of my work pre-
vented any political affiliations on my part, and I found some-
thing to commend, something to criticize in each political party.
I am a registered Democrat but could more properly be classified
as an Independent. There are both Democrats and Republicans
I admire, both Democrats and Republicans in high positions for
whom I have scant esteem.

In 1937, I was married to the former Mary J. Grant and have

a son, James Gordon, Jr., eighteen, now a freshman at Harvard,
and a daughter, Mary Elaine, fifteen, a sophomore at the Girls’
Latin School.
_ At the present time I am writing a political column for a chain
of weekly newspapers, but I am principally absorbed in trying
to get a public relations business underway and have a receptive
and responsive ear for anyone with publicity or public relations
problems of any kind.

[ 239]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

EDWARD BALL COLE

HOME ADDRESS: 1402 Beacon St., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Middlesex County Registry of Deeds, Cambridge, Mass.

BorN: Feb. 17, 1910, Manila, P.I. parents: Edward Ball Cole, ’o2, Mary
Elizabeth Welsh. e

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; LL.B., 1936.

MARRIED: Nancy White, 1935 (divorced 1944); Constance Bethany Rug-
gieri, 1946. CHILDREN: Mary, May 29, 1936; Matilda, May 16, 1938;
Bethany (died Feb. 4, 1950) and Nadine (twins), Nov. 4, 1949; Edward
Ball, 3d, March 30, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Henry Cole, 2d, °30.

occuPATION: Attomey.

AFTER graduating, I tried music and the theatre, sang at the
Copley and in stock company revivals of Victor Herbert, but
after an unprofitable, but glamorous ride in the Rolls Royce of
Lois Moran to the office of Louis Shurr, a well known agent, I
went to law school. I do not intend to be flip about Miss Moran;
she was very helpful to a depression-bound young man. The best
memory of law school was reviewing for first-year final exams
with three friends, James McLaughlin, Graham Clayton and
“Lofty” Becker, our classmate. I remember my discouragement
because they all were so far beyond me in their grasp of the law.
I felt a little better after they all made “Law Review.”

After law school I went into the F.B.I. Good memories here.
I unsuccessfully chased Richard Krebs, who deserted ship in
Norfolk, Virginia, and later appeared as Jan Valtin, author of
Out of the Night. One of the first leads on Nazi spies — a name
— “Maurice.” We found him in the designing room of one of
our aircraft carriers, but could not break him in spite of the fact
that Agent Vetterli, survivor of the “Kansas City Massacre” and
Leon Turrou, famous agents of the F.B.L., took over. The spy
was transferred to the merchant ship division. Apropos of Sen-
ator McCarthy, this man screamed he had been given the third
degree. 1 know the F.B.1. has leaned overboard to protect the
rights of the individual.

After the F.B.I., came work as an investigator for Governor
Bradford, when he was District Attorney in 1939. He hit at civic

[ 240 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

corruption and I feel that my investigations helped in the con-
viction of a mayor of Cambridge, among others. But Governor
Bradford’s conviction of a Saltonstall-appointed head of the De-
partment of Public Works was the greatest prop to support a
sagging Republican Party at that time. It was a demonstration
of impartiality seldom equalled.

The war — commanding officer, LST 654 — commander, LSM
Group 44. Good memory — serving under “Sandy” Forbes.

Since the war. A period in 1952, when I investigated for the
Republican State Committee and dug up things for Sumner
Whittier and Charles Gibbons to talk about in the Senate and the
House, such as M.D.C. contracts and land damage cases.

The best though — Mary at Vassar and a good actress; Matilda
at Radcliffe, a soloist with their choir, Nadine, the most precious
thing — a seven-year-old girl; and Eddie, I’m afraid to discipline
him, because he will be able to lick me when he is ten.

HARRISON WELLS COLE

HOME ApprEss: 49 Burns St., Forest Hills, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Y% Johns-Manville Co. 22 E. goth St., New York, N.Y.

BorN; Sept. 18, 1910, Brooklyn, N.Y. parents: Jesse Atwood Cole, Alice
Wells.

PREPARED AT: Northwood School, Lake Placid Club, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.B.A. (New York Univ),
1949.

MarRRIED: Eleanor Seagle, April, 1943, New York, N.Y. (divorced 1951);
Rosalie Grubb Haynes, November, 1953, Forest Hills, N.Y. cHitp:
Beverly Grubb, Sept. 3, 1955.

OccuPATION: Senior analyst, Finance Department, Johns-Manville Company.

MEMBER oF: West Side Tennis Club, Forest Hill, N.Y.; Harvard Club of
New York.

THE coincidence in 1929 of my first course in economics and
the stock market debacle inspired me with a missionary urge to
save the world from such disasters thereafter. Since leaving the
cloisters of Harvard in 1932, however, that urge has met a few
frustrations. From 1932 to 1935 I had short careers as a floor-
walker in a department store, a door-to-door salesman of vacuum
cleaners and a claims adjuster for an automobile insurance com-

[241 ]

graben oa teed!

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

pany. Next I took up a career as a security analyst for a firm

which folded up because they failed to forecast the 1937 drop

in the market. These experiences eminently qualified me for my
next position, which was as a statistician for a firm engaged in
business forecasting.

By 1942 I thought I was on my way to fulfilling my mission,
when my number came up. This turn of events took me for a
few months of basic training and O.C.S. at Camp Lee, Virginia,
with all the rigors of close-order drill, push-ups, night marches
and marksmanship; only to be followed by three years at a desk
at the Philadelphia Quartermaster Depot.

When I returned to my former business in 1946, I could easily
see that the positions towards which I had been progressing up
to 1942, had meanwhile been filled and that my career would
have to take another route. I was then fortunate in being able to
make a connection with Johns-Manville Company, as an analyst
in its finance department. I am still with this company and hope
to remain there until the magic retirement age of sixty-five, when
life is scheduled for a new phase.

For the purpose of Class Life, my family history is of no conse-
quence until 1953, when I married my present wife. Since she
had always been an inveterate traveler, she soon managed to
awaken in me a similar interest. As a result we have enjoyed a
few vacation trips to places I had never been before: one to the
West Indies, one to Austria and Switzerland (for skiing) and
Paris; and one more recently to Bermuda. We have many others
planned, but they will be delayed for a few years until they can
be fully shared and appreciated by our beloved daughter, who
was one year old on September 3, 1956.

Throughout all these years I have had an unswerving love for
the game of tennis. It is therefore not merely a coincidence that
I have lived for most of the span in Forest Hills, within a stone’s
throw of the West Side Tennis Club, and have spent most of my
recreational hours there. Despite my love for the game, I was
never good enough in my younger days to experience the thrill
of playing in the national singles, I always did, however, look
forward to the time when I would become forty-five and be eligi-
ble to compete in that class by itself known as the seniors (for-
merly called veterans). 1 had hoped that I could maintain or

[ 242 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

improve my game sufficiently by that time to be able to qualify
to play in the national singles, senior division. I attained this goal
in 1955, and was ranked No. 15 in the country. Playing i in this
tournament again in 1956, and in several other senior tourna-
ments in this area, as well as against a team of Canadians, has
given me quite a rejuvenation. My greatest thrill occurred in the
1956 nationals, when I won two rounds and then lost to the
eventual winner, Bitsy Grant, in quite a close match. Jean Bo-
rotra, at fifty-eight, is still in good enough shape to have reached
the semi-finals of our national senior singles in 1956; so I’m still
looking forward to a few more years of competition in these
ranks.

My political beliefs can be summed up by saying that I think
Ike is the best conceivable president we could have, even if he
had to do his job from a hospital bed. He abounds in that one
rare but much needed quality — integrity, I hope that, when
this goes to press, he is still president.

JAMES LAWSON COLE

HOME ApprEss: 3 Sumner Rd., Cambridge 38, Mass.

BoRN: July 31, 1908, Waltham, Mass. parents: James Thomas Cole, Ethel
Lawson.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

OCCUPATION: Real Estate.

JOHN MILTON COLE

HOME appress: 7 Dogwood Rd., Weston 93, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1211 Washington St., West Newton, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 2, 1909, Newton, Mass. parents: Herbert Milton Cole, Dorothy
Elizabeth Snow.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

Marriep: Louise Holmes, Oct. 12, 1934, Belmont, Mass, (died Feb. 24, 1953)3
Elizabeth Huntington Gray, March 12, 1954, Weston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Elizabeth Ann, Aug. 10, 1936, John Milton, Jr.. Dec. 1, 1939. STEP-
CHILDREN: Mrs. June (McNeil) Hess, June 7, 1929; Elizabeth McNeil,
Feb. 5, 1937; George Neal McNeil, Nov. 27, 1945. GRANDCHILDREN:

[ 243 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Peter Neal Hess, April 11, 1950; Michael John Hess, Dee. 30, 1952.

ooctPaATION: Owner, Newton Oil Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Weston Golf Club, 1951-53.

MEMBER OF: Weston Golf Club; Wellesley Lodge, F. & A.M.; Webhannet
Golf Club; Massachusetts Oil Heat Association; Better Home Heat
Council.

REMINISCENCES of English 22 and the gnawing feeling of
frustration as 1000 words must be scrambled into a composition
at deadline. Following graduation my diploma was returned for
correction of a spelling error, a task performed willingly and
without charge. The episode struck, in retrospect, with unusual
impact since it was the last time I was to receive anything for
nothing except the fruit of my labors during depression years.
One year only at Harvard Business School as the desire for
marriage clouded perspective. The summer of 1933 witnessed
the budding of an abortive commercial banking career followed
by a switch to the investment business. Having attained the pin-
nacle of managing the statistical department of a Boston Stock
Fxchange firm when pay cuts were general and Dow-Jones
averages tobogganed, I left the business. This was after the as-
surance of “Peace in our time” and we girded for war. April
pre-Pearl Harbor found me desperately absorbing carotin in an
unsuccessful effort to improve g-20 vision to Navy standards.
The end result was a humble skirmish in the Battle of Boston as
air raid warden, corporal in the State Guard and liaison tech-
nician, so dubbed, in a defense plant where nobody seemed to
know the score.

After the war, I established myself as a manufacturers’ agent
and specialty jobber in the lighting business — sensing an op-
portunity in the sales field during the reconstruction era.

In February, 1953, my world exploded when my wife, ap-
parently in the finest health, suddenly fell dead. The task of
filling a mother’s shoes as well as being a dad to children of six-
teen and thirteen brought anxious moments but, thanks to the
kids and the miracle of time, we made the grade. A year later
I was again a bridegroom with an enlarged family, as Betty (who
had experienced comparable tragedy) and 1 merged our forces.
We now have three daughters, one married and two in college,
and two sons, one at Holderness School, and a less costly progeny

[ 244]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in the sixth grade. In addition, there are two grandchildren and
a dachshund.

Remarriage forced liquidation of the lighting business as I
suddenly stood neck deep in a fuel oil business which Betty had
been operating. Like many experiences these past few years,
Newton Oil Company has been a solid and invigorating chal-
lenge. We are growing in healthy fashion.

We find time a fleeting and elusive substance. Although ex-
perience has taught the wisdom of today’s fulfillment, there is,
somehow, never quite time . . . always mafiana. Our hobbies
run the gamut from cribbage through cha-cha-cha to golf. We
enjoy books, sports and especially the outdoors. Our travel has
been limited — an occasional trip south and last year a glorious
trip to Cuba by private plane. We itch and plan for more of it
but the expense of educations and reunions, you know... .

Politically, I’m a Republican who usually votes a straight ticket
and seldom sees his candidates elected. Hindsight being what it
is, | admit to past errors with the ballot.

By no means a psalm-singer, I do, however, recognize the
immense power and need of religious faith and worship as a
sustaining element for the individual. I have been active in church
and church school work. .

Regarding social convictions — I find people as a whole a pretty
decent and enjoyable lot. The Presleys, Bulganins and Khrushchevs
of today differ only as contemporaries with similar ilk of other
days and they, at least, provide standards of social comparison. If
there is any acute trouble with our society I feel it stems from
unwillingness to properly count our blessings. I am totally unable
to subscribe to the theory that the world is going to hell in a hand-
basket, or ever will go so long as we maintain self-respect, an
eagerness to learn and the zeal to complete an honest day’s work.

Actually I don’t feel too much older after twenty-five years
out . . . except when I try to break eighty at golf, order new
bifocals, write this with a fractured shoulder (skiing), climb
Stairs, gaze at myself in the mirror, etc., etc. Still, it is somehow
comforting to realize that there are twenty-five to go before the
Fiftieth.

[ 245 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

HARRY HOWARD COLEHOWER

HOME ADDRESS: 1730 Susquehanna Rd., Abington, Pa.
OFFICE appRrEss: Jomac Inc., Philadelphia 38, Pa.

BorN: March 5, 1910, Philadelphia, Pa. PARENTS: Harry Howard Colehower,
Ellen Talbot.

PREPARED AT: Northeast High School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929. DEGREE: A.B. (Univ. of Pennsylvania), 1933.

MARRIED: Emily B. Squibb, April 11, 1934, Philadelphia, Pa. CHILDREN:
William S. May 28, 1937; Harry Howard, 3d, Oct. 6, 1938; Roger
Talbot, Dec. 9, 1942.

occuPaTION: President, Jomac Inc. manufacturers of work gloves and rubber
rolls.

OFFICES HELD: President, Jomac Inc. Jomac Products, Inc., Warsaw, Ind.;
member board of directors, Godfrey Roller Company, Philadelphia,
Moreland Corporation, Willow Grove, Pa.

IN 1935 I formed a partnership with C. Walker Jones and in
1939, dissolved the partnership to corporation, Jomac Inc. I was
commissioned a lieutenant (j.g.), U.S.N.R. in 1943 and received
an honorable discharge in January, 1946. :

My oldest son, William, is currently a student at Dartmouth;
Harry Howard, Jr., is a freshman at the University of Pennsy!-
vania, and my youngest son, Roger Talbot, is headed for Har-
vard (?) Class of 1965?

GEORGE BICKNELL COLESWORTHY, JR.

HOME ADpress: 19 Garden Rd, Summit, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS; 585 Hudson St., New York 14, N.Y.

BORN: June 22, 1911, Cambridge, Mass. parents: George Bicknell Coles-
worthy, ’o1, Bertha Ahgelyne Dow.

prepared aT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; M.B.A., 1934.

MARRIED: Marion Patricia Hessler, Sept. 17, 1937, Newton Highlands, Mass.
CHILDREN: Bradley Dow, July 8, 1940, George Bicknell, 3d, June 8, 1942.

occupATION: Marketing executive, wholesale appliances and television; man-
ager, New York District (Connecticut, New York, New Jersey), Hot-
point Appliance Sales Company, a division of General Electric Company.

OFFices HELD: Past Town Meeting member, Lexington, Mass. 1947-55; Past
chairman, Elfun Society, Boston, 1952-53, Lexington Town Meeting
Members’ Association, 1952-54, charter member and past director,

[246 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Lexington Little League, 1952-54; past member, Lexington School
Committee, 1955, Lexington School Building Committee, 19555 past
president, Hancock Church Men’s Club, 1954-55; past committee chair-
man, Electric Institute of Boston, 1954.

MEMBER OF: Lexington Historical Society; Harvard Club of Boston, Sales
Executives Club of New York; Harvard Business School Club of
Northern New Jersey. mon

ALWAYS having had more than average interest in sales efforts,
my first serious venture in this direction culminated i in my mar-
riage in the fall of 1937. The result has been an increasingly rich
experience as well as two typically American sons who have made
it possible for me to be gratifyingly proud of them almost from
the days of their birth.’ Determined from the beginning to devote
the time and effort required to guide their development along
constructive, industrious and responsible channels their mother
and I have found this to be a reciprocal and highly rewarding
evolution which is commended to the attention of non-believers
or those previously content with the ‘ “easy” approach. Today
we are more convinced than ever that there is no “easy’ " approach
to the development of substantial citizens — and the product is
well worth the perspiration required to produce it.

Even after Harvard Business School, foisting my obvious
talents on an unwilling world proved to be no sinecure in 1934
and in due course I was happy to nestle in the bosom of the
General Electric Company. My original aversion to large com-
panies notwithstanding, the association proved to be healthy and
from 1934 to 1942 I rolled merrily along in a variety of office
and field sales assignments in Bridgeport, Connecticut, Boston,
Springfield and Worcester, Massachusetts. In my earlier thinking
I had overlooked the fact that even large companies are merely
groups of people with a common commercial objective!

In 1942, with the advent of World War, consumer products
which up to then had been my preoccupation became persona
non grata and a five months’ stretch with the War Production
Board in Boston seemed patriotic. Bureaucracy, however, proved
to be a bitter pill and shortly thereafter I devoted myself to war
production with the American Optical Company, Southbridge,
Massachusetts, for a three-year period. In 1945 I returned to my
‘irst love as a sales manager with General Electric in Boston and

[ 247 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

remained there in positions of increasing responsibility until July,

1955.

From 1945 to 1955, Lexington, Massachusetts, the birthplace of

American liberty, was my home and during that period I became
closely identified with the civic, political, church, educational,
athletic and social life of a growing residential community. I
even fell into the habit of buying Harvard football season tickets,
a genuine test of loyalty in recent years by any yardstick! Just
imagine the shock then, after having been born, educated, work-
ing, living and actively embracing community life in New Eng-
land from my very origins, of suddenly being notified that hence-
forth I was assigned to New York City. Truly a fate worse than
death!

The end is not yet but more than a year has passed and my
amazement continues to grow. It’s really not so bad. People are
people, except perhaps that they are more friendly. Not only
do schools also exist outside New England, but they’re good
schools. Life in northern New Jersey is truly a delight with
staunch Republican local government and no end of interesting
leisure-time diversion. My new experience with commuting pro-
wides two daily islands of mental repose rather than the night-
mare anticipated. A world series every year provides a welcome
interlude. The tempo is faster but the rewards greater and, quite
frankly, I think I like the whole thing. I almost have the temerity
to recommend the treatment to my erstwhile friends and neigh-
bors provided, of course, the change comes before complete
atrophy of the adaptive faculties.

Having sampled a variety of non work-connected activities
with reasonable success, 1 must duly conclude but with no apol-
ogies that my basic hobby is work motivated by enlightened
selfishness. The fundamental virtues of loyalty, dependability
and industry channeled constructively in the direction of making
worthwhile contributions to society still have much to be said
for them. Perpetuation of such ideals through the medium of the
family unit holds the promise of cure for most of the world’s
ills. At least such is my humble conviction.

[ 248 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PAUL CHARLES COLLETTI

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 6420 Woodbine St., Brooklyn, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 1, 1910, Brooklyn, N.Y. PARENTS: John Colletti, Josephine Marki-
sota.

PREPARED AT: Bushwick High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

COLLETTI has been carried as a “lost” man on our records
since 1940.

JOSEPH RAWSON COLLINS

HOME ADDRESS: 1900 Dexter Ave., Cincinnati 6, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: First National Bank, Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

BORN: April 24, 1910, Cincinnati, Ohio. parents: William R. Collins, Lucy
Rawson.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.B.A., 1934.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Trust investment officer, First National Bank of Cincinnati.

OFFICES HELD: Member board, Baker Hunt Foundation, since 1949, Cincinnati
Travelers Aid Society, since 1952; treasurer, Christ Episcopal Church,
1951; member standing committee, Episcopal Diocese of Southern Ohio,

1953-55- :
MEMBER OF: Cincinnati Country Club; University Club of Cincinnatu, Estate

Planning Council.

WE may not have had many doors open to us when we entered
that cold, cold world in June, 1932, but still I have always enjoyed
a very pleasant sense of superiority when I can say that I grad-
uated in that year. It took two more years though (and useful ones)
at the Business School to get the doors open. After a summer in
Europe with Larry Paul, I walked into the First National Bank
(by the back door) in the fall of 1934. I think I started as a statis-
tician, although we did not always use such elegant classifications
in those days. I worked on investments and in the Credit Depart-
ment for six years.

In 1941, I entered the Air Force as a first lieutenant in personnel
in Washington Headquarters. (The word “entered” might be
qualified a bit, but I won’t do it here.) True to the traditions of
the West, I had seen few old friends in six years, but in those four

[ 249 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

years in Washington, I was fortunate enough to work directly
and indirectly with Harvard classmates whose many kindnesses in
those hectic days I'll always remember.
In the fall of 1945, I returned to banking and the First National
Bank, after having made the inevitable vow that I would never
go back. I am now the trust investment officer (handling the in-
vestments for the accounts of the Trust Department of the bank
in case you are one of the 99% of the population to whom the
word bank means only an overdrawn account) and like it.
Bankers are supposed to do their traveling when they retire or
from those travel books, but in the last few years I have managed
two fascinating trips—one to Yugoslavia and Greece and an-
other to the Philippines. |
Our special “outside” interest, I should add, has been the affairs
and concerns of the Church, in particular, the Episcopal Church.
I find its profound truths growing more real year after year and
I could hardly write this short biography without stating cate-
gorically that it is a part of my life.

k FRANZ FERDINAND COLLOREDO-MANSFELD

BorN: March 1, 1910, Rome, Italy. parents: Ferdinand Colloredo-Mansfeld,
Nona Iselin.

PREPARED AT; Le Rosey School, Rolle, Switzerland.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: $.B., 1932. .

MarrigD: Mabel Bayard Bradley, Oct. 4, 1933, Wellesley, Mass. CHILDREN:
Mabel Bayard Eleanora Elizabeth, Aug. 28, 1936; Franz Rudolph Otto
Marie, Aug. 10, 1938; Ferdinand Josef Peter Ernst, Sept. 19, 1939.

piep: Killed in action, Jan. 14, 1944, in European Area.

COLLOREDO-MANSFELD was associated with the M. W.
Kellogg Company, New York construction engineers, until 1940,
when he joined the RAF. In 1942 he was given command of
a flight and promoted to Flight Lieutenant. In 1943 he received
the Distinguished Flying Cross with bar. He was killed in action
in his Spitfire off the Pas de Calais. He was survived by his wife
and children. | oS

[ 250 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HOWARD CHANDLER COLTON |

HOME ADDRESS: 2024 Turk Hill Rd., Fairport, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Eastman Kodak Co., 343 State St., Rochester, N. ¥.

porn: May 3, 1910, Roxbury, Mass, parents: Charles Alfred Colton, Harriet
Elizabeth Brown.

PREPARED AT: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1934. DEGREE: $.B., 1932(34).

Married: Elizabeth Anne McKee, Feb. 15, 1936, New York, N.Y. cum:
David Lawrence, July 12, 1937, New York, N.Y.

HARVARD SON: David Lawrence Colton, ’59.

occuPATION: Manager, Color Product Information Service, Eastman Kodak
Company.

oFFIcEs HELD: Chairman, Rochester Technical Section, Photographic Society
of America, 1948, Rochester Color Conference, 1956; vice-president,
Association of Teen-age Diplomats, 1955-57.

MEMBER OF; Photographic Society of America (fellow); Royal Photographic
Society of Great Britain (fellow); Optical Society of America; Society
of Motion Picture Engineers; Rochester Technical Section; Harvard
Club of Rochester.

PUBLIcaTIONS: Van Nostrand’s Scientific Encyclopedia; Neblette’s Photog-
raphy, Principles and Practice, numerous magazine articles.

TWENTY-FIVE years ago I had heard of many college gradu-
ates who ended up in fields of activity far removed from their
major interest in college, without quite understanding how it
could happen. However, I now find myself concerned with sales
and educational work in the field of professional color photog-
raphy for Eastman Kodak. A far cry from astronomy. (my
major), but the transition was gradual and almost imperceptible.
Through astronomical friends, I became associated, during those
tugged job-hunting years right after graduation, with a firm
doing experimental color photographic work. Ever since, it’s
been color photography in some area; a short stint near Boston,
then to New York City for a few years of concentrated activity
in a rapidly growing industry. After that I moved to Rochester
to teach color photography and physics at Rochester Institute
of Technology. Summers were spent in consultation work with
photographic firms (both interesting and lucrative). By the time
the war was on the horizon, I was also working part time at East-
man Kodak Company here in Rochester. When the blast finally
Came, the Navy decided that they could not use a half-blind

[251 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

(1-20) character, so it was Navy V~12 physics teaching at the
University of Rochester for the duration. Since then, kodak ac-
tivity has taken most of my time along with some extension teach-
ing of astronomy (using it some, after all) and color theory at
R.LT.

Betty and I were married shortly after graduation and our son,
David, was born on Long Island. He is now living in Claverly at
Cambridge as he happily starts his sophomore year. Now that
we are alone here on our twelve-acre “farm” on a hill overlooking
the countryside around Rochester, we devote much of our time
to the upkeep of our relatively new home. This living surely
beats the New York City cubby-hole apartment in which we
started. Business trips take me around the country briefly most
every year and we spent our last vacation cruising around the
Caribbean on a freighter—a happy holiday.

THEODORE LANE COMMOSS, JR.

HOME AbpREss: 45 King Cove Rd., Weymouth, Mass.
OFFICE ADpREss: New England Mutual Life Insurance Co., 102 Federal St.

Boston, Mass.
BorN: Feb, 26, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Theodore Lane Commoss, Lillian
Wise.
PREPARED AT: Stone School, Boston, Mass., Quincy High School, Quincy,
Mass,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1032.
Marriep: Harriet C, Hanna, Sept. 12, 1929, Newton, Mass. (divorced 1945);
Eveleyne A. Joleen, Dec. 12, 1954, Milton, Mass. CHILDREN: Peter Theo-
dore, Jan. 19, 1937; Susan Harriet, Oct. 18, 1940.
occupation: Insurance Broker.

LUTHER CONANT, JR.
SEE Appendix.

[252]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM PAUL CONSTANTINO

HOME ADDRESS: 117 Pearl Sc. Clinton, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 185 Union St., Clinton, Mass.

porn: Aug. 19, 1911, Clinton, Mass. paReNtTs: Paul Francis Constantino,
Elizabeth Santoro.

prepareD AT: Clinton High School, Clinton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932; LL.B., 1935.

MarRieD: Agnes Teresa Conlon, June 29, 1942, Clinton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Mary Elizabeth, April 19, 1943; William Paul, May 28, 1944, Ann
Margaret, March 10, 1948; Paul Michael, Dec. 26, 1954.

occuPATION: Lawyer, Justice of Second District Court of Eastern Worcester,
Clinton, Massachusetts.

OFFICES HELD: Clinton Town Solicitor, 1936-39, 1946-47; member, Clinton
Finance Committee, 1939-42; Massachusetts Civil Service Commissioner,
1947-51; member, Massachusetts General Court, 1951-55; currently,
Justice of Second District Court of Eastern Worcester — life term, since
1954. .

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Clinton Council, Knights of Columbus; Savoia
Lodge, Sons of Italy in America; Clinton, Worcester County and
American Bar Associations, Massachusetts Legislators Association; Na-
tional Council of Juvenile Court Judges, Massachusetts District Court

Judges Association.

“OLLOWING graduation from college and a period of sanc-
uary from the depression spent at the Law School, I started the
rractice of law in my home town of Clinton, Massachusetts, and
ave remained there since, always in a general practice and by
iyself. Like many young lawyers I found it expedient to get
1to politics and continued an active participation of one kind or
1other until attaining judicial status two years ago. It was diffi-
ilt at times to keep a proper balance between legal and political
tivity as both pursuits proved absorbing and challenging. In
litics, I was active on the organization level and also as a candi-
te, and since my party was Republican I saw many hard and
istrating days during what seemed the all too long a period of
-mocratic ascendancy. Nevertheless, I managed to be elected
several terms as Clinton Town Solicitor, an experience which
vided a fair combination of law and politics. There followed
attempt at the office of Congressman which ended in a jolting
‘eat.
After an interlude of war service I returned to the practice of

‘and bounced back into politics which brought me appointive

[ 253]

Stine i ae ahd bat

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

office as Massachusetts Civil Service Commissioner and elective
office for two terms as member of the Massachusetts General
Court. A subsequent try for election to state-wide office proved
unsuccessful and thereafter I was benched — judicially, I mean.
Now that I am settled down in an office that precludes further
political activity, I find it rather pleasant to look back on a period
of stewardship in rough and tumble politics during which I tried
to make some slight contribution to the commonwealth. I had
the pleasure of meeting many Harvard men along the way, who,
I am happy to say, were a credit to the school.

Speaking of war service, I put in three and a half years with
the Army during World War II and landed in the European
Theatre where I ended up doing considerable work in military
government in Germany. Intervening and recent developments
certainly demonstrate the dynamics of history. I can still remem-
ber the Germans telling us we had fought the wrong enemy, and
asking how soon we were going to push on east.

The years have blessed me with a fine family —a pearl of a
wife with two sons and two daughters. One happy result of being
through with political campaigning and office holding is that now
I have more time to be home with them. Billy, my elder boy,
aged twelve, is still sold on Harvard despite her football fortunes
which are no small consideration at his age. Paul, aged two, is a
real Dennis the Menace who keeps Agnes and myself on the go
all the time. What with age creeping up we find ourselves less
fortified for the task he presents, Mary Beth and Ann show
promise of growing up to be fine young ladies and a real credit
to their mother’s counsel and guidance. . | ,

As I look back over twenty-five years, I cannot help noticing
the trend of events which has seemed to enthrone the engineer as
king in our society. Attribute it to Russia, the atomic age, elec-
tronics, unprecedented prosperity or what you will, the fact re-
mains that the engineer or scientist has become the man of the
hour. Pick up any New York Sunday Times and notice the ten
pages or more of large advertisements offering them all kinds of
positions and inducements. One is led to wonder what the effect
of this development will be on the college and education gen-
erally, and to hope there will be no lessening of essential pre-
occupation with human and humanistic values. To my mind

[254]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

there is more than ever a need for an appreciation of the words
of Emerson:
“There are two laws discrete
Not reconciled, —
Law for man and law for thing:
~ The last builds town and fleet,
— But it runs wild, ~~
And doth the man unking”

HENRY THOMAS CONWAY

HOME ADDRESS: 35 Newport Ave, Wickford, RI.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Public Works Dept, Naval Air Station, Quonset Point, R.I.

BORN: Nov. 27, 1910, Lowell, Mass. PARENTS: Thomas Joseph Conway, Mary
E. Henry.

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B. IN C. ENG., 1932.

MaRRiED: Lillian Ruth McLaughlin, June 18, 1938, Lowell, Mass. CHILDREN:

Thomas Henry, July 9, 1939; Mary Elizabeth, Sept. 2, 1947.
occuPATION: Structural engineer, Public Works Department, Naval Air

Station, Quonset Point, R.1.

OFFICES HELD: District chairman, Cocumcussoc District, Narragansett Council,
Boy Scouts of America, 1952-54; chairman, North Kingston Planning
Board, since 1954; president, Wickford Lions Club, 1956-57.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Providence, National Society of Professional
Engineers; Hurricane Survey Advisory Committee of State of Rhode
Island; Wickford Lions Club; Poplar Point Association.

AS I look back to June 25 years ago and attempt to recall my
emergence from the cloisters of Winthrop House into the
blighted vineyard of a northeastern Massachusetts mill city, my
clearest remembrance is that of a sense of immediate frustration
that I, in common with most college graduates of that era, experi-
enced on my first contact with the depression-beset outside
world. This emergence was followed by a period of unrest and
uncertainty, fortunately rather short, which was terminated by
an opportunity to try my hand at municipal engineering with
the City of Lowell, Massachusetts, as my employer. At that time
Lowell, like so many of its sister New England textile cities, was
staggering under the burden of supporting, via W.P.A. and
P.W.A., the principal wage earner of one out of every five of its

[255]

cacadtet cian see roeee meen

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

families. My assignment for the city was to engineer a work

program which would afford worthwhile steady employment for

3,000 people, many of whom were only poorly fitted by training

and physical condition to perform construction work. Fortu-

nately, I was able to compensate for my personal lack of experi-
ence with enthusiasm and application. As a result, I learned by
intimate contact the practical side of the construction business.
But, most important, I got to know people from many walks of
life and cultures, to anticipate and appreciate their points of view
and to realize that each personality could, with encouragement
and proper direction, be made to contribute substantially to the
common effort. For the next eight years I designed, estimated,
budgeted and supervised a myriad of construction projects, al-
ways under the pressure of the certainty that any serious break-
down of the program would mean hundreds of empty pocket-
books.

By 1942 the war-generated employment boom had reduced the
city’s dependent rolls to such an extent that continuation of the
work program was no longer warranted. This gave me an op-
portunity to switch from municipal engineering to engineering
for the Federal Government. In August, 1942, I took up employ-
ment at the Naval Air Station, Quonset Point, Rhode Island, in
the capacity of structural engineer for the Public Works Depart-
ment. This is the position that after fifteen years I still hold. My
time is spent in planning and designing facilities that permit this
naval activity to satisfactorily accomplish its assigned mission.
The continuously changing make-up of defense methods and ma-
terials keeps me occupied and enthusiastic about this phase of the
engineering profession.

My family consists of my wife Lillian, my son Thomas, and my
daughter Mary Elizabeth, better known as Maybeth. Tom, who
will be 18 this July, is a student at Berkshire School in Sheffield,
Massachusetts, and of course an applicant for admission to Har-
vard. Maybeth, now nine, is an enthusiastic Harvard supporter.
We live on the outskirts of the colonial village of Wickford,
about twenty miles south of Providence. Our house is located
about twenty fect inland from and twenty fect above the eastern
shore of Narragansett Bay, Except during hurricane weather we

[ 256 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

enjoy this proximity to the water since it affords us an opportu-
nity to sail, fish and swim in what is practically our own back
ard.

f Since moving to Rhode Island, both my wife and I have been
actively engaged in community and religious undertakings. Pres-
ently, I am chairman of the Town Planning Board, president of
the Lions Club and active in several other clubs and associations.
Lillian manages to find time for church and P.T.A. Since moving
to our shore-front home, our traveling has been confined to busi-
ness trips and these are made as infrequently as possible. As a
brain-washed federal employee I am not permitted the luxury of
proclaiming my political convictions. My hobbies are sailing,
community work and most of all armchair relaxing.

+s WILLIAM GORDON COOGAN, JR.

BORN: June 24, 1908, Churtsey, England. parents: William Gordon Coogan,
*t1, Dorothea Potter.

PREPARED AT: Madison High School, Madison, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Merriam La Coste, May 2, 1943, Gatesville, Texas. CHIL-
DREN: William Gordon, 3d; Karen.

pIED: Nov. 7, 1953, Long Beach, Calif.

wipow: Mrs. William Gordon Coogan, Jr., 4207 Pine Ave., Long Beach,
Calif.

WILLIAM COOGAN was an outstanding long distance runner
at school. After leaving college in 1929 he joined the New York
Life Insurance Company, working as an agent in New York and
later at Long Beach, California.

In World War II he served three years in North Africa and
Italy as an officer with a Tank Destroyer Battalion. Wounded
north of Rome, he was awarded the Bronze Star and Purple
Heart. Following his discharge from the armed forces, he moved
with his family to the West Coast.

He was a member of Squadron A and the Harvard Club. His
grandfather, James J. Coogan, was the first Borough President
of Manhattan, after the consolidation of the five boroughs into
the City of New York in 1898. It was his grandfather's name

[257]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

which was applied to Coogan’s Bluff, the cliff overlooking the
Polo Grounds in New York City.
He was survived by his wife and children.

STUART WHITNEY COOK

HOME ADDRESS: 12 Garland Rd., Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 40 Broad St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: April 1, 1909, Newton, Mass. pareNTS: Harry Irving Cook, Ethel
Whitney.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mfass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B. 1932.

MARRIED: Helen Hope McConnel, March 23, 1945, Brisbane, Queensland,
Australia. cunpren: David Whitney, Sept. 29, 1946, Margaret Louise,
Dec. 2, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Whitney Mowry Cook, 36 (deceased).
occuPATION: Insurance broker.

OFFICES HELD: Concord chairman, Greater Boston Community Chest, 1940-41;
treasurer, 1940-42, 1946-52, president, 1955-57, Concord Players; treas-
urer, Concord Community Chest, 1946-50; member, Concord Finance
Committee, 1948-54; corporator, Middlesex Institution for Savings, since
1954-

MEMBER OF: Concord Country Club; Concord Antiquarian Society; Fay
Club, Fitchburg; Harvard Club in Concord (president, 1953); Massa-
chusetts Insurance Brokers’ Association; Brisbane Club, Australia (hon-
orary member): U.S.N.R. (lieutenant j.g. to lieutenant commander,
1942-45).

THIS account of the history and activities of myself is in some
ways a dull one, for it finds me in the same spot I was in twenty-
five years ago, yet this period of time has been full of pleasures
and fulfillment, together with disappointments and periods of
sadness.

Jobs were rather hard to find at the time we graduated, so I
decided to try my hand at selling insurance. In the fall of 1932,
I went into the office of Field and Cowles, Boston, to study for
the broker’s examination. After passing this exam, I was given a
desk, a rate book, a sheaf of order blanks, and told to get out
and sell. Prospects were plentiful but sales were few and far
between the first couple of years. Hlowever, 1 am still in the
same office, and strangely enough finding new prospects to buy
insurance.

[258]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In 1942 I left my secretary to take care of the insurance busi-
ness and joined Uncle Sam’s Navy (one step ahead of the draft).
After wandering up and down the east coast for more than a
year, I was transferred to the Pacific. This took me down to
Australia where I had the good fortune to meet and marry my
charming wife, Helen. We were extremely lucky to be able
to return to this country together in September, 1945, at which
time I received my discharge from the Navy as a lieutenant
commander.

Helen and I bought : a house in “Concord, and we have been
here ever since, except for short vacations to warmer parts of
the country. I returned to my insurance business which I tackled
with renewed vigor and enthusiasm knowing I was about to have
three mouths to feed. In 1952 Margaret Louise arrived rounding
out our family of four.

Since the war I have been active in numerous community
projects here in this expanding town. All these extra-curricular
activities have been very rewarding as well as some proving to
be a real challenge. Needless to say, others were far more time
consuming than my family would like to have had them. Shortly
after the war, at one of the Class gatherings in the vicinity of
Boston, there was considerable conniving going on during the
dinner. Much to my surprise and before I realized what was
going on, I had been appointed, elected, or shanghaied to be the
Class Treasurer. At the time I deemed this to be a great honor,
but at this point I am not so sure!

My main interest, naturally, is my family. Our | summers have
been spent on Cape Cod which is a wonderful place for the
youngsters to learn to sail and swim. In addition, my favorite
recreation is playing golf. This is a frustrating game because my
scores do not seem to improve with age. Ta closing, let me
say I hope the next twenty-five years are as happy and rewarding
as the last quarter century has been,

[259]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

CRISPIN COOKE

HOME aporEss: Lloyd Harbor, Huntington, Long Island, N.Y.
oFFice appress: North Shore Medical Group, Huntington, N.Y.

BoRN: Dec. 21, 1909, New York, N.Y. parents: Carleton S. Cooke, "90,
Miriam Goodwin.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: AB. 1932; M.D. (Cornell Univ. Medical
Coll.), 1936.

marrieD: Alice Frances Durston, July 22, 1939, Syracuse, N.Y. cHIcpren:
Stephen Goodwin, Feb. 9, 1945; Barbara Durston, Aug. 1, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Almon Goodwin Cooke, ’26.

occtPATION: Physician, internal medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Attending physician, Huntington Hospital; civilian consultant,
Mitchel Air Force Base; assistant in medicine, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University.

MEMBER OF: American College of Phy sicians (fellow); New York Academy
of Medicine (fellow); Suffolk County Medical Society; American Medi-
cal Association, Harvard Club of New York, Cold Spring Harbor

Beach Club; Cruising Club of America, Squadron A Association (ex-
member).

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional contributions to medical journals.

AFTER four years of Cornell Medical School at New York Hos-
pital, I had three more of internship and residencies in medicine
at Spring Memorial Hospital in Rochester, New York, and Pres-
byterian Hospital in New York City, finally bursting out of the
“Ivory Towers” to start practice in the specialty of internal medi-
cine in 1939. At this point I had the good fortune to meet Alice
Durston whom I married in July of that year, and who has kept
me and our two children happily right side up ever since.

By the time the war came along, I had a small practice going
but was depressed at the thought of living in Manhattan forever,
in spite of the academic and other opportunities. So that, in a
way, the chance to serve in the Medical Corps of the Army Air
Force from 1942 to 1946 gave me a somewhat over-lengthy pause
for thought as to a change in Cooke’s modus operandi. \nciden-
tally, my personal war was of the easicst possible type in retro-
spect, though at the time I considered a good deal of it as modified
rapture even in such civilized spots as Manchester Air Base and
Mitchel Field Base Hospital, where I spent most of the four years,

The result of this cogitation was to get some of my medical

{ 260 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

colleagues interested in the idea of practising as a group partner-
ship which, of course, has gone on for years elsewhere in this
country, but relatively little on the East Coast. We started in
Huntington, Long Island, in 1946 with a nucleus of three which
has now expanded to eighteen in the different specialties, and will
probably have to increase further with the high population
growth in this area. The outstanding advantage of this type of
setup, to my way of thinking, is primarily the sharing of knowl-
edge and responsibility for a patient’s problem, which I remember
having to sweat out as an individual practitioner, wondering what
I might have missed; I believe we have achieved this and still
maintained a good personal physician-patient relationship which
is so important. To be sure, I am not averse to the benefits of
the time freed for avocation, study, or family life, and a degree
of financial security which it offers. Taken all in all, I wouldn’t
go back to solo practice for anything.

My life in the country, where we have a house on the water,
has been a happy one, with some time free for a little teaching of
medical students at Columbia and some for horticulture, work-
shop, and sailing which seem to have become my “occupational
therapies.” The latter prescription for self-treatment is my ra-
tionalization for presently building a cruising ketch which prom-
ises to keep me impoverished and happy for some time to come.

ROBERT ADSIT COOLEY

HOME AppreEss: 20 Oxford Rd., Albany 3, N.Y.

OFFICE AppREss: Albany Car Wheel Co., Inc., 185 Broadway, Menands, N.Y.

BORN: Dec. 16, 1909, Buffalo, N.Y. PARENTS: Frederick Boyden Cooley, ’97,

~ Florence Adsit.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MaRRIED: Elizabeth Westcott, Sept. 14, 1935, Utica, N.Y. cHILpREN: Elizabeth
Adsit, Oct. 5, 1936; Frederick Boyden, 2d, Feb. 24, 1939; Benedict
Brown, Sept. 12, 1940; Rebecca Ames, Nov. 13, 1944.

OccuPATION: President, Albany Car Wheel Company, Inc., foundry and
machining works; general administrative and sales duties.

OFFICES HELD: Director, A.M.C.C.W. (National Wheel Association).

MEMBER oF: Schuyler Meadows Country Club, Albany; University Club,
Buffalo; Harvard Club of New York; Ancient Order of Quiet Birdmen
(Q.B.).

[ 261 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

France on our wedding trip (she had no choice but to accompany
me on that one); since then Bermuda, Cuba and Puerto Rico
several times each; and in the ’30s mostly in our own plane. I
must sav that we covered a fair portion of the U.S. in various
ships. The war stopped that, of course, but as aforementioned
tuition curve levels off and starts down I hope to start flying
again.

“We've just returned from Puerto Rico, where we went to
make sure Naval Air Station San Juan, our home in 1941, was
being properly cared for fifteen years later (it wasn’t, it isn’t
there). If World War III is avoided, we hope to travel a lot more
to the far places. Whenever the kids are all home we often pile
all six of us into the station wagon and take off for some fun.
We did that last year, during their spring recesses, to Florida.
The wagon sometimes appears a little crowded (Fred is 6’ 2” and
growing) and in mid-afternoon of a long day’s drive the decibel
level and coke bottles sometimes get out of control, but we're
waiting right now for the next opportunity.

Looking through clippings, I’m reminded that I was in the
news, here and there, — once because I raised our people’s wages
more than the union asked (Time magazine, “24 Pennies from
Heaven”) and again when I sued Phil Murray & Company of
CI.O. for $750,000 (in the days before Taft-Hartley when it
wasn’t nice to do that) because they struck us illegally.

We are members of the First Presbyterian Church here, and
although trying to be good Christians, we are not good church-
goers. That doesn’t mean that I don’t do a deal of praying. I’ve
always been a Republican; if I had it to do over I would have
voted for F.D.R. in ’32 and "36, even though he cut my pay from
fifty-four to forty-seven dollars a month — 1933 Roosevelt econ-
omy!

Enough — (“Where’s Father?” “He’s struggling with that
Harvard biography.”) It seems yesterday my pa was struggling
with his in 1922, and I reckon, God willing, my boy will be
about 1986.

[ 264 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN DUCEY COONEY

HOME ADDRESS: 161 Henry St., Brooklyn 1, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Brooklyn Museum, Eastern Pkwy., Brooklyn 38, N.Y.

porN: Aug. 23, 1905, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Edward Francis Cooney, Minnie
Ducey.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1932.

OCCUPATION: Assistant Curator of Egyptology, Brooklyn Museum.

SUMNER ZALMAN COOPER

HOME ADDRESS: 260 Glark Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: Harry D. Cooper & Co., Inc., 35 Harrison Ave., Boston, Mass.

Born: Feb. 11, 1911, Malden, Mass. parents: Harry David Cooper, Sarah
Axelrod.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.B.A., 1934.

MarRiED: Stella Leona Orkin, Sept. 3, 1935, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Mildred Louise, May 9, 1939; Susan Rachel, May 24, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president in charge of management and sales, Harry D.
Cooper & Company, Inc., importers of woolens and worsteds.

MEMBER OF: Blue Hill Country Club.

DURING the past few years I became increasingly aware that
one day I would receive a request for my life story. When it
did arrive, I was no better prepared than if it had come as a com-
plete surprise. After consideration, however, my point of view
has become clearer: these reports are interesting because as we
read them we are looking for points of similarity to and differ-
ences from our own experiences. What, therefore, is there in my
past twenty-five years that will strike you as familiar or different
from yours?

After graduation, when I was still enveloped in an academic
fog and bewildered by economic collapse around me, my father
eased my road by sending me to the Business School. There I
approached at least the outer circle of the reality of making a
living. I was lucky in two ways at the Business School: I met
Professor Donot and had a job when I was graduated in 1934.

In 1935 I married Stella, a girl I went with all through college
and Business School, We have two lovely daughters: Mildred

[ 265 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

is eighteen and Susan is fifteen, We moved several times in the
early years of our marriage but finally bought our own home in
Brookline fourteen years ago and have lived in it ever since. We
also have a summer home in Magnolia, Massachusetts, which we
used up to six years ago when the girls began to go to summer
camp.

That job I mentioned lasted three years. In 1937 I went to work
for my father in his wholesale woolen piece-goods business.
(Don’t confuse this with the raw wool business — most people
do.) Things were moving along in more or less routine fashion
when the war came. I was a stay-at-home for the duration, doing
a small stint at making magnesium fire-bombs.

Athletically, Pve gone the full circle. I started with golf, went
to tennis in 1942, yachting (a 50% interest in ownership) in
1945, back to tennis in 1949, and in 1956 I started hacking at golf
again. Hobbywise, I have been making hand-wrought silver for
the past four or five years. Handywork around the house is
principally represented by a complete job of a 14’ x 26’ playroom
in my basement. Music and reading take up the rest of the slack.

If all the foregoing sounds familiar, it wouldn’t surprise me.
Substitute one industry for another, more children or less, one
hobby or sport for another, and you have the pattern: more
points of coincidence than not.

The big change for me took place in 1945. After the war we
expanded and altered our business to concentrate on the importa-
tion of woolens and worsteds. We represent and sell the products
of several British, Irish and Continental mills to clothing manu-
facturers all over the U.S.A. This entailed a New York sales
office and frequent trips there. Eventually, over the past eleven
years, I made five trips to Europe and one to Japan. It has meant
intimate contact abroad with business men of different cultural
backgrounds, adjusting to all the vagaries of foreign trade, cur-
rency and banking problems, custom regulations, language diffi-
culties and travel. I have been involved particularly in styling
and designing. This is complicated by having to interpret our
own style trends here in the U.S.A. for execution abroad where
the background and attitude are so entircly different. I have
become vitally interested in such diverse matters as the granting
of a ten per cent wage increase to weavers in Yorkshire or in a

[ 266 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

critical shortage of water in England, or in the peculiarly pater-
nalistic labor system in Japan where once a mill takes on additional
laborers they can’t be let go. | oe

~ All this and much more has been stimulating, though of course
it has its share of frustrations and aggravations. But it still retains
much of its glamor and challenge after eleven years. I find rela-
tively few people in the U.S.A., who work intensively at foreign
trade. Some dabble in it or get a fringe benefit from it, but every-
body seems to be fascinated by it.

At home, too, this has had its effect: British china and furniture,
Japanese tokonoma scrolls and saki, Belleek from Ireland, Swiss
cutlery, all representing some personal adventure in a foreign
land. Taken all together, they really aren’t much but they do add
a little spice to what we have around. In terms of earth-shaking
achievements, all this is very little indeed but for me it represents
enough of a departure from the commonplace to stimulate my
curiosity and interest in an otherwise very harrowing business.

In my travels and contacts abroad, the fact that I am a graduate
of Harvard has given me immediate prestige. Living around
Cambridge and Boston all my life and with so many of my friends
Harvard men (those that are not, are not pitied excessively ex-
cept as the Twenty-fifth Reunion approaches), I had accepted
the fact as being nice but quite common. But the aura of respect
abroad is almost breath-taking. My modest comment that there
were other good universities in America usually 1 is answered by a
“but Harvard is first, is it not? ” And it is.

DANIEL FOX CORY

HOME appress: Weeping Birch Farm, R.D. 1, Dryden, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 12 Central Ave., Cortland, N.Y.

BORN: April 14, 1910, New York, N.Y. PARENTS: Robert James Cory, Kath-
arine Fox. | .

PREPARED AT: St, Francis Xavier High School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; LL.B, 1935.

Marriep: Charlotte M. Schultz, June 28, 1937, Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Margot Moffett, July 24, 1940; Katharine Edith, Dec. 23, 1942; John
Fox, Sept. 9, 1947:

OccupaTiIoN: Attorney, private practice,

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1948-56, president, 1949-52, Virgil Board of Educa-

[ 267 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

tion; County Attorney, Cortland County, 1950-52; director, 1949-51,
vice-president, 1951-52, president, 1952-53, Cortland County School
Boards Association; member executive committee, Tioughnioga Coun-
cil, Boy Scouts of America, 1949-52; Republican Committeeman, Town
of Virgil, since 1950; member board of directors, 1948-50, treasurer,
1950-53, Cortland County Bar Association; member executive board,
1950-§2, president, 1952-54, Cortland County Historical Association,
vice-president, Virgil Historical Society, 1948-56; referee, New York
State Workmen’s Compensation Board, 1952-56.
MEMBER OF: Cortland County Bar Association, Cortland P.T.A.; Cortland
Historical Society; Cornell University Central Schools Study.

TURNING back the pages twenty-five years, I wonder where
twenty-five good years have disappeared. The last ten years
have been especially pleasant and date from August, 1947, when
we moved to Central New York State near the Finger Lakes
and became possessors of two hundred acres of woods and pas-
ture land with an assortment of barns and miscellaneous buildings
in the Town of Virgil, one of the beautiful old hill towns in the
Military Tract set up as bonus lands for Revolutionary War
soldiers. From practising law in the canyons of Wall Street, I
was transported to the leisurely, pleasant life and work in my
profession in a relatively small community.

Going back to 1935, after three years in the glorious confines
of the Harvard Law School, I received the LL.B. degree and
was launched into the bright, glowing years of the wonderful (?)
thirties. In May, 1936, 1 was admitted to the New York Bar.
Association with various law firms in the Wall Street area of
New York City and living in the purlieus of Gotham and ever-
expanding Westchester led to the conclusion that life must offer
additional compensations in a smaller community; hence the
hegira to upstate New York.

Not to be overlooked are certain treasures acquired through
the intervening years, namely my wife Sue (Wellesley, ’34)
whom I met at Hanover, New Hampshire, in 1932 and married
in 1937; Margot, sixteen, now a junior at Cortland High School;
Katharine, fourteen, in the eighth grade at Virgil Central School,
and John, nine, in the fourth grade at Virgil. John is the only
native of Cortland County in the family. |

Practising law upstate has not interfered with various other
activities. I have been County Attorney of Cortland County,

[ 268 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

as well as a referee of the Workmen’s Compensation Board of
the State of New York. In addition, my time has been taken up
by other positions and organizations which include treasurer and
member of the board of directors of the Cortland County Bar
Association; Republican committeeman for the Town of Virgil;
member of the Virgil Community Council, member of the board
(eight years) and past president of the Board of Education of
the Virgil Central School; vice-president, member of executive
board and president of Cortland County School Boards Asso-
ciation; Cortland Rotary Club; member of executive board of
Tioughnioga Council of the Boy Scouts of America; director of
Cortland County Red Cross Drive and of Professional Division
of Community Chest Drive; member of executive board and
president of Cortland County Historical Society; vice-president
of Virgil Historical Society

In retrospect, I know the past twenty-five years do not show
any stirring deeds; however, I am certain that life has been good
to me in many respects and that there are many blessings to
count. If the coming years are as happy, I shall not complain.

HAROLD DANIEL COURTEMANCHE

HOME apprEss: 460 Main St., Hudson, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 15, 1911, Hudson, Mass. parents: Henry Matthew Courtemanche,
Philomene Flibbert.

PREPARED AT: Hudson High School, Hudson, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933. DEGREE: A.B. 1932 (33).

OccuPaTION: Teacher of French.

THOMAS EDMONSON COVEL

HOME ADDRESS: 2123 Leroy PI., N.W., Washington, D.C.

OFFIcE AppRESS: Aluminium Limited Sales, Inc., 630 Fifth Ave, New York
zo, N.Y.

BORN: May 26, 1910, Mexico City, Mexico, PARENTS: Borden Covel, ’oz, Alice
May Kuhn.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Elizabeth West Williams, April 24, 1935, Evanston, Ill. cHrpreN:
Dennis, Oct. 17, 1936; Gillian, March 10, 1941.

[ 269 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

HARVARD BROTHERS: Richard Borden Covel, "29, Peter Covel, °39.

occupation: Vice-president, Aluminium Limited Sales, Inc.

orrices HELD: Member, Society of Mayflower Descendants, since 1952,
National Council, National Planning Association, since 1955.

MEMBER OF: University Club, New York.

AN account of my life since graduation shows that for about

one-half of the twenty-five years I have been an employee of the

Federal Government, and the other half for private industry.

In addition to a couple of years of commercial banking right after

college, I have spent the last ten years with Aluminium Limited,

an international aluminum company with headquarters in Mon-
treal, Canada. |
Back in college, perhaps even before, I developed an interest
in the international scene. The opportunities around Boston
where I grew up seemed limited, at least for me. For the first
few years I thought I wanted to get into foreign banking which
was an impractical idea back in the thirties. The closest I could
get to this right after the final examinations was to work in a
filling station owned by Shell Oil in Manchester, New Hamp-
shire. Then through the help of one of Harvard’s finest gradu-
ates, Mr. Barrett Wendell, Jr, I got into banking — as a clerk
and later investment analyst for the First National Bank of Chi-
cago. The bank’s foreign department, unfortunately, had no need
for extra personnel and the prospects for making enough money
to get married on by being an analyst in the trust department -
were gloomy. My eye was still on the more distant pastures and,
like many others, I became attracted by the excitement going on
in Washington in those days. Among the new agencies created
by the New Deal was the Export Import Bank which proposed
to revive the country’s foreign trade. It sounded good to me and
I pestered the bank until they finally took me on in the fall of
1934. Then, after my wife shifted her job from a department
store on State Street (Chicago) to the Library of Congress, we
got married,

Without going into the merits of the New Deal, it is a fact
that Washington under the Roosevelt regime was an effervescent
place and some of the excitement permeated even to the low
levels I held in the bank and later in the Securities and Exchange
Commission, During this period we lived in Alexandria, Virginia,

[ 270 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in reconditioned small houses. There were other northerners
there similarly engaged and housed and there was also the real
South. As a place for young married couples, Alexandria had
advantages and the New Deal its special attractions, but by 1939
I was beginning to get restless.

Because I was looking for something connected with the de-

fense effort as early as 1939 and was right there in Washington

to take it, and because there was an unofficial policy against hiring

men employed by some of the industries that had to be expanded

und controlled, especially in the light metals field, 1 was able to
-dge myself into the position of assistant to the director of the
Aluminum and Magnesium Division of the War Production
soard many months before Pearl Harbor. Both the aluminum

nd magnesium industries had to. be greatly expanded and distri-
ution had to be closely controlled. As a consequence we were

_a very hot spot right through the whole war. There were
guntless battles to get construction materials, manpower and
her essentials — and to keep Congress happy in the meantime.
id then after the whole edifice had been constructed, we had

2 job of taking it apart — and finding jobs for ourselves.

4 good number of us shifted over into the aluminum industry.
id not accomplish this, though, until after I had spent a year
U.S. representative on the Allied Control Council in Berlin,
otiating with the Russian, British and French representatives
r the disposition of the German non-ferrous industries. Then,
wuse of my wartime experience and the knowledge I picked
about Germany and Austria from my job in Berlin, Alu-
um Limited apparently thought it was worth the gamble to
‘me on. The company faced a strenuous program of re-
itating and converting its European plants. As a family we
in Geneva, Switzerland, which was a wonderful experience
ll of us and for about four years I traveled around Europe
1¢ company, trying to pick up the pieces left by the war and
ok for new investment and sales opportunities. When we
7 had to leave Europe it was with great regret; there are
of advantages in living in Europe, particularly a place like
a. After the Korean war broke out, the company decided
ded someone in Washington to follow the various new

pments resulting from that emergency. I was quickly

[271]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

transferred and ever since 1950 we have lived in Washington.

The last three summers we have rented a house in Saunderstown,

Rhode Island, and the combination of Washington in the winter

and Narragansett Bay in the summer is certainly a fortunate one

for any family.

_ Looking back over the twenty-five years, the years in Europe
for the government and for the company stand out as perhaps the
most vivid experience. Germany was an unforgettable scene of
misery, destruction and despair right after the war. Even Geneva
was somewhat chilly in 1947.

Knowing that Aluminium Limited is a Canadian company,
people often are puzzled as to what I do in Washington. The
easiest explanation is that the U.S.A. is one of the company’s
largest markets and we are one of the leading sources of alumi-
num ingot for many U.S. companies. Moreover, as an interna-
tional company Aluminium Limited also has occasion to deal with
the embassies and other international organizations in Washing-
ton. I also usually spend a part of each week in our New York
office, which is the headquarters of our U.S. operations. I know
how fortunate I am to be with Aluminium Limited. It is a won-
derful group of people.

As for hobbies, I seem to be too lazy to develop any, unless
vegetable gardening and tennis are regarded in this category. |
have tried to grow vegetables in the hard clay of Virginia, the
soft river loam of Geneva, the scientifically prepared material of
a big Berlin suburban home and the rocky earth of Rhode Island.
In all truth, Berlin was so good it seemed unnatural. .

My employment in the New Deal speaks for my political in-
clinations. I take the view that a tremendous social revolution
is going on here and abroad and that, although the United States
and Canada should remain steady in the midst of this revolution,
change should be expected and accepted.

My wife is even more interested in the international scene
than I—and certainly is a much better linguist. Together we
have interests which fall under the classification of culture, e.g.,
concerts, art exhibits (she paints), ete. My contribution to com-
munity affairs has been woefully small, she does more than her
share. She is also a devoted alumna of Smith. One of our daugh-
ters is a junior there now and another hopes to be a freshman in

[272]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a couple of years. I feel that I know more about Northampton
than I do about Cambridge. (I shall also be surprised if there
isn’t a special Smith College program at our Reunion!) But it
will be interesting to see Harvard again. I have never been to a
commencement, even our own.

++ JOHN PHISTER COWIN

BORN: Sept. 28, 1909, Fort Robinson, Neb. parents: William Benton Cowin,
Katherine Phister.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREE: A.B., 1932 (31).

piep; Aug. 1, 1933, Dover, Mass,

ON receiving his degree from Harvard, Cowin entered the
Medical School where he had completed his second year and a
short term of hospital work when he was killed in an automo-
bile accident.

PHILIP EDWARD COYLE, JR.

HOME AppRESS: 9 Sylvan Ave., Wakefield, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 16, 1910, Brookline, Mass. parents: Philip Edward Coyle, ’o1,
Edith Woodbury.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

MARRIED: Jane Elizabeth McKinney, Feb. 24, 1934, Winnetka, Ill. (divorced
1946). cHiLD: Philip Edward, 3d.

RICHARD CRANE

HOME appress: Ohayo Mountain Road, Woodstock, N.Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Rotron Manufacturing Co., Schoonmaker Lane, Woodstock
N.Y.

BORN: Oct. 19, 1909, New York, N.Y. parents: Alexander Mitchell Crane,
’94, Ruth Elsa Walker.

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREES: A.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1935; A.M.
(ibid.), 1937; Teachers’ Cert. (Albany State Coll. for Teachers), 1946.

[ 273 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

MARRIED: Susan Prudence Underhill, June 2, 1937, Brooklyn, N.Y. (divorced
1947); Betty Heap Strassburger, May, 1950, Woodstock, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Sylvester Pollet, June 28, 1939 (stepson); Ruth Elizabeth, Dec. 7, 1953.

occupation: Electric motor design and development, for cooling devices for
electronic and instrument applications, Rotron Manufacturing Company.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant supervisor of welding, January-June, 1951, in charge
of inspection and quality control, 1951-56, member, electric motor
research staff, since 1956, Rotron Manufacturing Company.

MEMBER OF: Woodstock Guild of Craftsmen; Woodstock Artists’ As-
sociation. .

pusLications: “An Economical Set-up for the Mass Production Welding
of Aluminum Parts,” Eutectic Company trade journal.

PRINTER until induction, April 17, 1943. Entered combat, June
12, 1944. Assigned to 311 F.A. Bn., 79th Division, July 14, 1944,
as scout in instruments and survey. Discharged as staff sergeant,
October 31, 1945. Decorations and citations: European-A frican-
Middle Eastern with four stars. Battles and Campaigns: Central
Europe, Normandy, Northern France, Rhineland; Good Con-
duct medal, Silver Star medal, Presidential Citation. Printer, orna-
mental metal worker, 1946 to 1951. Subsequent work, supra.

Externally, my life has been uneventful enough. I owe my col-
lege studies a peculiarly abnormal debt in a materialistic civiliza-
tion: their share in supplying me with interests in aesthetics, the
appreciation of literature, music, and the fine arts; a philosophic
interest in the pure mathematical sciences and a detached interest
in applied technology; and a taste for reflective study and con-
templation. I am convinced that my very knowledge of tech-
nology, as evinced in my present occupation, is the basis for my
realization of its limitations.

I have spent most of my life as a self-employed craftsman, with
the above non-material recreations, and the satisfaction of the in-
stinct for workmanship as the principal impetus in my activities.
Boyhood interests in camping, field sports and generally “rough-
ing it” have actually permanently lowered my standard of living.
The depression also played its part in determining my material
standards and forcing me into self-employment.

My graduate studies were in medieval literature, a field whose
bearing on the present discussion is obvious. The war and divorce
did not add to my confidence either in applying technology to
solve man’s problems or in a patriarchal socio-economic order,

[274 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Briefly, I have come out of all this an inveterate Spenglerian. If
we continue along lines of competitive materialism, which has
never been dissociated from imperialism, the end will be an
atomic war, destroying precisely what it will be fought to pre-
serve; and we shall revert to a middle age, as Europe did upon
the collapse of Roman materialistic imperialism. Then the world
will again give due emphasis to the instinct for workmanship,
the sense of beauty, solitary contemplation, and the heroic and
moral virtues. Possibly a movement playing the part of Christian-
ity in the last middle age will come out of a country like India.
If we abandon competitive materialism and focus on higher
values, then modern industry, serving almost entirely materialistic
ends, will stagnate and disintegrate, bringing us back to the same
middle age gradually and without violence. Many consider it
paradoxical that a prophet of hedonism should have said:

“They say the Lion and the Lizard keep
The Courts where Jamshyd gloried and drank deep:
And Bahram, that great Hunter — the Wild Ass
Stamps o’er his Head, but cannot break his Sleep.”
I wonder.

JOHN WILLIAM CRICKARD

HOME aApprREss: 122 WVestfield Rd., Buffalo 21, N.Y.

OFFIcE appRESS: Gooderham & Worts, Ltd., 620 Elliott Square Bldg. " Buffalo 3s
N.Y.

BORN: March 7, 1910, Staten Island, N.Y. parents: Edwin Crickard, Mabel
Findlay.

PREPARED AT: Lynbrook High School, , Lynbrook, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933.

MARRIED: Betty J. Madley, May 9, 1941, New York, N.Y. cup: Kipp L.,
Sept. 9, 1944.

OccuUPATION: Manufacturing.

ARTEMAS HOLMES CRIMMINS
HOME appress: Long Neck Point Road, Noroton, Conn.

OFFICE ADpREss: Thomas Crimmins Contracting Co., 624 Madison Ave. New
York 22, N.Y.

[275 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

BorN: Jan. 17, 1909, New York, N.Y. parents: John D. Crimmins, Jr., Lillian
Holmes.

PREPARED AT: The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1032. DEGREE: AB. 1932.

MarkiED: Doris Bates, May 14, 1932, Noroton, Conn. cHitpren: Artemas

Holmes, Jr., Feb. 16, 1933; Kevin Bates, June 7, 1935; Doris Ann, June
12, 1940.

occuPATION: Treasurer, Thomas Crnmmins Contracting Company, general
contractors.

OFFICES HELD: President, The Hill School Alumni, The Moles; chairman,

Darien Park Commission; director, Federal Grand Jury Association,
Southern District of New York.

MEMBER OF; Harvard Club of New York; Wee Burm Country Club, The
Moles.

STARTING the summer prior to senior year, I worked in the
family contracting firm. Section three, Newark City Subway,
was the springboard, and what a dive contractors took in those
days. Ever since I have burrowed around the metropolitan area.
Five generations have had a hand at it, which gets us a chance to
do repeat orders; in doing the foundations of Tiffany’s we dug up
the remains of two previous foundations we had built on the site.
More recently we have done those of the Esso Building and the
New York Coliseum.

Just like it says above, I married early, and as far as I know,
have the Class Baby, but who cares; he’s a Yale grad.

During World War Il, I came up for air long enough to serve
with the 1o6oth Port Construction Group in New Guinea and
the Philippines. How few of us were lucky enough in those days
to end up doing something for which we were trained.

Politically, I voted for F.D.R. till 1 thought he told a fib. But
that is forgiven now and I am on the fence, willing to argue and

maybe listen. Religious convictions —Roman Catholic; sitting
somewhat apart from Senator Barden.

ALVAH CROCKER, III

HOME aporess: Flat Rock Road, Fitchburg, Mass.
orrice Appress: Crocker, Burbank Co, Association, Fitchburg, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 255 1999) Paris, France. parents: Alvah Crocker, Jr. ’o5, Harriet
Greeley.

[ 276 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932; M.B.A. 1934.

marRIED: Nancy Ladd, June 9, 1933, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Nancy, April
3, 1934; Alvah, Jr., Jan. 8, 1936; William E. Ladd, July 31, 1940.

HARVARD SON: Alvah Crocker, Jr., ’59.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederick Greeley Crocker, ’34, M.B.A., 36 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Crocker, Burbank Co. Association, paper manu-
facturers.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Safety Fund National Bank, since 1937, Vermont
Massachusetts Railroad, since 1938, New York Pennsylvania Railroad,
since 1938; treasurer, Groton School, since 1954; member executive com-
mittee, Associated Industries of Massachusetts.

MEMBER OF: Eastern Yacht Club; A.D. Club, 1929.

AFTER graduating from Business School in 1934, I joined a
family business, manufacturing paper — just about all kinds with
the exception of newspaper, boxboard, towelling, and confetti.

Having completed N.R.O.T.C. in 1934, I was fairly inactive
in the service till July, 1941, when my M.B.A. degree placed me
in the Naval Supply Corps at the Boston Navy Yard until I was
able to persuade authorities otherwise. From 1942 to 1946 I was
in the flying end in various capacities, i.e., eighteen months as
utility pilot in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba; eleven months flying
DC3’s from Kansas City to the West Coast, and six months flying
DCy4’s from Honolulu in completely pacified areas. Decorations
— Naval Reserve Medal (I believe having something to do with
length of service).

Since then — back to paper.

DAVID CHARLESS CROCKETT

HOME appreEss: Argilla Road, Ipswich, Mass.

OFFICE AppREsS: Moseley Bldg., Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 19, 1909, Ipswich, Mass. PARENTS: Eugene Anthony Crockett,
M.D., ’90, Elizabeth LeBourgeois.

PREPARED at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

MarrieD; Marion Combs Yates, Dec. 8, 1945, Setauket, Long Island, N.Y.
CHILDREN: Christopher Yates and Susan LeBourgeois (twins), Dec. 8,
1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederick Eugene Crockett, °30.

Occupation: Associate director for Resources and Development, Massachu-
setts General Hospital.

[277 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

orFices HELD: Member National Board of Directors and member executive
committee of Massachusetts and New England Chapters, Arthritis and
Rheumatism Foundation; member National Board of Directors and
member executive committee of Massachusetts Division, National As-
sociation of Mental Health; president, Guidance Camps, Inc.; member
board of trustees, Coburn Charitable Society; member of corporation,
Cable Memorial Church, Ipswich, Walter E. Fernald School, Waverley,
Mass.; former member, National Advisory Health Council, currently
member, National Advisory Allergy and Infectious Disease Council,
US. Public Health Service; member of the corporation and standing
committee of Trustees of Reservation; member board of trustees and
executive committee, New England Conservatory of Music; chairman,
Crane Memorial Reservation Committee; member board of directors,

and of Executive Committee, Castle Hill Foundation; trustee, Retina
Foundation.

MEMBER OF: Tavern Club; Harvard Musical Association; Thursday Evening

Club of Boston; Century Association, New York; Harvard Club of
New York.

SINCE the war, I have been holding down a fascinating but
initially a rather ill-defined job at the Massachusetts General Hos-
pital. Now it is rather clear that my principal responsibility is
to locate the wherewithal to supplement the income of the hos-
pital from its endowment so that new ventures in research and
teaching can be undertaken. The financial magnitude of these
new projects has grown over the years so that the search for
financial resources has kept me scurrying over the country eX-
ploring new charitable foundations and stimulating the activity
of the voluntary health agencies and prodding various federal
agencies to make more money available for research. In 1946
there was available for research projects under way at the hospital
just over a half a million dollars. In 1957 there is in the hospital’s
treasury two and a half million for specific research projects and
broad research program support. Two new research buildings
have been built as well as two other hospital buildings at a cost
of over eight million dollars, in the last ten years. For these, new
capital has been raised by the trustees and in this I have been
quite active too,

All this, however, has been possible only because of the institu-
tion itself, that is: the trustees, doctors, nurses and administrative
personnel, past and present. Their collective enterprise and effort
for nearly one hundred and fifty years have made the name,

[ 278 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Massachusetts General Hospital, synonymous with good medical
care.

‘During the last two years, a great deal of my time has been
spent trying to avoid discussion of my relationship to Disney’s
original. We live in Ipswich in the house in which I was born
and my weekends and holidays are mainly spent working around
the farm and in rather old-fashioned but to me very pleasant
country enterprises.

WILSON HILL CROSBY

HOME ADDRESS: 765A Islington St., Portsmouth, N.H.

porN: Dec. 21, 1907, West Medford, Mass. parents: William Edgar Crosby,
Grace Greene. |

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

MaRRIED: Marianne Mitchell, July 13, 1939, West Newton, Mass. cymop:
Joyce Ann (stepdaughter: adopted), Aug. 8, 1928 (77. John G. Quay).

occupation: Manufacturing ocean communication cables.

MUCH has taken place in the last twenty-five years. I have
just returned from Ohio where I visited my daughter and grand-
children. I tried to help World War II in the Navy. I am pres-
ently employed in the manufacture of ocean communication
cables, (Don’t give that telephone operator Hell when you are
fouled up phoning London, or even across the Pacific. The poor
operator can’t help it that she doesn’t have one of our cables.)

WILLIAM FRANCIS CROSKERY

HOME ADDRESS: 261 Reedsdale Rd., Milton 86, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1101 Beacon St., Brookline 46, Mass.

BoRN: Feb. 9, 1910, Boston, Mass, parents: James William Croskery, Mar-
garet F, Sullivan.

PREPARED AT: Oliver Ames High School, North Easton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.D. (Boston Univ.), 1936.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Chief of surgical staff, Little Company of Mary Hospital, in-
structor in surgery and anatomy, Boston University School of Medicine;
senior medical officer, Massachusetts Air National Guard.

[279]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

memBer OF: Harvard Club; Ancient & Honorable Artillery Company; Bos-
ton University Faculty Club; Se. Luke's Guild; Harvard Travelers’ Club;
University Club; Massachusetts Medical Society; American Medical
Association; Military Surgeons, Massachusetts Society of Physicians &
Surgeons, New England Obstetrical & Gynecological Society; Civil
Avianon Medical Association; Aero Medical Association.

FOLLOWING graduation from Harvard College with the
Class of 1932, I entered Boston University School of Medicine.
Upon completion of a four-year medical course, I graduated in
June of 1936, with the degree of M.D. Following this I spent
three years in surgical training at St. Vincent’s Hospital in
Worcester, Mercy Hospital in Springfield, and the Massachusetts
Memorial and City Hospitals in Boston.

In 1940 I entered the U.S. Air Force and spent the next five
years as a flight surgeon with Alaskan Strategic Command. Fol-
lowing my discharge from the service, I spent a year as assistant
to Dr. John Fallon at the Fallon Clinic in Worcester. In January
of 1947, I opened my own office in the practice of general sur-
gery. During 1947 I became a diplomate of the American Board
of Surgery, and in the same year received a fellowship in the
American College of Surgeons. For the past ten years I have been
a member of the Massachusetts Medical Society, American Medi-
cal Society, American Medical Association, Association of Mili-
tary Surgeons, Massachusetts Society of Physicians and Surgeons,
New England Obstetrical and Gynecological Society, Aero
Medical Society, Civil Aviation Medical Association, along with
several others,

Throughout the past ten years, while being active in the prac-
tice of surgery, I have been associated with the following hos-
pitals: Massachusetts Memorial, St. Elizabeth’s, Norwood, Little
Company of Mary, Marlboro, Milton, Roslindale, and Metro-
politan State. Since my discharge from the service, I have been
associated with the Massachusetts Air National Guard, holding
the rank of colonel as senior medical officer. I feel I can truth-
fully say that flying, travel, and photography are my three pet
hobbies. During the past ten years I have traveled extensively
throughout the following countries, primarily to attend scientific
and surgical meetings and secondly to enjoy the pleasure such
travel affords: Hawaii, Panama Canal Zone, Canada, Mexico,

[ 280 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Nicaragua, Greenland, Cuba, Brazil, Chile, Peru, Uruguay, Bel-
gium, England, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Holland,
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Algeria, and Morocco.

Well, I guess I will get back to surgery and dream up another
trip for this coming summer.

HERBERT LITCHFIELD CROWLEY, JR.

HOME AppREsS: 1 Bennington Rd., Lexington, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Crowley & Gardner Co., 1258 Boylston St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 22, 1911, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Herbert Litchfield Crowley,
Nellie Elizabeth Fawcett.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High & Latin School and New Preparatory School,
Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Constance Worth Bennett, Oct. 4, 1935, Belmont, Mass. CHILDREN:
Sandra Kent, April 11, 1937; Richard Herbert, June 28, 1939, David
Bennett, Jan. 24, 1944.

OccUPATION: President, Crowley & Gardner Company, hospital, medical and
surgical supplies.

OFFICES HELD: President, Lexington Junior High School P.T.A., 1950; sponsor,
committee member, Troop 19, Boy Scouts of America, 1950-54; member
of various committees such as program, district organization, freight
rates, budget and finance, public relations, since 1948, director, since
1952, president, since 1956, American Surgical Trade Association.

MEMBER OF: Hancock Church Men’s Club, Lexington; Munroe Tavern
Committee (Washington slept here); Chapter 1, FBL, Lexington.

PUBLICATIONS: Papers in A.S.T.A. Trade Journal or in some of the national
hospital magazines.

WHEN one starts to review his life since college, it seems that
only a few months have passed since graduation; but when I look
around and see all the changes that have occurred, it doesn’t seem
possible that we are coming up to our Twenty-fifth celebration.

I look back to the days when one got married on a weekly
salary that is today smaller than a monthly milk bill for four
living under one roof. I review the birth of our first child —a
daughter who is now (fall of 1956) a junior at Russell Sage Col-
lege, where she is majoring in physical education and who is only
home about two weeks a year, what with trips and summer camp
jobs. I remember the birth of her first brother and the purchase
of a small home in Lexington just prior to Pearl Harbor. And

[ 281 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

then after that, the arrival of another boy and the move to a large
home with a couple of acres of land and gardens.

Uncle Sam considered me essential in my job which, at that
time, was servicing hospital equipment in the New England area,
so I was not in the service although I tried to get in even by pull-
ing wires.

Our eldest son is now a senior in Lexington High School and
is heading for engineering, although he has taken some exams for
Annapolis. Our younger son is now in Junior High School and

I believe I shall have a swell salesman in my business when he
graduates from some college of his choice. My wife graduated
from Wellesley in 1934 and has since been active in the Boston
Wellesley Club as well as other organizations and she helped or-
ganize the Symmes Arlington Hospital Lexington Auxiliary. As
a family we like to go to Martha’s Vineyard in the summer, and
on two occasions have made jaunts, once to Florida and New
Orleans, and another one for five weeks by car to the West Coast.
Most of my spare time has been devoted to the American Sur-
gical Trade Association which has about 250 members in the
United States. We are distributors of health supplies to the hos-
pital and medical professions. Last June at the annual convention
of this organization in Chicago, I was elected president and had
the honor of having my father, who was president several years
ago, install me into office. This was the second time in the fifty-
five years of its history that a father had done such a thing. I have
for the past four years traveled considerably as a director and
officer for the association, and have also been able to run my own
business in Boston at the same time. |
I now am a Congregationalist and still a Republican. I hope
some day to be able to relax and enjoy the efforts of work, but
what my hobby will be then I don’t know as I just like to work
and keep solving problems.

WILLIAM WIDLAR CROWNINSHIELD

HOME aporess: §7 Orne St., Marblchead, Mass.
orrice Appress: Franklin Technical Institute, 41 Berkeley St., Boston, Mass,

oan: April 13, 1909, New London, Conn, parents: Bowdoin Bradlee
Crowninshield, ’90, Laura Widlar.

[ 282 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928~1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

mMarRRIED: Muriel Longton, Sept. 30, 1934, N.H. cxitpren: Bowdoin Bradlee,
_ Aug. 29, 1935; George William, Oct. 7, 1936; Katherine Laura, March
27, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Engineering and technical education; industrial relations and
placement officer.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Engineering Education, Philanthropic
_ Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Phoenix-S.K. Club; Boston Yacht Club,

HOW well I remember the day my father called for me in the
old Ford sedan after picking up my degree and saying, “Well,
son, you made it, we’re in a depression, you know, it took my
last cent. There’s lots I'd like very much to do for you and all
I can do is shake your hand and say good luck.”

Well, I took my good father at his word and shifted for myself.
If only I had the engineering and technical opportunities then
as my students have today! But no such thing, as all my class-
mates know. Yes, there were the lucky ones, but, actually I feel
just as lucky myself and why — simply because I just had to do
something and get somewhere, even though my salary and/or
income combined never got, nor probably will, to five figures or
even the high four.

Times were tough for a lot of us in 1932 and walking the streets
got nowhere. I went to sea with the Eastern Steamship Lines as
ordinary seaman, able-bodied seaman and quartermaster, and ob-
tained my Third Mate’s License, Unlimited, 1932-34. Got tired
of coastwise service, and took a hitch around the world as ordi-
nary and able-bodied seaman, 1934-35, and boy, oh boy, did I
see the world! Came ashore, staying around the water at Graves
Boat Yard in Marblehead, Massachusetts, as yacht broker and
marine insurance agent, also some life insurance, 1935-40. I held
on to my Naval Reserve commission and entered the service in
August, 1940, as a lieutenant (j.g.), asked for destroyer duty
and, of all things, got the Naval Air at Pensacola, Florida, as in-
structor, etc., as assistant yard officer, 1940-43, and rose to licuten-
ant commander.

Then went on to Sub Chaser Training at Miami, lost out and
moved on to the command of Base Service Unit, Boston, 1944.
Had a heck of a time getting foreign duty and finally got orders
to Advance Base Unit, Port Hueneme, California, where an un-

[ 283 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

fortunate accident put me in the hospital and overseas duty was
finished.

Recovered, 1944-45, to be sent as commander of the Receiving
Station, Shoemaker, California. Ended service as commander of the
Naval Station, Argentia, Newfoundland, 1946-47. Milled around
a bit, feeling just like out of college, to get a job as math instruc-
tor, head of the Mechanical and Machine Design Department, and
now Industrial Relations and Placement, since 1947, at the Frank-
lin Technical Institute in Boston.

Last, but by far not the least, my good wife has borne with me
some twenty-two years and I am the proud possessor of two sons,
twenty-one and twenty, now serving their time at the Massachu-
setts Maritime Academy, Buzzards Bay, Massachusetts, doing a
very fine job and pointing towards what I hope is a better and
more profitable career than I have had myself. But that little
daughter of mine, now seven, I think will beat them all; what a
partner she will be for some gentleman in the future.

Following along somewhat in the family tradition, I still own
—but I fear not for long —the only three-masted sailing yacht
in Marblehead Harbor. You see, I bought a house, and how true
it is —the story — you can not have two wives!

Politically, always Republican, Religiously, I can and will al-
ways say — I believe.

CHARLES CREHORE CUNNINGHAM

HOME appress: 75 Bloomfield Ave., Harford 5, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 25 Atheneum Sq., N., Hartford 3, Conn.

BoRN: March 7, 1910, Mamaroneck, N.Y, parents: Stanley Cunningham, ’o1,
Esther Lowell Burnett.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932, DEGREES: A.B.. 1932; B.A. DIPLOMA (London
Univ.), 1933. :

MarRiED: Eleanor Allen Lamont, June 27, 1932, Englewood, N.J. cHiLpren:
Charles Crehore, Jr, May 25, 1934 (mm. Georgia Cromwell Jenckes,
June 23, 1955); Priscilla, Aug. 25, 1936, Thomas Lamont, Nov. 6, 1944;
James Stanley, Dec. 26, 1946.

HARVARD 80N; Charles Crehore Cunningham, Jr., °56.

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Stanley Cunningham, ’29.

OCCUPATION: Art museum director, Wadsworth Atheneum,

[ 284 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Assistant curator of Paintings, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston,
1935-41; Officer (retired as commander), U.S.N.R., 1942-53; trustee,
Bushnell Memorial, Hartford, Oxford School, 1947-51, Milton Acad-
emy, 1949-52, Hartford Art School, 1946-54, American Federation of
Arts; director, Harvard Alumni Association, 1948-51, Symphony So-
ciety of Greater Hartford, 1949-53; president, Harvard Club of Con-
necticut, 1955; member visiting committee, Department of Fine Arts,
Harvard University; chairman, Greater Hartford Council for UNESCO;
member, State of Connecticut Historical Commission; vice-president,
Association of Art Museum Directors, 1955-56.

MEMBER OF: Fellow, International Institute of Arts and Letters; American
Federation of Arts; American Association of Museums; Association of
Art Museum Directors; Archeological Institute of America; College
Art Association; International Council of Museums; Hartford Club,
Hartford Golf Club; Harvard Club of New York; Rotary Club of Hart-
ford, Tavern Club, Boston; Century Association, New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles for Museum of Fine Arts Bulletin, Boston, and Wads-
worth Atheneum Bulletin; author of numerous catalogues for art exhibi-
tions; articles for Art News, Art Quarterly, Art in America, Arts and

_ Burlington Magazine; editor, Art in New England, 1939.

TWENTY-FIVE years is a long time and I often wonder where

they have gone. Graduate schools, a job at the Museum of Fine

Arts, Boston, nearly four years in the Navy, ten years in my

present position at the Wadsworth Atheneum, Hartford, a family

of four children, as well as frequent trips to Europe and else-

where on business have kept me busy. Being the director of a

sizable art museum with a small staff is something like playing

in the big leagues with nine men, or being the ringmaster of a

three-ring circus with one horse. The men and the horses get

tired but the show must go on. This sounds foreboding but I

would not change my lot. Sometimes your patience is tried,

when a garrulous old lady wastes your time telling about the
latest artistic effort of her granddaughter, when the boilers break
down on a cold day, or when a smart teen-ager writes “Kilroy
was here” in red crayon over freshly painted walls. As admin-
istrator of a public collection, I know the public is always or
nearly always right, and biting the hand that feeds you is not
considered good practice. Like all charitable and educational
institutions, funds are always a problem and the competition for
the loose dollar is stiff. There are silver linings, however. Work-
ing every day in an institution where something new can be
learned is rewarding, for museums contain the visual evidences

[ 285 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

of the history of man. To live with, to study, and to share with
others beautiful works of art is very satisfying. There are also
the pleasures of travel, of secking out new additions to the col-
lections, and of research. No matter where one goes, there are
usually museums, collections, churches, or historic houses to
see, a complaint sometimes registered by museum wives.

Museum people are public servants and time, which is too
infrequently their own, with the family is not as much as one
would wish. We are fortunate in having two sets of children
about eight years apart. The oldest is married so we have added
a fifth. In addition, we have four French poodles. Besides intra-
mural sports such as chasing the dogs when they get out of the
pen, chasing twelve-year-olds in touch football, or knocking
grounders into the neighbor's flower beds, golf, tennis, occa-
sional skiing, skating, swimming and sailing occupy our leisure
time. Unfortunately, winter vacations are few and far between,
but summers in Maine on Penobscot Bay afford pleasant relaxa-
tion. We look forward this spring to getting an Amphibi-Con
now being built in Norway. It is a small sloop which sleeps four.
We can move it in a day by trailer from Maine to the Connec-
ticut River, thereby extending the sailing season by several
months. I have been active in Harvard affairs locally and at the
University, and I continue to bless the good judgment of my

parents at having given me the opportunities of a Harvard edu-
cation.

ROBERT FRANCIS CURRAN

appress: USAREUR COM. 1, APO 58, New York, N.Y.

BORN; Aug, 24, 1911, South Boston, Mass. parents: Michael Francis Curran,
Alice Achorn.

PREPARED AT: Mechanic Arts High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930, 1931-1932.

Margiep: Catherine O'Donnell,

occupation; Military Service.

[ 286 ]

!
25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES ALFRED CURRIER, II

HOME ADpRESS: 17 Hidden Rd., Andover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 70 Main St., Andover, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 22, 1909, Arlington, Mass. parENTS: Willard Abbott Currier,
Gertrude Augusta Huntington.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: S.B. 1932; M.D. (Tufts Medical
School), 1936.

MARRIED: Margaret Dorothy Campbell, Sept. 16, 1939, Andover, Mass.
CHILDREN: Richard Charles, April 27, 1941; David Campbell, March 5,
1943; Scott Huntington, Aug. 7, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Physician and surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant obstetrician, 1939-47, senior obstetrician, since 1947,
Chief of Obstetrical Service, 1954, 1955, Lowell General Hospital Staff,
assistant in obstetrics and gynecology, 1939-48, associate in obstetrics and
gynecology, since 1948, Lawrence General Hospital Staff; associate in
obstetrics and gynecology, Bon Secours Hospital Staff.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society,
Essex North District Medical Society; American Cancer Society; Massa-

_ chusetts Heart Association; Andover Historical Society; Old Newbury
Historical Society; National Association of Watch and Clock Collectors,
Reading (Mass. ) Symphony Orchestra.

TRYING to give an account of my activities since graduation is
proving to be difficult. This sheet has been on my desk for weeks
awaiting the time when there were no interruptions.

| Immediately following graduation my roommate, Lewis Dexter
(M.D., 736), and I had a seven weeks’ tour of Europe, having a
wonderful time for about one-fifth the expense that it would cost
today. I then spent four hard-working years at Tufts Medical
School, getting my M.D. in 1936. From time to time specialism
beckoned; following an internship at the Lowell General Hos-
pital, I put in two years’ graduate study in psychiatry. Then in
practice in my home town the opportunity came to work as assist-
ant to a fine obstetrician with a staff appointment at the Lowell
General Hospital. Psychiatry soon went by the board as I became
involved in a large general practice with full hospital privileges in
obstetrics and gynecology. Further hospital appointments fol-
lowed — in 1939 to the Obstetrical Department of the Lawrence
General Hospital and in 1949 to Obstetrical Department of the
new Bon Secours Hospital in Methuen. I have been happy in

[ 287 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

these appointments, but the night running on free deliveries never

seems to end.

On September 16, 1939, I married Margaret D. Campbell —a
nextdoor neighbor — and have never regretted the step. We have
three fine boys, two of whom attend Browne and Nichols, my
alma mater, and I hope they can follow me to Harvard.

I suppose that I am one of the very few of our Class who did
not serve in the armed forces during the war. I was considered
unacceptable because of recurrent arthritis and rheumatic heart
disease — although I was recalled time after time for re-examina-
tion —and was finally accepted by the M.D. draft in 1953, al-

though not inducted. I suppose that Uncle Sam felt that since I
was still alive in 1953 that he must have made a mistake in 1941-45.
In fact I am still very much alive and very active in practice, I
served as assistant chief of Medical Defense in this town during
all of World War II, and was a director of the Andover Chapter
of the American Red Cross for ten years.

I have not given up my interest in music; in fact, I have been
playing trumpet in the Reading Symphony Orchestra for the
past five years, when maternity cases have permitted. I have also
played at the two reunions of the Harvard Band. These reunions
have certainly made one feel young again. Imagine treading the
greensward of Soldiers’ Field again before a Dartmouth game,
or an Army game — it happened, but I never thought it would.

My persistent interest in history has led me into membership
in two historical societies and the National Association of Watch
and Clock Collectors. This has involved me in research and I have
presented a few papers on “Navigation of the Merrimac,” and
various clockmakers — especially of the Merrimac Valley.

As for vacations, we have had a few outstanding ones. In 1951
we took a Grace Line cruise to South America and that was a
real rest which was long overdue. We have also made trips to
the Canadian Rockies, Florida, Williamsburg, Nova Scotia and
New Brunswick, although most of our vacations have been of
short duration and very local. With continued rising taxes and
two boys in preparatory school it looks as though we would have
to be very local for a while.

I see but few of our classmates — occasionally bump into Pen
Hallowell around town, and frequently get together with the

{ 288 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Ted Thomases of Concord. My over-two-thousand confinements
have kept us both confined and confining; we have lived in an
old (1811) large house by the clock and surrounded by clocks.
I can only hope that the next twenty-five years are as happy. It
will be a good start if we can re-elect Dwight D. Eisenhower.

CHARLES BERTRAM CURRIER
SEE Appendix.

GEORGE EDMUND CURRIER

appress: Eastern Shore State Hospital, Cambridge, Md.

BORN: Oct. 29, 1910, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Cyrus Richardson Currier,
Elizabeth Lavers.

- PREPARED AT: Sandwich High School, Sandwich, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: S.B., 1932; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1936.

MARRIED: Katharine Eleanor Green, June 27, 1938, Newton, Mass. cHi-
DREN: Carol Anne, March 11, 1946; Mary Eleanor, May 28, 1948; Jane
Elizabeth, Dec. 20, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Psychiatrist, superintendent of mental hospital.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American Psychiatric Associa-
tion; state and county medical societies; Cambridge Rotary Club; Cam-
bridge Country Club; Christ Episcopal Church; American Board of
Psychiatry and Neurology (diplomate).

GILFORD TILDEN CURRIER

HOME ADpRESS: 91 Pine Ridge Rd., Waban 68, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: G. T. Currier Distributors, Inc., 500 Boylston St., Boston,
Mass.

BORN: Aug. 25, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Gilford Tilden Currier,
Rebecca Vose Tripp.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1930.

MARRIED: Norma Virginia Morse, Oct. 10, 1936, Portland, Maine, CHILDREN:
Judith Morse, July 13, 1937 (7. Norman Souter Jessop, Sept. 25, 1955);
Anne Elizabeth, Feb. 10, 1944; Susan Vandervoort, Feb. 7, 1947-

OccuPATION: President, G. T. Currier Distributors, Inc., sale of water coolers.
air-conditioning, de-humidifiers, drink machines.

[ 289 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

orrices HELD: Former vice-president, Boston Filter Company, Charlestown,
Mfass.; former treasurer, P.T.A, Dana Hall.

MEMBER OF: Waban Neighborhood Club; Union Church Men's Club; Alpha
Sigma Phi; Boston Rotary; Cambndge Chamber of Commerce.

MY relationship to the Class of "32 is that of stepbrother, or more

literally half-brother, since I spent only two years with you.

The year 1931 screamed at me to get out and go to work, It

seems unlikely that many of you will remember me, but I am

delighted to accept your invitation to submit the following in-

formation for those who may be interested.

With the exception of the war years, when I acquired the title
of “engineer” (degreeless, of course) and flew about the country
giving instruction on industrial finishing for radar equipment, I
have been engaged in the sale of water coolers and air condition-
ing. Four years ago I resigned from the Boston Filter Company
where I had served as a vice-president for several years, and
formed my own company, known as G. T. Currier Distributors,
Inc.

Aside from bridge, fishing, and pottering around our old cot-
tage at the Cape, my only hobby is playing drums at impromptu
jam sessions. Once in a while I run into Wright Briggs, a brother
Alpha Sig, ’31, and Norm Bruce, ’30 (both on piano). If any
erstwhile band members of 32 are interested in sitting in some-
time, give me a call. We are always looking for men.

I sat in with some medics at the Brigham dance at the Harvard
Club last year and we discovered that we can fool the younger
generation into thinking that we are still “hep.” It is comforting
to suppose that at times we are really “in the groove.”

RICHARD STUART CURRIER

LAST KNOWN appress: 54 W, Randolph St. Chicago, Il.

Born; Aug. 2, 1910, Haverhill, Mass. parents: George Arthur Currier,
Marian Smythe.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE; A.B. cum laude, 1932.

RICHARD CURRIER has been carried as a “lost” man on our
records since 1956.

[ 290 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN HENRY CUTLER

HOME AND OFFICE ADpREss: Washington Street, Duxbury, Mass.

BORN: June 10, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Harry A. Cutler, Margaret
Fitzpatrick.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932; A.M,

1935; PH.D. 1936.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Bell Kenney, June 6, 1938, Boston, Mass. (divorced
1939); Roberta Rand Sumner, April 6, 1941, New Hampshire. CHILDREN:
Robert Burnley, Jan. 15, 1942; David Sumner and Margaret Avery
(twins), July 4, 1943; Abigail Rand, April 1, 1947; John Ricketts, Jan. 25,
1954.

OCCUPATION: Weekly newspaper publisher, editor and free lance writer;
owner, The Duxbury Clipper, weekly newspaper.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of directors, Boston Committee on Alcoholism;
member of board, Massachusetts Council for Public Schools; publicity
director, State- Wide Committee for Increased Aid to Public Schools.

MEMBER OF: Duxbury’ Yacht Club; Harvard Club of Boston; 300 Club of New
York.

PUBLICATIONS: Three adventure books for boys (Tom Stetson series); Dr.
Quizzler’s Mind Teasers; several magazine articles for American Mag-
azine, Argosy, Collier’s, Esquire, Liberty, Reader’s Digest, Pic; articles
for Boston Transcript, Boston Globe, Boston Post, Toronto Star Weekly,
London Daily Mirror.

AFTER writing newspaper and magazine pieces for several years
I launched The Duxbury Chipper, a weekly, in 1950, the first
newspaper historic Duxbury has had in its three hundred years.
My wife and I thoroughly enjoy operating this unpretentious little
‘sheet, despite the occupational hazards. Some fellow parishioners
invariably stir up a mad if your editorial is good, and if it is very
good, there are those who hate you for life. And, oh, those slips
that show: I once had a Sunday School teacher receiving a
“panty” (instead of “pantry”) shower, and, while editorializing
on the needs of the town, I wrote: “What Duxbury needs is
more pubic (i.e. public) facilities” . . . But, with the Clipper as
an anchor to windward, I have been trying fiction but so far have
only three adventure books for boys to my credit. With the
help of a charming mother-in-law novelist (Cid Ricketts Sumner,
author of Quality, filmed as “Pinky”) I have been working
on novels, All I can say is that the rejection slips are getting
politer. My most recent effort, a novel on banking, was inter-

[291 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

rupted when I was engaged by Prentice-Hall to work with the

former Governor James M. Curley on his (recently published,

I hope) autobiography. A fabulous character, so suggest you

buy a copy immediately.

My lovely wife, Bobbie (daughter of Dr. James B. Sumner,
Harvard A.B. and Ph.D. who received half the Nobel prize for
isolating the first enzyme), is a perfect companion, sharing all
my interests, including bridge. She graduated from the Mary C.
Wheeler School before going to Cornell. She acted at Cornell
University, did summer theatre work and still finds time to act
with the Duxbury Bay Players, attend tray-painting and art
classes, and take care of five children. Our eldest son, Robert, is
in the fourth form at Groton; David and Meg, the twins, are at
Derby Academy, while Gail and Ricky are in Duxbury schools
(Ricky is in nursery school). Robert and David, both Little

League All Stars for three years, show promise in baseball, foot-
ball and are regulars on the Duxbury Yacht Club’s junior tennis
team, with a few championships already to their credit. Both are
aiming for Harvard, of course! We attend the Episcopal church.

I came out of World War II a lieutenant commander. I had
marvelous experience during last year working with a writer
group. My specialty was ghosting speeches and articles for Sec-
retary of the Navy, John L. Sullivan, Under-secretary, Artemus
Gates, Admiral Ernest King and several other admirals, including
Aubrey Fitch and Marc Mitscher when they were deputy chiefs
of Naval Operations for Air. Hannibal Coons and I wrote for
Secretary Sullivan’s signature, The History of Naval Aviation in
the War Against Japan, We received citations from Admirals
Mitscher and Miller (then head of Public Information). In pre-
vious naval service I was editor of the South Atlantic News and
guest writer for Shipmate and the Leatherneck (by invitation in
both cases). I especially enjoyed doing the Liberty magazine’s
piece on Vice-Admiral Jonas Ingram, since it involved a delight-
ful sojourn in Rio de Janiero while I interviewed President Var-
gas, foreign secretary Oswaldo Aranha and others.

Other interesting war experiences include a junket with a group
of magazine editors on the shake-down cruise of the USS Benning-
ton and a quick trip to the Pacific as an “observer” of the first
mass air raid on Tokyo, and the assaults on Iwo Jima and Oki-

[ 292 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

nawa. Class II priority made it possible to go almost anywhere,

and I was transferred by breeches buoy from a destroyer to the

USS Randolpb just in time to interview the flyers who hit Tokyo

the first time. I was catapulted off Rear Admiral Durgin’s Makin

Island (a flagship) and flew into Okinawa where I saw one kami-

kaze shot down less than a hundred yards away from my position,
which was under a jeep. It was the only time during the war
that I actually saw ships sinking, oil tankers in flames and the
expression on a Jap kamikaze pilot’s face as his Betty dunked
near the El Dorado, flagship of General Buckner and Vice-
Admiral Kelly Turner, who directed the assault. Easily the most
exciting few hours of my life!

Incidental activities since the war include lecturing at clubs,
guest moderating the WNAC program, “Alcoholism Is Every-
body’s Business,” and serving on community committees (am
currently on the merit salary committee). I enjoyed teaching
at Dartmouth College and Boston University, but enjoy even
more the current routine.

That’s all until the Fifties... .

ROBERT ROMAINE DALY

HOME ADDRESS: Fentondale Farm, Gladstone, N_J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 11 Commerce St., Newark 2, N.J.

~oRN: Jan. 23, 1910, Bloomfield, N.J. parents: John Joseph Daly, Jennie
Stockton Fisher.

REPARED AT: East Orange High School, East Orange, N.J.

"EARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: S.B., 1932; LL.B. (Rutgers Univ.), 1935.

4arrieD: Mary deWolfe Banker, Sept. 9, 1938, South Orange, N.J. CHILDREN:
Katharine deWolfe, July 14, 1939; John Stockton Fenton, April 29, 1942;
Roger Carroll Banker, Jan. 19, 1944.

CCUPATION: Lawyer.

(EMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Jersey; American Bar Association; Essex
Fox Hounds; Spring Valley Hounds; Tewksbury Foot Bassetts.

* “the Class wants to know all about” my “career history . . -
mily .. . travels . . . hobbies,” etc., I submit the following:
Career history — Upon my graduation from Rutgers Law

chool I was employed by the largest law firm in New Jersey;

[ 293 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

left it in 1941 to form my own firm in Newark, New Jersey,

where I have continued practice to date. Five years ago I became

judge of a rural court where I continue to preside without dis-
tinction but with regularity for a day, twice each month.

Family —In 1941 we purchased a farm in Gladstone, New

Jersey, in the heart of the best fox hunting country to further
pursue the avid interest that my wife, Mary, has in horses and
fox hunting. The family’s entire time was devoted to exercising
and schooling hunters for horse shows, cubbing, drag and fox
hunting, as well as hacking just for fun. Our zenith perhaps was
reached in a recent year when we exhibited at twenty-two shows
and hunted with two local hunts. When our two sons, John and
Roger, entered Groton School and our daughter, Kathie, at-
tended Kent Place School, we lost our best workers and riders,
necessitating sharp curtailment in the number of horse shows.
To fill up the gap, Mary has added the judging of hunters and
breeding to her activities, while my efforts since have been di-
rected to an abortive and overcostly experiment as owner-trainer
of what was to be the steeplechaser of the year and sporadic
jogging on Sundays with the Tewksbury Foot Bassetts, which at
my age I find more satisfactory than beagling.

Travels — Except for the foreign and domestic travel required
of my law practice, the family traveling included five summers
in Bermuda. This came to an end Jast summer, when our sons
found Harwichport far superior.

Hobbies — My only preoccupation has been the photography
of horses and hunting. | finally assembled from thousands of feet
two short movie films, one on drag hunting and one on fox
hunting, the last of which includes a kill.

Politics — My sole participation has been membership on the
Republican Finance Committee and m efforts directly solely
to fund raising, easily accomplished in the past two presidential
elections, tedious and nerve-wracking in the off-year elections,
virtually fruitless for primaries.

[ 294]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

_ DOMINIC CHARLES D’AMBRUOSO

HOME ADDRESS: New Haven Avenue, Derby, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 46 Atwater Ave., Derby, Conn.

BorN: Nov. 19, 1910, Derby, Conn. PARENTS: Sylvester D’Ambruoso, Elvira
Berritto.

PREPARED AT: Derby High School, Derby, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: S.B., 1932; M.D. (Columbia Univ.), 1936.

MARRIED: Philomena L. Carangelo, Oct. 19, 1942, New Haven, Conn. aim-
DREN: Dom Sylvester, June 25, 1944; Jeanne Marie, Oct. 5, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: President, Medical Staff, Griffin Hospital, Derby, 1955-56;
vice-president, Medical Society of Naugatuck Valley, 1956, member,
Zoning Board, City of Derby, 1956.

MEMBER OF: Rotary International; Elks; Connecticut State Medical Society,
American Medical Association; American Association of General
Practice. . .

I HAVE little or no conception of how literary or, for that

matter, how literate actually, a physician is. However, since this

august temple of learning chose to confer on me some sort of
degree back in the nebulous past, I feel it incumbent on me to
prove to the world on this, the memorable occasion of our won-
derful Twenty-fifth, that English A was not all in vain. I tremble
when I think of the nightmares I had trying to “dream up” a new
theme! I shall remember forever, it seems, the extrasystoles (now
I know what they were!) when I pulled a theme paper from my
slot bearing the gratifying comment by the instructor —“You
handle descriptive narrative easily and well—” The mark? —a
good solid D! Nostalgically, I should like to do it all over again.
There was so much I didn’t get to do, so many wonderful things
at hand to which I must have been impervious. I wonder if the
rain and snow and ice of twenty-five years have worn thin the
.C.D. I carved in the stone of the window-sill in Matthews 50
— an abortive attempt at immortalization.

After college, medical school was a treadmill of cadavers,
nicroscopes, textbooks, bad smells, stethoscopes, nurses and hos-
ital beds in endless procession. Somehow | struggled through
hat maze to emerge in 1936 with more letters to tack after my
ame. When in 1938, after two years of internship, I raised my
ningle on high, I was penniless but full of lofty ideals to save

umanity. During the first lean years I worked diligently to build

[ 295 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

up a practice. I had some free time then but was too poor to do
many things. As time went on the picture changed — I then had
the means but was too busy to find the time! I have hung on the
horns of this dilemma ever since.

The life of a general practitioner is, by definition, a rigorous
one. The respite offered by service in the Army was, therefore,
most welcome. My wife and I spent a wonderful year in North
Carolina becoming acquainted and spending countless hours to-
gether. We have looked back to those happy days with joy and
we treasure the memory of them. The remainder of my Army
career was spent in England at the 137th General Hospital in
Ellesmere, Shropshire. Since this was a chest center, I had a most

enriching surgical experience — one which I know has been of
great value to me since then.

The end of the war reunited me with my wife and son whom
I did not see before his first birthday. From then on my life has
been one of continuous devotion to my profession and to my
family to which we added a girl baby after a suitably conven-
tional interval. My big problem is how to maintain my work
load and still spend some time with my loved ones. We have
vacations together but they cannot replace the enriching daily
contacts which are treasures in memory. I have taken my son
through the Yard and stood him next to John Harvard, and while
it’s still too early to tell, I do believe some of that indescribable
something rubbed off on him. I hope so. Nothing would please
me more than that he may one day live in Matthews 50 as I did.

I don’t make much of an issue of this lest he think me a senti-
mental old fool — which I am!

MANUEL DANA

HOME ApprEss: 59 Winthrop St., Taunton, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Dana Stores, 85 Main St., Taunton, Mass.
BORN: June 26, 1911, Boston, Mass, parents: Moses Lane Dana, Gertrude

Cohen.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; M.B.A. cum laude
9
1934-

[ 296 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Helene M. Harris, June 28, 1942, Boston, Mass. cHitpReN: Nancy
H., March 29, 1943; Danielle, Oct. 22, 1944; Richard S., Jan. 4, 1950.

OCCUPATION: President, Dana Stores.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Retail Bureau, Taunton Association of Commerce,
1948-49; member board of directors, Agudath Achim Synagogue, 1954-
56; chairman, Agudath Achim Religious School Committee, 1955-56,
member, Case Committee, Family Service, 1955-56.

MEMBER OF: Newton Squash & Tennis Club, 1935-46; Kiwanis; Pocasset Golf
Club.

ENOUGH procrastination! Our report committee’s mail cam-

paign (interesting, wasn’t it?) has found its mark and I am de-

termined to be “complete” before the year’s end. For inspiration

I have just read my Decennial Report and must admit that fifteen

years have wrought a great change — centered around that great

institution, the happy American family.

In 1942 I had spent eight years (after two at the Business
School) building up a retail furniture business, socializing, travel-
ing and playing a fair amount of squash and tennis — and then
I married Helene. Helene moulded our family unit from the very
start. When the Navy commission came through in December,
1942, she followed me (within five days) to Harrisburg, Pennsyl-
vania, where I was stationed at the Naval Supply Depot in
Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania. Here our daughters, Nancy and
Danielle were born in 1943 and 1944.

In 1946 I returned to inactive duty as a lieutenant commander,
and it was Helene who convinced me to settle in Taunton so that
I would be close to my business. Rich arrived in 1950 and as our
three have grown we have grown with them. The winter cruises
of earlier years have turned to ski vacations — the five of us to-

gether. The tennis has turned to golf — often with the children.
The summer trips have changed to a house on the Cape with
fishing and sailing as often as possible (though not often enough).

My business keeps me well occupied the best part of six days
a week. Today’s fast growing trends in retailing — revolutionary
to put it mildly — do not allow for any slack. The Main Street
merchant is facing a challenge from the shopping center and dis-
count department store which must be answered.

Much of our socializing has been diverted into community
work. I have been active in our synagogue and religious school
work, and along with Helene have been working on establishing

[ 297 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

a new community center, The few open nights are spent on
photography (both movie and still) and a bit of reading.

We are looking forward to our Twenty-fifth as a great family
event. Helene has never forgotten the thrill of going with her
Dad (Daniel Harris, 07) who, had he lived, would have cele-
brated his fiftieth this year. Our college class has meant more
to me recently than ever before. The pleasant reunions this past
year have had that close feeling we have been striving for — and
we are pleasantly anticipating a continuance in the future.

ARNOLD SIDNEY DANE
HOME ApprEss: 5 Glendale Rd., Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 185 Devonshire St., Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 10, 1910, Malden, Mass, parents: David H. Dane, Mollie Levin.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREES: A.B., 1932 (31); LL.B., 1934.

MarRieD: Marjorie S. Freedman. June 22, 1941, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Linda Ellen, May 1, 1942; Mark Lewis, Oct. 4, 1947.

OccUPATION: Attorney-at-law, specializing in conveyancing, real estate
mortgages.

OFFICES HELD: Lieutenant colonel, U.S. Marine Corps Reserve.

MEMBER OF: Boston, Massachusetts and American Bar Associations, Marine
Corps Reserve Association; Jewish War Veterans, American Jewish

Congress; Harvard Club of Lynn.

HEEDING the call of Class loyalty, I, who delight in talk and
abhor the pen, am compelled to write — and to write, too, of a
subject long in triviality and short in importance — a biography
of the conventional interrupted occasionally by the accidental.
After perusal of the samples, I sadly revised my belief that our
fellow alumnus, Marquand, had spoofed the Class biography out
of existence. .

Having settled with the school for a degree without praise, I
looked at the cruel world of the depression and dodged into the
nearest bomb shelter, the Law School. May I warn against this
easy escape. A graduate of college, who has had no trouble with
his books, has not directly prepared for a career in another pro-
fession, or is a “younger son” in a family business, all too often

[ 298 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

slips into the Law. Two of our three sample biographies were
perfect case histories.

Still law can be a pleasant mental exercise and my years came
at the end of the golden era of Harvard Law School. Dean
Pound led an informal school, operating without supervision,
tests, or attendance records. Only annual exams made an exciting
one-third cut in the student body. In my third year occurred
an accident of fate when Classmate Mel Johnson, now famed as
an inventor of ordnance, switched from Army to Marine Corps
Reserve and recruited from our Class picture apparently by size.
As the skyscraper of 6’ 5”, I led the list of recruitees, bent over
to come within the limit of 6’ 4”, talked myself into a waiver
of a slight defect in color vision, and was in.

My comparison of the diametrically opposed educational sys-
tems of the old Law School and Annapolis, enlarging upon the
success and dominant position in my profession of the Law School
grads, followed by the tale of my promotion by correspondence
course and later service has hilariously saved the day for the
reserves many a time in dinner debates with believers in more
formal military education.

Following the Law School came seven years of law chiefly
struggling with bad suburban real estate titles, enlivened by the
occasional coups which fall to a lawyer alert for a solid techni-
cality with social life of a bachelor, marred by the decline in my
circle of friends as one by one they married, and began to submit
their wives’ candidates for changing my life. Then in 1941 ap-
peared Marjorie, and I discovered my friends truly had been
interested in my happiness and not merely obeying the orders of
their wives.

With Pearl Harbor Day came the belated results of Mel John-
son’s selection by size, and I was off to military school to drill
with the youths. Never hold a Harvard education lightly for,
though I was at midpoint in college and law school, I easily was
runner up scholastically to a western brain, and even more easily
made the awkward squad at drill, With the short course cut
Shorter by the needs of the First Marine Division, after a lucky
single look at Linda, I was off to the islands, and Guadalcanal.

In succeeding years there followed for me three more opera-
tions, Bougainville, Guam and Okinawa, with earnings of SIX

[ 299 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

battle stars. Since par was three operations, I scored a birdie in

number but always my experience proved of dubious value,

perhaps accounting in part for the experience of the Japs. In
ground war, while a veteran is steadier, changes in terrain and
enemy reactions all too often make of his experience a snare.

Came peace coinciding with my return to the United States,

just missing Japan and China, and with sighteeing limited to coral
reefs and coconut trees. After a short taste of the best in service
life, command of a small barracks in Norfolk, back to a summer
home and a most lucky purchase of a Marblehead residence.
With an extra bedroom available, Mark was a natural wonder to
fill it. Since he cares little for football or books and speaks ap-
provingly of the Navy, it seems my two loyalties, Harvard Col-
lege and the Marines will have little joy of him, but his respect
for the biggest father in the neighborhood and doglike devotion
are sweet to the ego. His sister, womanlike, finds the old man
useful and always stuffy, but susceptible to feminine wheedling.
Both find the Harvard-inspired insistence on culture combined
with the Marine-inspired demand for discipline, unconventional
and inconvenient. More realistically than Dean Pound, both, at
horrifyingly early ages, notified me of the advantages of a lawyer
in the family as a fixer and preventer of just punishment of small
criminals, This experience was not unfamiliar, since my reputa-
tion as a good man to know in the Marine Corps began with the
successful court martial defense of an admittedly guilty knifer
and was firmly established by another successful defense for
sleeping on watch on a technical ground of improper instruction
by the corporal of the guard and practical argument of the need
of a wife and children for a pay allotment. This is legal life in
a capsule, avoidance of punishment by technicality, prayer, and
a good or influential lawyer.

Fortunately, since 1949 my business has involved little law and
more of real estate financing, with benefit to me of more stable
income and perhaps to the community of less of the activity im-
puted to attorneys by Americans from the age of the cradle.

Returning to our samples, all chosen from disgustingly middle-
class and conventional grads, my life paraphrases theirs. It now
includes the joys and pains of suburban family life with the strug-
gles of a small businessman among giants, a small family man

[ 300 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

among the large, a poor hand with tools among the amateur do-
it-yourselvers, differing only by my failure to be a joiner and
dislike of exercise and cook-outs, but including a fair record for
use of the local library and a minor interest in zoning and town
planning. This last, incidentally, has led to a desire, forever to
remain unfulfilled, to write the definitive book changing our
civics texts and ending the myths surrounding American Town
Government and Meetings. The influence of Harvard on me is
clear.

JOHN DANE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 342 Warren St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDREsS: State House, Boston, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 3, 1910, Boston. Mass. PARENTS: John Dane, ’88, Eunice Cooksey.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; LLB. 1935.

MARRIED: Grace Senders, Dec. 24, 1938, Cambridge, Mass. cuttpren: Helen
Elizabeth, May 10, 1940; Grace Eunice (Gretchen), April 22, 1944;
Alexandra, Dec. 9, 1947; Jack, March 17, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Commissioner of Corporations and Taxation; chairman, Massa-
chusetts State Tax Commission.

JASON EDWIN DANIELS

HOME ApprEss: North Street, Medfield, Mass.

OFFICE ApprEss: Pilgrim Infants’ Wear Co., Inc., New England Industrial
Center, Needham Heights, Mass.

BORN: July 30, 1908, Norwood, Mass. parents: Jason Noah Daniels, Daisy
Hartshorn.

PREPARED AT: Norwood High School, Norwood, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

MARRIED: Alice Lawrence French, Feb. 21, 1935, Norwood, Mass. CHILDREN:
Jean Ellis, Aug. 27, 1937; Peter Lawrence, Oct. 28, 1939.

OccuPATION: President, Pilgrim Infants’ Wear Company, Inc. wholesalers
of infant and children’s supplies, accessories, novelties and toys.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Boston Chamber of Commerce, since 1950; member,
Finance Board, Town of Medfield, since 1953; member, Afedfield Com-
mittee, Troop 10, Boy Scouts of America, 1950-52.

MEMBER oF: United Boston Infants & Children’s Association; Boston Apparel

[ 301 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

& Accessory Manufacturers Association, Southport Yacht Club, West
Southport, Maine,
HAVING received “goad number one,” it would seem as though

a report of my life must be completed soon, and so this bleak
Sunday evening is being dedicated to the task.

My college career of less than three years, with two of these
three spent at Middlebury, obviously suggests only a short time
at Harvard with the Class of 1932. After leaving the Class, the
early 1930’s were spent in becoming a salesman in the home
appliance field. In 1934, 1 changed my direction and went to
work for Kendall Mills in textiles. Following a few months of
factory training I was assigned to their Philadelphia office as a
field salesman. This assignment continued until 1941 when I
was brought back to the home office in Walpole. During my time
in Philadelphia, I married Alice French of Norwood, Massachu-

setts, and our two children, Jean and Peter, were born.

At the end of 1944, I resigned from Kendall and started my
own wholesale and sales agency business as Pilgrim Infants” Wear
Company, Inc. We are the principal distributors in New Eng-
land of infants’ staples, accessories, gifts and toys. “Iwo years
ago we established a branch office and warehouse in Syracuse,
New York, and are now about to move our Boston operation into
the New England Industrial Center on the famous Route 128.

My social convictions are probably conservative; my political
convictions are substantially Republican, and my business con-
victions are definitely that of a salesman. My present ambition is
to keep selling long enough to have Jean finish her four years
at Goucher College, and Peter to finish his last year at Milton
Academy and then to be accepted at Harvard.

After that? Well, maybe an early retirement to Maine,

DAVID LANE DARLING

HOME ADDRESS: 136 Elm St., Andover, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Davis & Furber Machinery Co., North Andover, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 29, 1909, Gardiner, Maine. parents: David Harry Darling, Laura
Bradstreet.

PREPARED AT: Peekskill Military Academy, Peekskill, N.Y,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

[ 302 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Beverly Marshall Jones, May 24, 1941, Boston, Mass. c1ttpren:
Beverly Lane, Aug. 27, 1942; Marshall Jones, May 20, 1944, Martha
Putnam, Aug. 21, 1945; David Lane, Jr., Feb. 8, 1947.

occuPATION: Cost Department, Davis & Furber Machinery Company, manu-
facturers of textile machinery.

MEMBER OF: Choir of Christ Church, Andover, Mass.

THE services didn’t want me during the war but I worked in

war industries, ending in the Sylvania Electric Products, Inc.,

during 1944-45.

Probably the largest single fact, to me, in my life is that in

1948 I discovered that I had multiple sclerosis and had had for
years. Since that time my legs have become less and less useful
so that now I have to use a wheel-chair if going any distance, In
1951 I changed from industrial engineering to the cost depart-
ment of Davis & Furber Machinery Company. I am fortunate to
be able to have a job where little physical effort is required so I
am still working a forty-hour week. I feel that in this case it is
my wife who is on the spot as she has lost half a husband and has
had to go to work and is doing very well in real estate.

JAMES EDWARD DAVIDSON

HOME apprEss: Washington Street, Hanover, Mass.

IFFICE ADDRESS: Hanover Garden Shop & Nurseries, Hanover, Mass.

30RN: Oct. 31, 1908, Norfolk, Va. parents: James Edward Davidson, Addie
Moore.

PREPARED AT: Maury High School, Norfolk, Va.

TEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1933. DEGREE: S.B. 1932 (33).

4ARRIED: Vera Gough, 1938, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1940).

‘ARVARD BROTHER: Walter Pitt Davidson, M.B.A., ’35.

CCUPATION; Owner and operator, Hanover Garden Shop & Nurseries; land-
scape design and planting, formal and informal gardens, patios.

GRADUATED from Harvard College at mid-year 1933, and
ft on the American Line for England, where I affiliated at
ambridge University as a medical student. I studied there for
vo years, then during two summers I studied in France and in
ermany. I visited North Africa, took a Mediterranean cruise
d cycled over the Continent. I returned to third-year class at
arvard Medical School, but after a semester I became ill and

[ 303 ]

2s TAA

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

had to resign. Later, I studied for a year and a half at Boston
University School of Education. I then taught biology and
chemistry at the Arizona Desert School, Tucson, Arizona, for
two years and tutored at Sun Valley, Idaho, during vacations for
two years just before World War II. I worked at Glenn L.
Martin’s aircraft factory, Baltimore, Maryland, where I had the
vague title of assistant administrative engineer (knowing nothing
whatsoever about engineering or administration). ‘Then came
the war and I capitalized on my Harvard Naval R.O.T.C. ‘Train-
ing and was made a lieutenant j.g., in the Navy. All went along
ok, and I was assigned to duty as gunnery officer on an oil tanker,
but along with eighteen other officers, in an epidemic, I was
“struck out” by sleeping sickness (acute encephalitis). I slept
for four to six months and woke up in a “fog.” The other kids
never woke up. I was hospitalized for a long time and, several
years later in Florida, I had a recurrence and again was hospital-
ized in a Veterans Hospital. My government pension varies
between 80 to roo percent.

The government sent me for four years to the Harvard Grad-
uate School of Design and Landscape Architecture, where I
loved horticulture and hated engineering. After leaving the
School, another G.I. student and I bought the Hanover property
and are slowly getting established. It’s a long road, however, and
the season is short. I find it cheaper living during the winter
months in Naples, Florida, where I have property on Vanderbilt
Beach. I hope that little by little I can learn these tropical plants
and can landscape in Naples until April. At least I keep out-
of-doors which I find imperative with my “dopey” condition.

LLOYD JOHNSTON DAVIDSON

HOME ADDRESS: 416 Virginia Military Institute Parade Ground, Lexington,
Va.

orrice appress: Office of the Dean of the Faculty, Virginia Military Institute,
Lexington, Va.

BORN: May 25, 1911, Louisville, Ky. parents; Harry A. Davidson, Virginia
Cood Gaggs.

preparen At: Louisville Male High School, Louisville, Ky.

[ 304 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929. DEGREES: PH.B. (Univ. of Chicago), 1932; a.m.
(ibid.), 1934; PH.D. (ibid.), 1947.

MARRIED: Ellen Peirce Chubb, Sept. 11, 1937, Columbus, Ohio,

HARVARD BROTHER: Harry Carter Davidson, ’26.

occuPATION: Dean of the Faculty, Virginia Military Institute.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in English, State College of Washington, 1934-35,
University of Nebraska, 1935-36, University of Chicago, 1936-42; officer,
U.S. Army Air Force, 1942-46; fellow, American Council of Learned
Societies, 1946-48; assistant professor of English, Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity, 1948-51; visiting lecturer, University of Washington, 1951-52;
professor and chairman, Dept. of English, Wells College, 1952-55; dean
of faculty, Virginia Military Institute, since 1955.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Modern Language Association; English Insti-
tute; institutional representative to American Council on Education,
Association of American Colleges, Southern Association of Colleges
and Secondary Schools.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles and reviews.

DURING our freshman year a virus infection put me in Stillman
Infirmary by April and kept me from classes during the rest of
the term. After I had recovered, my parents decided they wanted
me closer to home. In September, 1929, I enrolled at the Uni-
versity of Chicago, where my brother was an instructor. For
years I thought of returning to Harvard for at least part of my
training, but the University of Chicago proved to be a very con-
genial place and I was granted scholarships, a graduate fellowship
and later an instructorship there. Also I met there the girl whom
I married. Since around 1939 we have been to Cambridge a num-
ber of times for work in the Widener Library and we count
among our friends a good many who are associated with Harvard.
My academic career up to the time I had the temerity to take
on a deanship was notable for the variety of colleges and uni-
versities in which I taught. My wife and I have enjoyed the
diversity of experiences, the traveling and the friendships we have
formed in different places. I have found this diversity and wide
acquaintance of considerable value to me as a college administra-
tor. As an instructor I taught undergraduate courses that covered
most of the fields of English and American literature. When I
became an assistant professor at the Johns Hopkins University,
I taught my first graduate course —a pro-seminar in Victorian
literature, At the University of Washington I was invited to
teach a graduate course in twentieth-century British literature,

[ 305 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

and since then my scholarly interests have tended to be centered
in the literature of the present century.
My military experience during World War II included work
as a ground-school instructor at Air Force bases in Texas, as
historical officer of the Fourth Air Force, and finally as head of
the editorial section of the A.A.F. Historical Office in Washing-
ton. This experience had one consequence that I could not have
anticipated: it led indirectly to my being considered ten years
later for the position I now hold. As dean of the faculty of Vir-
ginia Military Institute I find myself in charge of an academic
program which involves pre-professional curricula in eight fields
— physics, chemistry, biology (pre-medical), mathematics, civil
engineering, electrical engineering, history and literature. Trying
to acquaint myself with the problems of these fields while carry-
ing on the many activities, intellectual and social, of an academic
dean in a college keeps me very busy. It also keeps me happy,
despite the fact that it leaves almost no time for anything else
except an occasional game of golf and the traveling that I enjoy
with my wife who can frequently accompany me on trips to
professional meetings.

BURNET MADURO DAVIS

HOME ADDRESS: 4223 Leland St., Chevy Chase 15, Md.

oFFicE appress: U.S. Public Health Service, Washington, D.C.

BorN: Dec. 6, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Michael Marks Davis, Euphemia
Janet Hayes.

PREPARED AT: Roger Ascham School, White Plains, N “Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932; A.B. (Univ.
of Oxford), 1934; Mv. cum laude (Harvard Univ.), 1937-

MARRIED: Jeanne Kilbourn Vance, May 4, 1938, Milford, Nebr. CHILDREN:
Burnet Vance, April 9, 1943; Katharine Hayes, Jan. 18, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Paul Sprague Davis, ’30.

occupation: Medical Officer, Public Health Service, U.S. Department of
Health, Education & Welfare.

OFFICES HELD: Intern and assistant resident, Strong Memorial Hospital,
Rochester, N.Y., 1937-39; assistant resident, Massachusetts General Hos-
pital, Boston, 1940-42; medical officer, U.S. Public Health Service, since
1942.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa, Alpha Omega Alpha; American Public Health
Association, American Medical Association; Royal Society of Health,

[ 306 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Izaak Walton League of America; American Horticultural Society;
National Geographic Society; American First Day Cover Society; Edge-
moor Club.

puBLicaTions: “The War and the Distribution of Physicians,” Public Health
Report, October, 1943, “A Study of Nursing School Health Practices and
a Recommended Health Program for Student Nurses,” Public Health |
Report, 1945; “The Effect of the War on the Distribution of Full-time
Local Health Officers,” American Journal of Public Health, October,
1945; “The British National Health Service,” Public Health Report,
February, 1949; “The Health Program of the Bureau of Indian Affairs,”
The Military Surgeon, March, 1953.

FOLLOWING graduation, with the help of a Rhodes Scholar-
ship, I spent two academic years at Trinity College, Oxford,
taking the Honours B.A. degree in physiology. Harvard Medical
School admitted me to the second year class, so that I received
my M.D. degree in 1937. My internship was spent at Strong
Memorial Hospital, University of Rochester, New York, fol-
lowed by a year’s assistant residency in surgery at the same in-
stitution. Still under the mistaken impression that further training
would make a surgeon out of me, I sought and obtained two
additional years of training in surgery at the Massachusetts Gen-
eral, but no doubt fortunately for possible future patients, increas-
ing experience made me more and more reluctant to continue
surgery as a Career.

In February, 1942, I was called to active duty by the US.
Public Health Service under a reserve commission, serving in a
variety of assignments connected with the civilian aspects of the
war effort. In 1945 I was commissioned in the Regular Corps of
the Public Health Service, and have continued to serve in that
organization to date. I have had the privilege of observing and
perhaps contributing slightly to health programs of such geo-
graphically and culturally diverse countries as Great Britain,
Japan and Bolivia. Two programs within the United States with
which I am particularly glad to have been associated were those
providing health and medical services to migratory agricultural
workers, and to American Indians, both of them underprivileged
groups with outstanding health needs.

_ Spare time disappears rapidly in the routine activities of keep-
ing up with a suburban backyard with considerable garden area.
In fact, it has almost made me an amateur horticulturist, with

[ 307 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

special interest in broad-leafed evergreens, which do well in the
mild climate and acid soil of this part of Maryland. Other hobby
interests include photography and philately, the latter having
been dormant since my high school days but recently reawakened
by a stamp-collecting daughter.

Living in Maryland, just outside the still voteless District of
Columbia, I have the privilege of casting a ballot to express my
private opinion regarding candidates for office, but as a career
public servant I do not have political views to set forth in an
Alumni Report or elsewhere. This is a modest price to pay for
the relative freedom from political appointments and _ political
reprisals which federal employees, by and large, have won through
the civil service and commissioned corps system in which most
of us work.

GERALD DAVIS

HOME apprEss: 6 Woodley Rd., Morristown, N.J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 54 Park Pl, Newark 2, N.J.

BORN: May 15, 1909, New York, N.Y. parents: James Edward Davis, Eliza-
beth Tompkins King.

PREPARED AT: St. George's School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

marRiED: Marie L. Arnold, Feb. 19, 1938, Washington, Conn, CHILDREN:
James Edward, March 24, 1941; Gerald, Jr., Nov. 10, 1942; Diane, April
16, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward King Davis, ’23.

OccuPATION: Life insurance agent.

MEMBER OF; Harvard Club of New York; Bay Head Yacht Club, Ex Mem-
bers Association of Squadron A.

LEAVING college at the beginning of the depression did not
make it too easy to get a job, but I finally managed to do so and
started with an insurance company. After learning something
about the business, I decided to become an insurance broker, and
although the monetary returns at first were not fantastic, at least
I was my own boss, and was able to do a fair amount of traveling
to Europe, South America, West Indies, etc.

In 1937 I met Marie Arnold whom I married in 1938 and we
moved to Suffern, New York. Although I can’t enthuse about

[ 308 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the commuting, we really enjoyed it there what with being able
to play tennis and golf, and to hunt and fish on weekends.

When war broke out, I tried to get a direct commission but
was unsuccessful, so in the summer of 1942, I enlisted and, after
going through basic and technical training, finally was accepted
for O.CS, and after receiving my second leutenant’s bar was
assigned to the Pentagon, where I remained for the duration,
meanwhile being promoted to captain. After my release I moved
to Morristown, New Jersey, and decided that commuting to New
York was not up my alley, so I am now working in New Jersey.
I have been active in Cub Scouts and Boy Scouts, but my sons
have outgrown them, so when not working, my recreations are
golf and fishing.

JOSEPH MARCUS DAVIS, JR.

HOME ApoRESS: 10654 Overland Pl., Los Angeles 34, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Joe M. Davis Co., 3907 Duquesne Ave., Culver City, Calif.

porn: Feb, 18, 1910, New York, N.Y, parents: Joseph Marcus Davis, ’96,
Amelia L. Brunhild.

PREPARED aT: Dwight School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

MARRIED: Frances L. Reinhart, June 11, 1942, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Sheila Ann, Feb. 12, 1945; Joseph Marcus, 3d, Oct. 12, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Owner, Joe M. Davis Company, manufacturers representatives
in stationery, office equipment and hardware industries, president and
director, Lit-Ning Products Company, Fresno, Calif., and Freemont,
Ohio, manufacturers of metal office equipment.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Madison House Society, 1936-38, assistant tail twister
and director, Lions Club of Los Angeles, 1955-56.

EMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of Los Angeles;
Sales Executives Club of Los Angeles; Lions Club of Los Angeles;
Benevolence Lodge of Free & Accepted Masons; National Stationery &
Office Equipment Association; Golden State Travelers Club.

URROUNDED by day to day problems of running an active
ales organization, and facing the possibility of becoming the
ead of another very active metal manufacturing company, with
ew problems, I find it difficult to write any very coherent or
teresting biography of my life since graduation in June 1932.
brief look back would indicate that my life has been divided

[ 309 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

I try to be active in civic affairs in my community by partici-
pating in the work of the Lions Club, its main activity the Lark
Ellen Home for Boys, a local Parent-Teachers Association, and
necessary participation in the activities of my children in the Girl
Scouts and Boy Scouts.

With my high-spirited wife as a fine helpmate and companion
through the rough and smooth waters of life; with my daughter
approaching her teens; and with my son an active outdoor type,
there are not very many dull moments. In addition, of course,
there is the added feature of a French poodle who has received a
formal education and provides a considerable stimulus to the en-
joyment of the active family life and the company of friends.

The necessities of travel have given us a considerable taste of
it, and we are forced to go to the Hawaiian Islands frequently,
where we always spend very relaxing days doing business and
enjoying ourselves in this wonderful tropical climate. In 1956,
I fulfilled a lifetime dream, and took my wife to Europe for a
two months’ tour, which served to give us a taste for even more
travel. In addition to traveling, my hobbies are motion-picture

photography, reading, and such sports participation as time will
permit.

By and large, life has treated me well, and I am looking forward
to further additions to this report in twenty-five years and hope
that when that time comes to pass, I shall have had the privilege
of including the fact that my son, Joseph M. Davis, Jr., may also
be a graduate of Harvard College.

LAWRENCE DAVIS .

HOME ADDRESS: 127 Park Ave., Newton, Mass.

oFFice appress: Albert K. Goldman Co, 215 A St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Jan. 22, 1911, Franklin, Mass. parents: Harry Davis, Tillie Shain.

PREPARED AT: Franklin High School, Franklin, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

Marnie: Selma Evelyn Goldman, Aug. 22, 1937, Newton, Mass. cuitp:
Susan Julie, Sept. 3, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Bernard David Davis, ’36, M.D., "40.

occupaTion: President, Albert K, Goldman Company, sole Icather tanning
and cutting.

[312]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
OFFICES HELD: Member board of overseers, Newton Tennis & Squash Club.
MEMBER OF: Newton Tennis & Squash Club.

LOOKING back, twenty-five years doesn’t seem a very long
time. But as I focus on the varying shifting years, a great deal
seems to have happened to me. There was the brief fling at a
musical career in New York just after college. It petered out fast.

I guess 1932 and 1933 were poor years in which to be a musician,

or more likely, I just didn’t have enough talent. However, I have

the wonderful consolation of an avocation that has given me
countless hours of pleasure through the years.

After failing to storm the citadels of New York, I went back
to my father’s retail store in Franklin, Massachusetts. The next
few years seem curiously blank in my memory. I guess they were
just leading up to early 1937 when I met Selma (on a blind date).
We were married in August. Small-town life didn’t seem to ap-
seal to my wife, so I switched from my father’s business to her
ather’s and ever since then we have lived in Boston.

The next big event was the birth of Susan on Labor Day (very
‘onificant), 1939. I seem to have a vague recollection of some-
1ing else happening on that day — oh yes, World War II broke
ut. There was no correlation, but they were both earth-shaking
vents. |
Early in 1944 I joined the Navy as a lieutenant, j.g., and spent
e next two years as a communications officer in this country and

the Pacific. I can’t say that I really enjoyed it. Most of my

erseas duty was aboard a tanker, the U.S.S. Atascosa (AO-66).
ow that I think of it, I found Japan quite interesting, much
ore so than Guam, Einiwetok, or Ulithi.

‘t was a very happy day in January, 1946, when I found myself
ached from the Navy and returned to my family. It wasn’t
d to pick up the sole leather business again. 1 was dismayed
find how well the business had gone along without me. Life
business proceeded on a rather routine course until early in
1, At that time an opportunity presented itself to buy the
cox Tannery in Wilcox, Pennsylvania. As of now, I am glad
did.
is surprising that in spite of the tannery in Wilcox, a cutting
t in Boston, and a small cutting plant in Lynn, Massachusetts,

[ 313 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

I still have plenty of time to devote to the hobbies of violin play-
ing, tennis, reading, and bridge. You know, looking back, * guess
not much happened after all.

SAMUEL CRAFT DAVIS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 601 Barnes Rd., Clayton 24, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 510 Locust St., St. Louis 1, Mo.

BORN: Jan. 20, 1910, St. Louis 1, Mo. PARENTS: Samuel Craft Davis, ’93,
Emma Collet Whitaker.

PREPARED AT: M{iddlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932.

MarrieD: Amelia C. Overall, Sept. 4, 1936, Southampton, Long Island, N.Y.
cuiLp: Samuel Craft, 3d, Sept. 25, 1937-

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and director, St. Louis Union Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Missouri State Committee, Ducks Unlimited, Inc.,
since 1941, Special Gifts Division, United Fund of Greater St. Louis,
1955; director, Houston Oil Company of Texas, since 1941; vice-chair-
man, Community Chest of Greater St. Louis, 1951.

MEMBER OF: St. Louis Country Club; Harvard Club of St. Louis; Cuivre
Club; Stack Club; St. Louis Skeet Club.

JAMES DEAN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 595 Bay Point Drive, Sarasota, Fla..

BORN: Feb. 9, 1908, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: James Dean, Agnes Lincoln.
PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1030.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

EUSTIS DEARBORN

HOME ADDRESS: 704 Steamboat Rd., Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE apprEss: Goldstone & Dearborn, Architects, 1270 Ave. of the
Americas, New York 20, N.Y.

BoRN: July 31, 1910, Ridgewood, N.J. parents: William Langdon Dearborn,
Ellen Eustis.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932, DEGREES: A.B. CUM taude, 19323; M.ARCH., 1936.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Langdon Dearborn, ’ 28,

occupation: Architect.

[314]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects; National Institute for Archi-
tectural Education.

IT is interesting to consider what prompts one in the selection of
a vocation. Since childhood the profession of architecture had
been mentioned as a possibility for me. By the end of college,
my own inclination had become an urge and I found myself
eager to begin what proved to be four years of absorbing training
in the effective enclosure of space. In spite of being protected
thus from the outside world, the depression was not without its
effect, for the quest for office jobs in summertime inevitably
ended in being sidetracked somehow or other to contracting or
day laboring, which, of course, were not without their own re-
ward. Against this rock-bottom low, it is amusing to ponder on
the norms being established in the minds of today’s neophytes
by the frantic scramble for their services at plushy wages.
The years 1932 to 1936 were years of learning and revolt for
us: revolt against eclecticism in architecture in favor of moder-
nity in such forms as we chose to consider it. The dawn broke
our last year with the appointment of Hudnut as dean to usher
'n the new era. Axiomatically, the early revolutionists were
‘revoluted” out the following year by the complete capitulation
o the Bauhaus and Walter Gropius. But we had moved on: I to
1ine months i in Chicago (“they just don’t know how to be con-
ervative” was the phrase then), fitting together prefab houses
yhich were to supersede site-built structures at greatly reduced
osts. The decline in the cost of the electric refrigerator was
ited as a convincing analogy. My father wished I had gone into
conventional office but of course he was hopelessly old-
shioned. |
Then came a year abroad as a ‘carefree Robinson fellow:
venty-three countries in all, some touched on, some embraced,
ith relaxing pauses in Sicily and the Greek Archipelago: Mos-
w to Bordeaux, Oslo to Istanbul. What a chance to see the
dose of the old monuments and the emergence of the new!
sr was the education all in architecture: America as the land
freedom and opportunity was a byword too often met to be
ried. A week’s glimpse of Moscow and Leningrad confirmed
Soviet hoax in all its tyranny.

[315 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

The spring of 1938 found me back in New York, looking up
at the first rung of the ladder (at twenty-five dollars a week) and
engaged in the struggle to fit the new library at Princeton into
its Gothic doublet. Nor was the rung scarcely mounted before
Uncle Sam in January, 1941, called up the rorst Cavalry of New
York and very second lieutenant Dearborn headed south to join
the 27th Division at Anniston, Alabama, where we trained and
trained and trained some more, with stone-pipe-saw-horse guns,
while Labor quibbled over its pay envelope and F.D.R. promised

to keep the boys at home.

From Cavalry to Artillery to Tank Destroyer came changes
in rapid succession that first year as America grew in military
status and others held the bastion. To our suprise, off we went
to Hawaii in June, 1942, to man the Islands’ beach defenses for
the next two and a half years, and to enjoy the island paradise in
so far as duty and conscience would permit. It occurred to me
then and has since that many Harvard friends must have passed
through the Islands in one service or another but such was our
isolation on that crowded little island that Harvard seemed re-
mote indeed. The tide to the West at last saved me from ennul
and I landed at Headquarters X Army in Okinawa, to sit out the
campaign in ineffective paper shuffling. My greatest ordeal was
a hand-to-hand struggle with a typhoon of uncommon savagery.

Then back to the privations of civilian life: no phones, no tires,
no rooms, and an increased appreciation of the home front forti-
tude. Since my brother had emigrated to Texas in 1938, I decided
to drink at the fountain of opportunity there in Houston, but
after nine months with scarcely a sip, I returned to work for a
firm of former confreres in beloved New England (where the
best things in life are free).

The years from 1946 to 1955 were so uneventful as to fool one
into discounting the passage of the years: a brief vacation skiing
or sailing and, throughout, growing up in one’s metier and com-
ing to grips with the octopus that is the building industry. Then
finally, in the fall of 1955, came partnership in New York with
Harmon Goldstone, ’32: the future is bright in that nothing lies
ahead but opportunity and mountains of work. Before Reunion
I shall acquire a wife, Ann d’Autremont, widow of Lt. Charles
d’Autremont, ’40, and two children: Suzanne, 16, and Charles, 13.

[ 316 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN FRANCIS DEERY

HOME ADDRESS: % E. Grun, E. Milspe, Westphalia, British Zone, Germany.
BORN: Sept. 19, 1911, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: James Deery, Agnes Kelly.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; LL.B. 1935.

occuPpaTION: Law.

RICHARD pEHAAN

HOME ADDRESS: 225 Homewood Drive, Libertyville, Il.

OFFICE ADDRESS: R. deHaan Wholesale Lumber Co., 136 E. Church St,
Libertyville, Ill.

BORN: Nov. 6, 1909, Hinsdale, Ill. parents: Nicholas deHaan, Catherine Ton.

PREPARED AT: Hinsdale Township High School, Hinsdale, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

MaRRIED: Caroline Elizabeth Rossow, June 24, 1939, Hinsdale, Il]. cHitpren:
Barbara, Jan. 15, 1941; Richard Warren, July 26, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Owner, whosesale lumber business.

OFFICES HELD: President, Oakwood Terrace Property Owners Association,
since 1952; member board of education, chairman of finance committee,
since 1954, Libertyville-Fremont High School.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Chicago; Swedish Glee Club of Waukegan,
Tl.

TIMES were not as lush twenty-five years ago as they are now.
Jobs were scarce. Banks had closed. Bread lines were not un-
common, After getting out of school, I seriously doubted that
anyone would hire me.

My first good break came when the U.S. Gypsum Company
employed me. Thus, more by chance and good fortune than by
choice, I was launched in the building materials and construction
fields. I have never regretted it. This work was thoroughly
fascinating and I remained in their employ until September, 1942,
when the needs of World War II became demanding.

Good fortune further smiled upon me during this interim,
when Caroline Elizabeth Rossow became my wife in 1939. Two
children were born: a daughter, Barbara, in 1941, and a son,
Richard Warren, in 1943. During most of the war years we lived
in Haddonfield, New Jersey, while I was employed at Radio
Corporation of America in their Camden plant, then heavily en-
gaged in the all-out war effort. My contribution to the war effort

[317]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932 |

was small by comparison with that of some of my classmates and
friends who made the supreme sacrifice for those institutions and
principles we hold so dear. One of my older brothers died 3 in a
Japanese prison camp.

As the war drew to a close I decided upon two future courses
of action: first, to return to the building industry, and second,
to establish my own business. This was subsequently accom-
plished in 1947 with the formation of my own wholesale lumber
company at Libertyville, Illinois, serving the rich farm and dairy
country of northern Illinois and southern Wisconsin, as well as
the great industrial markets of this area. Almost ten years have
since elapsed and the results, as measured both in financial gain
and personal satisfaction, have exceeded my expectations. I envy
no man his work, skill or art.

I really have no special hobbies, unless a continuing interest in
education may be so termed. My daughter is now a sophomore
in high school and my son will graduate from grade school this
year. I am a member of the board of education of the Liberty-
ville-Fremont High School, It is time-consuming and sometimes
downright exasperating, but where can you find a more gratify-
ing interest? Like most mothers and fathers, we are absorbed
not only in our own children, but in the welfare of all youngsters
in the community. I know of no other way to stay young and
I know of no other activity more challenging and inspiring.

Politically, I like to think of myself as an Independent, although
my wife reminds me that more often I talk and act like a Re-
publican. In matters of religion, we joined the First Presbyterian
Church when we came to Libertyville and have remained active
ever since. My travels have been limited to the U.S. and Canada,
and since Cambridge is within the limits of my confinement, we'll
look forward to seeing you in June, 1957.

~WARREN DELANO

HOME AppRESS: Gerrish Island, Kittery Point, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: P.O. Box 510, Portsmouth, N.H.

BoRN: Sept. 29, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Lyman Delano, ’06, Leila
Burnett.

[ 318 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. Cum laude, 1932.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Washburn, Feb. 28, 1948, New York, N.Y. cHitpren:
Sara, July 22, 1949; Warren, Jr. July 20, 1950; Lyman, Jan, 29, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Burnett Delano, °37.

OCCUPATION: Woodman.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Overseers’ Visiting Committee, Geological Sciences
at Harvard, 1938-57; superintendent, School Committee, Kittery, Maine,
1956-57.

MEMBER OF; Harvard Club of New York City; Federal Fire Society, Ports-
mouth, N.H.

AFTER twenty-two years in the cotton business with Anderson,
Clayton & Company, I decided to seek employment nearer home,
preferably self-employment. The hurricanes of 1954 quickly gave
me a job. Since then I have been working the downed ninety-
year-old spruce forest on Gerrish Island, pulping and logging.
More important, I have seen something of my wonderful wife,
young family, and our “salt water farm.”

ARTHUR GIBBS DELANY

HOME ADDRESS: 1224 Forest Ave., Wilmette, III.

BorN: Feb. 1, 1910, Chicago, Ill. parents: Arthur Gibbs Delany, Della Wil-
liamson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Katharine Helena Roche, June 7, 1943, Orilla, Ont., Canada.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

JOHN WADDINGTON peMILHAU

HOME ADDRESS: 288 Riverside Ave., Riverside, Conn.

OFFICE appress: Chase Manhattan Bank, 18 Pine St., New York 15, N.Y.

BorN: Oct. 23, 1910, New York, N.Y. parents: Louis John Grenon deMilhau,
’06, Renee Noel Gourd.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1030.

MarRIED: Dorothea M. Harrison, Sept. 9, 1939, New York, N.Y. CHILD:
David L., May 18, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Chase Manhattan Bank.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York; Riverside Yacht Club, Conn.;
Municipal Bond Club, New York.

[ 319 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

MY college career ended summarily early in 1930 as a result of
the events of the previous fall. I was taken on by the old-line
investment firm of Harris, Forbes & Company in New York. The
following year we were merged into the Chase Harris Forbes
Corporation. When the Banking Act of 1933 called for dissolu-
tion of investment affiliates of banks, I continued with our parent
organization, the Chase National Bank of New York, now the
Chase Manhattan Bank. I have specialized in the underwriting,
trading and distribution of tax-exempt municipal bonds.

Marriage in 1939 brought about a well worthwhile change
from my bachelor’s life. In 1943 I served for a short time with
the Army as a V.O.C. Our son arrived in 1947 and the following
year, for his benefit and ours, we abandoned Central Park for
Riverside, Connecticut. In time we acquired an old house, a cat,
a dog, a canary and some fish. In the summer I do quite a bit of
sailing and play golf occasionally. Throughout the year, I find
that [ am kept busy with many chores, both indoors and out, to
keep our place in good order for the benefit of the mortgage
holder.

WILFRID PRYOR ve MILLE

HOME aborEss: 187 Randolph Ave., Milton, Mass.

OFFICE ADoRESS: First National Bank of Boston, 67 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 16, 1911, Waltham, Mass. parents: Alban Bertram de Mille, a.M.,
03, Agnes Madeline Barker.

PREPARED aT: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; A.M., 1934-

MarriepD: Eleanor Graham Hodges, Sept. 5, 1936, Milton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Timothy Hodges, April 4, 1942, Elizabeth Barker, April 4, 1950; Polly
Graham, July 24, 1954.

occupation: Director of training, First National Bank of Boston; staff
executive in charge of personnel and management development and
training programs for commercial bank and trust company employing
3500 people.

orrices HID: Director, Milton Visiting Nurse and Social Service League,
3950-53; corporation member, Children’s Medical Center, since 1952;
president, Massachusetts Association of Training Directors, 1952-53;
chairman, High School Additions Construction Committee, Milton,

1953-56.
MeMBtg oF: Milton-Hoesic Club, Educational Committee, Boston Chapter,

[ 320]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

American Institute of Banking; American Society of Training Direc-
tors (national convention program chairman, 1953).

SINCE we last reported I have returned to the business world.
Adult education and consulting work during my “second hitch”
in teaching (Boston University, 1946-49) led to my recall by the
bank to specialize in the planning, development and conduct of
training programs for clerical workers and supervisory or mana-
gerial personnel. This has been a fast-developing field of manage-
ment interest since the war and I have been extremely fortunate
to have been associated with it.

One particular bit of good fortune was an invitation from a
group of large industrial firms in the Netherlands — including
Phillips, Unilever, and KLM-Royal Dutch Airlines —to spend
three weeks giving lectures, training sessions and conferences
under their sponsorship. I-went over in March, 1954, a poor
season for weather, but since I was there as a “guest expert” had
no time for sightseeing and the steady overcast didn’t matter.
This was altogether the most exciting, exhausting and rewarding
experience I can imagine. The Dutch executive, citizen, or host
is the most delightful, mature and intelligent of men, and I de-
veloped a deep respect and affection for the land and its people
even in a very short stay among them.

Otherwise, my life continues to be that of the conventional
suburbanite-home-owner-family man. In the spring of ’55 we
bought a big, run-down house and barn on an overgrown acre
and I’ve learned a lot about pruning-shears, scythes and pinch-
bars in the course of cutting back brush and trees, demolishing
summer-houses and generally trying to restore a look of human
iabitation to the place. I contribute a reedy baritone to the parish
choir, do my annual stint for the Red Feather, seek occasional
urcease from care on the golf course, and in other similar ways
ry to keep all my obligations 1 in balance with my inclinations.

At our stage of life, it seems to me our greatest joys and satis-
actions are in watching, often I find with utter astonishment,
he growth and development of our children. My own family has
een agreeably spread out — a son, now fourteen, a daughter SIX,
nd a second daughter only two. (Reverse “class baby’ ” a Jaye
aby born to a member of ’32?) My wife and I, aged before our
me by the intellectual whirlwind of early-teen boydom and the

[321]

soc anit ana 8 Ten Sa tll,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

pistol-toting six-year-old’s bounding energy and the diaper-
changing, buggy-pushing phase we thought we'd outgrown (!),
are preparing to enjoy the noise, confusion and general good
cheer of children’s company for a bit longer, perhaps, than some
parents do. If our own strength holds out, that is... .

Life looks pretty good to me, all in all, as I muse on the twenty-
five years we've stored up. At our next Report I fully expect to
start boasting about my grandchildren, the way some of you are
doing already.

JOHN SHEPPARD DENISON

HOME ADDRESS: 226 E. zoth St., New York 21, N.Y.

BORN: July 15, 1909, Paris, France. parents: Robert Lincoln Denison, Sarah
Sheppard.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, RI.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933. DEGREE: A.B. 1932 (33).

SAMUEL SIBLEY DENNIS, Ill

HOME apprEss: 66 Fox Hill Rd. Wellesley Hills, Mass.

OFFice ADDRESS: Hale & Dorr, 60 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 23, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Samuel Sibley Dennis, Jr., LL.B.
’o4, Helen M. Ferguson.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, West Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cumt laude, 1932; M.B.A. 1934}
LL.B. 1938.

marRieD: Lillian Elena Williamson, Aug. 19, 1938, Wellesley, Mass. cuit-
DREN: Nancy Anne, Feb. 3, 1944; Ellen Ferguson, Jan. 20, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Hollis Dennis, ’36.

OCCUPATION: Senior law partner in firm of Hale & Dorr, specializing in
federal and state income taxes, corporate work.

OFFICES HELD: Life trustee, Roxbury Latin School; director or trustee, various
business corporations and foundations, International Christian Leader-
ship; former chairman, Committee on Taxation, Boston Bar Associa-
tion; member, Federal and Massachusetts Bar Associations; former
member, Wellesley Committee on Town Manager.

Memeer oF: Wellesley Club; Wellesley Country Club; Wellesley Lodge,
AF. & A.M.; Massachusetts Consistory, former member, Wellesley
Rotary Club; Boston Tax Forum, Tax Section, American Bar Associa-
tion; various yacht clubs.

[ 322 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PUBLICATIONS: “Powers of Appointment in Massachusetts,” Boston Univer-
sity Law Review; various tax articles.

ATTEMPTING to dictate this alleged Autobiography is both
old and a new experience. I am dictating it at the last possible
moment with a client sitting in the outer office and a number of
matters impending which I have promised will be done before the
day is over. It is a new experience, however, in that I am forced
to consider my own past and problems rather than someone
else’s; I find the subject rather disconcerting. _
~ In June, 1932, I had no clear idea of what I wanted to do. I
leaned towards the Law School, but was discouraged in this by
my father, then a practising attorney, who felt that business men
did better than lawyers and with less anguish. I finally decided
on the Harvard Business School, which I entered in the fall and
from which I graduated uneventfully in the Class of 1934. I
might add that this was a lucky choice. The business school
training I received, particularly in finance and accounting, has
proven invaluable to me in the practice of the law, particularly
in the corporate and tax field where I do a good deal of work.

I became much interested in retail distribution at the Business
School and worked in Filene’s for about a year after graduation,
on a training basis. During that year, I worked in nearly every
department of the store in various capacities ranging from stock
boy to assistant buyer — an interesting, but nerve-wracking bus-
inss (what business or profession isn’t!) By the fall of 1935 I
decided that I was right the first time and I entered the Har-
vard Law School. While there, I did research work for several
professors including one formerly connected with the law firm
of Hale & Dorr, where I commenced the practice of law, upon
graduation in 1938. This proved to be a most fortunate choice
for me. I quickly became actively engaged in the rapidly grow-
ing tax practice of the firm and seemed to be well on my way
when Uncle Sam beckoned in 1941 (I had a reserve commission
which I acquired upon graduation from college). I left Hale &
Dorr on an “extended” leave of absence — how extended it was
to be, I fortunately had no conception then. I was not dis-
Charged from the Army until December, 1945, and returned to
my firm in January of the following year.

As it turned out, however, my Army experience was most

[ 323 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

helpful. I was first assigned as assistant legal officer to the Zone
Constructing Quartermaster in Boston, whose principal activity
at the time was the construction of the Army facilities at Ft.
Devens and Camp Edwards, Massachusetts. All Army construc-
tion activity was combined in December, 1941, in the Corps of
Engineers to which I was transferred together with many books,
records and other Army property. After orders had been cut
to ship me to Newfoundland, someone discovered that I had
had a lot of experience in administering cost-plus-fixed fee con-
tracts with which the New England Army Engineers had had
little experience. My orders were revoked and I became opera-
tions officer in charge of such projects. In the spring of 1942, I
was still a first lieutenant. Ac that time the construction activity
in New England had become so large, a separate division was
carved out of the North Adlantic Division and I became the
executive officer of the New England Division, Corps of En-
gineers, a post which I held under five successive commanding
officers until my release from duty in December, 1945. I thus
emerged from the war unscathed except for posterior blisters
and with the rank of colonel.

In the year following my return to Hale & Dorr, I became a
junior partner and in 1952, I became a full partner in the firm.
I have continued in the state of frenzied activity which seems to
be the lot of most corporate and tax lawyers practically since
the day I joined the firm. However, it is fun and I would not
trade jobs with anyone I can think of at the moment. I find satis-
faction in association with interesting and substantial people and
sometimes being a small part of a challenging enterprise. I find
that the most difficult part of my life is the sharing with clients
from time to time their personal tragedies and financial mis-
fortunes which I am glad to say have been rare percentage-wise.

I married my present and only wife (Peggy, Wellesley Col-
lege, ’34) upon graduation from law school in 1938 and we have
two girls, Ellen, aged seven and Nancy, aged thirteen, whom we
naturally think quite superior. Ellen is in public school and Nan-
cy in her first year at Beaver Country Day School. Our prin-
cipal hobbies are doing things as a family. In the winter this is
likely to be skiing and in the summer, boating and swimming.
We have had great pleasure from a cruiser on which he have

[ 324]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

taken our vacations for the past five or six years, our cruises
ranging from northeastern Maine to Lake Champlain and Canada
via Long Island Sound, the Hudson River and Champlain Canal.
I am now in the process of buying a summer home at Powder
Point, Duxbury, where I hope the family will henceforth spend
the summer and I, such time as I can steal from a demanding law
practice. What will happen to the cruiser is not officially de-
cided, although at the moment all the family is violently opposed
to disposing of it. On this point, I shall undoubtedly follow
precedent and be governed by the good judgment of my wife.

NEAL BREAULE DENOOD

HOME ADDRESS: Haydenville, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Smith College, Northampton, Mass.

BORN: May 3, 1904, Middleburg, The Netherlands. parents: Jacob DeNood,
Anne Breaule, .

PREPARED AT: Peddie School, Hightstown, NJ.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1929-1932, DEGREES: A.B. Magna cum laude, 1932; A.M,
19333 PHD., 1937.

MARRIED: Hilda Claire Donahue, Oct. 23, 1937, Holyoke, Mass. CHILDREN:
Cornelia, March 1, 1940; Alicia, May 29, 1946; Lavinia, Sept. 17, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Professor of sociology, Smith College.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Haydenville Savings Bank, 1941-47, United Prison
Association, 1946-51, American Association to Abolish Capital Punish-
ment, since 1947, Massachusetts Association for Social Hygiene, since
1950, Mental Hygiene Association of Massachusetts, since 1954, Area
Mental Health Clinic, since 1954; trustee, Northampton State Hospital,
1943-47; Vice-president, Northampton Council of Social Agencies,
1953-54.

MEMBER oF: American Sociological Society, since 1934; Academy of Political
_ Science, since 1950.

PUBLICATIONS: Jobs or the Dole; “Social Control” (a symposium).

GRADUATION from college led directly to graduate study.
For the first five years I assisted in courses at Harvard, served in
the tutorial system, and spent eighteen months in government
service as coordinator and director of the WPA research program
in Massachusetts. After getting my doctorate, I received an ap-
pointment to teach at Smith College, a job which turned into a
most satisfying career. Shortly after coming to Smith, my wife,

[325 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

a Smith graduate, and I settled into an old colonial house we had
bought in a nearby village and life took a new turn. For both of
us, small-town existence became a useful, meaningful and pleasur-
able way of life, especially as our children added to our responsi-
bilities and joys.

Politically independent, like most people in my profession, I
have adhered closely to liberal views. Being a professional student
of social problems, I am mainly concerned with the task of weed-
ing out obsolete values, faiths and sentiments and promoting those
ideas and ideals which seem essential to the present and to the
future. For me, this task makes no distinction between social
and religious convictions,

ROLAND JOHN DesROCHES —

HOME ADDRESS: 11A Bodwell St., Sanford, Maine.

OFFice appRESS: J. P. Stevens Co., North Andover, Mass.

BORN: June 24, 1905, Woonsocket, R.I. parents: Lionel Joseph DesRoches,
Lea LaTour.

PREPARED AT: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

MarRiED: Mary H. Angier, June 22, 1932, Walpole, N.H. cuitp: Ann Marie,
Jan. 21, 1934 (a. Edward A. Nary, September, 1952). GRANDCHILDREN:
Edward A. Nary, Jr. Nov. 2, 1953; Kevin L, Nary, April 12, 1955.

occupaTION: Woolen manufacturing; research and development.

CHARLES DEVENS

HOME ADDRESS: 1702 Canton Ave., Milton 86, Mass.

OFFice apprEss: Incorporated Investors, 200 Berkeley St., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: Jan, 1, 1910, Milton, Mass. PARENTS: Arthur Lithgow Devens, ’o2,
Wenonah Wetmore.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MarRiED: Edith Prescott Wolcott, Nov. 30, 1934, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Charles, Jr. Sept. 17, 1937; Edith W., May 4, 1939; William L. and
Robert S. (twins), March 20, 1943-

HARVARD SON: Charles Devens, Jr., ’59.

HARVARD BRoTHERS: Arthur Lithgow Devens, Jr, 303 David Wetmore

Devens, ’42.
occuPATION: President, Incorporated Investors, mutual fund.

[ 326]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Assistant treasurer, 1941-46, assistant vice-president, 1945-50,
vice-president, 1950-54, State Street Trust Company; president, In-
corporated Investors, 1954, Incorporated Income Fund, The Parker
Corporation; Harvard ’32 Class Committee, since 1947; director, Har-
vard Alumni Association, since 1955, Northern Pacific Railway Com-
pany, since 1953, United Community Services of Boston, since 1953,
Infants Hospital, since 1936, Vincent Hospital; general chairman,
Boston Red Feather Campaign, 1953; president, Boston Council, Boy
Scouts, 1948-51, Groton School Alumni Association, since 1955;
treasurer, Boston Council, Navy League of the U.S., 1947-56; general
chairman, U.S.G.A. 1957 Amateur Championship, 1956-57; trustee,
Provident Institution for Savings, since 1954, Greater Boston Charitable
Investment Trust, since 1956, Groton School, since 1955, St. Timothy’s
School, since 1956, Humane Society of Massachusetts, since 1953.

MEMBER OF: Tennis & Racquet Club; The Country Club, Brookline; Somer-
set Club; Union Boat Club; Links Club, New York.

AFTER graduating “mirabile dictu” from college, I joined the
New York Yankee baseball team in July, 1932, and stayed with
this organization through the 1934 season. During this period,
the team won one World Series (1932) and finished in second
place twice. My contribution to these successes was largely that
of moral support from the shadows of the dugout, but I enjoyed
my association and friendship with many of the players and other
members of the organization in that era.

In the fall of 1934, I was at last successful in persuading Edith
Wolcott to marry me, after having devoted nearly ten years to
this task. We now decided, without a little misgiving, that it was
time for me to do something entirely foreign to my nature,
namely, work, and accordingly I gave up baseball and embarked
on a banking career with the State Street Trust Company of
Boston as clerk commanding the munificent salary of $780.00 per
annum, thanks largely to the N.R.A. which was then in effect.

During the next few years of Mr. Franklin D. Roosevelt’s reign
the rich certainly didn’t get richer, but the poor got children, and
we were no exception. My eldest son and only daughter were
born in 1937 and 1939 respectively, and have been a source of
constant amazement to me ever since. They are very nice and
really quite well behaved.

December 7, 1941, found me duck shooting on Monomoy Point
with my friend and classmate, Warren Delano. February 7, 1942;
found me in the first indoctrination class at Quonset Point, Rhode

[ 327 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Island, for the Navy’s Sixty-Day Wonders. I left Quonset as a
lieutenant junior grade, and tours of duty included the Naval Air
Station in Norfolk, Virginia, and the Naval Air Station, Brooklyn,
New York (Floyd Bennett Field) providing air coverage for con-
voys moving to and from New York. In June, 1943, I was
ordered to report aboard the U.S.S. Intrepid, an Essex Class
Carrier, as flight deck officer. Two years later after having seen
action in the Pacific as a part of Task Forces 38 and 58 in the
Gilbert and Marshall Islands, Truk, Palau, Philippines, Formosa,
Okinawa and the Islands of Japan, and the ship having absorbed
a torpedo and six or seven “kamikaze” hits, I providentially was
ordered to report to the Staff School at the U.S. Naval War Col-
lege, Newport, Rhode Island, where I had been but six weeks
when the war ended. A Bronze Star, the Navy Commendation
Ribbon, both with a “V” for action, the Philippine Liberation
Ribbon with two stars in addition to the usual assortment of area
ribbons and campaign stars, were the tangible rewards for this
small contribution to the war effort.

Upon being separated from the Navy in September, 1945, I re-
turned to the State Street Trust Company where I became a vice-
president in 1950. In 1953 I was the general chairman of the
Boston Red Feather Campaign, and I shall always look back upon
this experience with the pleasantest of memories.

Shortly after the completion of this task, I was offered the
presidency of Incorporated Investors, one of the oldest and largest
mutual funds in the country. After the usual mental anguish, I
decided to accept this new opportunity and terminate my as-
sociation with the banking business. On February 1, 1954, with
fear and foreboding, I started in on my new and, I profoundly
hope, my last job. I find it one of the most stimulating experiences
I have ever had, and I have once again been fortunate in my new
associates, for whom I have nothing but admiration and affection.

The exigencies of my job call for a good deal of traveling
around the country, and not the least of its rewards is seeing a
good many Harvard men and more than a few classmates. In spite
of having pursued the almighty dollar for twenty-five years, I
have succeeded in being little more than a conduit and conse-
quently little has ever stuck in my pocket. The small amount that

[ 328 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

has is currently being extracted by classmates for the needs of our
Twenty-fifth Reunion and the University.

At one time or another, I have enjoyed being president of the
Boston Council, Boy Scouts of America, graduate president of
my college club, president of Groton School Alumni, raising
money for the Boston Red Feather Campaigns, and serving on the
boards of several Boston hospitals. I currently derive great
pleasure from being a trustee of Groton School, a trustee of St.
Timothy’s School, the Provident Institution for Savings in
Boston, a director of the Harvard Alumni Association and a di-
rector of Northern Pacific Railway Company.

My hobbies, as always, have been taking part in most forms of
athletics, shooting, and flying a small plane when weather permits.
I still enjoy seeing Harvard football teams play and my blood
pressure rises alarmingly when they lose. However, to date, I
have refrained from writing the coaches to give them the benefit
of my ideas of how the game should be played.

Last but not least comes my family. We have four children
who, quite naturally, pay little or no attention to any advice from
their father. Charles, Jr., born in 1937, is now a sophomore at
Harvard. Edith, born in 1939, is in her last year at St. Timothy’s.
William and Robert, born in 1943, are at preparatory schools —
the former at Milton Academy and the latter at Groton.

At this moment, we are all Republicans and the insides of
Protestant Churches see us all too seldom, but we hope for im-
provement in this latter respect.

In conclusion, it appears that the writer has made no significant
contribution to the world, but it gives him encouragement to
think that much may still lie ahead. His only wish is that the next
twenty-five years will be as enjoyable as the ones that have passed

all too quickly.

LEWIS DEXTER

HOME ADDRESS: 108 Upland Rd., Brookline, Mass.
OFFICE appress: Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, 721 Huntington Ave., Boston,

Mass.
30RN: March 1, 1910, Concord, Mass. parents: Smith Owen Dexter, Helen

Denison.

[ 329 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

prepareD at: Concord High School, Concord, Mass.; The Choate School,
Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. Ctom laude, 1932; M.d. cum laude,
1936.

Marriep: E. Cassandra Kinsman, Dec. 12, 1941, New buryport, Mass. CHIL~
prEN: Lewis, Jr, May 14, 1946; Smith Owen, Oct. 12, 19474 Cassandra
Kinsman, Nov, 16, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Smith Owen Dexter, ’ 30, M.D. 34 (deceased).

occupation: Physician, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital; assistant professor of
medicine, Harvard Medical School.

OFFICES HELD: President, New England Cardiovascular Society, 1956-57;
corporation member, Church of Our Saviour, since 1954.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
New England Heart Association; American Heart Association; Ameri-
can Board of Internal Medicine, American Society for Clinical Investi-
gauon; American College of Physicians; American Federation for Clin-
ical Research; Association of American Physicians; American Clinical
& & Cimatological Association; American Physiological Society; Ameri-

can Academy of Arts & Sciences, Sociedad Cardiologia de Argentina;
Interurban Clinical Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Over one hundred publications in the cardiovascular field,
including “Vascular hypertension,” in Cecil and Loeb, Textbook of
Medicine, 8th edition, W. B. Saunders, Philadelphia, 1951; “Studies of
the circulatory dynamics in mitral stenosis. I]. Altered dynamics at
rest” (with R. Gorlin, F. W. Haynes, W. T. Goodale, C. G. Sawyer,
J. W. Dow), American Heart Journal, 1951; “Hydraulic formula for
the calculation of the cross-sectional area of the mitral valve during
regurgitation” (with R. Gorlin), American Heart Journal, 18, 1952;
“Atrial Septal Defect,” British Heart Journal, 1956; “Surgery in Heart
Disease,” Disease-a-Month, September, 1956.

AFTER graduating from college I went to the Harvard Medical
School. After four years I became a medico, but was soon to
realize that my education had only just gotten under way. I
spent two years of medical internship at the Presbyterian Hospital
in New York, returned to Boston for another two years in re-
search training under Dr. Soma Weiss at the Boston City Hospital,
and then a year in Buenos Aires in physiology in the laboratory of
Dr. Bernardo Houssay, There, aside from becoming familiar with
the tango and other forms of the arts, I learned a lot of medicine
which has stood me in good stead ever since. On my return to
this country, just before Pearl Harbor, | promptly became married
to a girl named Cassandra Kinsman of Newburyport, who belied
her name, since marriage has been far from doomful — in fact
quite the contrary—and we have three children, Lewis, Jr.,

[ 330]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

aged ten, Smith Owen, aged nine, and Cassandra, aged eight. Since
returning, I have been in one capacity or another on the full-time
staff at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston and on the
Harvard Medical School faculty, currently as an assistant pro-
fessor of medicine, doing a lot of teaching, research in heart
disease, and having a limited, largely consultation type, of practice.

When I have the time, I like to ski (still haven’t broken any
bones, although I guess they’re getting brittle), to sail, to vent
my ire at the end of a long day on hunks of wood in my tool shop
in the cellar, and td travel when time and money allow. We live
in Brookline on Pill Hill, so-called because there are so many
physicians who live on said hill, and summer at Westport Point,
Massachusetts, which is right on the water and a lovely spot
except when Florida lets loose its hurricanes.

- RAFAEL DiAZ-NIEVES

HOME apprEss: P.O. Box 212, Bayamén, Puerto Rico. °

OFFICE appress: Sugar Board of Puerto Rico, P.O. Box 3828, San Juan,
Puerto Rico. .

BORN: June 16, 1907, Toa Alta, Puerto Rico. PARENTS: Alvaro Diaz-Morales,
Fidela Nieves-Gonzalez. -

PREPARED aT: Agustin Stahl High School, Bayamén, Puerto Rico.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B. IN CHEM.ENGIN., 1932.

MARRIED: Mary K. Gildemeister, Oct. 22, 1927, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Marie Alicia, Sept. 10, 1928 (m. Hilend C. Rose, Jr.); Elsa, Feb. 19,

1933; Ralph, June 2, 1942. GRANDCHILDREN; Marilyn Cady Rose, June 23,
1948; Thomas C. Rose, Jan. 13, 1953.

OccupaTION: Chief chemist, Sugar Board of the Government of the Com-
monwealth of Puerto Rico.

OFFICES HELD: Chief chemist, superintendent of fabrication in sugar mills
and sugar refineries; secretary, Harvard Club of Puerto Rico.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Colegio de Quimicos de Puerto
Rico; Asociacién de Téonicos Azucareros de Puerto Rico; International
Society of Sugar Cane Technologists; Asociacién de Agricultores de

- Puerto Rico; Harvard Club of Puerto Rico.

PuBLIcaTions: Articles concerning some of the products obtainable from

the sugar cane, and some of their uses.

SINCE my graduation from Harvard University, I have been
engaged in the sugar cane industry. I have held technical posi-
tions of responsibility in some of the most important sugar mills

[331]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

and refineries located in Puerto Rico, Florida, United States and
Panama, and South America. At the present time I hold the posi-
tion of chief chemist of the Sugar Board of the Government of
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

HOWARD COCKS DICKINSON

HOME ADDRESS: Peach’s Point, Marblehead, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: General Electric Co. 40 Federal St., Lynn, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 15, 1910, Shinnecock Hills, N.Y. parents: Howard Cocks Dick-
inson, ’oz, Mary Howland Soley.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: S.B. C1072 Jaude, 19323 S.M., 1934.

Marriep: Cynthia Potter Read, Sept. 4, 1934, New Bedford, Mass. cHILDREN:
Howard Cocks, Jr., Jan. 29, 1936; Warren Kempton Read, April 10, 1939.

HARVARD SON: Howard Cocks Dickinson, Jr., ’58.

occuPaTION: Engineering administration, specialist operations research and
synthesis, Instrument Department, General Electric Company.

MEMBER OF; Holland Lodge, No. 8, F. & A.M., New York City; American
Institute of Electrical Engineers; Eastern Yacht Club, Marblehead; In-
ternational 210 Associates (president, 1951-52); Elfun Society; Thomson
Club; Spark Plug Associates.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional contributions to Electrical Engineering, General
Electric Review and other technical publications.

THE contrast between today’s job opportunities for recent
graduates and those of a quarter-century ago will, no doubt, be
mentioned more than once in these “1932 Reports.” Personally,
I well remember the thrill of being asked in 1934 to join G.E.’s
“Test” program (wages, $25 per week).

This was after six years at Harvard, the last two trying to ab-
sorb the best the Engineering School and Business School then
provided. The decision to accept G.E.’s offer presented no prob-
lems, for, as I recall, this was about the only organization then
bothering to recruit engineers. A glance at the ads in the finan-
cial sections of today’s Sunday editions clearly shows how dras-
tically this situation has changed.

Thus, October, 1934, found me in Schenectady as one of the
few married “test engineers.” In those days the “engineer” part
was largely complimentary, since much of the work consisted
of “horsing around” three-inch cables and other bulky articles

[ 332 ]

C

enn ANA EEE AA Aa aa TAO OI AEE SATA ANA NLD ON NEN ATELIER ONAN

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in order to prepare for testing large electric motors, generators,
and controls. After a day of this, two baths in succession were
often necessary to uncover the natural flesh. Despite this, the
close contact with much electrical equipment and many factory
operations was a highly valuable experience, which many of to-
day’s graduates miss as they are “rushed” into spotless laboratories
and engineering offices.

Our life in Schenectady was great fun. Cynthia used her nat-

ural charm and Junior League contacts to make many close
friends, whom we now see all too seldom. While we missed the
sea, we did enjoy the skiing, upland bird shooting and many
pleasant picnic spots that could be reached after only a short
drive out of town. But the longing for salt-water was there and
was probably the deciding factor in accepting an engineering
job at the G.E.’s Meter and Instrument factory in Lynn. For
more than twenty years now we have lived near or beside the
sea in Swampscott or Marblehead.

After various design engineering and factory supervision as-
signments having to do with the best electric meters ever made,
I settled down to engineering administrative work early in 1942
and have been at it until a few months ago. My wartime recol-
lections are therefore most prosaic and relate mainly to long ar-
guments with WPB for more materials and with draft boards to
keep our engineers at work designing new aircraft instruments.
Since then, there have been many interesting problems includ-
ing various aspects of personnel work, planning a new 150,000
square-foot engineering building, publicizing engineering
achievements, and integrating many economic questions raised
by product development programs.

Early last fall I took off on a new tack. After a short trip to
Mexico, which proved excellent for an autumn vacation, I re-
ported to G.E.’s operations research and synthesis center in New
York for a three-month intensive training course. This was a
highly concentrated combination of economics and higher math,
which form the methods and techniques of operations research.
This activity, which is becoming increasingly prominent in mod-
ern industry, concerns the systematic study of all internal and
external factors affecting the operation of a business and of their
interrelations. The training course is now over and I am back

[ 333 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

at the G.E. Instrument Department in Lynn, trying to apply my

new theoretical knowledge to actual operating problems. Where

all this will lead me, remains to be seen.

Earlier, an interest in the sca was mentioned as a reason for
moving to these “parts.” One result is that I have had the good
fortune of sailing my own boat in all of the last sixteen racing
seasons at Marblehead. The high point came in 1949 when an
almost unbelievable series of lucky breaks brought me the cham-
pionship of the International 210 Class. Despite all this racing
we have still found time for a fair amount of cruising in small
auxiliaries, both Down East and to Buzzards Bay and the Islands.
The best trip was four years ago, when Cynthia and I with our
two boys chartered a Controversy 30 out of Somes Sound for
two weeks of perfect weather. This pattern of sailing weekends
and vacations was broken in 1954, when we went to England to
watch our elder son row at Henley on the SPS crew. Following

this, the four of us spent several happy weeks motoring through
England and Scotland.

As with many sailors, skiing has been our favorite winter sport.
We have had great fun watching our two boys improve their
form year by year. Strangely, I seemed to improve along with
them (or at least I thought so). But then, alas, ic happened — two
winters ago — in the form of a multiple fracture of my right leg.

We now have a croquet court, and that seems to symbolize
the passing of the years.

IRVING DIEMONT

HOME aporess: 375 Clinton Rd. Brookline, Mass.

orrice aporess: Diemont-Levy Co., 57 Portland St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Sept. 13, 1910, Boston, Mass, parents: Hyman Diemont, Esther
Jacobs.

Paeparrp at: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

Mauniep: Estelle Lorraine Newman, Dec. 7, 1937, Brookline, Mass, cHuL-
paen: Marilyn Francine, April, 13, t940,; James Ronald, July 10, 1945.

occupation: Treasurer, Diemont-Levy Company, wholesale paint business.

orruss HELD: Treasurer, Watson-Hallett Corporation,

[334]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN CARPENTER DINSMOOR

HOME ADDRESS: 3703 Post Rd., Warwick, RI.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cinder Products Corp., 75 Ellenfield St., Providence, R11.

BorN: Nov. 4, 1909, Denver, Colo. parents: William Parry Jones Dinsmoor,
"99, Ruth Bill Carpenter.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

MARRIED: Elizabeth H. Mitchell, 1934, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1942); Eliza-
beth G. Griggs, 1944, Des Moines, Iowa. cHILDREN: John Carpenter,
Jr. Aug. 16, 1935; Ann G., May 10, 1945; William Parry Jones, 2d,
April 5, 1946; Eliot R., June 5, 1947.

HARVARD SON: John Carpenter Dinsmoor, Jr. ’56.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and general manager, Cinder Products, manu-
facturers.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman of board, Allens Avenue Business Men’s Associa-

_. tion; member directors’ staff, Shrine.

MEMBER OF: East Greenwich Yacht Club (trustee); Varnum Continentals;

Eastern Star Lodge 126, Masons, Philadelphia; Narragansett Bay Power

Squadron.

HENRY KELLOGG DOANE

HOME ADDRESS: Windrush, Monument Road, Bennington, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sprague Electric Co., North Adams, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 2, 1910, Chicago, Ill. PARENTS: 3: Kellogg Schuyler Doane, Hedwig
Emily Giese. —

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930, 1931-1932. DEGREES: A.M. (Washington & Lee
Univ.), 1934; 4.8. (Univ. of Birmingham), 1952.

MarRiep: Anne Penn Morrow, March 22, 1949, Peterborough, N.H. cHit-
DREN: Sarah Penn, Aug. 3, 1950; Elizabeth Schuyler, Sept. 11, 19533
Rachel Anne Shankland, March 28, 1955; Thomas Henderson Kellogg,
April 9, 1956.

OccUPATION: Assistant director of personnel, Sprague Electric Company.

OFFICES HELD: Schoolmaster, Westminster School, Simsbury, Conn., 1936-52.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Short History of Westminster School, 1938.

IT seems only a very short time ago that I sat playin ing that rather
simple algebraic problem of the relative ages of father and son or
two brothers or mother and daughter. A’s age was always given
as so many times B's; ten or seventeen years ago was the second
fact; three or five years in the future was the third fact; the prob-

[335]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

lem was to find the present age. Now, in 1957, I find that in
retrospect that problem was far more simple to solve than the
present one of relative ages, considering children, spouse, house,
cars, furniture, household equipment or briefly all the lares and
penates that one gathers over the space of a few years or in this
case, a quarter of a century.

Currently, the Doanes, two large and two small, a brace of
Golden retrievers and a rather aged English cocker spaniel, a
buff-colored cat, all living in an old house in Bennington,
Vermont, surrounded by several acres of not too-productive
land, find that the length of days grows continually shorter — an
observation which has increased during the past two decades.

From 1932 to 1934, time went rapidly even then, although
buried in Anglo-Saxon and Gothic, Chaucer and Webster, or
Mandeville and Beowulf, one should not always be warring with
time. Then a warm and pleasant association with Westminster
School for fifteen years, where time again became a relative
matter. Classes, weeks, terms, games, examinations, graduations,
vacations, all passed too quickly. To be sure, I was on loan to
the Naval Reserve for four of those years and that active duty
whether it be in Washington or Florida or with the Royal Navy

passed very quickly. A great many faces and a great many places
with a few moments of being rather uncomfortable may be alto-
gether too short a summary of four years, but in the general tempo
it seems to fit. |

The tempo and the realization that possibly life starts at forty
persuaded my wife, our eldest daughter and myself to put the
impedimenta into storage and to spend a year in England. A
time in Cornwall, a time in the Cotswolds, a time in Hampshire, a
few additions to the lares and penates, a year’s study at the Shake-
speare Institute at Stratford-on-Avon strengthened our desire to
take root in New England,

We live in a house that has been conservative for over a century
and a half, in a community and state that are far from being
radical, in an area known as Episcopal Row. We drive conserva-
tive cars in a conservative fashion. Consequently, the tempo may
have decreased, but the demands and energies of four children
give little respite. The great problem now is to have a son

[ 336 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

graduate in the Class of ’77 when the Class of °32 has its Forty-

fifth, and then we shall not worry about the relative ages of A or
B.

JOHN EDWIN DOBBIN

HOME ADDRESS: 301 E. 66th St., New York 21, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Universal International Films, Inc., 445 Park Ave. New
York 22, N.Y.

BORN: Aug. 23, 1911, New York, N.Y. PARENTS: : William Edwin Dobbin,
Mary Jane Walsh.

PREPARED AT: Nyack High School, Nyack, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. C77 laude, 1932; M.B.A. 1934.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Assistant to vice-president, Universal International Films, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

THIS report will be as brief as the past twenty-five years have
been to me.

As a 1932 and 1934 graduate of the College and the Business
School, I intended to go into advertising but cannily, at Business
School, devoted half my studies to finance. After flattening my
feet for six months as a department store sales clerk (lamps and
portable mantels), since “To sell the public you must know
and/or meet them,” I went into banking —as a messenger. At
that time, spring 1935, “my bank,” since devoured by a larger
one, practically demanded two college degrees (Ivy League pre-
ferred) for $65.00 a month plus a guaranteed raise of five dollars
a month after three months. With one degree you might seize this
sparkling opportunity if the chairman of the board intervened.
That was the time you met classmates — more HBS than college —
on Wall Street. Both of you would “manage” to hide the wallet
chained to your wrist, without fooling anyone. There were many
of us in the same situation and it was a time of very inexpensive
dinners and parties. Some of these friends were college classmates
whom [ still see, but the major portion soon scattered and took the
classification (mine) of visiting firemen. They left New York
for greener pastures and did exceedingly well. Then and now my
outside interests were literature, art, theatre and travel.

The war years were absorbing and varied. Enlisting in the

[ 337]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Navy in February, 1942, I was commissioned early in 1943 and had
convoy duty (coastwise and temporary). Later came staff jobs
in Cherbourg and Le Havre, as they fell into Allied hands.
Liberated Paris and postwar London enabled me to spend many
months with prewar friends. Returning home at the end of ’46, I
chuckled many a time at Bill Mauldin’s cartoon depicting two
ragged characters sitting on a Central Park bench saying —
“Remember the Officers’ Club in London?”

Postwar. A highly junior officership in two banks (the original
one and the octopus) followed. Then a little over five years ago
I went with Universal International Films, a company representa-
tive of an industry to which I had always been attracted, After
these five years I can speak glibly of a fine grain, a dupe negative
(and costs thereof) and our newest and hottest stars. I also devise
ways to release blocked currencies, less of a problem now than it
was at the end of 1951. I thoroughly enjoy an exciting and
stimulating business.

This is it. This report has been overloaded with personal statis-
tics and cannot possibly have conveyed what I wanted to ex-
press — gratitude for my memories of six happy years at Harvard
and the later interests and pleasures I derived therefrom. This
report was purposely delayed until after election so that I could
announce that for the second time since 1932 I backed the winning
Presidential candidate.

THEODORE AYRAULT DODGE

HOME ADpRESS: 2833 E. Second St., Tucson 12, Ariz.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 635 N. Third Ave. Tucson 10, Ariz.

BORN: Jan. 17, 1911, Chicago, Ill. parents: Robert Elkin Neil Dodge, ’89,
Katherine Eleanor Staley.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Madison, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932; A.M.
(Univ. of Wisconsin), 1933; Am. (Harvard Univ.), 1935; pup. (ibid.),
1936.

marrieD: Isabelle Stebbins, June 15, 1935, Madison, Wis. CHILDREN: Eleanor,
May 30, 1940; Janct, May 14, 1942; Richard Neil, Nov. 9, 1945, Thomas
Marshall, Aug. 22, 1949.

occupation: Consulting mining geologist and core-drill contractor,

orrices HELD: President, Arizona Geological Society, 1954-55.

[ 338]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Arizona Geological Society; Geological Society of North
America; American Association for the Advancement of Science,
Mineralogical Society of America; American Geographical Society;
Society of Economic Geologists; National Society of Professional En-
gineers; American Institute of Mining, Metallurgical and Petroleum
Engineers; American Association of Petroleum Geologists; Arizona
Academy of Science; The Geochemical Society; Tucson Engineers’

_ Club; Asociacién Mexicana de Geologia; American Society of Mexico.

PUBLICATIONS: A few articles in technical journals.

AFTER ten years in the exploration departments of several

mining companies in the United States, Peru and Mexico, I

chanced to get into mine exploration on my own in 1945, with

base of operations in Tucson. I use the word “chance” advisedly.

I was never one to sit around Gore or Matthews discussing with

other punks how to make a fortune after leaving Harvard. I didn’t

know enough to have an opinion.:I could never see beyond the
next term paper or quiz. So, from a promising start in ancient
and modern languages, I chanced into academic geology, thence
into mining geology, and thence into running my own mining
business. Now, when I ride a bony mule in the rain through the

Sierra Madre, or wrestle with a recalcitrant turnbuckle in a grease
pit under a drill rig, or stare coolly into the eye of an income tax
inspector to argue intricacies of Form 116, I sometimes look back
at my erstwhile familiarity with Attic accusatives and marvel at
the meanderings of chance.

My work may be divided into three principal categories. The
irst is consulting geology, which is a lone-wolf sort of an occupa-
ion in which one climbs down a smelly old hole in the ground,
uts some samples, draws pretty pictures on coordinate paper, and
sually tells the client to return to Pine and Broadway and forget
1e rugged lure of the great Southwest.

The second category is mining in Mexico. In this occupation I
ave a Catalan partner. He tries to manage the mines and I try
» manage the Catalan, Ona frayed shoe-string, we have shipped
ucho tungsteno, cobre, oro, y plono, and we are not completely
oke all the time.

The third category 1s diamond drilling, which means not

ling through diamonds but with them. This is indubitably the

mnedest business. My partner in this enterprise is fortunately

t of Catalan antecedents, but of American-Dutch, and his

[ 339 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

granite impassivity has enabled the business to withstand the
shocks to which diamond drilling ts heir. In diamond drilling you
put a five-hundred-dollar diamond bit five hundred feet down a
hole and rotate it at 500 r.p.m., hoping that the advance it makes
will cost less than the contract price. When the bit gets stuck a
thousand or two feet down and you jar on the rods for days
without results, you learn the true nature of the drilling business.
However, with some forty miles of drill hole behind us, mostly
in remote corners of Mexico, we are becoming hard to discourage.
With a wife engaged in many activities, from Baha’i Faith to
the Smith Club, and with four scarcely couth children, the home
is almost as hectic as the job, and it is hard to know whither to
escape for peace and quiet. This summer, aided by the sale of a
mine and that bonus to the non-productive, the capital-gains tax,
the family undertook a trip to Europe by station wagon and
third-grade Italian liner, via Mazatlan, Durango, Mexico City,
Vera Cruz, Habana, Miami, and the Azores. Fourteen grips on
top of the car and the rest inside made us objects of not inconsider-
able interest in Burgos, Toledo, Avignon, Lausanne, Verbier,
Verona, Ostia, La Spezia, Carcassonne, Santander and intermediate
points.
Boredom is no more; life is an overwhelming challenge and all
goes well.

SIMEON JOSEPH DOMAS

HOME AppREss: 87-4 Lyman St., Waltham 54, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Massachusetts School Building Assistance Commission, 88
Broad St., Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: December 29, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Louis Julius Domaas,
Mollie J. Smith.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cunt laude, 1932; ED.M. (Boston
Teachers Coll.), 1936.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Administrator, Massachusetts School Building Assistance Com-
mission, .

orricrs Hr1D: President, Scarboro Golf Club, 1939-42; treasurer, Tota Chap-
ter, Phi Delta Kappa, 1947-48, Harvard School of Education Students’

[ 340 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Association, 1948-49; delegate, White House Conference on Education,
1955.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Teachers’ Association; Phi Delta Kappa; National
Education Association (life member); American Association of School
Administrators; National Council on Schoolhouse Construction; Ameri-
can Association for the Advancement of Science; American Legion;
Reserve Officers’ Association. .

PUBLICATIONS: “Salary Schedules and Personnel Policies,” New England
School Development Council, 1948 and 1951; “Report of an Explora-
tory Study of Teacher Competence,” New England School Develop-
ment Council, 1950; “Teacher Competence: An Annotated Bibliogra-
phy,” The Journal of Experimental Education, December, 1950; “Ash-
land School Survey,” Harvard Graduate School of Education, 1948.

MY career in public school education started in September, 1932,
as a temporary teacher of mathematics at the Bigelow School in
South Boston. I learned more about teaching and human nature
in the next four months than my pupils learned about mathe-
matics. Long and short stretches of temporary and substitute
teaching in Boston’s junior and senior high schools, and study
afternoons and summers, culminated in an Ed.M. degree, a per-
manent junior high appointment, and, at long last, a permanent
high school appointment as junior master at East Boston High
School in December, 1937, starting at $2,016 per year. At East
Boston I taught mathematics and coached band and orchestra
until June, 1942. Meanwhile, I had started to play golf, won the
second division golf championship of Scarboro Golf Club in 1938,
and wound up as president of Scarboro.

In August, 1942, I was commissioned a second lieutenant in the
Army Air Corps and proceeded to Miami for six weeks of train-
ing, thence to Maxwell Field for a few weeks, and then to Monroe,
Louisiana, where I became Assistant Courts and Boards Officer
and Defense Counsel. In 1943 I attended Provost Marshal General
School and became Assistant. Provost Marshal at Selman Field
and Northeast Louisiana. In 1944 I was transferred to Fort
Thomas, Kentucky, as Provost Marshal, helped close Fort Thomas
and Plattsburgh Air Force Base as Air Force installations, and in
1946 was separated as a captain at Westover Field. Since July,
1955, I have been a major in the Air Force Reserve.

In March, 1946, I went back to teaching in Boston and enrolled
at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, teaching full time

[ 341 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

and taking courses for the Ed.D. degree full time. In June, 1947,
I had completed a full year of courses and had passed the special
field and general examinations. I then had a year of sabbatical
leave from Boston, followed by a year of leave without pay,
during which I participated in and directed school surveys, super-
vised practice teaching, was a research fellow, directed a teacher
competence research project, and collected data and processed
same for my dissertation. From September, 1949, until June,
1950, I taught at Boston Technical High School.

In September, 1950, I became a specialist in School District
Organization with the Massachusetts School Building Assistance
Commission, faced with the task of directing the regional school
district movement in Massachusetts. Starting with one regional
school district established in June, 1950, after six years of mission-
ary work with municipal officials and citizen groups, I have had
the thrilling satisfaction of being able to count 73 towns in 23
established regional school districts and 51 additional towns about
to vote on the establishment of 15 more districts. Just when I
seemed to have almost worked myself out of a job, my boss
resigned and the Commission made me administrator. My new
position involves directing the Commonwealth’s program of
technical and financial assistance to cities, towns, and regional
school districts in meeting their school building needs. Since 1950
we have processed about $360,000,000 worth of school buildings
and expect to handle about $240,000,000 in buildings over the
next three years. This should keep me busy enough to prevent
life without a family from being too dull.

+ ROBERT HUGH DOMESEK

Born: June 29, 1910, Dorchester, Mass. parents: Harry Domesek, Bertha
Lipman.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; LL.B, (Univ. of Pennsyl-
vania), 1935.

marairp: Helen Zugsmith, June 29, 1933, Pittsburgh, Pa, cHipREeN; Carolyn,
March 31, 1940; @ son, 1942.

pirp; Killed in action April 8, 1945, in Germany.

ratHER: Harry Domesck, 4342 Sheridan Ave., Miami Beach, Fla.

[ 342]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT DOMESEK, only child of Mr. and Mrs. Harry Do-
mesek of Miami Beach, Florida, attended Pennsylvania Law
School after his graduation from Harvard and received his law
degree in 1936. The next year he was admitted to the Bar of
Allegheny County and the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, and
practised in Pittsburgh.

He entered the Army in the summer of 1944, received his train-
ing for a short time at Camp Blanding, Florida, and then was sent
overseas in February, 1945, with the ro1st Infantry Division of
General Patton’s Third Army. He was killed in action some-
where in Germany on April 8, 1945. His remains were brought
back to this country and he lies buried in the family plot at Baker
Street Cemeteries in West Roxbury, Massachusetts.

He was survived by his father and mother, and his two chil-
dren. His widow has since remarried.

: H.D., J.B.

ETHELBERT TALBOT DONALDSON

HOME AppREss: Clark Road, Woodbridge 15, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1047 Yale Station, New Haven, Conn.

BORN: March 18, 1910, Bethlehem, Pa. parents: Francis Donaldson, Anne
Harvey Talbot. .

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; PHD. (Yale
Univ.), 1943.

MaRRIED: Christine Hamilton Hunter, June 24, 1941, Wellesley, Mass. cup:
Deirdre Hunter, May 23, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Donaldson, Jr., ’29.

OccUPATION: Professor of English, director of Graduate Studies in English,
Yale University.

OFFICES HELD: Member of various committees, Modern Language Associa-
tion of America; vice-president, Connecticut Academy of Arts and
Sciences, since 1955.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association; Connecticut Academy of Arts
and Sciences; New Haven Lawn Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Piers Plowman: The C-Text and Its Poet, New Haven, 1949;
articles in various professional journals on Chaucer, Langland, Malory,
Middle English Language, etc.; edition of Chaucer’s works at press.

UPON graduating from college I got a job at my old school, Kent,
and Spent the next six years there, teaching English, French,

[ 343 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Latin and Greek, coaching sports that I had never played and im-
proving my bridge. My summers I spent mostly as an assistant
cruise director on ships of the Swedish-America line, a job that
several times took me all the way to Moscow. By 1938 I had
become pretty stale as a school teacher and was lucky enough to
get a fellowship to the Yale Graduate School in General Studies
(Greek and English). The year at Yale was so stimulating that,
after I had spent one more year at Kent (1939-40), I decided to
resign in order to transfer to college teaching. In 1940 I entered
Yale as a graduate student in English and received my Ph.D. in
1943, having become a specialist in Middle English Language and
Literature.

Meanwhile, in 1941 I had married a fellow graduate student in
English (unlike its college, Yale’s graduate school is co-educa-
tional), a Wellesley graduate who promptly gave up her studies
in order to help support me. In the spring of 1943 the draft took
me to Miami Beach as a private in the A.A.F. After five months
of limbo (my papers were lost and much of the time I had no
official existence) I became so expert at KP that I was admitted to
O.C.S, at Miami Beach. From there I transferred to the Air
Force Statistical School at the Harvard Business School, where
I received my commission in December, 1943. Subsequently I
saw armchair service at Patterson Field, Baltimore, Hickam Field,
Saipan, and Guam, the last three all far more peaceful by the time
I arrived than the first two. In 1946 I was discharged as a captain
and returned to New Haven with my wife: she had continued her
graduate work while I was in the Army and got her Ph.D. in 1948
when I was once more able to contribute to her support.

Since 1946 I have been quietly enjoying my teaching and re-
search at Yale. I was appointed a research instructor (no duties)
for 1946-47, assistant professor in 1947, associate professor in
1951, and professor last June. I teach a course in Chaucer in the
college and courses in Chaucer and Middle English Literature in
the Graduate School and do a good deal of writing for professional
publications. As Director of Graduate Studies in English I advise,
threaten and cajole our hundred graduate students.

My wife and I have acquired a house in the country as well as
a daughter, who showed up rather tardily three years ago. When
not teaching I spend my time in my research, in taking care of

[ 344]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my lawn and in trying to figure out how to meet the payments
on my mortgage; when the combination gets too much, I work
out my frustrations in tennis. Thus secure if not pampered in the
bosom of Harvard’s traditional enemy I suppose I shall spend the
rest of my days doing what I am doing now, a fate I contemplate
with no grave misgivings. The only variety I hope for is another
year abroad like the one my wife and I had during 1951-52, when
I was a Guggenheim Fellow and a visiting professor at University
College, London. We lived in Lincoln’s Inn in properly medieval
surroundings and enjoyed London enormously, as we did also a
number of trips around England as well as to the continent and
Scandinavia.

ALFRED JOHN DONNELLY

HOME ADDRESS: Academy Road, Culver, Ind.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Culver Military Academy, Culver, Ind.
BORN: Feb. 25, 1911, Wellesley, Mass. PARENTS: John Joseph Donnelly, Mary

Ellen Doocey.

PREPARED AT: Wellesley High School, Wellesley, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: S.B., 1932; ED.M., 1934.

MARRIED: Mary Barbara Thornburg, Aug. 5, 1945, Donaldson, Ind, cui-
DREN: Shaun Edward, Oct. 4, 1946; Lela Anne, April 11, 1949; Susan
Kathleen, Sept. 3, 1950.

occuPATION: Assistant Dean, Culver Military Academy.

AT present I am rounding out my twentieth year as a member of

the Culver faculty. My present position is that of assistant dean.

Previous to settling here in the cornfields of Indiana, I enjoyed

two profitable years over at the School of Education and three

financially thin ones as a high school teacher and coach in Putnam,

Connecticut. |

I spent the war years here on the sidelines, due to a physical
disability. Mine was the inconsistent joy of helping to train poten-
tial commissioned officers to ready themselves for the risks and
hardships while I sat back and awaited the outcome.

My lengthy bachelor status came to an end in August, 1945.
It was then that I succumbed to the charms of a native-born
Hoosier who had spent a few years at LaSalle. After a few years
of living in academy rentals we built our “dream” ranch-style

[ 345 ]

eens nssonr tial Te eA Alban. | aw

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

home, a short distance from the campus. Why I didn’t have the

good sense to wait until my young brood worked out their de-

structive instincts on someone else's property, Ill never know.

However, with the last one off to school this fall, the available

time for destruction at home is curtailed.

Private school work is, of course, pretty much of an around-
the-clock proposition. The curriculum here at Culver is strictly
college preparatory w ith a limited amount of time devoted to
military training. At present, we are in the midst of a three-
million-dollar program which has kept those of us in administra-
tive work busy with blueprints, architects and contractors.

My son Shaun (aged ten) will, I hope, be a Harvard freshman —
some eight years hence. However, unless he concentrates a little
more on decimals and fractions and a little less on Ted Williams
and Yogi Berra, he may have to settle for barber school. My girls
talk about becoming dieticians but somehow haven’t swallowed
my advice that helping with the dishes is an essential step in that
direction.

In general, life in this small community is peaceful and pleasant.
Of course, each new article on, “Why Johnnie Can’t Read —
Relax or Rebound” raises fond parent hopes that maybe heredity
isn’t to blame and that Johnnie can be a Phi Beta after all. When
such articles appear, we schoolmen the country over earn our pay
tactfully applying the damper to the disillusioned.

While I miss Cambridge, Boston, and my old home town of
Wellesley, I’m afraid that I am doomed to become a Hoosier for
life. Chicago, Indianapolis and Fort Wayne are not too distant
from Culver when one feels the yen for city night life. The
nearby universities of Notre Dame and Purdue make it easy to
take in both sports and cultural programs. Lastly, we have our
own beautiful lake and golf course where waiting in line to sail or
play golf just isn’t done.

DANIEL BLISS DORMAN

HOME ADoREss: 47 Warwick St., Pittsfield, Mass.

orice appress: 4 Second St, Pittsfield, Mass,

won; May 23, 1911, Beirut, Lebanon. parents: Harry Gaylord Dorman,
"yp, Mary Bliss Dale.

[ 344 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; M.D.. 1936.

MARRIED: Dorothy Trowbridge Merrill, June 16, 1939, Brooklyn, N.Y.
CHILDREN: John Merrill, Feb. 7, 1942; Timothy Dale, Aug. 19, 1947;
Priscilla Bliss, July 9, 1949; Alan Trowbridge and Christopher Riggs
(twins), June 1, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Gerald Dale Dorman, °25, Harry Gaylord Dorman,
°26(25), AM., ’26; John Dorman, °36, A.M., 42; David Dorman, ’46.

OccUPATION: Physician, specializing in obstetrics and gynecology.

OFFICES HELD: Member Board of Directors, Pittsfield Y.M.C.A., 1951-57;
deacon, First Church of Christ, Pittsfield, 1952-55, chairman, Dept. of
Obstetrics and Gynecology, Pittsfield General Hospital, 1953-56, presi-
dent, Harvard Club of Berkshires, 1954-56.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology (certified),
American College of Surgeons (fellow); New England Obstetrical and
Gynecological Society; Pittsfield Rotary Club; Country Club of Pitts-
field.

PROBABLY many of us are leading a different life from that
planned and dreamed of in 1932. Between 1942 and 1946, we did
more traveling than in the other twenty-one years since gradua-
tion, and for many of us that World War II period represented
an interval between Part I and Part II of our alumni years. But
those travels and experiences are already duly recorded in our
previous Class Reports. Having expected originally to return to
Beirut, Lebanon (my birthplace), to teach in the medical school
of the American University there, we ended up in Pittsfield, a de-
lightful city in which to practise medicine and bring up a family.

The life of an obstetrician and gynecologist is an irregular one,
not meant for those who must have their nine hours in bed each
night, but it is a rewarding one in many ways. The various ad-
vances in medicine are indeed remarkable, but man can never fail
to wonder at the marvels of reproduction. The biggest step
made in the past ten years has been joining with seven other
doctors to build our own medical building, a very successful
venture. Though we have not formed a “clinic,” it has been a
happy association.

My wife, Dody, deserves much sympathy and credit for her
understanding and patience in spite of very irregular hours, last
minute cancellation of plans, and calls from other women. I
guess she knows she doesn’t have to be jealous. Our family con-
sists of four boys and one girl. Our eldest boy, Johnny, now

[ 347 ]

pa aI ARERR nln «Src NNR al, |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

fifteen, is already looking ahead to prep school and college. Tim,
nine, Priscilla, seven, and Alan and Chris (twins), four, round
out the team. An old historian of Pittsfield has said that the
Berkshires were a fertile environment, and the stork has been kind
to us in more ways than one.

My family and home are my main hobbies in the broad sense
of the word. True, I like bridge and tennis, but a game of ball
in the backyard with the boys, or a family picnic on a hill looking
across to Mt. Greylock really gives one a zest for living. Vacations
are mainly divided between a vacation at the shore at Orient,
Long Island, and a short (that is enough) camping trip in the
mountains.

I really felt that Father Time was catching up to me when on
the same day I received notice from the Navy Department that I
had been placed on the retired list, a patient told me she heard I
was a grandparent (false!). And now that we are up to our
Twenty-fifth Reunion, we have really come of age.

JOHN VAN NOSTRAND DORR, II

HOME ADDRESS: Rua Tomas Gonzaga 684, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.

orFice appress: U.S. Geological Survey, Washington, D.C.

BORN: May 16, 1910, New York, N.Y. parents: Goldthwaite Higginson
Dorr, ’97, Virginia Elbert.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: $.B., 1932 (33).

marriep: Mary Elizabeth Brigham, Nov. 27, 1934, Golden, Colo, (divorced
1945); Ann Pierce, Feb. 5, 1946, Kansas City, Mo. cuiLpreN: John Van
Nostrand, 3d, 1947; Charles Pierce, 1948, Katherine Grace, 1951.

occupaTIoN: Chief of Party, Brazil, U.S. Geological Survey.

MEMBER OF: Geological Society of Washington (secretary, 1943-45); Geo-
logical Society of America (fellow); Society of Economic Geologists;
American Geographical Society (fellow); American Association for
the Advancement of Science (fellow); Institute of Geology, Mining
and Metallurgy, India; Sociedade Brasileira de Geologia (vice-presi-
dente, 1955-55).

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles on geology including: “How Much Iron
Ore in Brazil?” Iron Age, 1950, Comments on “The Iron Ores of the
Congonhas District, Minas Gerais, Brazil,” Economic Geology, 1954;
“Notes on Manganese Ores of Brazil,” with C. F, Park, P. W. Guild
and A. L. M. Barbosa, Economie Geology, 1951, “A Geologist Looks

[ 348 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

at Brazilian Iron Ore Problems,” Mineracio e Metalurgia, Rio, 1956;
“A Revision of the Precambrian Stratigraphy of the Quadrilatero
Ferrifero, Minas Gerais, Brazil”; DNPM Avulso, 1957 (in press), with
J. E. Gair, G. A. Rynearson and J. B. Pomerene.

A MONTH after graduation, Lofty Becker and I took off for a
year in Europe. The ostensible purpose for me was to study
medicine at the University of Vienna; I am vague about his
ostensible purpose. In any case, we both had much fun beating
about Vienna and environs, learning far more in the year than in
the several preceding ones. I distinguished myself by becoming
one of the first men in the class to get thrown in the clink for
actively obstructing the march of National-Socialism. My con-
tribution was, I am afraid, merely symbolic, as I could notice no
setback to Herr Doktor Hitler’s progress for many years there-
after. It satisfied me, however.

The following year I went to Turkey for an absorbing year
with a group making an economic survey of the country. I came
out of it with my first wife and the determination to become a
geologist. So back to school, this time a “practical” one, the
Colorado School of Mines, where I worked like a dog for three
years. Thereafter to Texas and the oil business. Texas, I endured
for nine months; then, deciding that such an environment was
not for me, I fled to Montana where I started working for the
U.S. Geological Survey for considerably less than the job in
Texas had paid but in much pleasanter circumstances, I have
never regretted the change. |

During my training years I worked in Montana, Nevada, Cali
fornia and Alaska. In 1940 I became interested in the foreign
program the U.S.G.S. was starting under the auspices of the State
Department, and since then, with few breaks, have been involved
in one way or another with foreign geological work. When our
part of the war started, I was in Mata Grosso, Brazil, finishing up
a study of the largest manganese deposit in this hemisphere.
Thence back to Washington, where I gradually was given re-
sponsibility for administering the Survey’s wartime foreign min-
erals program. Generally it was frustrating, but no doubt I did
as much for the country as I could have, given my training and
the general needs of the time. I suppose very few people who
fought the battle of Washington feel very satisfied or pleased

[ 349 ]

ic ashdeninanarenaneb ss i es ee maha \ a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

with themselves, no matter how necessary it may have been. My

most vivid memories are of the interminable meetings and the

Sundays up the Potomac in a canoe, which kept me at least

partially sane.

As the war ended, so did my first marriage and a chapter of

my life. I had had enough of administration and desks, so, after a
short session in Arizona to become a geologist once more, I
started my present job here in Brazil, backed by a charming lady
and, in the course of time, several rambunctious kids. The job 1s
to study, in cooperation with the Brazilian government and with
numerous other geologists, Brazilian and American, the man-
ganese and iron resources and the geology of one of the richest
areas in the world, the Quadrilatero Ferrifero of Minas Gerais,
Brazil. We have now been at it ten years and expect to finish it
up by 1960. It is one of the largest single jobs the U.S.GSS. has
ever undertaken and certainly one of the most interesting pro-
fessionally that I could have fallen into. As a by-product, I have
been sent to India and have visited most of the iron deposits of
this hemisphere. I hope to hit Africa and Australia before it is
finished. Other by-products of the job have been seeing and
working on manganese deposits elsewhere in Brazil. Results of
the Amapa job were particularly satisfying; large-scale shipments
started this year.

Being a veteran of at least seven different Foreign Aid adminis-
trative setups, having suffered through the tortuous and complex
policy and personnel changes they have entailed, and having been
in a position to observe the impact they made on the receiving
end, I think a word on this score may be of interest, as it seems that
for better or worse we are going to have such programs for
many years. There are several basic conclusions, First, it is
essential that high class men with imagination be sent out to run
these programs and that they be given full local freedom of
action. Such programs cannot be run from Washington, for each
country is different and every situation is fluid. Second: because
it is childish to expect gratitude, such programs should be de-
signed to help our friends in such a manner that we also are
benefited. Long-term benefits are commonly more solid. Third:
democracy, American style, is not an exportable commodity, It
depends on education and history. We should not make a fetish

[ 350]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of it, for we only fool ourselves. When fifty percent of a popula-
tion is illiterate, democracy is a mockery. I have been in Indian
villages in which the people had never heard of Gandhi but
where the population voted, with red and blue balls popped i into
a box.

All in all it has been a good twenty-five years since I set forth
to try my wings and there is little in them I would change. The
future does not look promising, but then, it didn’t look promising
in 1932 either.

ALLAN LYONS DOW

HOME ADDRESS: 130 Warren St., Needham 92, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Liberty Mutual Insurance Co» 175 Berkeley St. Boston,
Mass.

BORN: Jan. 18, 1911, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: ‘Harry Garfield Dow, Mary
Elizabeth Lyons.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; Chartered Property Casualty
Underwriter awarded by the American Inst. for Property and Liability
Underwriters, Inc., 1952.

MARRIED: Margaret Leitha Corey, Oct. 8, 1932, Nashua, N.H. CHILDREN:
Janet Merle, May 19, 1937; Owen David, Dec. 9, 1940; Joan Mary Teel,
Sept. 10, 1933 (foster daughter),

OCCUPATION: Assistant vice-president and assistant secretary, Liberty Mutual
Insurance Company; assistant manager, National Risks Department,
handling determination of coverage, limits and pricing on large nation-
wide risks.

OFFICES HELD: BM1/C U.S. Coast Guard Reserve (T) Port Security, Phila-
delphia, 1944-46, president, Norfolk County Ceramic Guild, 1950;
member executive committee, Order of Rainbow for Girls, 1950-51;
member, Troop Committee, Troop I, Boy Scouts of America, Needham,
1951; secretary-treasurer, Boston Chapter, Chartered Property Casualty

Underwriters, 1953; trustee, Wisteria Chapter, Order of Eastern Star,
Needham, 1954-56.
MEMBER OF; Nehoiden Lodge, A. F. & A.M., Needham; Amphion Glee Club,
Melrose, Mass.; Wisteria Chapter, Order of Eastern Star.

LIFE really begins when you are nearly forty, or life really begins
when you move back to New England,

Finally, after much searching in the dark days of the depression
and being married, I obtained a job with the Massachusetts Bond-

[351]

+: 4 iaddidaiaalinltaeiana ta etietet AANA ENT UN ENTE ANTONE a a a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

industrialist. Due to the size of Liberty Mutual and its widespread
operations, it seems that everything that appears on the front
page is something that Liberty is involved in to some degree.

In closing, as you can see at our Tw enty-fifth anniversary of
marriage as Ww eli as college, we are just starting to live. New
activities, new interests, yet all of them with enjoyment to others
as well as ourselves because all of these activities involve other
people and the giving of pleasure to them.

FARROW ROGER SAMUEL DOWNEY

HOME ADDRESS: 65 E. 92d St., New York 28, N.Y.

OFFICE aDpRESS: Insurance Dept., State of New York, 61 Broadway, New
York, N.Y.

BoRN: Feb. 28, 1909, Spokane, Wash. PARENTS: John Samuel Downey, Ger-
trude Belle Farrow.

PREPARED AT: Peddie School, Hightstown, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

MaRRIED: Evelyn Nelson, June 18, 1938, New York, N.Y. (divorced 1945).
cuitpreN: Diane Muriel, July 13, 1939; Roger Nelson, July 10, 1940.
occupation; Administrative assistant to the Superintendent of Insurance,

State of New York.

OFFICES HELD: Commander, Continental Guard, 1949-51; chairman executive
committee, Democratic Party, gth A.D., 1949-53; president, 1955-57, Sons
of the American Revolution; member, National Executive Board, Amer-
ican Artists Professional League, 1953-57; vice-chairman, County Com-
mittee, Democratic Party, 1955-57; New York State director, American

Art Week, 1954-56.

I HAVE found it to be more than somewhat difficult to be clearly
introspective enough to select the event or activity that is most
significant or interesting from the point of view of fellow class-
mates. However, perhaps I should relate my recent political par-
ticipation and state that the origin was during the long, silent
hours on the bridge of an Army transport in 1944 and 1945. It
was then that I resolved after it was all over to take a more active
part in my community affairs; that I should attempt to determine
what was going on in my local government and to know and
evaluate elected representatives and their leaders who exercise
political control,

Ir was apparent after a few ineffective efforts (including a pro-

[356]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

test soap box speech on May Day 1946 at the Communist rally i in
Union Square where I could only holler when their extensive
sound system paused in praise of “the magnificent Red Army”)
that the most practical approach would be to join a local political
club. I became a Democratic district captain in 1948 on Manhat-
tan’s east side (Second Avenue and 42d Street area) and while
canvassing five and six-story cold water walk-ups learned some of
the preliminary facts of political life. It was here that my cross-
country training under Jaako Nikkolo served in good stead. In
1950 I was the Democratic candidate for State Assembly in the
gth A.D. (silk stocking district, Park and Fifth Avenues). This
district is normally two to one Republican and I was defeated —
by the usual margin. However, in 1951 I was placed in charge of
thirty-two election districts and became an accredited member of
that much maligned organization, the traditional target of Repub-
lican editorial artists (I should like to note that an elected Re-
publican State Attorney General has had complete powers of in-
vestigation for fifteen consecutive years) —a District Leader of
Tammany Hall.

And now twelve years later, how does the wartime resolve look
in retrospect? I may observe that on the whole the result of my
efforts have been somewhat satisfactory. I have developed an ade-
quate working knowledge of the election law; am conversant with
some of the elements of local problems and have served for three
years on the Fiscal Affairs Committee of the non-partisan Citizens’
Union. At this point I should like to observe that most of the
men I know in political office, on both sides of the House, are con-
scientious, hard-working public servants that pay in some in-
stances a considerable price, measured in self-sacrifice, to remain
in public life.

I have also made a few small contributions to insurance regula-
tion. Was considerably surprised that my recent survey on “In-
surance in Consumer Credit Transactions,” was reported on page
one of the New York Times (Jan. 29, 1957). This study is gen-
erally considered to be the framework for amended laws and
regulations for credit insurance in the State of New York.

On the lighter side, I am looking forward to a summer of sail-
ing, attempts to stay in the go’s in golf, my cottage in Westhamp-
ton, Long Island, and the most important date of June 10, 1957-

[357]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

ARTHUR GIBB DRAPER

HOME ApprREss: Pine Hill, N.Y.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Belleayre Ski Center, Pine Hill, N.Y.

BORN: Feb. 28, 1909, Brooklyn, N.Y. Parents: Arthur Stimson Draper,
Frances Gibb.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

marrieD: Lili Caroline Emmchen Gadeke, Nov. 23, 1935, New York, N.Y.
CHILDREN: Charles Gibb, March 15, 1937; Caroline Frances, April 5, 1939.

occuPATION: Principal park superintendent, Belleayre Mt. Ski Center, New
York Conservation Department.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, 1946-55, vice-president, 1955-56, New York State
Winter Sports Council; secretary, 1952-55, vice-president, 1955-56.
MEMBER OF: Belleayre Mt. Ski Club; U.S, Eastern Amateur Ski Association;

Pine Hill Chamber of Commerce.

BACK in 1928 it was a foregone conclusion that I would enter
journalism after graduation. Unwittingly, however, my mother
changed those plans. During a reading period she invited me
to spend a few days at Lake Placid, my first introduction to
winter sports. I enjoyed the combination of reading at night
and trying to ski by day. After graduation I spent a delightful
year at Trinity Hall, Cambridge University, supposedly studying
history and economics for that career in journalism. With con-
siderable relish I recall the long Christmas vacation spent with
a group of Englishmen and Americans at Pontresina, Switzerland,
where I ingloriously | but joyously floundered around on skis.

Home again in the fall of 1933, I landed a job (with a bit of
pull) as a cub reporter for the New York Times. It was inter-
esting — police stations, garden clubs, church services, union
organization meetings, political rallies, cat shows, poultry shows,
circuses, tea parties, weddings, boys’ clubs, strikes, etc. — inter-
esting, but nothing much ever appeared in print. Even on The
Times, however, skiing insidiously wormed its way into my
future. Among the better breaks were assignments to cover the
first snow trains despatched from the Grand Central to the
newly-developed ski areas, Still more important, it was through
a Times reporter that I met Lili, to whom I became engaged
after a weekend of cutting ski trails in Connecticut.

Lili, who had been born in Germany, married me with the

[ 358 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

understanding that we would make a grand tour of her newly-
adopted country. Like a couple of gypsies we roamed from
coast to coast in a Station wagon. We watched construction of
the great T'VA dams, visited New Orleans and the back parishes
of Louisiana, followed cavalry maneuvers for a month in Texas,
camped in most of the National Parks, moved up the Pacific
Coast into the lumbering country of Oregon and reluctantly
headed homeward. That trip ruined us for our little New York
apartment. The roar of elevateds became unbearable. Night
assignments on The Times had a certain monotonous routine.
There was fear of falling into a deathly rut. So we took a deep
breath and in 1938 cast our lot with the New York State Con-
servation Department.

Harvard and Trinity Hall had not particularly prepared me for
the life of a forest ranger in the Adirondacks. It was a rugged
life calling for a lot of manual work: swinging an axe, using
a scythe to mow miles of trails, toting heavy packs, searching for
lost hunters, fighting forest fires, building telephone lines and the
like. Winters were fairly slack in the little Adirondack village of
North Creek except that I gravitated quickly towards the local
ski club and found myself busier than ever with organizational
details. These extracurricular activities kept me quite happy.
Neither Lili nor myself hankered for a return to New York.

In 1942 the Army was seeking persons with experience in the
woods and on skis for a new unit being organized. Hoping to
learn at long last to ski respectably well, I volunteered for the
Mountain Troops and spent the next three years in Colorado,
Texas and Italy. Somewhat to my chagrin I found myself teach-
ing others elementary skiing steps instead of being taught myself.
As far as the Army was concerned, it didn’t make much differ-
ence because in combat I was never called on to use skis. Dis-
charged from the Army, I returned to the Conservation Depart-
ment and moved to the northern Adirondacks where the State
was building a ski center on Whiteface Mountain. That was my
verth for a couple of years. The less said about it the better.
However, it was a stepping stone to my present hitch with
3elleayre Mountain.

Since 1949 I’ve seen this Catskill mountain developed from a
orest wilderness into New York’s finest ski center. It has been

[359]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

a popular recreational area from the start and I’m proud of it.
Ouside of the fact that I dig deep down for the price of a
postage stamp, I'm not sorry that almost twenty-five or more
years ago my mother, during a reading period, invited me to
Lake Placid and fortuitously introduced me to skiing. My great
challenge is yet to learn to ski half-way as well as my two
youngsters,

CHARLES DANA DRAPER

HOME ADDRESS: 1422 Washington St. Canton, Mass.

OFFICE appress: E. Y. Neill & Co. 263 Summer St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: March 23, 1910, Oldtown, Maine. PARENTS: James Battles Draper,
Helen Dana.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

marrieD: Eleanor Pierce Dakin, Feb. 20, 1931, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Charles Dana, Jr., Dec. 10, 1931 (7. Jean Alexander, April ro, 1954);
Barbara Jean, May 7, 1935 (m. Bruce Cole, June 16, 1956); Martha
Elizabeth, Feb. 23, 1942; Virginia, Feb. 7, 1943. GRANDCHILDREN: Charles
Dana Draper, 3d, Feb. 19, 1955; David Bruce Draper, Feb. 11, 1956.

occuPATION: Woo! broker.

OFFICES HELD: Director, 1939-47, vice-president, 1947-53, Draper & Co.;
technical adviser, B.E.W., F.E.A., D.S.C., 1942-46; founder and presi-
dent, Canton Community Chest, 1943; member Wool Division, War
Production Board, 1945; member Imports Advisory Committee, Dept.
of Commerce, since 1946, member, Planning Board, 1946-51, Board
of Public Welfare, 1951-54, Town of Canton; president, Graduate
Association, 1947-48, trustee, 1951-54, Noble and Greenough School.

MEMBER OF; Harvard Club of Boston; Blue Hill Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Canton
25th Anniversary Committee.

SINCE leaving Harvard in June, 1930, to enter the wool business,
my life has been a varied, most interesting one — the first fifteen
years mostly travel, the past ten back in New England attending
to raising a family, picking up the threads after the war years and
working on community undertakings. Being still a full-fledged
junior at Harvard College, I entered the business world a couple
of years ahead of most of the Class of 1932. After more than
two years of old-fashioned apprenticeship, I moved to San Fran-
cisco in December, 1932, to manage the office there for Draper &
Company; as our first-born was but a year old and neither of us

[ 360 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

had been west of Chicago, this was a major move. Although the
next seven years were only mildly prosperous through the de-
pression, I have never found a more delightful way of life or nicer
place to live. Traveling all over the Far West buying wool from
the ranchers of Oregon, California, Nevada, Utah and Montana
was a marvelous experience.

We returned to Boston and within five days of Churchill’s

declaration of war in September, 1939, my wife and I were sailing
out of New York for Buenos Aires. This time our children (two
then) did not go along, but in August, 1940, the family took up
residence in Argentina. Being the only resident American buyer
in those two big primary markets (Argentina and Uruguay) was
a buyer’s paradise, and with a dollar getting you four pesos, life
was very kind. I roamed far and wide in South America and
found Harvard men everywhere, even on the Straits of Magellan
and in Punta Arenas, Chile. Quite a tribute to quite a college!
Peron was in the offing and having added another little girl to
our tribe, we deemed it advisable to get back to the U.S.; July,
1942, found us taking four and a half days to get to Boston. I
have not flown to Buenos Aires on today’s twenty-four-hour
schedule, but that flight with two small children and a four-
months-old baby was truly a modern Swiss Family Robinson
affair.

Having been deeply engaged in American Consulate activities
in Buenos Aires, I soon found myself making regular trips to
Washington on all kinds of world wool problems — preclusive
yuying, good-neighbor assistance, and stockpiling. Much to my
‘urprise in January, 1944, Uncle Sam invited me to join the
Armed Forces; it doesn’t pay to have conscientious relatives on
. draft board. However, after many hours of “back-to-school”
n the Quartermasters Corps at Camp Lee, Virginia, and many
rustrated attempts to wade through the thousands ahead of me
yaiting assignment, I used what they’d taught me and was re-
cased under Section Ten in November. The following month
resumed my Washington travels, this time in the War Produc-
on Board administering all wool imports into the U.S.A.
id directing of wool top for military use. The highlight of
1¢ following six months was to sit in the Pentagon with twenty-

o
x officers from brigadier general to first lieutenants — the only

[ 361 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

one in a blue suit and the only one who had pulled KP not
many days before — outlining to them what we had to do.

Since the end of the war, life has reverted to more or less
normalcy, except for Korea. Our elder son, Charley, was in that,
being shipped into the lines after but five months of training.
He luckily came through as a sergeant and I must say we, as par-
ents, sincerely hope we'll go through no more of such stupid “po-
lice actions” as that was.

The wool business has not prospered in recent years, but we
are more than compensated with our family. Having had
children born in Norwood, Massachusetts, San Mateo, California,
Buenos Aires, Argentine, and finally right back in Norwood, we
have made our home where we found it, and now with another

generation fast adding to the numbers, the past twenty-five years
have been well spent. I still play a fair game of bridge (not what
we worked at in 1929 and 1930), and golf has been most pleasing
over the years with more than my share of success. Having
made a host of friends all over the hemisphere we are kept busy
in many interesting ways.

EBEN DRAPER

HOME ApDpress: Faraway, Wakefield, R-L.

BoRN: Sept. 3, 1910, Hopedale, Mass. PARENTS: Benjamin Helm Bristow
Draper, Queena Sanford.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

MaraigD: Ashlyn Cannon, May 19, 1937 (divorced 1942). cuiLp: James
Ross, Sept. 14, 1938.

HARVARD SON: James Ross Draper, ’60.

HARVARD BROTHER: Benjamin Helm Bristow Draper, Jr., 731.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Contemporary Art; Tennis & Racquet Club; Algon-
quin Club; Dunes Club; Hope Club.

ON leaving college I applied myself for some years to the study
and practice of sculpture. Due to the generosity of my parents
I was left well-off and this was perhaps a deterrent to ambition
for distinction in this field. I believed for some time that I was
well educated and found out eventually that this was woefully
untrue.

[ 362 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Orthodox and dogmatic religions do not appeal to me and I
have leaned towards a combination of deism and pantheism, if
indeed these are compatible. I served in the Army for three years
without distinction.

‘JOHN PRIOLEAU DUANE

HOME ADDRESS: 33 Grandview Circle, Manhasset, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 67 W. 44th St., New York 36, N.Y.

BORN: July 28, 1909. Folkestone, England. parents: William Duane, ’93,
Elise Ravenel.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I., Adirondack-Florida
School, Onchiota, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.B.A., 1935.

MARRIED: Violet Nash, Nov. 28, 1935, Savannah, Ga. CHILDREN: Violet
Cheshire, Nov. 11, 1940; William Ravenel, Sept. 16, 1942; Marguerite
Clare, Feb. 20, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Arthur Ravenel Duane, ’22 (deceased); William Duane,

Jr., °23.

occuPATION: Director, Market Research, Interchemical Corporation, con-
sultant, marketing and commercial research development.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Manhasset Bay Yacht Club; Har-
vard Engineering Society; Society of the Plastics Industry.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous trade and professional journal publications.

ENGLISH A composition as a freshman still remains about the
upper limit of my literary publication abilities. For I have had
neither any further such training nor even experience in exposi-
tory techniques of the Madison Avenue type. So, this will per-
force be short, although I hope sweet and will appropriately
leave more space for those better versed than I in these arts.
After taking an A.B. mirabile dictu in physics, I spent the year
1932-33 in the Graduate School of Engineering. This bit of
exposure quickly convinced me that I did not desire a career in
engineering — at least, not commencing in 1933 or thereabouts,
if at all! J promptly transferred to the Business School from
which I managed to graduate in 1935. At this point, I con-
lescended to go to work for Mr. E. I. du Pont, etc. and allowed
is how I would be willing to start in the rayon end of the
usiness in production. They allowed as how I could start at

[ 363 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

their Remington Arms Company subsidiary in marketing. I

started with Remington Arms in marketing!

There, during two years at Bridgeport, Connecticut, I learned
to shoot skeet fairly well and married Violet Nash of and in
Savannah, Georgia. I was then transferred to Wilmington, Dela-
ware, and put in charge of marketing analysis of the pigments
and color department of duPont. I remained with them until we
entered World War II. .

In 1942, I went to Washington where I had been invited to
join what later became the War Production Board. I was deputy
chief of the Plastics and Protective Coatings Branch of the
Chemical Bureau, W.P.B., when I left at the end of 1945.

Since I had always had the feeling that I could get lost much
more easily in a large rather than a small city, I decided to work
in New York after the war. I have been here ever since, estab-
lishing and in charge of a marketing research department for the
Interchemical Corporation and also doing consulting work on
commercial research and development as well.

My principal hobby throughout these years has been in the
field of scientifically investigating animal behavior, particularly
that of insects and night-flying moths. I have had several articles
published on such experimental studies, one of which was
written up in a condensed version in Tie magazine a few years
back,

To me, my career and endeavors so far have been eminently
satisfactory! I have no regrets and if I had it to do over again
would make no changes, with the possible exception that I might
go into engineering, or rayon production, or something else. Or
would I? — Since I never was in them, how would I know?

DAVID AUGUSTUS DUDLEY

HOME AppRESS: 40 Lee St., Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE Abpress: Admissions Office, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge 39, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 4, 1909, Cambridge, Mass, parents: Augustus William Dudley,
’o1, Alice Mary Cheney.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: 8.B.4 1932.

[ 364 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Sylvia A. Winsor, July 6, 1935, Dublin, N.H. cuitpren: Ann Vic-
toria, July 25. 1939; Sara Winsor, Jan. 16, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Drew Dudley, ’30.

OccUPATION: Associate Director of Admissions, Massachusetts Institute of
Technology.

OFFICES HELD: Phillips Academy Alumni Council, 1953-57; president and ex-
officio trustee, Andover Alumni Association.

MEMBER OF: M.I-T. Faculty Club.

I WONDER how many of my classmates live alone with three
women. It’s different from life at Lowell House —and less
predictable than the spring riots. Co-education finally caught up
with a Harvard man.

Since 1932 I have continued in education — family and general
— and have loved it. I don’t think I'd like being called an educa-
tor. Too many unpleasant connotations, But I am very proud
of my years of teaching and even proud of my recent years as
part of a college bureaucracy, or administration, as we prefer to
call it.

After graduation from Harvard in 1932, I stayed on for one
more year of English in the Graduate School. I then went to
Andover as an instructor in English for two years. In 1935 I
married the best looking girl I knew and it’s the best thing I’ve
ever done. My two daughters agree.

In September, 1935, Sylvia and I went to the Berkshire School
where I was head of the English Department for five years and
very happy. In the summer of 1938 we traveled abroad, principal-
ly in Britain, and our first daughter, Victoria, was born in 1939,
while we were at the Berkshire School. For five Junes, between
1934 and 1940, I served as a reader of the College Board English
examinations. In the fall of 1940 we moved to New York, where
I was senior English and history teacher and assistant headmaster
at the Browning School. In June, 1943, I resigned from school —
and from my city air raid warden’s stint, to enter the Army.

I entered the Army as a private in July, 1943, and quickly rose
to the rank of PFC. I was put into the Corps of Military Police,
an assignment that must have puzzled my subsequent command-
ing officers and still puzzles me. I made many fine friends, how-
ever, among the men in the 4oo MPEG Company and was very

o
much pleased at my later promotions to line corporal and

[ 365 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

sergeant in the MP's. For a year I did police duty, mainly
guarding prisoners of war, in Texas. I then was detached from
the Military Police and from Texas, and was sent with a few
hundred other ex-teachers (and ex-lawyers) to Puerto Rico for
fifteen months, through V-J Day. In Puerto Rico I] taught
English to Puerto Rican troops and later was sergeant in charge
of off-duty education at Camp O'Reilly on the island. Legitimate
off-duty education, that is.

I saw no action during the war, but Germany and Japan were
beaten anyway, and I was given a Good Conduct Medal to go
with my American Theatre ribbon. I also got a letter of com-
mendation from a major general who obviously didn’t know me
very well. Because of my advanced age I was shipped back to
the States soon after V-J Day and was honorably and unprotest-
ingly discharged from Fort Dix, New Jersey, in October, 1945.

In November, 1945, I found the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology quite desperate for an English teacher to help with
the mounting flood of veterans pouring back into college. I
was offered a job by M.LT., to tide both of us over until mid-
years. When I got to Cambridge, however, I kept very quiet and
I think they have forgotten about me and about my agreement
to leave in February, 1946. At any rate, I’m still there and con-
sider myself happy and lucky. M.I.T, is a friendly and an
exciting place to work. And a Harvard man working there is
forgiven — after a while —after a fashion.

In 1947 our second daughter, Sara, was born in Cambridge.
We moved to Winchester for two years and then to Marblehead
in 1950. The family have become devout Marbleheaders.

At M.LT. I have been instructor in English (and a bit of
history) and then assistant professor. About 1949 I moved into
the Admissions Office and am now an associate director of ad-
missions. Other M.LT. jobs include being Fulbright adviser
and helping the adviser to foreign students. I have also been a
freshman adviser, I have served on the Andover Advisory
Alumni Council and Educational Policy Committee from 1953
to 1957 and have found that work most enjoyable.

If I had my life to live over again, I would do many things
differently. But some things I'd do the same. I’d marry the same
girl and have the same daughters. And I'd still choose to work

[ 366 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in education. Some men worry about where their next nickel
is coming from, I don’t even know if there’ll be a next nickel!
But fate has been good so far —and I know of no other field
I'd be prouder to work in than education. For one who likes
both ideas and students, it has been a lot of fun — and promises
more for another twenty-five years.

ROBERT ALAN DUNN

OFFICE ADDRESS: EF. I, du Pont de Nemours Co., 1004 Baltimore Ave., Kansas
- City 5, Mo.

BporN: March 11, 1912, Clinton, Mass. - PARENTS: George William Dunn,
Helena K. Hanigan.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

MARRIED: Helen Elizabeth Richmond, Nov. 28, 1942, Tulsa, Okla. cuitpren:
Robert Alan, Jr., July 7, 1944; Deborah Grant, July 31, 1946; Stephen
Cameron, April 16, 1949; Kevin McDermott.

OCCUPATION: Special representative, New York Office of Film Dept. E. I.
du Pont de Nemours & Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, Holy Name Society, 1951-52; vice-chairman, Local
Planning Board, 1956; on official roster of Ammunition “Know How”

— U.S, Army.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Jersey; Monmouth County Little League
(supervisory staff); 350 Club (du Pont’s New York address).

I WILL not dwell on the economic conditions facing our Class
in 32. My present employer was unable to stand the load that
fall, but suggested I try again in twelve months hence, so the
family exchequer was squeezed a little drier, and a year was
spent across the River. In August, 1933, the gates were opened
by du Pont and in about a year from our Reunion, they also will
have put up with me for twenty-five years. The first seven were
with the Plastics Department (now Polychemicals) with assorted
jobs, including two years of peddling combs, toothbrushes and
toiletware in the Northwest—and I do not use the term
“peddling” ill-advisedly.

With rumblings across the waters in ’39 and ’40, Uncle Sam
asked du Pont to start training personnel for making gunpowder
and mid-’ 4o found me at Carneys Point, New Jersey, for four
months’ training before transferring to Jeffersonville, Indiana,

[ 367 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

and the opening of the Indiana Ordnance Works; thence to
Oklahoma for three years, supervising first 1000 men and later
4oo men and 600 women (a very rugged but educational ex-
perience), making go, 40, 105, 20 and s5o0-millimeter smokeless
powder. In 1946 I was returned to our Mecca (Wilmington,
Delaware), for a sales training course in our film department,
makers of transparent packaging materials, and today finds me
special representative at our New York office residing in Shrews-
bury, a rural spot in Jersey’s horse breeding Monmouth County.
As evidenced by my tenure of service, my association with du
Pont has been long and pleasant, and in all probability, age
sixty-five will find me being retired to pasture by the same
organization.

During my stay in Oklahoma, I met and married Helen, a very
lovely Okie, and Robert, Jr., arrived in 1941 to support his
mother in any aspersion-casting towards their sovereign state
by ill-bred Easterners. Debbie, Steve and Kevin arrived at New
Jersey, and the group makes a rather handsome quartet in our
modest opinions. With them have come extra-curricular activi-
ties, some fun, some wished upon one, but all stimulating. P.T.A.
committee work, chairman of Cub Pack Committee for a couple
of years, and manager of the local Little League team under
what appears to be an unexpiring contract are some. I was more
than a little proud this year with selection of Robert as All Star
shortstop. But as all with sons are aware, what help, guidance,
etc., are given to the eldest must be directed to the youngest as
they come along; so my activities are cut out for me for some
time — provided the aging bones hold out. Our only daughter,
Debbie, is now a pretty and accomplished equestrienne.

Speaking of paleontology, ’ve managed to keep up with tennis,
although definitely restricted now to doubles. And, of course,
the baseball job forces me to discover new muscles each early
spring. My dabbling in bridge has been reduced to a rusty
social status, following active years in the Chicago Duplicate
League.

My political activities have been confined to membership in
the local Republican Club and we were very happy with a pretty
general sweep in New Jersey at the November polls, both
nationally and locally. Religious activities have included member-

[ 368 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ship in the Holy Name Society of the Catholic Church, with a
two-year term as president of the local group. Membership in
the local Planning Board (currently vice-chairman) has enabled
me to keep abreast of civic progress in a very fast-growing
community, and county and state conclaves have tended to ex-
pand interest and participation.

{Since Dunn sent in the above information, he wrote that he
was recently made assistant sales manager of the Southwestern
District of the Film Department of E. I. du Pont de Nemours &
Company, with headquarters at Kansas City, Missouri. ]

MELVIN FRANCIS DWYER

HOME aporEsS: 10 Highland Ave., Plainville, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 511 Westminster St., Providence, RI.

BORN: Jan. 13, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: John Mansfield Dwyer, Eliza-
beth Gertrude Merry.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MarriED: Dorothea Elizabeth Field, Dec. 12, 1942, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Dorothea Field, Aug. 9, 1948; Deborah Field, Oct. 12, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Edmund Dwyer, ’28.

occupaTION: Banking; National Shawmut Bank.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

STARTING out on a career in the summer of 1932 was not the
most pleasant experience in the world. However, in September,
1932, I was fortunate enough to obtain a position with a major
oil company and I stayed with them for the next four years. In
1937 I changed to the banking business and life went along
smoothly for anothér four years.

In September, 1941, at a party at the Ritz Carlton in Boston, I
necame engaged, with plans for a spring wedding. On Decem-
Der 7, 1941, I realized that my way of life was due for an abrupt
change and in March 1942, instead of being married, I was going
hrough basic training as a private at Fort Devens and wishing
hat I hadn’t dropped Military Science at the end of my sopho-
nore year. At the earliest possible moment my application for
dfficers School was submitted and on December roth, in North
"arolina, I was commissioned as a second lieutenant in Artillery.

[ 369 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Two days later, I married Dorothea Field of Boston, with our
wedding reception at the Copley Plaza. After a ten-day leave
in New York, I reported to Camp Edwards and three months
later I was on my way to North Africa. I spent the next three
years in North Africa, Italy and France. Before the war ended
I reached the rank of captain and in addition to one Battle Star,
I received the Bronze Star Medal.

Returning to civilian life in 1946, we settled in Plainville,
Massachusetts, a small town of 2500 people, thirty-five miles
south of Boston, Our first child, Dorothea (Dee Dee), was born
in August, 1948, and our second daughter, Deborah, was born
in October, 1951.

I’m a member of the Harvard Club of Boston and get up there
as often as possible, considering the seventy-mile round trip
involved. When the war ended I joined the Reserve and still
attend weekly meetings and go to Camp for two weeks in the
summer. This is more or less a protection against going in again
as a private in the event of any future complications. Our plans
for the future include another trip to Europe, this time at our
own expense. I'm still interested in Harvard football and have
held the same seats on season tickets for a number of years now,
— Section 26, Row HH.

I didn’t think that ’'d changed much in appearance until I saw
the pictures that I had taken for this report. However, my
weight is about the same and I have managed to keep my hair,
even though the color has changed to a considerable degree. In
any event, it doesn’t seem as though twenty-five years have
elapsed, |

CHARLES SHURTLEFF EATON

HOME appaess: 50 Myopia Rd., Winchester, Mass.

orrice appeess: S. S. Pierce Co., 133 Brookline Ave., Boston 17, Mass.

BORN: July 7, 1910, Winchester, Mass. parents: William Dearborn Eaton,
’o2, Edith Mary Shurtleff.

PuEPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1432. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

manuip: Margaret Elizabeth Simkins, June 30, 1934, Savannah, Ga. (di-
vorced 1946), Sarah Stephenson, May 4, 1946, Winchester, Mass.

[ 370]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHILDREN: William Guerard, Oct. 14, 1936; Robert Bruce, Oct. 31, 1942;
‘Scott Stephenson, April 12, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Purchasing agent, S, S. Pierce Company.

OFFICES HELD: Past president (two terms), treasurer, New England Whole-
sale Food Distributors Association; trustee, Winchester Savings Bank,
Woodlawn Cemetery; vice-president, Greater Boston Advisory Board,
Salvation Army, National American Wholesale Grocers’ Association,
member, Governors Food Council; chairman, Food Division, Red Cross,
Community Fund, etc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Winchester Country Club; Appala-
chian Mountain Club; Fishing Club of America; Hickory Shafts (pre-
senior golf); Reserve Officers’ Association; Massachusetts Horticultural
Society; Harvard Varsity Club; American Legion.

COMPARABLE undoubtedly with many other classmates, my
life after college has been active in the pattern of the four divisions
of home life, business, recreation and civic affairs, except for the
interruption of being a Supply Officer in the Navy. All four
have been a source of happiness or satisfaction with the problem
ever present of finding enough time to accomplish i in each all I
desired.

Home life has been especially pleasant with a wonderful wife
who has been a constant help and inspiration. Sarah was a
Stephenson from San Francisco, where her family has lived for
over eighty years.

William Guerard, twenty, 6’ 244”, 190 lbs., has spent the last
eighteen months in the Army at Eritrea, East Africa. He gradu-
ated from Winchester High School, where he was captain of
the track team, is a strong, fine-looking gregarious boy, and I
know he will do well in whatever he chooses.

Robert Bruce, fourteen, 5’ 9”, 164 lbs., played for Winchester
in the Little League World Series at Williamsport, Pennsylvania,
loves to fish, shoot and play hockey, His objective is to enter
the U. S. Forestry and Wild Life Service.

Scott Stephenson, eight, 4’ 6”, 83 lbs., will be, according to his
pediatrician, the largest of our boys. He is a good student,
strong, friendly and, at present, a very lovable menace.

We do not go away summers because we have so much at
home: basketball, badminton, climbing ropes, horse shoes, parallel
bars, putting green and swimming pool (small). The golf club
is only a half mile away as is the Mystic Lake, where we keep

[371]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

our boat. Our two dogs, Eric (Weimaraner) and Tim (Pointer)

are very much part of our family. We have a good-sized garden

and we use our cook-out facilitics about every night during
good weather. We are always busy, and very happy together.

Business has been confined to S. S. Pierce Company, where I
am the third generation following my grandfather, who was an
original partner, and my father, Bill Eaton, ’o2z, who retired as
a director in 1953. The grocery business is highly competitive
and I have found it fast-moving and fascinating, as well as
demanding hard work and long hours, Relative to business, I
have been active in association work, having been president (two
terms) of the New England Wholesale Food Distributors Asso-
ciation, of which I am now treasurer, vice-president of the
National American Wholesale Grocers Association, in addition
to serving on various Massachusetts food committees.

Recreation is shared with the whole family, and particularly in
golfing and fishing with Sarah. My chief interests have been
curling, fishing, gardening and golf, with skiing and squash not
being played any more because of a double disc operation in
1952, which necessitates wearing a corset during exercise. Boast-
fully but unexplainably, I had two 72’s this summer, one being
in the qualifying round in the club championship at my home
club, Winchester C.C., par 72.

Civic endeavor has included my being a Town Meeting member,
a trustee of the Winchester Savings Bank and the Woodlawn
Cemetery, a member since 1936 of the Greater Boston Advisory
Board of the Salvation Army (vice-president twice) and being
active in the Red Feather, Salvation Army, Red Cross and many
other charitable drives, in connection with business and also
in my home town. Also, if you can call it civic, I have tried
since graduation to help make the Class of ’32 cohesive and
strong in good spirit and fellowship. The reward has been
achieving the friendship of many fine classmates, whom I did not
know too well in college. My prophecy is that our Class will
have the best Twenty-fifth Reunion in Harvard College history.

[ 372 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT BOWER ECKLES

HOME ADDRESS: 235 Littleton St., West Lafayette, Ind.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Purdue University, West Lafayette, Ind.

BoRN: April 11, r910, York, Nebr. parents: Warren Franklin Eckles, Dora
Mae Bower.

PREPARED AT: York High School, York, Nebr.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932; PuD.,
1938.

MARRIED: Rachel Burhans Miller, Dec. 14, 1935, Cambridge, Mass. cHiLpren:
Frances Alison, Aug. 28, 1942; Sarah Humphrey, Dec. 19, 1945.

occuPATION: Teacher of history and general education; associate professor,
Purdue University.

OFFICES HELD: Director of Liberal Science (Experimental General Educa-
tion Curriculum), Purdue University, 1948-52; director, Midwest Con-
ference on British History, 1952-54; chairman, Committee on Docu-
mentary Reproduction, American Historical Association; member ad-
visory committee, Foundation for International Cultural Integration;
vice-president, Tom McCall Associates.

MEMBER OF: Royal Historical Society (fellow); American Historical Asso-
ciation.

PusLicaTions: Articles and reviews in professional journals; Britain Her
Peoples and the Commonwealth, co-author with R. W. Hale; Life of
Franklin J. Matchette, for the Matchette Foundation (in process of
publication).

AFTER graduation I tried Harvard Law School. The law
appealed to me in no respect and I left before the first year was
completed. I decided to try teaching history, English history
and modern European to be exact, and entered Queen’s College,
Oxford, in 1933. My degree was sent into the blue yonder
because of a death in my family that brought me back to Harvard
in 1934. I entered Graduate School and received my Doctor’s
degree in 1938, making English history my specialty. In 1935, I
married Rachel Miller, who like so many wives helped put me
through graduate school by teaching in Boston.

My first college teaching job was at Stephens College in
Columbia, Missouri. In 1940 I left this school for young ladies,
Moving to Ohio University where I taught nearly every kind
of history before I left in 1944. The Army and the Navy would
not have me, so in 1944, after teaching labor problems and man-
agement personnel problems to men in industry, I went to
Indianapolis as district economist with the Office of Price Admin-

[ 373]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

istration. In 1945 I left the O.P.A. for a personnel job with
industry for the duration.

Since 1945 I have been teaching history and labor problems
to students at Purdue University. There I have been interested
in the crew, am faculty adviser and assistant coach, have been
a ham actor in the Little Theatre, tried to write a book or two,
one published, and bring up two daughters. Of late, I have
become more and more interested in industrial history. As I
write this, | am in Washington on a leave of absence in order to
carry on research for a study of the natural gas industry under
the auspices of the Indiana Historical Association.

I like to read biographies, professional publications of all kinds,
seek out jazz music when played well, see what plays I can,
refight the battles of the Civil War, and make some little effort
to keep up with what is going on in the world. I am an ex-
vestryman of St. John’s Episcopal Church, Lafayette, Indiana.

*« JOHN EDMISTON

BORN: Jan. 18, 1912, Rome, Italy. parents: Homer Edmiston, Emma Mag-
giorami.

YEARS AT COLLEGE: 1929-1931.

pieD: Nov. 30, 1934, Milan, Italy.

DONALD BRUCE EDMONSTON

HOME ADDRESS: 50 Quint Ave., Allston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Franklin Technical Institute, Berkeley St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: March 26, 1910, Washington, D.C. parents: (Simon) Kemp Edmon-
ston, Marie Janet Lewis.

PREPARED AT: Brighton High School, Brighton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B. 1932 .

marriep: Anna C, Vinti, March 2, 1935, Providence, R.I. CHILDREN: David B.,
Jan. 4, 1937; John R., Dec. 18, 1942; Robert P., Dec. 13, 1944.

OccuPATION: Engineering; instructor in machine design.

L 374]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PIERCE EDMUNDS

HOME appREss: 8 Euston St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDREsS: Italian Airlines, 16 Providence St., Boston 16, Mass,

BorN: Dec. 29, 1908, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: William H. Edmunds, ’oo,
Edythe DeMile Pierce.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.; Mesa Ranch School, Mesa,
Ariz.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B.. 1932. .

MarRieD: Edith Adams White, Sept. 13, 1933, New York, N.Y. (died No-
vember, 1937); Margaret Morrey, Dec. 3, 1938, New York, N.Y. (di-
vorced 1952); Dorothy Gibson, March, 1952, New Haven, Conn, cnt-
DREN: William White, Sept. 29, 1935; Helen, Feb. 1, 1941; Nancy, Aug.
23, 1945 (died Dec. 23, 1955).

occuPATION: New England district sales manager, in charge of sales and
airport operations for Italian Airlines in Boston and New England.

OFFICES HELD: President, New England Chapter, Skal International, 1952.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Engineers Club, Boston; Boston
Passenger Club; Skal International; Aero Club of New England.

I FIND it a bit difficult to span the twenty-five years since
graduation in the way I hammered out those themes for my pet
English literature courses. Nevertheless, nothing ventured,
nothing gained, so— here we go!

Though depression was all around us after those June days i in
1932, I managed to get started peddling salted nuts for a Chicago
concern here in New England. As I look back, perhaps I should
have stayed with it and enjoyed the rather good returns. How-
ever, on the advice of several people, I proceeded to New York
City to tackle the investment game. It was a rough proposition
and my feet ached often from “jumping those New York
gutters!” After several months of moving through various de-
partments, a ray of sunshine entered my life and I married the
girl who shared all those college parties with me! Time marched
on through the “bank holidays” and 3.2 beer, and we found our-
selves with a very promising young son. Things were looking up
and the Harvard Club squash courts saw a lot of me. Then the
“bottom dropped out!” My wife passed away suddenly, and I
returned to New England.

For some strange reason I got the feeling I should be above
all this investment work, and I switched to the airline business
where I have remained, with one exception, but more of that

[375]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

later. This flying game had a fascination for me with never a dull
moment, unless the realization that I would never be a millionaire
could be considered dull! In due course I remarried and lived
a dozen years in Weston, where I was an eager and ardent
devotee of the game of golf, a game, by the way, of which I
never tire — though in recent years I have seldom had a chance
to play it. Two daughters were added to the family during this
period, and they were soon running Bill “ragged” when he was
home from school!

Once more destiny caught up with me and this country life
came to an end. The wheels of this “Family Coach” just wouldn’t
run smoothly. Comes now the exception to my airline life, and
with a new bride I set out to reap promised riches on St.
Thomas in the Virgin Islands. But, alas, the end of the rain-
bow eluded us and we had an interesting but costly experience
in tropical living! .

From there on in, the airlines again beckoned and after eight
months in Cleveland, I returned to Boston where I now am.
Once more all is right with the world and the airlines are
looking for new fields to conquer. “A trip to Rome, anyone?”
(via Italian Airlines).

My daughter, Helen, is most through at Concord Academy,
and Bill just started his junior year at Hamilton College. Elections
are just around the corner and once again I shall vote for Ike.
ARRIVEDERLA! |

JOHN CARROLL EDSON

HOME ADDRESS: 2902 S. Boston Ct., Tulsa 14, Okla.

orrice appress: American Airlines Overhaul & Supply Depot, Tulsa, Okla.

BORN; Dec. 19, 1906, Hingham, Mass. parents: John Wells Edson, ’98, Annie
Gregory Jordan.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931,

MarkiEp: Doris Unsworth Hand, Dec. 29, 1951, Tulsa, Okla. cHILDREN:
Mary Ann, June 14, 1954, Barbara Anice (stepchild), July 20, 1943.
oocupation; Senior provisioner, Inventory Planning, American Airlines

Overhaul & Supply Depot.

[ 376 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Member, American Airlines Distinguished Service Award
Board, 1951-52.

MEMBER OF: Southwestern Art Association; Frontier Club, Flagship Club.
I’M sure we all think the same: “(How could twenty-five years
go by so fast?” In 1935 I joined American airlines and in this
year I am still with American Airlines. This connection has
given me the opportunity to enjoy the experience of life and
living in several cities of this grand country of ours: Chicago,
New York, Forth Worth, Tulsa, The greatest experience, the
ultimate, residence in San Francisco, is still my dream.

I did not enter the state of matrimony until a period later in
life than is the commonly accepted practice. A wife and eight-
year-old daughter suddenly converted me, at the age of forty-five,
from a carefree(?) bachelor to a peaceful and contented head
of a household. A daughter, born in 1954, completes the happy
family circle. :

So, now I’m looking forward to the “last of life for which the
first was made,” since that fifty mark is now here. Here’s to the
future and all that it holds.

GRAY EDWARDS

HOME ADDRESS: 611 E, Second Ave., Roselle, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Edwards, Kelcey & Beck, 2754 Fairfield Ave., Bridgeport,
Conn. .

BORN: April 9, 1910, Newburgh, N.Y. Parents: Dean Gray Edwards, ’03,
Clara Story. |

PREPARED AT: Marquand School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1032. DEGREE: A.B., 1932. |

MARRIED: Donna Young. cHILpREN: Michael Gray, Jan. 7, 1949; Charlotte
Jane, Aug. 28, 1954; Philip Rutledge (stepchild); Stephen Rutledge
(stepchild); Ruby Dianne Young (stepchild).

OccUPATION: Office engineer and geologist.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Engineering Society; Harvard Club of New Jersey;
Elizabeth Chess Club; Bridgeport Y.M.C.A. Chess Club.

AFTER graduation I went to California, where I did postgraduate
work in mining engineering at the University of California. I
worked in Bingham Canyon, Utah, and for the Utah Road
Commission as an inspector. During World War II, I did my

[377]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

stint in the Army attending ERTC at Fort Belvoir. Following
the war, I worked in Washington, D.C. as a cartographer and
found this work very interesting.

In January, 1950, I came East to work for my father, Dean
Edwards, '03, who heads a firm of consulting engineers, by whom
I am still emploved. For two years I worked on the New Jersey
Turnpike and then for a year and a half on the Garden State
Parkway. I am now office engineer and consulting geologist for
Edwards, Kelcey and Beck on the Connecticut Turnpike. I live
in Bridgeport during the week and go home to Roselle every
weekend.

My principal interests outside of my job are playing chess and
listening to ball games — baseball, football and basketball — on
the radio. I am still very much interested in geology and have
quite a library of geologic folios and pamphlets. In fact, when
I wrote to Albany for geological material once, they replied that
it was the largest order they had ever received from a single
individual! I also take considerable interest in the theatre and
in opera, attending them whenever I have the opportunity.

FRITZ HUGO EHRENFEST

HOME apprEss: 19201 Van Aken Blvd., Shaker Heights 22, Ohio.

oFFice appress: Standard Oil Co. of Ohio, Midland Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio.

Born; Jan, 16, 1911, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Hugo Ehrenfest, Sophy Schwab.

PREPARED AT; St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933. DEGREES: A.B. cunt laude, 1932 (33); A.M. (Wash-
ington Univ.), 1934.

margieD: Carol Pulsifer, Feb. 29, 1952, Cleveland, Ohio.

occupaTion; Marketing research.

ONE thing Harvard taught me was a complete disregard for
form letters, which has persisted for a quarter of a century, espe-
cially with respect to letters from class agents, class secretaries,
etc. During the ups and downs of my undergraduate career, |
must have received every form letter the College issued covering
the entire gamut from expulsion to graduation with honors.
Since graduation my career has leveled out a bit, though the
form letters continue, I almost got a Ph.D. at Harvard Graduate
School but went to work instead. My work history is encom-

[ 378 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

passed by two employers, Union Electric in St. Louis, and Stan.
dard Oil (Ohio) in Cleveland. It is difficult to reconcile my
college training in psychology with my work in budgets and
accounting in St. Louis, and marketing research in Cleveland,
but with the growth of motivational research it looks as if a
relationship is developing.

My married life is smooth, as my wife is a case-worker for the
Family Service Association. She is a graduate of Bates College
in Maine. It seems to me that Harvard used to play Bates as an
early season soft victory back in the days when the Harvard
football team had victories. :

I am caught in the same circle as the rest. Ther more you make,
the higher your standard of living. But it is fun. My hobbies
have changed since graduation, in style but not in degree of
success, from getting rejection slips from the New Yorker to
horse-racing. -

ROBERT BLOCK FICHHOLZ

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 1327 33d St., N.W., Washington, D.C.

BORN: March 27, 1911, Philadelphia, Pa, PARENTS: Adolph Eichholz, Leah
Block.

PREPARED AT: Oak Lane Country Day School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 19323 LL.B. 1936.

MARRIED: Kathryn Bibas, Aug. 11, 1936, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN: Lyn
Ellen, April 2, 1941; Roger Alan, May 17, 1943.

OccuUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant Tax Legislative Counsel, U.S. Treasury, 1937-42;
special assistant to Legal Adviser, Dept. of State, 1947-49; special
assistant to U.S. Ambassador, Rome, 1949-51; general counsel to Di-
rector for Mutual Security, 1951-53; executive secretary, Committee
for Defense of the Constitution by Preserving the Treaty Power,
1953-

MEMIEe on. Harvard Club of New York; Museum of Modern Art, New
York City; Institute of Contemporary Arts, Washington; American
Society of Political and Social Science.

PuBLications: Articles on federal taxation in various legal periodicals.

AFTER graduation from Harvard Law School and a year in a
tax law office in New York, I found myself on a plane bound
for Washington, Mecca of many a fledgling lawyer in those

[379]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

days, to take a month's temporary job at the Treasury. Like
many another, I've somehow lived in Washington ever since. For
five years T used to cut my throat daily, as my wife put it, by help-
ing to draft federal tax legislation. Although doubtless not an occu-
pation calculated to enhance my popularity with my classmates,
I found it a fascinating intellectual exercise, providing some-
what the same kind of stimulation others get from chess.

During the war, I was in Naval Air Intelligence with a side
excursion into military government in Italy. I did not help
endear myself to my superior by expressing my opinion of a
substantial part of the proceedings in the following doggerel:

“For poop inconsequential, the file’s marked Confidential;
For what’s obsolete or older, consult the Secret folder.”

Shortly after the war I entered the State Department to be-
come engrossed in the problem of organizing the free world,
economically and militarily, to resist the monstrous totalitarian
threat which hung over it. I participated in the formulation and
development of the Marshall Plan and the North Atlantic Treaty,
enterprises which in their early years were, in my opinion, among
the most magnificently imaginative, responsible and mature politi-
cal achievements of the American people in our lifetimes. I then
served for two years in the Rome Embassy, returning to Wash-
ington to become general counsel for the Mutual Security
Program. In the summer of 1953 I resigned to devote part of
my time to combatting current obscurantist aberrations such as
the Bricker Amendment — aberrations which, I felt, were being
glossed over and even coddled by the slickly pious platitudes
which seem to pass for thought in the Eisenhower administration.

My daughter presently lives for riding horseback and my son
for various ingenious construction projects — standard sublima-
tions both! My own recreations are bridge, tennis, foreign travel
and going to the track. More important, my wife and I have
been collecting modern painting almost since our marriage twenty
years ago, and this has proved a hobby richly rewarding in
aesthetic enjoyment and in interesting acquaintances among
painters and collectors. In a city in which political discussions,
however stimulating initially, have a way of occasionally becom-
ing unpleasantly acrimonious, it has the additional advantage of
providing a meeting ground for all those of perception and good-

[ 380 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

will. In the last few years, my wife has combined pleasure with
business by organizing with her partner a modern art gallery in
Washington, It has been quite a success and I am very proud

of her.

DAVID RALL ELDER

HOME ADDRESS: 1140 S. Iowa Ave., Washington, Iowa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Washington Evening Journal, 111 N. Marion Ave., Wash-
ington, Iowa.

porN: April 18, 1911, Washington, Iowa. Parents: John Orville Elder,
Carolyn Louise Rall.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Pomona College, Claremont, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-32. DEGREE; A.B. 1932 (33).

MARRIED: Mable Lee Livingston, Oct. 28, 1939, Washington, Iowa.

occuPATION: Vice-president, Elder, Shannon & Company, Inc., publishers;
business manager, Washington Evening Journal, editor, The Y’s Men’s
World, magazine of International Association of Y’s Men’s Clubs

(Y.M.C.A. affiliate)..

OFFICES HELD: Member board, International Association of Y’s Men’s Clubs,
since 1937, Washington Public Library, since 1954, Washington Com-
munity Chest, since 1954; member board, 1942-54, president, 1952-54,
Washington Y.M.C.A.; vice-president, First Presbyterian Church,
1954-55; special assistant to president, Orville K. Snav & Associates,
Mason City, Iowa (manufacturers of Buna-B).

MEMBER OF: Y’s Men’s Clubs; Washington Country Club.

NINETEEN THIRTY-TWO to 1957 — it counts up to twenty-
five years, all right. They’ve gone mighty fast and left some
things to be desired, but all in all I wouldn’t want to trade them
for any others. Out of Harvard I went to work in the advertising
business for a couple of years, then went into the family news-
paper (The Washington Evening Journal, circulation 4,300 ABC).
Worked in advertising for a while, news (a little), became job
Srinting manager, business manager, vice-president, and there I
im today with my hand in almost every department.

In 1937 I picked up a magazine to edit and publish: The Y's
Men’s World, organ of the International Association of Y’s Men's
clubs, an affiliate of the Y.M.C.A. This is a small magazine with
'§ circulation scattered all over the world; it gives me a great
eal of pleasure and through it has developed an acquaintance (in

[ 381 ]

a fein NNN Nt ERLE CMTE NAD

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

some cases a friendship) with a great number of good men in
many countries. This I cherish.

Mable Livingston, a farm girl of near Washington, and I were
married in 1939 after a friendship of twenty-five years and a
courtship of about a month. This marriage has worked out
wonderfully well, it is certainly my happiest achievement to
date. We have no children but make up for it as best we can in
a number of ways. We enjoy our comfortable house, Thunder-
bird, cats, pictures, music, and an exemplary bridge partnership.

My connection with the Y’s Men’s Clubs has occasioned con-
siderable travel, mostly in the States and Canada, but it did take
my wife and me to the Y.M.C.A. Centennial Conference in Paris
and on a visitation tour of a number of European clubs in 1955.

Life in a small Iowa town, while it has certain obvious dis-
advantages, has not been unrewarding. I have become cheer-
fully involved in the community, interested in its schools, presi-
dent of its Y.M.C.A., active in its amateur theatricals and, pres-
ently, on the board of its public library trying to quicken its
response to community needs and to extend its program into the
fields of art and music.

Hobbies are golf and bridge, pictures (mostly reproductions),
and lots of music (all recorded).

CHARLES WILLIAM ELLSWORTH

HOME ADDRESS: 44 Thompson Pl., Lynbrook, Long Island, N.Y.

BorN: April 22, 1910, Whiteport, N.Y. parents: Charles Ellsworth, Katherine
Oetjen.

PREPARED AT: Franklin K. Lane High School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1920.

HERBERT ROTHSCHILD ELSAS

HOME ApprESS: 3510 Paces Ferry Rd., N.W., Atlanta, Ga.

OFFICE AbpREss: 1516 First National Bldg., Aclanta, Ga.

BoRN: Feb. 1, 1910, Atlanta, Ga. parents: Louis Jacob Elsas, ’o2, Bertha
Rothschild.

PaepareD AT; Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREPS: A.B. 1932; LL.B. 1935.

[ 382 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marRIED: Edith Levy, June 22, 1933, New Rochelle, N.Y. cimpren: Louis
Jacob, 2d, Feb. 10, 1937; Herbert Alan, July 29, 1940.

HARVARD SON: Louis Jacob Elsas, 2d, ’58.

occuPATION: Partner, Sutherland, Asbill & Brennan, engaged in the practice
of law in the District of Columbia and in Atlanta, Georgia, with
emphasis on corporate, estate, trust and tax law.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Harvard Club of Atlanta, 1938-40; board member,
1938-54, president, 1949-51, Family Service Society of Atlanta; chair-
man, Armed Services Committee of Atlanta Jewish Welfare Board,
since 1952; board member, Atlanta Legal Aid Society, 1952-53, Atlanta
Symphony Society, since 1954; trustee, Lovett School, 1953-54, Atlanta
Art Association, since 1955; member, Budget Executive Committee,
Atlanta Community Chest, 1953-54; board member, several Atlanta
business corporations.

MEMBER OF: American, Georgia and ‘Atlanta Bar Associations; Atlanta
Lawyers’ Club; Standard Town and Country Club, Adianta; Republican
Club; Lawyers’ Club, New York City.

SINCE leaving college my main activities have centered around
my family, my law practice and a reasonable amount of social and
civic work. Edith Levy of New Rochelle, then a Wellesley
junior, and I were married between my first and second years at
Harvard Law School. After helping me break the shell and
finally emerge as a lawyer, Edith has had sympathetic under-
standing of the demands made by this profession on its prac-
titioners. Since 1935 we have made our home in Atlanta, and
in the same house since 1940, except for a three-year period dur-
ing the war. We have two boys who are now nineteen and
sixteen, the elder a junior at Harvard and the younger a junior
at high school in Atlanta. Our family life has been close and
happy: |
Immediately after Law School I joined my present firm which
then had only three partners, as the second of two associates. At
the present time we have nine partners, four in Washington and
five in Atlanta, ten associates, and engage in a broad practice with
some emphasis on federal taxation, My participation in the
growth and development of this firm has been a consuming
interest. It has taken a lot of time and effort, more travel than
I really like, and a considerable restriction of the kind of things
that might have been fun if I had the time to do them. It has been
a very happy relation, however, rewarding because our partners

[ 383 ]

gt al RA NOOO SRT AINE EE Ul Nes,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

and associates have the same goal and ideals and because we are
all good friends.

There was an interlude of about three years during the war
which left a deep impression but did not change anything very
much. Though I was probably draft proof, I became interested
in an Air Force Officer Procurement Program and sold myself
on the publicity we were disseminating to attract officers to the
Service. Late one night in March, 1942, I received orders to
proceed, and before I knew it I was on board the Queen Eliza-
beth headed for England and kept proceeding until I ended in
Kassel, Germany, in June, 1945. I picked up a few promotions,
battle stars and a Legion of Merit on the way and a few firm
friends whom I see much too rarely.

JOHN FRANCIS ELSBREE

HOME ADDRESS: 93 Hobart St. Bnghton 35, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Rockland-Atlas National Bank of Boston, 199 Washington
St. Boston, Mass.

BorN: April 19, 1912, Methuen, Mass. parents: Leslie Francis Elisbree, ’ 09,
Frances Beatrice Roberts.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. a

marrieD: Ida Letitia Brooks, Aug. 13, 1938, Gardner, Mass. CHILDREN:
Janet Elaine, April 1, 1940, John Francis, Jr., Dec. 31, 1942, Marjorie
Evelyn, July 11, 1945; David Brooks, May 30 19475 Ruth Elizabeth,
April 29, 1955.

occuPaTION: Banking-auditor.

OFFICES HELD: Genealogist, Elsbree Family Association, since 19293 Secretary,
Public Latin School, since 1933; member, 1946-48, chairman, 1948-49,
National Debate Committee, associate councilman, since 1950, Ameri-
can Institute of Banking; governor, 1942-46, public speaking committee,
1944-45, chairman, auditing committee, 1946-47, Boston Chapter of
American Insutute of Banking; treasurer, 1955-56, secretary, since
1956, Boston Conference of National Association of Bank Auditors and
Comptrollers, treasurer, Boston Latin School Association, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: National Office Management Association; National Machine
Accountants Association, American Institute of Banking, Bank Officers
Association of the City of Boston; Boston Latin School Association;
Elsbree Family Association, Luther Family Association; National As-
sociation of Bank Auditors and Comptrollers, Ninety-Nine Club.

pusicaTions: “Simplified Sewlement,” in Auditgram, August, 1952.

[ 384 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I ONCE promised myself that if my biography ever came to be
written it would be entitled “From Office Boy to Glorified Office
Boy.” When I left Harvard in 1930 to work for the then Webster
and Atlas National Bank as office boy, I little realized that I
would remain in one spot through depression and boom, through
bank holiday and tremendous expansion and merger, until today,
while nominally auditor of the now Rockland-Atlas National

Bank of Boston, I allocate my time 100% to auditing, 100% to

systems, and 100% to special projects, largely confidential.

“Out of too much learning become mad” was the caption
under my picture when I graduated from high school. I won't
vouch for the cause but the fact remains that although I lack
degrees and didn’t spend all the time in Cambridge that most
of the Class did, I have been evenings to Bryant & Stratton, to
Boston Evening Schools (studying Spanish), and to the American
Institute of Banking, an educational organization with over
60,000 bank officers and employees as students. Here I have
obtained a pre-standard, standard, and graduate certificate. Now
I’m going to the Graduate School of Banking at Rutgers Uni-
versity, which is why if all goes well you won't see me at our
Twenty-fifth —Tl be being grilled over my thesis, which will

keep me busy from the time of writing this opus almost until
Reunion time.

This American Institute of Banking, A.I.B., is not all formal
classroom. While an auditor may be defined as one who listens,
this auditor is one who has spoken, Seven times I have won our
ocal public speaking contest; three times it has been my good
ortune to participate in our national debate semi-finals. Perhaps
he most interesting assignment in connection with the A.I.B. was
icading up the national debate program for a year. My present
osition with the Institute calls for promoting new chapters and
-udy groups among the bankers in Eastern Massachusetts.
ressure of work prevented me from enlarging that to include
ll of New England. There have been many speaking assign-
ents connected with my A.LB. hobby and most of this has
volved travel.

My great-grandfather went around the world on his own
‘fore he was sixteen. I can’t match that but my ALB. activities

ve permitted me to travel many thousands of miles around the

[ 385 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

country, some of which has been done with my wife. In addi-
tion to seeing much of this great country of ours, these trips have
helped make possible meeting many members of the Elsbree clan
and indulging in another hobby of family history.

The pressure of other activities has prevented me from devoting
the time I should like to spend on the Elsbree family history, but
it has not stopped us from going counter to another definition
of an auditor, namely that “they seldom reproduce,” and adding
a branch of the family ourselves to whom we are very devoted,
from the eldest fair-haired to the youngest fair-haired child. All
are good travelers and campers and we have had a lot of fun
camping out in the Great Smokies, at Grand Canyon, or even in
the nearby Berkshires. When the time comes, we'll let the
children write their own autobiographies.

My high school class will left military hair-brushes to me, “that
militant crusader.” Laying aside the question of whether I need
hair-brushes at all, I no longer run in the B.A.A. Marathon (ran
and finished six times); I even wear a light raincoat in the middle
of winter; I’ve stopped denouncing wartime lend-lease to Russia
(though just think how different our world would be if we had
let the Reich and the Soviet knock each other out). In church-'
manship I have shifted from my bringing up on the far right to a
central position, one which can be justified without ignoring the
teachings of the Episcopal Church on the one hand and without
straining and shrewd wishful thinking on the other. This change
in concept has stood me in good stead in giving direction to a
parish that has been struggling for years without a rector. In
politics, I classify myself as an Independent and the Election
Commission will bear me out. I seldom write letters to the paper
any more. And we even have television.

Please don’t conclude from this that I have lost interest in life.
Five growing children will prevent that. My threats to return
to the Marathon persuaded my wife that the time devoted to
preparing debates has been well spent. I am looking forward to
being in on the coming great changes in bank operations. I hope
to see a new Boston. And, God willing, there will be no rocking
chair for me twenty years hence, We're aiming to buy a trailer,
really see this continent in detail and complete the Elsbree family
history by the time we have a few great-grandchildren,

[ 386 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BYRON ELTING

HOME ADDRESS: 1255 N. State St., Chicago 10, IIL.

porN: Aug. 16, 1911, Chicago, Ill, parents: Philip LeFevre Elting, Jessie
McNulty.

PREPARED AT: Westminster School, Simsbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928~1932.

occupaTIon: Manufacturing.

ALMONT STUART ELWELL

OFFICE ADDRESS: 300 E'ssex St., Salem, Mass. »

BORN: April 5, 1909, Medford, Mass. PARENTS: John Edward Elwell, Alnia
Bird.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933.

MaRRizD: Eleanor L. Wilson, May 13, 1944, Pensacola, Fla. cup: Jane,
July 9, 1945.

occuPATION: Medicine.

WILLIAM PECK ELWELL

HOME ADDRESS: 31 Old Farm Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: H, N, Hartwell & Son, Inc., Park Square Bldg., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 25, 1909, Arlington, Mass. PARENTS: William Davidson Elwell,
Lilian Newell Peck.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Loder, Sept. 8, 1934, Plymouth, Mass. CHILDREN: William
Peck, Jr., Nov. 9, 1935; Susan Halsey, March 24, 1939; Nancy Gaylord,
March 11, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, in charge of Plastics Division, H. N. Hartwell &
Son, Inc.; vice-president and director, New Brunswick Oil Fields, Ltd.

OFFICES 'HELD: ‘Trustee, Belmont Hill School; former president, Belmont Hill
School Alumni Association, New England Wholesale Coal Association;
former Wellesley Town Meeting Member; former Cub Scout Master —
Pack 32, Wellesley.

MEMBER oF: The Country Club, Brookline; Longwood Covered Courts;
Wellesley Club.

MANY a date, the latter half of 1933 and 1934, I had with
Liz, now my wife, in a General Foods truck. During those

[ 387 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932:

LOUIS EMANUEL EMSHEIMER

HOME ADDRESS: 2748 Landon Rd., Shaker Heights 22, Ohio.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Hospital Specialty Co., 1991 E. 66th St., Cleveland 3, Ohio.
BoRN: July 16, 1910, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Louis Emanuel Emsheimer,
Mabelle Hoffman. |
PREPARED AT: Cleveland High School, Cleveland, Ohio..
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B. magna cum laude, 1932.
marrtep: Marcia Maschke, April 1, 1953, Shaker Heights, Ohio. cxrtp: Mab,
May 17, 1949.
occupation: Manufacturing executive, vice-president, treasurer and director,
Hospital Specialty Company. |

OFFICES HELD: Director, Ohio Investment Company, Investors Cooperative
Company: vice-president and trustee, Fairmount Temple; co-trustee,
Louis E. & Marcia M. Emsheimer Charitable Trust; trustee, Jewish Com-
munity Federation, 1951-54; co-chairman, Brandeis University Club of
Cleveland, 1951-52. .

MEMBER OF: Fairmount Temple (Reform Jewish); Harvard Club of Cleve-
land; Commerce Club; Oakwood Country Club; Zeta Beta Tau Fra-
ternity; B’nai B'rith; Citizens League; Print Club of Cleveland; Brandeis
University Club (life member); American Jewish Committee; Shaker
Heights Dads Club.

AS a teenager, I considered my future predetermined. I had an
impassioned interest in the theatre and an inordinate ambition to
be a playwright, until one day, during my freshman year at Har-
vard, I chanced to listen to an economics lecture by the late,
great Professor Taussig. For the next three years my academic
curiosity was concerned almost solely with the study of eco-
nomics. Influenced by the teaching and friendship of such Har-
vard greats as Taussig, Monroe, Ripley, Williams and Harris, I
was determined to graduate with honors in economics and pur-
sue a teaching career. My S.B. magna cum laude in economics
appropriately climaxed four wonderful years. What did college
mean to me? “Great friendships... great fun...a good
education .. . new interests, never to be forgotten, in eco-
nomics, philosophy, music, the arts . . . and, somewhere along
the way, an awareness of social problems and the desire to play
some small part in helping those less fortunate.”

In one of the sample biographies, furnished by our Class Com-
mittee, I read that “LITTLE things change the course of human
events.” BIG things affect our lives too. My academic career
was not to be. The untimely passing of my father and the eco-

[ 390 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

nomic depression made such a course impractical in 1932...
also preventing my entering the banking field—my second
choice. I took the only position that seemed to be available .
a sales job in a small manufacturing business in which my family
had a financial interest. After twenty-five years I continue to
have the same employer . ... albeit the interim has brought it
from the fringe of insolvency to financial stability and industry
leadership and the ensuing years have changed my status from
“office boy” to executive vice-president. If my business success
story has not been exactly Alger-like, perhaps it has been at least
partially due to ability, industry and a Harvard education, and
not entirely the result of family proxies. ,

And now the romantic side. If not indifferent to women, I
was surely not dependent upon them until four years ago. Now
I live with three females who dominate me utterly and com-
pletely . . . an understanding and intelligent wife; a charming
adolescent daughter; and a faithful, titian-haired Irish setter. My
family life is a joy . . . these past four years have been great fun.

Hobbies — none, in the usual sense, like electric trains, stamps,
or “tennis anyone?”. I have many interests which I share with
my wife... travel (in the past few years— South America,
the West Indies, Florida, Canada, California, Hawaii, Mexico and,
of course, New England), golf, bridge, good companions and,
above all, our home and daughter. We both are deeply con-
cerned with religious, educational, community and civic activ-
ities . .. she has done wonderful volunteer work with emo-
tionally disturbed children and is active in PTA and Big Sister
organizations.

For many years I have been a trustee of the Fairmount Tem-
ple, one of the largest Reform Jewish congregations and cur-
rently serve as its vice-president. I have been active in the affairs
of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations . . . one year

serving as local chairman of its fund-raising drive. I have also
been a trustee of the Cleveland Jewish Community Federation
(presently serving on its campaign cabinet and three standing
committees) and have been active in many fund-raising cam-
paigns for national and local universities, hospitals, religious and
other philanthropic institutions (Western Reserve University,
Brandeis University, Mount Sinai Hospital, etc.). I have been

[ 391 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

particularly active in the Cleveland Community Chest and

Citizens League.
In recent years my business interests have included director-

ships in several local corporations (in a few of which I am also

vice-president). To date the pinnacle of my achievement in
business, religious, civic and philanthropic endeavors seems to
be the vice-presidency. When the election results were an-
nounced on television last November, my seven-year-old daugh-
ter asked her mother: “How come Daddy wasn’t elected vice-
president instead of Mr. Nixon?” Through service on the Candi-
date’s Committee of the Citizens League, I have taken an interest
in local politics . . . hoping to help bring good government to
Greater Cleveland. I like IKE ... but once liked F.D.R. .
perhaps in deference to my favorite grandfather whose life-long
Democratic affiliation extended even to the point of naming his
son, Grover Cleveland.

Having just read what I have written above, I realize that I
have not changed much in twenty-five years. As one of my
closest college chums said to me shortly before Commencement:
“You are a decent guy, intelligent, serious-minded, without much
sense of humor about yourself, but with enough imagination and
intellectucal curiosity to keep from being bored and, above all
... an incurable romanticist.”

DAVID ENNIS

HOME ADpREss: 35 High St., Lyons, N.Y.

OFFice ADDRESS: 80 Williams St., Lyons, N.Y.

Boas: March 13, 1910, Lyons, N.Y. parents: Charles Taft Ennis, Helen
Mar Edson.

prepareD aT: Lyons High School, Lyons, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.D 1936.

MarritD: Sclina Margaret Wallace, June 28, 1941, Conifer, N.Y. cuizp:
Helen Mar, July 24, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Edson Ennis, ’g0.

occupation: General practice of medicine; health officer, Consolidated Dis-
trict No. 5823-5824, Town & Village of Lyons, N.Y.; school physician,

Lyons Central School.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, 1950-56, chairman since 1956, Medical Staff, E. J.
Barber Hospital, president, Finger Lakes Torch Club, 1943-54, Wayne

[392]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

County Historical Society, 1955-57; chairman, Lyons Community Chest,
1947; vice-president and director, Canal Society of New York State;
president-elect, Wayne County Medical Society, 1956, honorary fellow,
Rochester (N.Y.) Museum of Arts & Sciences; commander, Medical
Corps, U.S. Naval Reserve (U.S. Naval Reserve Training Center,
Oswego, N.Y.); faculty member, Seminars on American Culture, New
York State Historical Association, Cooperstown, N.Y., 1951, 1956
MEMBER OF: Wayne County Medical Society; American Medical Associa-
tion; American Academy of General Practice, Wayne County Historical
Society; Humanity Lodge No. 406, F. & A.M.; B.P.O.E., American
Legion; Veterans of Foreign Wars; Lyons Club; Inland Waterways
Association (England); Canal Society of New York State; Finger
Lakes Torch Club; Steamer Hose Company No. 2, Lyons Volunteer
Fire Department, Sodus Bay Yacht Club.

AF FTER college I had the good fortune to be admitted to the

Harvard Medical School, for four hard and wonderful years.

After that I spent another four years in various hospitals, trying

to get ready for general practice and ending with a medical
residency at the Rochester (New York) General Hospital. In
1940 I started practice here in Lyons; the next year I was married
to Sally Wallace, a wonderful girl from a wonderful place called
Conifer, between Tupper Lake and Cranberry Lake, right in
the heart of the Adirondack forest.

Then came Pearl Harbor and I was offered a spot as ward
urgeon with the rgth General Hospital, which was affiliated with
he Rochester General Hospital and staffed by people who all
new each other and who got along well together. After a year
r so in Louisiana, where our daughter was born, we set up shop
1 Worcestershire, in the shadow of the Malvern Hills. Right
‘ter the break-through at St. Lo, we waded ashore on the
rench coast and took over the Hospice Municipal in Le Mans,
iring those stirring days before Paris was liberated. At that

Id, foggy Christmastime of 1944, we moved east to Nancy,
here we earned more of our salt and where we stayed until

= were re-deployed after V-E Day. That year in France was
e pay-off, thanks to some time I had spent there between high
1001 and college. I had plenty of reason too to be grateful to
idré Morize and Paul Allard for their efforts in French 6.

rkhardt’s course in Germanic Civilization was also of the great-
value in providing the key to the Teuton’s fatal dualism, and

[ 393 ]

mmemsnmgp i 282 bn gna,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

understanding a bit about the countless German P.O.W.’s that I

had to care for — “in addition to my other duties.”

Anyway, it was back to Lyons after the war; our daughter,

Helen, was almost three years old then. It was then, on Decem-
ber 7, 1945, that we moved into the place where we now live —
one of those big, square, white-painted, green-shuttered, surpris-
ingly practical houses, with a cupola, of the Victorian “Italianate”
period of the 1850's. There the three of us, with our three cats,
have had happy and busy years. General practice in a small
rown has rurned out to be just as interesting and stimulating as
I thought it would be, with problems of great diversity and an
opportunity to get to know patients and their families. Unlike a
specialist who has to know more and more about less and less —
until he finally knows everything about nothing — the family
physician (or “generalist,” as some of them call themselves nowa-
days) tends to learn less and less about more and more, with the
inevitable result that eventually he knows nothing about every-
thing! Anyhow, it’s a pretty satisfying sort of existence and a lot
of fun—and working among the sick doesn’t allow for many
dull moments.

One hobby that the whole family has been able to share is an
active interest in New York State’s fabulous canal system of the
past and the present. We have been “canallers” for a week at a
time on several occasions and we have made the whole trip on
the Erie Canal, from Buffalo to New York, on board several of
the fleets of old wooden barges. The “Canal Room” at 35 High
Street is filled with “Erie Canaliana,” and we have traveled all
over the state giving illustrated talks on each of the three great
canal eras. One of the most agreeable aspects of this interest Is
the number of nice people we meet and correspond with, from
all over. The Erie Canal is just now coming into its own histor-
ically and I have been helping with the formation of the Canal
Society of New York State, and working with a large and fine
group towards the establishment of a Canal Museum.

Several years after the war, after a fantastic amount of paper
work, I changed over from the Army of the U.S., Inactive, to
the U.S. Naval Reserve—the “Ready Reserve,” with weekly
drills in Oswego and a very relaxing training cruise every year.

I suppose we all look back a bit when the moment comes to

[ 394]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

write the Class Life — a moment that always seemed so far in the
future — and try to figure out some relationship between those
years in Cambridge and the years that followed. A lot of small
things seem to stick in my mind, and maybe they are more im-
portant than the big things — who can say? Here are a few of
the images that comes to me as I finish this: President Lowell
standing before us in the Union, during our first week as fresh-
men, and quoting Alexander the Great, and comparing life to a
game of chess (an excellent analogy, I know now, but I didn’t
think so then); later, Lowell’s stooped figure striding across the
Yard with his little dog, as we looked out the window in Thayer
6; a half-year in English A, with Brewer (I think), a born teacher
whose zest for Pope, Byron and Browning was contagious; an
evening in Hollis 15 with Copeland, when he showed us, shyly
but still proudly, the dedication that Walter Edmonds had written
to him in Rome Haul; the dark November afternoons, just before
supper, in the Farnsworth Room; the old and mended kitchen
chairs and initial-carved plank desks in Harvard Hall; and then,
on a bright June morning in Sever Quadrangle, the Sheriff of
Middlesex County, with blue coat and brass buttons, pounding
three times with the scabbard of his sword — and it was over.
But maybe it wasn’t really over, and maybe some of these things,
and many others, stayed with most of us in the years that were to
come, and influenced our lives without our knowing it.

MAURICE EPSTEIN

HOME ApprEss: 80 Oldfield Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 85 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 3, 1911, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Louis Epstein, Sarah Sherman.

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES; A.B, cu? laude, 1932; LL.B. cum laude,
1935- .

Marrigp: Pauline J. Wiseman, Oct. 30, 1938, Baltimore, Md. CHILDREN:
Robert Simon, May 23, 1941; Barbara Judy, Aug. 14, 1944; Eleanor Sue,
April 1, 1948; David Richard, June 26, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Leo Epstein, 37.

Occupation: Lawyer, specializing in labor law and labor relations.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association.

[395 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

MY first three years after graduation were spent at law school
as a student, after which I stayed on for nearly a year longer as
research assistant to Professor Williston in the revision of his
classic contracts treatise, a job which afforded me the rewarding
and memorable experience of daily discussion with a great stu-
dent and teacher of the law. As the treatise approached com-
pletion [ followed the well-trod path from the Law School to
Washineton where classmates of college and law school days
were a familiar sight. I worked first in the Legal Division of the
Resettlement Administration which with its successor, the Farm
Security Division, administered a comprehensive rural aid pro-
gram of loans and grants, rural and suburban housing, aid to
industrialization of rural areas, and pioneered a program of pre-
paid medical care through community medical cooperatives.
Later I was a member of the Legal Division of the Railroad Re-
urement Board, engaged in the administration of a retirement
and disability insurance program for railroad workers. In 1942
that agency made ready to move to Chicago to help provide
space in Washington for the growing defense agencies, and rather
than make that move I transferred to the Labor Department, at
first in Washington and later back home in Boston.

My professional career since then, both in and out of the gov-
ernment, has been in the field of labor law and labor relations.
I spent the war years as a Labor Department attorney in work
which was officially classified as essential since it brought me
into constant contact with the labor relations problem of labor
and management in war industries. Since 1945 I have practised
law in that specialized field in this part of the country, repre-
senting management. My work in the law has done more than
provide me a livelihood. It has throughout the years, both in my
government service and in my private practice, provided me the
opportunity to help further the welfare of large groups of people
and to help in adjusting relations and developing mutual under-
standing between numerous employers and their respective em-
ployces—a happy and interesting mixture of law, economics,
and sociology.

Five years ago, having attained the age at which life begins,
I concluded that the time had come to indulge my lifetime yearn-
ing te travel. So the lithe woman and I (she, of course, was still

[ 396 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

far below that age) enjoyed a six-week trip to Europe. Although
we planned then to make it an annual event, we have taken
shorter trips since then (Cuba, Florida, Bermuda) and we hope
to see Europe again this summer on the occasion of the Ameri-
can Bar Association Convention in London. In this year of 1957
I find myself with a wonderful family, a good practice, fine
friends (many of them classmates), business interests that help,

ood health, and eagerness and optimism for the years ahead
which certainly look brighter than ever before in our time for
us and for our children.

- JOSIAH MACY ERICKSON
SEE Appendix.

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN ERLANGER

HOME ADDRESS: Birch Road, Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Everfast Fabrics, Inc., 70 W. goth St., New York, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 5, 1911, New York, N.Y. PARENTS: Sydney B. Erlanger, Mildred
- Dettelbach.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

MARRIED: Elisabeth Nixon-Booker, Oct. 10, 1946, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Andrew Sydney, April 8, 1950; Philip Benjamin, June 3, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Martin Sydney Erlanger, °38.

occupation: Director and corporate secretary, in charge of foreign division,
Everfast Fabrics, Inc., cotton textile converting.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1954-55, trustee, 1955-57, Briarcliff Nursery School;
treasurer, Briarcliff Community Committee (welfare), 1954-56; treas-
urer, 1955-56, vice-president, 1956-57, Briarcliff Civic Association; mem-
ber, 1955-57, chairman, 1957, Briarcliff Citizens Committee for the
Public Schools.

MEMBER or: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of Westchester.

IN July, 1932, I became the fourth generation of our family to
enter the textile business. Through the years that followed I lived
and worked in my native New York, but business travels to our

[ 397]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932.

West and Southwest stand out in my memory of my first intro-
duction to the immense scope and scale of our nation, and the
warmth and charm of its peoples. I found much joy in the con-
tinued study of music as a hobby —a carry-over of the indelible
Harvard Glee Club experience. As world tensions increased my
own, this diversion proved an invariable solace and temporary
“escape.”

In the summer of 1940, just after the fall of France, I applied
for and was admitted to a special CMTC course for business and
professional men at Plattsburg Barracks, New York. This was
the first civilian group of its kind to receive military training.
This was followed by service in the New York Guard which
met and trained evenings. Finally, in June, 1942, I left New York
and textiles for the duration with a commission in the rapidly
expanding Army Air Force. I was assigned to Norfolk for train-
ing in the operational use of radar in air defense. In 1943 I began
two years of service in England and on the Continent as a fighter
controller with the Eighth Air Force, ultimately with one of the
first units to employ the wonders of microwave ground radar
to direct fighter groups in the execution of their missions. The
end of the war brought about an early return to civilian life and
textiles once again. An added facet of this became the organiza-
tion and development of a foreign division for the distribution
overseas of our novelty cottons for women’s apparel and for
home furnishings. Since its inception I have visited much of

Latin America and western Europe to further its growth. The
resulting friendships with people from many parts of the globe
have been a cherished aspect of this business experience to me.

While in wartime England I had met Elisabeth Nixon-Booker,
then serving in the British W.A.A.F. She came to the United
States in August, 1946, and we were married in New York that
October. Andy’s arrival in 1950 proved the spark to move us to
suburban New York, where like many others we believed we
could live and raise our family in the ways we all wanted. We
think we were lucky enough to have selected one of the most
delightful villages of its kind anywhere. Participation in its
varied activities has proved a satisfying experience and made for
us and our boys a host of warm friendships. ‘These include a
liberal sprinkling of Harvardians for added spice! Here, in a

[ 398 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

yet unspoiled countryside, we look forward to seeing our young-
sters grow and flourish with sound values for work, for thought,

and for play.

BAY EDWARD ESTES, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 812 Elm Spring Rd., Pittsburgh 16, Pa.

orFice appress: U.S. Steel Corp., 525 William Penn PIL, Pittsburgh 30, Pa.

BoRN: July 11, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Bay E. Estes, ’07, Mellie G.
Timberlake.

PREPARED AT: Deering High School, Portland, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932; M.B.A.
magna cum laude, 1934.

MARRIED: Ruth E. Stubbs, April 25, 1936, New York, N.Y. cuitpren: Bay
Edward, 3d, May 11, 1937; Barbara Ellen, April 2, 1941; Karen Jean, July
21, 1942; David Alan, Nov. 22, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Fremont Estes, ’34, M.B.A. °39.

occupation: Director of commercial research, U.S. Steel Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Business School Club of Pittsburgh, 1942-
43; president, Pittsburgh Chapter, 1955-56, director, 1956-57, American
Marketing Association; chairman, Committee on Commercial Research,
American Iron & Steel Institute, 1948-57; member, Harvard Business
School Alumni Council, 1951-54; vestryman, 1954-57, junior warden,
1956-57, St. Paul’s Episcopal Church, Mt. Lebanon, Pa.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Business School Club of Pittsburgh; Duquesne Club,
American Iron & Steel Institute.

PUBLICATIONS: Chapter on Steel in Channels of Distribution, edited by
Richard M. Cluett; numerous articles and speeches.

FOLLOWING graduation from the Harvard Business School,
I was fortunate enough to be offered a job there as assistant dean
and research assistant in finance. The “assistant deaning” con-
sisted largely of interviewing candidates for admission and prod-
ding first-year students who were having scholastic difficulties.
As research assistant I wrote cases for anew Case Book in Finance,
which was published in the fall of 1935. While I enjoyed my
year of academic life and gained much from it, nevertheless I
was impatient to get out into the business world.

So, in the summer of 1935, I joined Goldman, Sachs & Com-
pany, a New York investment banking firm. During the four
years I spent there I worked mainly on financing plans and
security underwritings. Much of my time was spent on S.E.C.

[ 399 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

registration statements and prospectuses. After four years of

rather meagre financial progress, I decided that my prospects in

the field of finance were exceedingly slim. Furthermore, by this
time I had acquired a wife and son, and I felt the need to seek
faster progress, even if it meant leaving my chosen field of finance.

In June, 1939, I Jearned through a friend that U.S. Steel was

setting up a market research department and looking for men. I
applied for a job with the group and promptly was transplanted
to Pittsburgh. I found both the city and the job to my liking.

I fought the war in Washington, not in uniform, as a member of
numerous task groups charged with determining military steel
requirements in sufficient detail so the government and the steel
industry could decide what sort of steel producing facilities
should be built. Soon after the war, I became assistant director of
commercial research at U.S. Steel and, in 1948, director, a posi-
tion I still hold. In this job, in addition to running an organization
numbering sixty employees, I do considerable public speaking,
mainly before business groups, and serve on various trade associa-
tion committees.

Our elder boy is a sophomore at Cornell, studying electrical
engineering, Harvard did not offer the type of training he de-
sired. Furthermore, the Admissions Office would probably not
have accepted him, although he is a good student, especially in
math and science. Our elder daughter, Barbara, now fifteen, is
the athlete of the family. She has become an excellent competitive
swimmer, specializing in the butterfly stroke, and has a sizeable
collections of medals and trophies won in various eastern meets.
Our next daughter, Karen, is our first really outstanding student
as a high school freshman and should be good material for some
first rate college. Perhaps, David, age four, will prove to be the
Harvard miler, but it is a bit early to make such a prediction.

Over the years, I have served St. Paul’s Episcopal Church at
every post from church school teacher and vestryman to junior
warden. Also, I seem somehow to become involved in every com-
munity organization and project which comes along.

At home I am a do-it-yourselfer of the first water and can do
anything indoors and out, including paper hanging. When we
had our present home built three years ago the contract omitted,
for financial reasons, all interior decoration and outside land-

[ 400 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

scaping. So, I am now completing my third year of a five-year

lan which is about on schedule, but not a day ahead. This is my
chief hobby. However, I should, perhaps, add officiating at
swimming meets as timer or judge, and three weeks a year of
fishing in Maine.

CHARLES McKINSTRY EVANS

HOME appREss: Lowell Road, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Charles M. Evans & Associates, 73 Tremont St., Boston 8,
Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 23, 1909, Somerville, Mass. PARENTS: Charles McKinstry Evans,
Josephine May Lundberg.

PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1032. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Barbara Bradford Smith, March 1, 1941, West Newton, Mass.
CHILDREN: Robert Bradford, Feb. 1, 1942; Sarah Halstead, Dec. 22, 1946
(died June 15, 1950); Christopher Ward, Jan. 21, 1949.

occupation: Management engineer, Charles M. Evans & Associates.

OFFICES HELD: Alumni trustee, Harvard Delta Upsilon Chapter, 1934-36, treas-
urer, Boston D.U. Club, 1936; village chairman, Newton Community
Fund, 1949; co-chairman, Finance Committee, Second Church in New-
ton, 1949; member executive board, Newton Parent-Teachers Associa-
tion, 1947-49; chairman, Carlisle School Building Committee, 1954;
member, Carlisle Planning Board, since 1955, Concord-Carlisle Re-
gional School District Planning Board, 1956-57; member, Advisory
Council, Institute of Urban and Regional Planning, Northeastern Uni-
versity, since 1955.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Concord; Governmental Research Association,
Society for Public Administration.

PuBLicaTions: “Self-Financing-—~ Pros and Cons,” Governmental Research
Association Reporter, 1955; “Forms Standardization,” Boston City Rec-
ord, 1956; “Municipal Personnel Administration in Massachusetts,” 1956.

PREWAR and postwar decades with the intervening five years
— give or take a few months — in the Navy, have gone into two
Separate fields of endeavor. The thirties were tough and thirty-
two did not offer a wide choice of jobs to the new Harvard
graduate. I hung onto the summer job that fortunately saw me
through the undergraduate years and after a not unreasonable
amount of doorbell ringing in the fall came up with two offers.
Pumping gas offered twice the take-home pay of the brokerage

[ gor ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

house bond school, but my wise father persuaded me that even
at the bottom of the depression a young man should think beyond
the paycheck. Brokerage house to investment counseling was
not a difficult step in those days and the financial reward was
about the same. Long hours and four years of night classes at
Boston University Graduate School, however, did bring in the
forties with prospects a little brighter than the gas station job.
Pearl Harbor struck and I soon found myself at the Naval Train-
ing School at Dartmouth. Somehow a j.g.’s pay would have to
support a wife and a six-month-old son. Navy duty wasn’t bad
but my job had to be finished according to BuPers, so the “mili-
tary necessity” clause was invoked and V-J Day had passed
nearly a year into history before I hit the separation center.
Clients gone and a rebuilding job to be done. What about the
experience gained in the Navy at the various Bu Ships installations
where the IBM machines had selected assignments for me? Could
the techniques learned in production planning and scheduling,
manufacturing controls, materials handling and job evaluation in
the tremendous shipbuilding program of World War II be capi-
talized? The postwar maturity of industrial engineering as a
professional service to management appeared attractive. I took
a job representing a Chicago firm in Boston. The industrial ex-
pansion along Route 128 helped — billings increased, the staff
was augmented, and the home office appeared to be pleased with
its New England branch activities. From problems of industry
to problems of government seemed a natural step. State and
local taxes on the ascendancy offered a potent argument for the
application of management technique to the machinery of gov-
ernment within the confines of political realism. The trend was
accelerated by the work of the Hoover Commission. Soon the
office was working for all six New England state governments
and for more than a score of the major cities in the area. A
corporate merger with new management and interests centered
outside New England. Assignments to projects too distant to
get home more often than every other weekend. Offer of a
promotion requiring transfer to Chicago. Indications pointed to
the erosion of the New England business that I had seen grow
from a pup. The solution seemed apparent. I hung out my own
shingle, The decision appears to have been the correct one.

[ 402 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The family had, of course, increased in the meantime alon

with the overhead. One tragic blow in the death of a blonde,
blue-eyed daughter, and we joined the general population exodus
to the twenty-five mile circumference. We live in the little town
of Carlisle just over the Concord line, thus explaining the Con-
cord mailing address. We have all of the problems of the post-
war population movement to the outlying suburbs. Land use,
zoning, school expansion, and capital budgets are problems that
require many evenings and more than a few weekends. Fifteen
acres, however, offer many advantages to two growing boys.
An eight-year-old youngster learns a lot by taking on the re-
sponsibility for the feeding and care of a pony. Northeast Air-
lines can get one home in a couple of hours from almost any-
place in New England, so we are able to compromise the conflict
of interests that plagues the chap whose job requires a lot of
travel at the same time that his children are in school and his
ever-loving is consequently tied to the hearthstone. We try to
get to New York on occasion so that our thinking will not be-
come too provincial. In general, however, we enjoy country
living while still located in the greater Boston area.

GEORGE BAILEY EVANS

HOME ADpREsS: Five Coves Farm, Pembroke, Maine.

BoRN: Aug. 6, 1907, Cambridge, Mass. parents: William H. Evans, Mabel
Bailey.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1928-1932. DEGREE: 5.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Mason Josselyn, June 5, 1936, Waltham, Mass.

THOMAS JOSEPH EWING

JOME appress: 114 Haldane St., Pittsburgh 5, Pa.

FFICE ADDRESS: University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.

ORN: Jan. 14, 1909, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Samuel Edward Ewing, Sarah
Claire Cummings.

REPARED aT: Allegheny High School, Pittsburgh, Pa.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932.

tARRIED: Elizabeth Roberta Reynolds, 1935, Pittsburgh, Pa. (divorced 1949);

[ 403 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Edith Cames Ewing, Oct. 5, 1951, Clearficld, Pa. crttoren: Elaine,
Aug. 29. 1936 (nt. Edward Leitsch, Feb. 2, 1957); Patricia, Nov. 16,
1939; Barbara, Aug. 19, 1941; Thomas Joseph, Jr. Nov. 19, 1944; John
Patrick Ewing, Aug. 20, 190 (stepson); Martha Clare Ewing, Jan. 17,
193: (stepdaughter).

occupation: Registered engineer, Dept. of Buildings and Grounds, Univer-
sitv of Pittsburgh; assistant building superintendent, Schools of Health
Professions and Graduate School of Public Health.

OFFICES HELD: President, Crafton High School, P.T.A., 1952; steward, Crafton
Methodist Church, 1954-57.

MEMBER OF: Kiwanis Club, Chartiers Valley; Crafton Methodist Men’s Club
and Supper Club; Harvard Club of Western Pennsylvania.

FUTURE biographers, beware ye the perils of procrastination!
This brief history is not written in leisurely fashion months prior
to the deadline, but instead is being dashed off in physical and
mental pain minutes ahead of final proofreading. My head is held
rigidly erect in a tight fitting “horse collar” to relieve the pain
of cervical arthritis, while my nose drips and temples throb in
the initial stages of an uncommon cold. “Aha,” you editors say,
“serves him right for keeping us all waiting on tenterhooks.”
Memories of those early days after leaving school begin with
my disappointment in not being able to return for senior year
due to a lack of funds. Then began the struggle for steady em-
ployment which lasted from the depression through the 1937
recession. During this period I acquired experience selling sew-
ing machines, investment securities, cemetery lots, dry cleaning,
life insurance, industrial bearings and leather belting. In 1935
an appointment as project supervisor for Allegheny County
Public Works Department provided the means for my marriage
to Elizabeth Reynolds and the beginning of twelve years of
happy struggling to raise our family of three girls — Elaine,
Patricia, Barbara—and a boy—Tommy, Jr. For eleven of
these twelve years I was employed by the Equitable Gas Com-
pany, starting as junior salesman and finally reaching the status
of registered engineer handling the design and specifications for
all types of heating systems using natural gas as fuel. I also
served as consultant to architects and builders and instructor to
new salesmen and heating tradesmen on the utilization of gas
fucl. Wartime activity included distribution piping and regu-
lator station mapping for air raid protection of high pressure gas

[ 404 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
| lines in the Tri-state area. As a part-time activity I was em-
ployed by the University of Pittsburgh to prepare plans, specifi-
cations, and cost estimates for various proposd ventilation, heat-
ing and air-conditioning installations. These studies served as a
guide to University management in setting up budgets prior to
letting bids on proposed improvements, and incidentally were a
ossible factor in my selection, eleven years later, as engineer
in the Buildings and Grounds Department of Pitt under my
former supervisor, Superintendent R. L. Coss.

The Dark Ages of my life occurred in 1947 when my marriage
exploded into separation, and divorce in 1949. Now I seldom
think of the desperate extremes of action contemplated then, but
I will never forget the generous help of friends and relatives
during my frantic efforts to provide adequately for my four chil-
dren during three years of constant change in employment and
residence. Happily, the Renaissance in my life began in the

summer of 1951 when I met Edith, my widowed sister-in-law.
We were married October 5, 1951, in the Clearfield Lutheran
Church. The wedding march was paced by my niece and new
stepdaughter, Martha, aged ten. My nephew and new stepson,
John Patrick, and my Elaine, Patricia, Barbara, and Tommy
were all smiling at “eyes left” as I led Edith past our friends up
the aisle on that wonderful day. Since then we have prospered
greatly as a family, if not financially. Today Edith relegates me
to my corner chair while she manages the many involved details
of Elaine’s coming wedding on February 2d. Patricia, sensitive
and pretty at seventeen and a half, is enrolled in nursing at Indiana
State Hospital; John Patrick at sixteen is 5’9”, 175 pounds, and
a red-headed star in baseball, basketball and football with many
trophies as proof; Barbara, sixteen, willowy and carefree, is
interested in secretarial work; Marty, fifteen, is a high honor
sophomore — although confined to bed for the past year with
rheumatic fever, she somehow masters geometry, French, his-
ory, and English by means of a Bell Telephone intercom be-
‘ween her bedroom and Crafton High School, meanwhile main-
‘aining a pleasant and witty personality—-Tommy at twelve,
vadgered into errand-running by his elders, brother and sisters,
tas successfully resisted all efforts to make him conform to stan-
lards of punctuality, scholastics, or memory — especially mem-

[ 405 ]

cam i GEE AUR ems ch besirreag

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

ory connected with set household chores or his paper route
collections. I'm humbly proud of my wife and children and
each dinner together is to me a Thanksgiving dinner, with bril-
liant repartee or just original silliness insuring perfect digestion
and possibly diet problems for one with a thirty-seven-inch waist-
line. We are all active in church work and feel that Sunday
arrives just in time to refresh us for the activities of the coming
week.
_ Ov er the past ten years I have been engaged in sales engineer-
g, product development, and wholesale distribution of heating
and ventilating items such as: industrial insulation, boilers, fur-
naces, fans, steam specialties, unit ventilators, radiation, air-
conditioning equipment and large gas and oil conversion burners.
My territory covered most counties in the Tri-state area, and
required an average of 32,000 miles of traveling yearly. On May
28, 1956, I accepted a position as engineer in the Buildings and
Grounds Department of the University of Pittsburgh. In Janu-
ary of this year I received a promotion as assistant building
superintendent, Schools of the Health Professions and Graduate
School of Public Health of the University of Pittsburgh. I’m
happiest when I can be of service to others, and here at Pitt I
have become dedicated to the accelerating growth of this great
institution and in particular to the new medical center. If present
plans for attending our Twenty-fifth Harvard Reunion material-
ize, I'll be happy to supply further details.

CHARLES EUGENE FABENS

HOME appress: Northfield, Mass,

Born: Aug. 11, 1908, Danvers, Mass. parents: Eugene Jerome Fabens, Kath-
erine Williams.

prePARED AT; Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

[ 406 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN FRANCIS FAIR, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 95 Prescott St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

BORN: June 24, 1909, Cambridge, Mass. parents: John Francis Fair, Harvard
Medical School, Margaret Ready.

PREPARED AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.; Manter Hall School, Cam-
bridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

occuPATION: Manufacturing. | -

ALEXANDER GRAHAM BELL FAIRCHILD

HOME AppREsS: Apartado 1252, Panama, Republic of Panama.
OFFICE appress: Gorgas Memorial Laboratory, Apartado 1252, Panama, Re-
_ public of Panama. . :

BoRN: Aug. 17, 1906, Washington, D.C, parents: David Fairchild, Marian
Hubbard Bell. .

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: 8.B. magna cum laude, 1932; AM.
1934; PH.D., 1942.

MARRIED: Elva Russel Whitman, June 18, 1938, Milton, Mass. cHILDREN:
Alice Bell, July 25, 1940; David, 2d, June 30, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Medical entomologist.

MEMBER OF: Cambridge Entomological Club; Florida Entomological Society;
Brooklyn Entomological Society; Entomological Society of Washington;
Entomological Society of America (fellow), Sociedade Brasileira de
Entomologia; American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene;
American Association for the Advancement of Science; Society of
Systematic Zoology.

PuBLicaTions: About fifty papers on entomological subjects in professional
journals.

THE necessity forced upon us, by having to write it down, of
taking a good look at what we have done with a large third of our
lives is no doubt a salutary experience. I am afraid that many
will encounter, as I have done, the ghosts of deeds undone, of
sorry might-have-beens. But, ignoring the ghosts, I believe I’ve
had more fun and luck than most. I’m an entomologist, and like
many of the brotherhood got started early chasing butterflies.
By the time I got to Cambridge, I was used to being thought
crazy, and Harvard only confirmed me in my opinion that there
are undoubted advantages in this position.

[ 407 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

I knew more than they did was most refreshing. One of the attrac-
tions, and dangers, of the teaching profession must be the feeling
that you are God, or at least a prominent prophet.

We are often asked what living in Panama is really like. Well,
the drawbacks are there, but the advantages are many. It’s about
as expensive as in the States, but the expenses are different. The
climate is warm and wet, never very hot and never cold, rather
monotonous, though we usually sleep under light blankets. It’s
healthy, now that malaria is well controlled. The people, both
Panamanians and Americans, are interesting: the former because
they're Panamanians, the latter because it takes someone different
to elect to live here in the first place. It is the crossroads of the
world, and we are less isolated than in many places in the States.
For a naturalist, it’s paradise, with jungles, mountains and sea-
shore almost at your doorstep, and no winter. Roads are fair
and getting better; the fishing is good and liquor cheap. We get

restless from time to time, of course, but a trip to the States
usually settles that. Elva can paint outdoors all the year round.

Alice Bell is with us here attending Balboa High School and
young David is in his second year at Phillips Exeter. He comes
home for Christmas and is a great companion on jungle forays.
Elva has established herself as a portrait painter here and has done
some good ones. And my hobby is orchids!

JARVIS FARLEY

HOME appress: 58 Garden Rd., Wellesley Hills 82, Mass.

OFFICE Appress: Massachusetts Indemnity & Life Insurance Co., 654 Beacon
St, Boston 15, Mass.

Bors: July 5, 1910, Waltham, Mass. parents: William Frederick Farley,
Helen Jarvis.

PREPARED AT: Waltham High School, Waltham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932.

Margiep; Elizabeth A. Grabill, Jan. 29, 1938, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Pamella, Nov. 17, 1939; Patricia, July 29, 1941; Penelope, Nov. 24, 1943;
Portia, July 28, 1945.

ocupaTion: Secretary, treasurer and actuary, Massachusetts Indemnity &
Life Insurance Company, life and disability insurance.

MrMurR op: Phi Beta Kappa; Casualty Actuarial Society; Wellesley Country
Club, First Congregational Church, Wellesley Hills, Mass.

[410]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PUBLICATIONS: Professional papers in Proceedings of the Casualty Actuarial
Society.

THIS Twenty-fifth Reunion seems more like a threshold than a
milestone, in that it comes at a time when my family’s attention
is focused forward rather than backward. Our family of four
girls — three teen-agers and one almost — has grown to the stage
where their interests are outward and ahead, and where Betty has
more freedom to engage in community interests — she is currently

a member of the Wellesley School Committee, for example —

and to go with me on an occasional business trip. We have taken

a few short trips with the whole family, and we begin to sense

the different kind of life that will come with a grown-up family.

In business, after twenty-five years of interesting work helping

to expand the concept of non-cancellable disability insurance, I
have had the equally interesting experience of helping my com-
pany to broaden its activities into the field of life insurance. The
tooling-process was hard work but fun, and I look forward to the
next years of working with both kinds of insurance, which comple-
ment each other in the job of protecting the family against loss of
earned income.

Looking backward, I was one of the fortunate few —was it
8% — who had a job waiting after Commencement. The twenty-
dollar weekly stipend looked good then, but for a while neither
the pay nor the responsibilities seemed to grow very fast. At the
time of our Fifth Reunion, I had scarcely met Betty — which was
probably just as well, because only then was I able to support a
wife. We were married within eight months, and since then both
family and job responsibilities have developed considerably. I
count myself a busy and relatively contented man, and I am grate-
ful therefor.

Looking ahead, I suspect that one of the greatest single in-
fluences of our lives will be the developing tension between the
concept of individual integrity and responsibility and the concept
of governmental responsibility for the “welfare” of individuals.
Both, in proper balance, are essential ingredients of democracy
and freedom, but the former can too easily be overlooked and ts
eroded by hyper-concern with the latter. As a conservative, I
wonder if we have gone so far in overdeveloping the state-respon-
sibility concept that the individual-responsibility concept will be

[411 ]

ma aie CE ECAR nal ———

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

overborne and our democratic freedoms impaired and ultimately
lost. Our generation has mov ed far in that direction. I am opti-
mistic enough to hope for — though not, at least as yet, to pre-
dict —a redressing of the balance, so that we can hold our
Fiftieth in a society which will still be free.

JOHN SMITH FARLOW, JR.

HOME AppRESS: 769 South St., Needham, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., 200 Berkeley
Sc, Boston, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 13, 1910, Weston, Mass. PARENTS: John Smith Farlow, ’o2, ‘Edith
Katherine Morse.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.B.A., 1934(35).

MarRieD: Catherine Hill Tappan, Nov. 29, 1934, Needham, Mass. CHILDREN:
John Smith, 3d, Sept. 12, 1935; Anne Burr, March 25, 1938; Catherine
Hill, Aug. 4, 1941.

HARVARD SON: John Smith Farlow, 3d, 57.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Waters Farlow, °35 (36); M.L.A., 739.

OCCUPATION: Insurance.

AFTER struggling through the Business School, 1 went to work
for the Travelers Insurance Company at the Boston branch office.
This job lasted until November, 1943, when the Army took me on
for the next two years. Since early in 1946 I have worked in the
home office of the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company.

On the family side of the picture my good wife keeps the house-
hold organized and functioning — quite a job with five of us each
going his separate way. My son is in the Class of 1957 at Harvard
(combining a graduation and a Twenty-fifth Reunion for us);
my elder daughter is in the Class of 1959 at Bryn Mawr, and my
younger daughter will graduate from Beaver Country Day
School at Brookline, Massachusetts, in 1959.

Needham has been my home since the early fall of 1937. Prior
to that there were two pleasant years at Marblehead, Massachu-
setts, which succeeded less than a year in Boston, immediately
following my marriage.

My spare time activities have been reading, working around the
house, contending with hurricanes which seem able to blow down

[412]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

trees faster than I can cut them up, and enjoying annual vacations
most of the postwar years on Ironbound Island, off Bar Harbor,
in Frenchman’s Bay, Maine.

RALPH A. FARNHAM

HOME ADDRESS: 135 Neshobe Rd., Waban 68, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Brookline Trust Co., 1341 Beacon St., Brookline, Mass.
BorN: May 7, 1909, Brookline, Mass. parents: Frank Alexander Farnham,

Annie Henshaw.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.
mMarriED: Elizabeth Hammond, Dec. 23, 1932, Wellesley, Mass. cHILpREN:

Frederic, 1933; Henry Clark, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Brookline Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Brookline Branch, American Red Cross, 1943-56;
Brookline treasurer, American Cancer Society, 1946-55; president, Nor-
folk-Middlesex Clearing House Association, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Kiwanis Club of Brookline, Waban Neighborhood Club; An-

gelica Yacht Club.

TIME always flies but that I have spent twenty-seven years
working at the same stand is hard to realize, probably because
there seem to have been no dull moments. I went into the bank-
ing business only because of the kind offer of a friend but have
found it truly absorbing, particularly in a smaller bank where it
is necessary to have some knowledge of nearly every phase of
the business and of administration in general. Three years ago,
a return to school in the form of sessions at the Graduate School
of Banking at Rutgers proved somewhat arduous but stimulating,
the course being completed last June.

During a number of years of residence in Dover, I had the
privilege of being a member in what I boast was probably the
best Company of the Massachusetts State Guard during the war.
I also entered into town affairs in a small way while there, but
since living in Newton I have felt content to “let George do it.”
Since marriage to a very nice girl who has put up with me for
nearly twenty-five years, my principal hobby has been odd jobs
about the house. In the past few years these jobs have included
a cottage at Point Connett, Mattapoisett, particularly after the
1954 hurricane —ugh! Time out is taken though to enjoy the

[ 413 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

pleasures of boating. I have needed to learn something of this sub-
ject also so as not to appear too dumb to son, Fred, who usually
eats and sleeps sailboats, from designing models to building them,
and the real thing too. As for him, he did take out time to go
to Middlebury College where he graduated last June, and he is
presently serving with Uncle Sam’s Army. Dick Page, Class of
"32 and I once long ago took down a Model T Ford and got most
of it back together. Now I must do some refreshing as our
fifteen-year-old Hank, recently realized a dream by acquiring
a beat-up Model A which needs much fixing. He is an auto-
mobile nut, but I expect to be called upon with some of his
projects. It looks as though life would continue to be full, but
I would not wish for anything else.

NELSON PARKER FARQUHAR

HOME ADpRESS: 34 Bishop Rd., West Hartford 7, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kingswood School, West Hartford 7, Conn.

BORN: June 20, 1911, Billerica, Mass. parents: Frederick George Farquhar,
Frances Adeline Parker.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; A.M. (Trinity
Coll.), 1953.

MargieD: Helen Stuart, Sept. 8, 1934, Newton Center, Mass. CHILDREN:
Helen, May 12, 1938; Frederick Stuart, April 14, 1941.

occupation: Chairman, English Department; administrative assistant, Kings-
wood School.

orFices HELD: Member board of directors, 1948-56, vice-chairman, 1951-52,
chairman, 1953, Hartley-Salmon Child Guidance Clinic.

MEMBER OF: School and College Conference on English; Kingswood dele-
gate to New England Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools;
Harvard Club of Connecticut.

EVEN before I entered Harvard, I intended to be a schoolmaster
and teach English in a boys’ secondary school; still I didn’t get
around to it without first making an attempt to get into the
publishing business or without a large measure of luck. The
chance to make a start came unexpectedly in the fall of ’32 when,
along with many classmates, I was riding out the depression in
graduate school at Harvard, Overnight I became a man with a

salary, $300.00 a year, by gosh, very soon raised to $600.00 when

[414]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the school decided I was affluent enough to absorb some of the
shrinkage in its income. Thus encouraged, I bought a Buick
roadster, Class of 1930, and got engaged to Helen Stuart who, as a
teacher in the same school, must have known what she was
letting herself in for. We were married during a wild northeaster
in September, 1934, the day the Morro Castle burned —but we
still regard it as an auspicious time... __

In the fall of 1937, after a two-year appointment at another
school in Rochester, New York, we came to Kingswood School
in West Hartford, our first choice of school and community for
permanent settling down. With our twentieth anniversary at
_ Kingswood coinciding with the Twenty-fifth of the Class, we are
experiencing the appearance of the sons of my former students,
and I am hearing myself referred to as one of the “older men on
the faculty”; nevertheless, I can’t say I’ve begun to look or feel
like Mr. Chips. It only astonishes me that men ten or fifteen years
younger age so much faster than we do.

In broad outlines, a schoolmaster’s life has been not very differ-
ent from what I visualized back in 1928, though I hardly antici-
pated my three years in the aircraft industry during the war. I
have taught, in addition to English, other subjects — languages
and history; I have coached three different sports and miss coach-
ing now that I have stopped; I have supervised publications and a
student government and carried on a great many different ad-
ministrative jobs. During the academic year, these pleasantly
varied duties take up nearly all my time, and the rest is spent in
family activities and in reading. Summers find all four of us in
Belgrade, Maine, After two summers spent completing the work
for my Master’s degree at Trinity, I renewed my association with
Pine Island Camp in 1955, on a non-resident, part-time basis
which gives me enough work to keep my self-respect and plenty
of time for golf with my son, reading, and family projects, This
kind of summer is economical and good for body and soul: it has
played a major part in restoring the health of the two children,
whose severe illnesses marred our years from 1953 to 1955. How
much longer these halcyon vacations can go on depends on the
kids, for their health now permits and their ambitions demand
that they start doing some serious summer work,

The future, we agree, will be a quest for simplicity. When the

[415]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

children go off to college, we hope to move to the country.
Helen is building up an interior decorating business to keep her-
self busy — if it doesn’t overcome her first, for it’s zooming. My
responsibilities at Kingsw ood keep growing, and there are still
those many books I hav en’t got around to reading and the chronic
challenge of trying to break ninety. I want to resume some of the
community and choral activities which had to be abandoned when
the children were ill. Finally, Helen and I both have a great urge
to revisit Europe with the children and to extend the scope of
family excursions this side of the Atlantic.

As for keeping in touch with Harvard, my ties are constantly
being strengthened by students of mine who go on to Cambridge.
Visits to them, often when I have a-few prospects in tow, have
kept me pretty well up-to-date. I do regret that I have not crossed
paths with many classmates, but that’s what I get for living in two
different Yale towns. Whether I shall have a Harvard son will be
decided within two years, but it is a matter in which, despite a
most lively interest, I decline to exert any pressure; I have seen
too many unfortunate instances of that sort of thing. However,
the young man will be at the Reunion, and any classmate who
feels a sales talk coming on certainly has my permission to go all
out.

ROBERT MORRISON FAXON

HOME appress: 310 Adams St, Quincy, Mass,

OFFICE appxess: The Faxon Trust, 1245 Hancock St., Quincy, Mass.

BORN; Sept. 19, 1908, Quincy, Mass. parents: Henry Monroe Faxon, Eliza-
beth Morrison.

PREPARED aT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: 8.B., 1932.

Maraiep: Rebecca Nelson Hallowell, June 16, 1932, Milton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Rebecca Nelson, April 7, 1933 (a. Malcolm Sawtelle, July 30, 1955);
Elizabeth, April 26, 1935; Sarah, Oct. 8, 1939; Robert Morrison, Jr.
Feb, 28, 1945.

HARVARD BRoTHPR: Henry Hardwick Faxon, '21, M.D., ’25.

OCCUPATION: President, The Faxon Trust, since 1949.

ovrices HELD: Director, Quincy Chamber of Commerce, since 1936, Quincy
Mutual Fire Insurance Company, since 1949; trustce, since 1937, mem-
ber board of investment, since 1946, Quincy Savings Bank; member

[ 416 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

board of directors, Quincy Community Chest and Council, since 1937,
president, City Hospital of Quincy, since 1941; supervisor, Adams
Temple and School Fund, since 1949.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of Quincy; Milton-
Hoosic Club.
AFTER losing no time in getting my matrimonial status pegged
down (see statistics), I started out in a family real estate business
in Quincy, Massachusetts. As you will remember, this was not
the best time to venture forth businesswise. It was interesting
work, however, and things improved as the years went on.

The late unpleasantness disrupted the even tenor of the family
when in May of 1941, courtesy of naval science, I was ordered
to Quonset Naval Air Station. My family, at that time con-
sisting of Becksy, aged seven, Blue, aged five, and Sally, aged
two, moved down to Rhode Island. My wife taught school here
for several years. Life was hectic but stimulating. After three
and a half years, I was ordered to the Philippines and attached
to Patrol Squadron 117. This was a live-wire organization patrol-
ing the coast of French Indo China. After a year in the Philip-
pines, I returned home as a lieutenant commander. It was nice
to be introduced to my small seven-month-old son who had
been born while I was away. He completed the family. We
have always enjoyed doing things together as a family group —
fishing trips for bass when the season opens in June, skiing trips
during school vacations, and sailing in the summertime.

Business is still being conducted at the same old stand, but the
family circle has begun to thin out a bit. My eldest daughter,
Becksy, is teaching school in New York while her husband com-
pletes his training for the ministry at General Theological Semi-
nary. My daughter, Elizabeth, graduates from Vassar this year
and is thinking of taking up a teaching post in California. Sarah
will be off to college next year, so that brings us down to the
junior member of the family who is still at Milton Academy.

[417 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

WILLIAM OTIS FAXON, II

HOME ADDRESS: 98 Main St, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Tracerlab, Inc. Trapelo Road, Waltham, Mass.

BorN: Oct. 19, 1910, Stoughton, Mfass. PARENTS: Nathaniel Wales Faxon, ’o2,
Mfarie B. Conant.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A-B., 1932, S.M., 1933.

MARRIED: Frances Mary Parker, Sept. 26, 1941, Manchester, N.H. cHILpren:
William Otis, 3d, July 31, 1942 (died June 22, 1944); David P. and
Susan C. (twins), Nov. 22, 1944; Thomas S. and Roger C. (twins),
June 16, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Nathaniel Conant Faxon, ’30.

occupation: President and director, Tracerlab, Inc., nuclear instruments,
radio isotopes, X-ray apparatus. |

OFFICES HELD: Director, Manchester (N.H.) Boys Club, . 1948-54, Man-
chester Community Club, 1950-54; president and director, Keleket
X-ray Corporation; trustee, Franklin Street Church, 1950-54.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Society (secretary 1938-42); American
Society for Metals; American Foundryman’s Society; Society of Auto-
motive Engineers; Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of New
York.

I DOUBT if there are very many people who have spent as many
years as I in unexplainable industries. When people have asked
me where I work, it has been easy to supply the name but difficult
to describe the nature of the company’s business. My wife has
found the questions even more baffling to answer...

In 1935 I joined the Dorr Company, an engineering firm en-
gaged in the chemical, metallurgical and sanitary engineering
fields. My then newly acquired wife rebelled when I said the Dorr
Company was engaged in sanitary engineering. To her, sanitary
engineering sounded like the designing of bathrooms. I taught
her to explain that the Dorr Company were specialists in designing
equipment for the “handling of finely divided solids suspended in
a liquid.” That answer always immediately caused an abrupt
change in the conversation.

Shot and grit are words that are known to some, but I found
not to very many. These were the products of the Harrison
Abrasive Company, which I joined immediately after the war. My
wife mastered a full explanation of how molten iron was shotted
from a cupola to form “finely divided particles” which again was

[418]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a stopper to further questioning. When Harrison Abrasive Com-
pany was bought by the Metals Disintegrating Company, our task
of explanation became further complicated. The word “disinte-
grating” always called forth the request for a repetition of the
company’s name, and then, “For goodness sake, what do they
do?” ‘The answer was that we did just what the name implies —
disintegrated metals, but not quite 4 la Buck Rogers. We made
little ones out of big ones, or made “finely divided metal powders.”

The theme of “finely divided materials” has carried right on
through to the company with which I am now associated, Tracer-
lab, Inc. Here the degree of “fineness” with which the company
is concerned is extreme. I have run the gamut of concerns en-
gaged in handling materials all the way from rock sizes down
through the screen and sieve sizes to micron sizes to angstroms
and, finally to emissions from atoms. Now we talk the language
of the nuclear physicist, and even my children have learned to
explain that Tracerlab handles radioactive isotopes and equip-
ment to measure alpha, beta, gamma rays—the “finest of the
fine.” In this atomic age it all sounds very fascinating. But atoms
or no, the business problems are like those of most other firms. I
try to avoid too detailed an explanation of the science of the atom
because I quickly find myself swirling in areas that are baffling
to me. But, at long last, I have ended up with a company that
when explaining what they do causes the eyes of the questioner
to brighten rather than squint in puzzlement.

This course through several companies illustrates the perverse
ways in which our lives may be shaped. In spite of my engineering
training, my first job after college was teaching. I hated chemistry,
but it turned out that my next job was with a chemical engineering
company. During the war, I started towards the Naval Civil
Engineering Corps only to land up in radar. My father-in-law’s
neighbor lured me into the field of metallurgy. Finally, a chance
remark led me into the realm of nuclear physics. So here I am,
a civil engineer who has been enmeshed in many of the broad
fields of engineering but never in the field of my original training.

I have learned to question how vital the specific courses that we
took in college or graduate school really are. By chance I fell into
the pattern of training that Harvard has since stressed and
Pioneered —a liberal arts training even for engineers to be

[419 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

followed by specific graduate work. The broad base of science
and gencral engineering courses that I took as a student in the
liberal arts college have certainly served me well in my meander-
ings through several branches of engineering. In this complex
technical area one cannot practise one phase of engineering
without impinging on several others. Harvard is unique in its
opportunity to combine a liberal arts education with the funda-
mentals of engineering. It is a shame that Harvard has not pro-
moted this program more actively.

My excursions in these various fields of activity have moved me
from Boston to New York to New Hampshire to New Jersey
and, finally, back to Boston. I recommend a certain amount of
change of scenery. I now live in the seat of the literary world
as well as the birthplace of American liberty — Concord, Massa-
chusetts. The Emersons and Thoreaus would probably turn over
in their graves to see us shaggy engineers striding forth on their
hallowed ground. But there a are quite a few engineers now crowd-
ing into Concord. There is a new air of respectability to our pro-
fession, The fact that we use slide rules and talk of digital com-
putors is accepted without alarm.

I wouldn’t change one bit of my devious wandering and vary-
ing jobs. I love engineering. As a fitting end to my career, per-
haps I shall end up practising civil engineering, my original train-
ing, which I have never practised as yet.

HARRY FEINBERG

HOME appress: Stoney Run, Wareham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1815 Acushnet Ave., New Bedford, Mass.

BORN: June 12, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Victor Feinberg, Rose Orkin.

prepareD AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932; DMD, (Tufts Dental
School), 1938.

Margirp: Nettie Judith Brickman, March 9, 1935, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Amy Ellen, Sept. 5, 1944, Nancy Lynne, Nov. 14, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Dentist.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Southeast District, Massachusetts Dental Society.

mMiMbrR OF: American Dental Association, Massachusetts Dental Society;
Southeast District Dental Society, New Bedford Dental Society.

[ 420 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FOR the professional man, writing a narrative is difficult and it is
doubly hard if it is autobiographical. However, it has been the
shortest twenty-five years I have spent.

After one year of graduate study at Duke University, I went
to Tufts Dental School and in due course, I received my degree.
After graduation, I worked temporarily in Boston and finally, in
i941, settled down to practice dentistry in New Bedford. But
not for long.

For reasons I still cannot understand, the Army beckoned and
I went. If filling dental cavities and doing dental surgery helped
win the war, then I did my bit. When the war ended, I again
began the practice of dentistry in New Bedford. My home is in
the nearby village of Wareham, where we live quietly even though
we have added to our household — a Great Dane, a French poodle,
two cats and two horses. |
_ My children have become veteran travelers since their infancy
and together we have traveled by automobile about 250,000 miles
in the last ten years, covering a good deal of the United States,
Canada and Mexico. In recent years, I have felt the inadequacy of
the automobile and since I have several cleared acres of land, I
expect to install and use the helicopter if we are to continue our
avocation to the same extent in the future.

FREDERICK CHARLES FIECHTER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Spring Mill Road, Plymouth Meeting, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 12 S. 12th St. Philadelphia, Pa.

BORN: Oct. 21, 1911, Wyndmoor, Pa. Parents: Frederick Charles Feichter,
Marie Argentina Haase.

PREPARED AT: Northeast Public High School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. #agna cum laure, 1932.

MARRIED: Jerene Wales Poindexter Hayward, February, 1943, Bryn Mawr,
Pa. cumpreN: Frederick Charles, October, 1944; Jacques Poindexter,
March, 1946; Jonathan, 1948, Bayard, 1950.

Occupation: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: Philadelphia and American Bar Associations, Germantown and
Pennsylvania Historical Societies; Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Har-
vard Club of New York; Union League of Philadelphia; Phi Beta
Kappa; Phi Kappa Sigma; Phi Alpha Delta.

PUBLICATIONS: Various technical publications.

[421 ]

Sri: NG a FRR ARMS IO Rl

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Meeting’s Library Committee that their retention of the Jeanes
librarian was legal despite her w hilom invocation of the Fifth
Amendment, but envisioned the resultant storm of protest. I favor
constitutional brakes on force, Le. a government ever strong
enouch to be tolerant.

Maintenance and conservation for posterity is the first goal of
this Twenty-fifth Reunionist today and for the rest of his life, if
we are lucky. A prudent deference to Nemesis surely involves
endeavoring to see ourselves as others see us, depressing as that has
just been.

My social, religious, and political convictions are best summed
up in Aequanimitas Excelsior.

AEQUANIMITAS EXCELSIOR

Browsing and drowsing one noon away

Mid travels and battles of bygone day,
Breathing peace in a Friend’s Reading Room,
Wonderful way of dispelling gloom,

My glance strayed out on a garden bright,
"Neath a window sifting gold from white,
To flowers ecstatic ‘spite August’s heat,
A gaudy spectrum from winter’s sleet —

If flowery dell framed in green and pray
May be called grand because it is gay,
When Stoical Japanese makes prim

The product of abundant Nature’s vim —

Gradually fragrance had won the field
Over dusty vellum, learning’s shield.
As softly there sacheted afar

A distant, dimly disturbing jar.

Mildly electric, now rattler callow,

Faintly crescendo, then zither shallow;
Over The Wave of the Future there zoomed
An aerfoil aerodynamically doomed.

Not a passage from Rimsky-K’s score,
Nor a wise neighbor's recondite snore;

[ 424]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

And yet the essence of sagacity
The reconnaissance of Traumerei.

Cant of atomic perspicacity,

Rant of prestidigious charity,

Won't plumb the depths of meaning’s meaning
Nor transcend the bee’s unschooled careening.

Shall proud man’s rank necessity

Ne’er foster such spiritual chastity

Such will then skill to make this wee world see
Lessons like the humble bumble bee?

While publicists make energy matter
For those of us they deign to flatter;
Forsaking certitude for “certainty,”
The physicists make matter energy.

To most of us things are what they seem
Though to some of us they’re an eerie dream.
If we seek the truth, great role,

Things furnish time’s most elusive goal.

Things are forever becoming we say,
Wherever there is growth there is decay,
And if everything depends on faith,
What profits the dogma algebraic?

Resolve this antinomy, if you will,
But beware the bee sting’s earthy thrill;
The Faith of my Father I would keep
Meanwhile sowing as I expect to reap.

HARRISON FIELD

“ME appRESS: Hopewell Road, Montgomery, Ohio,

N: July 27, 1909, Cincinnati, Ohio, parents: Tylor Field, '97, Marr
Andrews Harrison.

-PARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

ARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931.

RriED; Dora Emily Merrill, June 29, 1941, Cincinnati, Ohio. cHiLpre-

[ 425 ]

Seaienanmenmeeenp cli 2A 0 RINE, COS, OG it,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Tylor, ad, Sept. 30, 1937 (by previous marriage); Marion Harrison,
May 28 roy.

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Neave Field, ’34.

oFFices HFLD: Financial secretary, 1948 president, 1949, Federal Union
24134, AFL.

MeMBER OF: Cincinnati Art Club; Camargo Club.

LEFT college aurumn, 1931. Traveled Central America, Europe.
Worked for Procter & Gamble. Quit. Studied agriculture at
Massachusetts State. Farmed, fox-hunted. Read Surtees, Thor-
oughbred Record. Low paying proposition. Took job as re-
orter, Received salary. Four years in Air Force. Visited famous
spas. Miami Beach, Kwajelein. Returned to Times-Star. Quit.
Kept store in small town. Happily married. Two children.

Elder in Naval Academy. Younger in seventh grade.

HERMANN HAVILAND FIELD

HOME AppreEss: Valley Farm, Shirley, Mass.

OFFICE appRrEss: 17 Brimmer St., Boston 6, Mass.

Born: April 13, 1910, Zerich, Switzerland, parents: Herbert Haviland
Field, ’88, Nina Eschwege.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High & Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932(33); Diplom
Architect [Swiss Federal Polytechnic Inst.], 1936.

Marriep: Jean Ainslee Clark, June, 1932, Weston, Mass. (divorced 1939);
Kate Thornycroft, June 14, 1940, Worthing, England. cHILipren:
Hugh Thornycroft, June 16, 1943; Alan Haviland, June 7, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Noel Haviland Field, ’24.

occupation: Architect.

orFices HELD: Representative in Poland for Czech Refugee Trust Fund of
London, 1939; director, Planning & Research, Raymond & Rado,
Architects, New York, 1945-47; director, Building Plans, Cleveland
College of Western Reserve University, 1947-49; U.S. Delegate to
Seventh International Congress for Modern Architecture, Bergamo,
1949.

MeMbrR or: American Institute of Architects; American Institute of Plan-
ners; International Congresses for Modern Architecture; National Book
League of London.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional articles in Progressive Architecture, A.I.A. Journal,
American City, Task, School Executive, articles on university planning
in the 1940 and 1950 American School & University Yearbooks; chapter
on “Camps & Dormitories,” in Vol. Hf, Talbot Hamlin’s Forms and

[ 426]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Functions of 2zoth Architecture, Angry Harvest, a novel to be published
late in 1957.

IN looking back over my past twenty-five years I cannot fail to
see how much they have been dominated by a fateful dichotomy
of interest. On the one side has been my chosen profession of
architecture which led me from college via the Harvard Graduate
School of Design and Zuerich Polytechnic to architectural work
abroad and in New York and designing Army camps in World
War II. The high point was the year 1947 when I was appointed
planner for a new center for Cleveland College of Western Re-
serve University, later with the prospect of becoming dean of
their School of Architecture. However, all this never got beyond
the summer of 1949, when quite unforeseen and fantastic events
engulfed me and my family. The background for this lies in the
other side of the dichotomy: my lifelong interest in world affairs,
especially Europe and its problems.

I suppose this had its inception in my American Quaker father
who combined zoology with humanitarianism and worked in
Zerich, where I lived till I was twelve. The-wish to study
modern architecture took me back there at the age of twenty-
four. There I completed my studies, worked professionally in
England, and finally in 1939 did a stretch of relief work in Poland,
before returning to the United States in July, 1940, with my
English wife. —

It was this relief work for refugees from Czechoslovakia which
not only got me caught in the German invasion of Poland, but
ten years later when I’d almost forgotten i it, was one cause of my
being precipitated from a peaceful life in the American Middle
West to a Polish cellar, which I was not to leave for five years.
Other causes were the fact that I had led a study-tour on planning
and reconstruction in a number of European countries in 1947,
and was again touring myself in 1949 — at a time when my elder
brother Noel had already disappeared. I discovered this when I

reached Switzerland, but my desire to help and a certain intrepid
streak led me to continue my tour and try to trace him behind the
iron Curtain. I was kidnapped at Warsaw airport by Polish
security police, under Russian inspiration.
Though they never answered my questions it gradually be-

[ 427 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

came apparent that they were weaving a fantastic theory out of.
my brother’s relief work, and mine: we were supposed to be
kingpins in an Anglo-American scheme for subverting Stalin’s
satellites through Titoist defection. That no one doing relief
work in 1939 could have known that Eastern Europe would be
Communist after the war was conveniently ignored.

As my weeks incommunicado turned to months and years I
thought that the best I could hope for was to be sentenced at a
show trial on a false confession. The only alternative seemed
oblivion. But what actually happened was neither, for two events
unknown to me changed the entire picture: Stalin died, and the
very official who had kidnapped and been in charge of me defected
to the West. He gave the State Department its first real evi-
dence of my being held by the Poles — who till then had denied
all knowledge of me. Stalin’s death produced a shake-up and the
beginning of changed policy within Poland. These two events
combined to produce something I no longer believed possible:
my release in October, 1954, and reunion with my family.

My wife, Kate, with her parents, and our two sons had waited
all these years in England, for this slim chance. Though she did
not know even whether I still lived, she and my sister, Elsie,
fought all the time to keep the case alive and followed up even the
smallest lead.

Luckily, painful memories become blurred quickly, so it is the
achievement, the solutions of crises, the bits of joy that can be
found even in the worst circumstances that loom largest with me
today. Perhaps the deeper insights I have gained make these five
years not a dead loss to me. I emerged like Rip Van Winkle to
find many changes, and my home and jobs in Cleveland no more.
But Valley Farm, my old New England farmhouse was still mine,
and now I have spent a summer there with Kate and our boys —
who had grown beyond my recognition.

At present, I am revising a novel, Angry Harvest, to be published
by Thomas Crowell, late in 1957. It was written in prison to
stop me from going crazy — when I finally got pencil and paper.
Before that I spent much time designing buildings on. the cell
floor with straw from my mattress. Architecture is still my chosen
profession and in a few months I hope to be in it again. More
than ever, I am interested in the reshaping of urban environment

[ 428 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to suit twentieth century needs and the architect’s responsibility
in this task. I hope to pursue these problems in my own specialty
of university design and urban redevelopment projects, also
possibly in teaching, research and writing.

HORACE FARNHAM FIELD, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 66 Main St., Northfield, Mass.

BoRN: Oct. 25, 1909, Mattapoisett, Mass. parENT: Horace Farnham Field,
Mary McGregor Means.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

MARRIED: Katherine Fabens, May 21, 1932, Salem, Mass. cHiLpREN: Horace
Farnham, 3d, May 26, 1933; Sally, April 13, 1935, Charles Fabens, Nov.
28, 1938; James Williams, April 30, 1946. -

OCCUPATION: Town Clerk and farmer.

MEMBER OF: B.P.O.E., Greenfield, Mass.; Kiwanis Club of Northfield.

FROM 1930 to 1946 I was employed by Shell Oil Company and
since then have been self-employed as a sporting goods store pro-
prietor and farmer. In June, 1955, I was elected Town Clerk of
Northfield.

Hobbies are hunting and fishing — racing pigeons. No military
service — Republican — Episcopalian.

** REGINALD FINCKE, JR.

BORN: Dec. 3, 1909, New York, N.Y. parents: Reginald Fincke, Edith Clark.
PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.
MaRRiED: Virginia Duval Gardner, June 21, 1933, Boston, Mass, cuitp: Vir-

ginia Averell, Sept. 3, 1937.
biep: Killed in action, May 15, 1945, on Okinawa.
AFTER graduation Fincke began work with the M. W. Kellogg
Company, New York. His last position with the company was
that of executive assistant to the management.

In 1942 he enlisted as a private in the U.S. Marine Corps. He
was sent overseas in 1943, was commissioned a first lieutenant in
February, 1945, and was killed in action on May 15, 1945. He
was posthumously awarded the Silver Star Medal. He was sur-

vived by his wife and daughter.
[ 429 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

* MURDOCH JOHN FINLAYSON

BORN: Sept. 15, 1906, Cambridge, Mass, parents: Donald Finlayson, Christine
Mae Keegin.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Sally MacKinnon, June 30, 1936, Cambridge Mass. CHILDREN: Sally
Duff, Nov. 29, 1937; Murdoch John, Nov. 1, 1940,

piEp: Aug. 16, 1951, Washington, D.C.

wwow: Mrs, Murdoch J. Finlayson, 241 May St. Needham, Mass.

RED FINLAYSON was an outstanding athlete while at college.

He was a tackle on the Harvard football team of 1931, a member

of the track team in 1930, 1931 and 1932, and set a world’s record

in the 16-pound shot-put.

He was employed by Hiram Walker & Sons, Inc., as district
manager in Hartford, Connecticut, and in Boston until June 16,
1941, when he was called into active service with the Navy. He
spent four and one-half years on active duty at sea, including
thirteen major landings with the U.S.S. Heywood, an amphibious
attack ship, and later was in command of the U.S.S. Silenius.
He attained the rank of commander and received many campaign
ribbons, eight combat stars and a citation for Attu, On leaving the
Navy, he returned to Hiram Walker and became exclusive dis-
tributor for the company in Washington, D. C. At the time of
his death he was vice-president and treasurer of the Mid-Atlantic
Distributing Company.

Finlayson died suddenly on August 16, 1951, while playing golf
in Washington. He was survived by his wife and two children.

ARNOLD DOUGLAS FINLEY

HOME appress: Rocky Hill Road, Andover, Mass.

orrice aporess: Sylvania Electric Products, Inc., 100 First Ave. Waltham,
Mass.

Bomx: July 17, 1909, Springfield, Mass. parents: Harry Robinson Finley,
Lola Mae Arnold.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Wheaton College, Wheaton, IIL.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

Markitp: Dorothy Stewart Cook, Nov. 18, 1939, Boston, Mass. CHILD:
Douglas Stewart, Nov. 19, 1942.

[ 430 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Director of Procurement, Electronic Systems Laboratory,
Sylvania Electric Products, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Collection Bureau, Boston Credit Men’s Associa-
tion, 1949-50; secretary, 1950-51, director, 1952, Quannapowitt Radio
Association; trustee, First Congregational Church, Waverley, Mass.,
1951-55; junior deacon, King Cyrus Lodge, AF. & A.M., Stoneham,
_ Mass., 1956-57.

MEMBER: Pi Kappa Delta; Forensic Honor Society; Institute of Radio En-
gineers; A.F. & A.M.

THE year 1932 was one of several to come when the society of
educated gentlemen was being rather coolly amalgamated into
society as a whole and new additions to it greeted with rather
open hostility. Events and history forced us into a well-rounded
business training which began on a telegraph teleprinter, moved
to the field of production planning just prior to World War II,
became a wild orgy of unrestrained purchasing during the war,
and brought on a relapse into “my own” radio and camera business
at its conclusion. In my brief two-year encounter with building
on a shoestring, cruel experience made me a fair master of the un-
balanced balance sheet and the tender juggling of limpid assets
and robust liabilities. It was quite logical, therefore, that I should
emerge as treasurer of a local electronic distributor organization
from 1947 to 19 54- During these years, the dormant battle between
my “classical major” and perverse inclination towards electronic
engineering opened into what I like to feel was the final contest
with both surrendering to purchasing and business management.
During these years my hobby interest in music reproduction be-
came a professional one and “ham” radio interest burst forth on

ten meters with raucous regularity.

Success came to the distributing business but diminished satts-
faction to the writer with narrowing concentration on the purely
financial. Therefore, we decently terminated the connection and
set forth into electronic purchasing. After a pleasant preparatory
year with Sanders’ Associates in Nashua, New Hampshire, we
moved into the present post of supervisor of procurement for the
Waltham Laboratories of Sylvania Electric Products, Inc.

Thus did a history major who aspired to enter teaching at
exactly ebb tide warp about, ride down-wind with the times and
find himself, finally, happily engrossed in the most significant
field of our times. I expect to top off the sunset years as a

[431 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

philosopher and thus will the cycle be complete; from retrospect
to present combat, and thence to retrospect.

AF. & A.M. is a source of continuous interest with the duties
of a line officer being much enjoyed. Music is a constant food
of joy, both reproduced which I can handle rather well and self-
created which I disgrace very completely. Dorothy is certainly
the only girl ever created who could have held both her optimism
and me, and both have deepened through fifteen years so she was
manifestly created for the purpose. “Doug,” our claim on the
future, is, at fourteen, far wiser than I was. That is a factual
statement. It’s well that this is so. All our youngsters will need
to be.

At this rather half-way point of adulthood, I would, with the
opportunity, only re-do that of the past which would accelerate
the advance on the present course, but nothing that would know-
ingly change its direction, Living is itself such a thrilling educa-
tion: my son insists on gaining his own independently. So, I
shall have to find a way to use mine myself.

ELLIOT GOULD FISH

HOME AppRESS: 14 Front St., Exeter, N.H.

BoRN: May 23, 1910, Winthrop Center, Mass. parents: Norman Fish, Maude
McKee.

PREPARED AT: Athol High School, Athol, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B.) 19323 A.M., 1937.

OCCUPATION: Education.

HENRY NORMAN FISHBURN

HOME abpress: 35 Winslow Rd., Brookline, Mass.

orFice appress: Harris, Upham & Co., 136 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 29, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents; William Fishburn, Gertrude
Schwartz.

prepareD at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE; A.B, magna cum laude, 1932.

UN MARRIED,

oor pation: Account executive, Harris, Upham & Company, stockbrokers.

mMrEMbeR OF: Phi Beta Kappa.

[ 432 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I HAVE been connected with the stock exchange firm of Hunne-
well & Company, during most of the past twenty years. In 1950,
Hunnewell & Company was merged and | am now in the Boston
office of Harris, Upham & Company. Most of my recent activities
deal with corporate mergers, reorganizations and the financing
of new enterprises. As a result, I have had to develop an interest
in a wide range of activities — from Cuban railroads to Canadian
nickel. One of our most recent interests has been to help finance
the development of a new moving-picture process, known as
Todd-ao. (Used in the production of “Oklahoma!”, “Around
the World in Eighty Days,” and to be used in the filming of
“South Pacific” in the very near future.)

JACOB PAUL FISHER

HOME ADDRESS: 1754 Commonwealth Ave., Brighton 35, Mass. PARENTS: Jacob
Fisher, Dora Weiner.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1920.

XCCUPATION: Hardware Jobber.

RICHARD NORTON FISHER

OME AppRESS: % Charles C. Moulton, Esq., 419 N. Sline St., Orlando, Fla.
SFICE ADDRESS; Office of Judge Advocate, Hdqtrs., US.A.T.C,, Fort Dix,
N.J.
RN: Feb. 5, 1911, Nashua, N.H. parents: George Ransom Fisher, Lois
Winifred Hunking.
EPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.
-ARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 19323 LLB. 1935 (36).
ARRIED: Nathalie M. Moulton, June 22, 1946, Boston, Mass.
SUPATION: Military Service. ©
ICES HELD: President, Harvard Square Garage, Inc., 1935-40, Dunster
Realty Company, 1935-40; assistant treasurer, Idalia Shoppes, Inc.
1935-40; secretary-treasurer, Governors Island Chapter, National
Sojourners, 1953-55; adjutant, General Israel Putnam Camp, Heroes of
78, 1953-55»
MBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Veterans of Foreign Wars; American
Legion; Stuyvesant Lodge No. 745, A.F. & A.M.; Aurora Grata Bodies
of Brooklyn 32°; National Sojourners; Heroes of *76,

[ 433 ]

SASS is APPT ocr <r TUAR tilted tat

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

UPON graduating from Law School, I took over the management
of my father’s business, He died in 1938 and after settling his
estate I opened a credit agency in Montpelier, Vermont. In 1942
I entered the Army and have been in it ever since. I served
through five campaigns in Europe during World War II and six
in Korea. Between shooting wars, I have had miscellaneous state-
side assignments, mostly around New York City, and have just
returned from a tour of duty in Heidelberg, Germany. For the
past ten years, I have been assigned to the Judge Advocate
General's Corps.

ALLAN ABRAHAM FISHMAN

HOME ApprEss: 7 Circular Ave., Natick, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 18 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 9, 1910, Malden, Mass. parents: Samuel Fishman, Esther Jacob-
son.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932; LL.B. (Boston Coll, Law
School), 1937.

MarrigD: Beatrice Helene, Aug. 5, 1934, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Norman,
Nov. 28, 1936; Ellen, June 12, 1946.

occuPATIoN: Lawyer, self-employed.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Law Society; National Association of Claimants’
Compensation Attorneys; Non-Partisan League of Natick, East Natick
Men’s Club, Natick Little League.

THE Great Depression did one thing for the world: it spawned a
lawyer, meaning me. After graduation, rather than just mark
time, I decided to go to law school. Things were at a complete
standstill and it was generally rumored that a legal education was
valuable in any field of endeavor especially in the W.P.A., where
a lawyer could earn the fabulous salary of fifteen dollars weekly.
A Harvard education would only bring twelve dollars in said
place at said time. I was very selective about my law school as I
had been about my college. My funds were extremely limited
and a full-time job was of the essence. I could only be interested
in evening school under those circumstances, and after careful
consideration I entered Boston College Law School. This choice
I shall always consider one of the wisest of my life. The course,

[434]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

extending over a four-year period, was tough but solid, the

methods and instructors were the best, and the associations both

with the instructors and fellow students were close and lasting.

I think that I did not plan to become a lawyer even after gradua-
tion. However, the Bar exam was another challenge and I took it
to prove that I could pass it. I did and was admitted to the bar.
Incidentally, I was married in 1934, my second year in law school,
and in 1936, my son Norman was born. I graduated in 1937.

Still faced with the responsibility of earning a living, I began
working the “split-shift” at the drugstore where I had earned
most of my tuition for both Harvard and Boston College, and
practised law afternoons and weekends. Suffice it to say that my
practice was just that.

- Came the War to end all wars and I served my country on the
domestic. front fighting the demon inflation for the O.P.A., first
as investigator, then as supervisor of investigators and finally as
enforcement attorney for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
in charge of food (meat, fish, fruits, vegetables, etc.). At one
time I made an effort to get into the Navy as Air Combat In-
telligence Officer, but was turned down for lack of trial experience

although the specifications for the position called for precisely
what I was doing for the government. |

In 1946 I left the government service and opened an office for
the practice of law. With not a client to my name, and having an
extra mouth to feed (it was a nice little mouth), Ellen having been
born in 1946, things were really rough for a few years. I was
tempted to quit many times, but with the wonderful perseverance
and courage of my little wife staring me in the face, I had to con-
tinue and we pulled through. At this point we are fairly comfort-
able in a modest home in Natick. Norman, no student, is in the
Air Force, where for the first time, he has indicated some interest
in school; Ellen is in the fifth grade and doing very nicely, and
I am engaged in community activities to the extent that I could
be charged with neglect of my family.

- Tam chief umpire in the Natick Little League, one of the most
rewarding experiences of my life, past president of my P.T.A.
Unit, chairman of the East Natick Men’s Club Bow ling League
Committee (strangely enough my bowling improves as I get

[435 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

older), a member of the Non-Partisan League and active in
Temple activities.

I am a registered Democrat but I never vote the party line. As
a matter of fact (and this may be blasphemy) on the local and
state levels I have a feeling that the Republicans have been more
liberal of late than the so-called Democrats. I wish to state em-
phatically and for the record that I do not have the same feeling
about our politics at the national level.

I have always been grateful for my Harvard education and
proud of Harvard's stature in the field of higher learning, but I
have never been prouder of the Old School than I was during
the past few years when our President, Dr. Pusey, refusing to be
intimidated at a time when most men in comparable positions
were mute, fought a desperate but winning battle to preserve
academic and other important freedoms against a demagogue
who would have imposed upon the country’s educational insti-
tutions a curtain of darkness, fear and ignorance. Dr. Pusey’s
concept of education, “Search for the truth wherever it may
lead,” for perhaps the first time made me aware of the true mean-
ing of the Harvard motto, “VERITAS.” Long may it wave!

LEIGH GORDON FISKE

HOME AppRESS: 1740 Overlook Lane, Santa Barbara, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 22 W. Micheltorena St., Santa Barbara, Calif.

BORN: Jan. 1, 1911, New York, N.Y. parents: John Sage Fiske, Ida Johnson
Gordon.

PREPARED AT: Cate School, Santa Barbara, Calif. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1832. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1932; M.D. (Johns
Hopkins Med. School), 1936.

Margiep: Helen Steams Wilcox, May 31, 1941, Santa Barbara, Calif.
cHitpreNn: Charlotte, Jan. 20, 1943; John Sage, 1947; Virginia Gordon,
Oct. 17, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Rodney Gordon Fiske, ’28.

OccUPATION: Surgeon.

orFices HELD: Secreteary of staff, Cottage Hospital, 1946-50; chief of surgical
service, Santa Barbara General Hospital, 1951-53, St. Francis Hospital,
1953-55; member board, Santa Barbara County Heart Association, Santa
Barbara Chapter, American Red Cross.

memape or: Valley Club of Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara Club; American
College of Surgeons, American Board of Surgery (diplomate); Santa

[ 436 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Barbara County Medical Society; A.M.A.; California Medical Associa-
tion.
PUBLICATIONS: Several articles in medical journals.

UPON leaving Harvard I proceeded with Classmates Palmer
Futcher and Barry Wood to Johns Hopkins where we shared the
vicissitudes of acquiring medical education and bearing up under
Baltimore weather. These were hard years, but fruitful and
pleasant ones. I was accepted for internship at the University of
Michigan at Ann Arbor, where I remained for two of the hap-
piest years of my life — hard work but with wonderful teachers
and friends. However, I left Ann Arbor to finish my training
at the University of California in San Francisco, having been
offered a position in their residency training. This move was
made because I knew I would practise in California and felt that
I should take this opportunity to make firm contacts with medical
people and institutions on the West Coast. This proved to be a
wise move, but I always shall miss not having finished at Ann
Arbor.

In 1940 I moved to Santa Barbara and became associated as a
surgeon with my stepfather, Dr. Samuel Robinson, ’98. In 1941
I was fortunate enough to persuade Helen Stearns Wilcox to
marry me and we have had three children: Charlotte, fourteen;
John, nine; and Virginia, six.

In August, 1942, I entered the Army Medical Corps and served
throughout the war, returning then to Santa Barbara where I
have since practised surgery independently. It is a lovely place
to live and yet far from Harvard friends. However, should they
come to California, I would welcome seeing them, and herewith
extend the invitation.

FERNALD CHURCHILL FITTS
SEE Appendix.

[ 437 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

DESMOND FirzGERALD

HOME ADDRESS: 1511 30th St., N.W., Washington, D.C.

BORN: June 16, 1910, New York, N.Y. PARENTS: Harold FitzGerald, ’oo,
Eleanor Fitzgerald.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 19323; LL.B., 1935. :

MARRIED: Mary E. Peabody, Sept. 2, 1939, Northeast Harbor, Maine (di-
vorced 1947); Barbara Kent Green, Feb. 25, 1948, New York, N.Y.
CHILDREN: Frances, Oct. 21, 1940; Joan, Jan. 31, 1949; Desmond, Jr,
July 11, 1951.

occuPATION: Government Service.

MEMBER OF: Brook Club, New York; Racquet & Tennis Club, New York.

AFTER graduating from the Law School in 1935, I practised law
with the firm of Spence, Hopkins, Walser & Hotchkiss in New
York City. In February, 1942, I enlisted in the Army, served as
an infantryman.in Burma and China, and was separated with the
rank of major in December, 1945. I returned to the practice of
law in New York as a partner in the firm of Spence, Hotchkiss,
Parker & Duryee. In January, 1951, I moved to Washington and
ever since have been working for the government in various
capacities. I have recently returned from a two-year tour in
Japan and the Philippines as a representative of the Department
of the Army.

JOSEPH WARREN FITZPATRICK

HOME ADDRESS: 9 Woodland Ave., Medford, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS; Joseph L. Fitzpatrick & Sons, 61 Governors Ave., Medford,
Mass. .

BoRN: March 28, 1911, Medford, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Leo Fitzpatrick,
Elizabeth Dorothy Bresnahan.

PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: 8.B., 10932.

MarRiED: Laura W. Owens, Feb, 20, 1944, Key West, Fla. CHILDREN: Joyce
Elizabeth, Jan. 25, 1946; Frank John, Feb. 1, 1954.

occupaTIon: Funeral director, Joseph L. Fitzpatrick & Sons.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Medford Red Cross Fund Drive, 1949-51; surgeon,
Medford Post 1012, V.F.W., 1953-57; treasurer, Medford Lion Club,
1955-57.

uemnee ov Massachusetts Funeral Directors’ Association; Elks; Knights of
Columbus; Lions, Veterans of Foreign Wars; American Legion.

[ 438 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FOR several years after graduation I served with various federal
agencies: Railroad Retirement Board, Social Security Adminis-
tration and Civil Service Commission. From 1941 to 1946 I was
in the U.S. Navy; commanded two destroyers, U.S.S. MacLeish
(DD 220) and USS. Biddle (DD 151); practically all convoy
duty. Since the war I have been a funeral director with Joseph
L, Fitzpatrick & Sons.

In 1944 I was married to Laura W. Owens of Medford, and we
have two children: Joyce who is ten and Frank, two. As to my
convictions, I am a Catholic, an Independent Democrat, and my
social beliefs include charity, tolerance, brotherhood and under-
standing. I feel that the great strength of this country is its peo-
ple, as individuals, and that the tendency towards larger business
units is not good.

+ EARL THOMAS FLOATHE

BorRN: April 13, 1910, Spokane, Wash. PaRENTS: Thomas Christen Floathe,
Olga Sogn

PREPARED AT: Pendleton High School, Pendleton, Oregon.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931.

MARRIED, CHILDREN: Tommy, aged 13; Donna, aged 12.

piep: May 31, 1944, Tacoma, Wash.

wipow: Mrs. Earl T. Floathe, Lake Stevens, Wash.

EARL THOMAS FLOATHE spent three years at Harvard dur-
ing which time he was a member of the Freshman Cross Country
Team, Track Team, Cross Country Squad and the Track Squad.
His special field was English literature. He was associated with
the United Funds Management Corporation in Pendleton, Oregon,
where he made his home.

FLETCHER RICHARD FLYNN

HOME appreEss: 1143 Prospect St., San Gabriel, Calif,

OFFICE AppRrEss: Azusa High School, Azusa, Calif.

BORN: Jan. 11, 1910, Somerville, Mass. parents: Edward James Flynn, ’95,
Hazel Bennett.

PREPARED aT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

[ 439 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Margaret Isett. cuiLp: Fayette D. Marble, 1935 (stepson).
occupation: Latin teacher, Azusa High School.

WHEN one is so far removed from Cambridge, Boston and Har-
vard, the whole business of college and class associations pretty
much dims, I have seen but two former classmates in twenty
years. It is good, however, to learn, from time to time, what fine
work so many of the Class of ’32 are doing, especially in fields
that aid man and yet do not bring fame or fortune.

Since I graduated I have worked at many things — newspaper
work, advertising, editing, writing, supervision in aircraft pro-
duction and, at last, at teaching. I now teach Latin in Azusa High
School and find this a most gratifying profession.

One thing is certain, as the years roll by, the luster of Harvard
and her sons never tarnishes; here is a real source of strength,
moral and intellectual, that is inspiring to me.

+ HARRY FRANCIS FLYNN

BoRN: Aug. 23, 1908, Edgartown, Mass. PARENTS: George Daniel Flynn,
Elizabeth Doyle.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

DIED: Jan. 13, 1930, Edgartown, Mass.

FLYNN was a member of the freshman track squad and during
his freshman year won his numerals on the freshman football
team. The following summer he went on the Naval Science
Cruise on the U.S.8, Wyoming. He was killed in an automobile
accident.

JOSEPH WARNER FOBES

HOME AppRESS: 317 Myrtle St., Manchester, N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bishop Bradley High School, Manchester, N.H.

BORN: Jan. 10, 1911, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Joseph Warner Fobes, Edith
Hazard.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932, DEGREES: A.B., 1932(34); LL.D. (Hon.) (St.
Anselm’s Coll.), 1956.

[ 440 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MaRRIED: Mary O’Brien, 1942, Plymouth, N.H. cxitpren: David Alan,
July 8, 1943; Joseph Warner, 3d, Nov. 15, 1944; Elizabeth Ann, March
15, 1947; Catherine Ann, Aug. 16, 1953.

occuPATION: Instructor in mathematics, Bishop Bradley High School.

MEMBER OF: Knight of the Order of St. Gregory the Great; St. Vincent de
Paul Society; Knights of Columbus.

AFTER two years at the Harvard Business School and summers
spent in mountain-climbing and traveling from the Volga west
to the Yukon, I settled down on a family farm near Franconia,
New Hampshire, where I battled with the elements and terrain
until 1941. For fifteen months in 1941 and 1942 I watched charts,
coiled steel and swept the floor at a cold roll mill of American
Steel and Wire in Cleveland. During that time I was married to
Mary O’Brien of Campton, New Hampshire. Again, after three
years as an enlisted man in the Army Air Force, I returned to
the farm in late 1945, staying there this time until 1951. My last
move was to Manchester, New Hampshire. Following some
teacher training courses at St. Anselm’s College, I joined the
mathematics department at Bishop Bradley High School in which
Iam now very occupied. For these past twenty-five years I have
been fortunate in always enjoying what I was doing and being
able to appreciate the need for the work in general, though never
satisfied with my own contribution.

GEORGE HUTCHINSON FOLEY

HOME appress: 41 Chatham Rd., Newton Highlands, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Hale & Dorr, 60 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 28, 1910, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: John Joseph Foley, Ida
Frances Hutchinson.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High & Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932; LL.B. 1935-

MARRIED: Janina Wanda Lukomska, March 5, 1939, Brookline, Mass. cHiL-
DREN: Janina Helena, Sept. 1, 1941; Pamela Marya, July 17, 1943; Kris-
tna Hutchinson, April 17, 1952-

OccupaTion: Attorney, specializing in administrative and labor relations law;
partner, Hale & Dorr.

OFFIcEs HELD: Member, Civil Rights Committee and Labor Relations Com-
mittee, Boston Bar Association; member, Labor Relations Section, Amer-
ican Bar Association.

MEMBER oF: Boston, Cambridge and American Bar Associations.

[441 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

AS I look back on my life since graduation, it seems fairly hum-
drum, although it did not strike me that way at the time. After
attending Law School and passing the Bar, I practised law in
association with Judge Edward L. Logan from 1935 to 1939.
When the Judge died in the summer of 1939, my salary was cut
off. Therefore, being a married man by this time, I sought and
obtained a steady pay check with Uncle Sam as an attorney in the
U.S. Department of Labor and worked there until December,
1941, preparing and trying cases in the Federal Courts and acting
as a special attorney on occasion for the Department of Justice.
From December, 1941, to April, 1943, I worked as an attorney for
the Office of Price Administration in several capacities, winding
up eventually in charge of enforcement of apparel price regula-
tions and shoe rationing for the United States. After a brief stay
as New England Regional Attorney for the Federal Security
Agency and the War Manpower Commission, I returned in May,
1943, to my original agency, the U.S. Department of Labor, in
charge of the legal staff for New England and continued in this
post until the fall of 1951.

At that time, I took leave from my permanent 4 agency to serve
as chief New England counsel of the Wage Stabilization Board
which was set up as a result of the Korean War. Whereas my old
job had concerned, among other things, keeping a floor under
wages by enforcement of minimum wage laws, the new post en-
tailed imposition of a ceiling on wages to prevent inflation. In
1952 1 became chairman of the New England Wage Stabilization
Board with responsibility for holding the line against inflation in
the six New England States. This board was composed of an
equal number of industry, labor and public members, The chair-
man served as the presiding officer and as a public member and
was also the administrative head of the Agency.

With the expiration of wage controls in 1953, I joined Hale &
Dorr as the firm’s specialist in administrative law and labor rela-
tions. The association has been a very happy one. After years as
a public servant, I expect to spend the rest of my career in private
practice acting as counselor and advocate for businessmen in
their problems with labor and government.

For the past nine years I have taught courses in union-manage-
ment relations and other phases of labor law at Northeastern Uni-

[ 442 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

versity in Boston. From time to time I have given lectures at
various colleges in New England, and have participated in radio
and I’'V round table discussions and speeches in the same general
field.

As I look back on my privace life, the marvel to me is the
way the years have slipped away. My two elder girls who, it
seems, just the other day were teasing their dad to take them on
bike rides, now are busily engaged in plans of their own and have
no time for weekend junkets with their father. I am starting to
groom Kristina as their successor, but I am afraid that by the
time she has grown enough, the old man’s legs will no longer be
equal to the strain. We live quietly in the suburbs, with our social
life consisting largely of mutual visits with congenial friends, good
conversation and moderate conviviality. My several hobbies are
an arm-chair interest in foreign policy, reading, swimming, skat-
ing, bike riding and a very dilettantish game of tennis, Until five
years ago, I played golf regularly, but suddenly and completely
lost interest in the sport. Nina and I are not “joiners” by tempera-
ment. Politically, we are ardent Democrats and fervent admirers
of Adlai Stevenson, a view which is not shared by the majority of
my partners.

WILLIAM EDWARD FOLEY

HOME Appress: 5115 Baltimore Ave., Westgate, Washington 16, D.C.

OFFICE appRESS: Dept. of Justice, Washington, D.C.

BORN: Feb. 7, 1911, Danbury, Conn. Parents: Edward Lawrence F oley,
Hertha Braun.

PREPARED aT: Danbury High School, Danbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 19323; LLB., 1935; A-M~
1939; PH.D. 1940.

MarRiED: Marguerite Mary Pratt, June 6, 1951, Washington, D.C. cHitprEN:
William Edward, Jr., Oct. 8, 1952; Christopher Pratt, Nov. 25, 19533
Anne Marguerite Hertha, April 29, 1955; Richard Braun, Oct. 5, 1956-

Occuparion: Attorney, Department of Justice; executive assistant, Internal
Security Division, Department of Justice.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; American Political Science As-
sociation; Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of Washington;
member of Bar, Massachusetts and Connecticut.

[ 443 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

EXAMINATIONS and commencement in 1932 were followed

by a very pleasant summer of travel in England and Germany.

In the fall I transferred to Langdell Hall and for the next three

years law school occupied most of my time, with the exception
of another enjoyable summer on the continent of Europe in 1934.
The summer of 1935 was spent anxiously awaiting the results
of the Massachusetts Bar exams and with work at the Boston
Legal Aid Society. After becoming a member of the Bar in
October of that year, I began work with a Boston firm and was
occupied by the usual tasks of new attorneys — answering mo-
tions and preparing briefs and memoranda. Not long thereafter
came the announcement of the opening of the School of Public
Administration in Cambridge and the idea of a government career
took hold. At first on a part time (basis) and later on a full time
basis, I began taking graduate courses and in the fall of 1940,
equipped with a Master’s and doctorate in political science, I set
out for Washington, where I still find myself.

After fifteen months in the Department of Justice, attached
to a section established to handle many of the new duties con-
nected with the national defense program, I was appointed a
lieutenant j.g. in the Naval Reserve. My Navy career, which
began with a course of indoctrination at Dartmouth, followed
the W. S. Gilbert pattern of seldom going to sea and was marked
by tours of duty in naval offices in Washington, San Diego, Lon-
don, and ultimately in the summer of 1945, Frankfurt am Main.
Most of the next several months were spent in and about Ger-
many and Austria.

The following year I returned to the Department of Justice,
first as a trial attorney in New York City, and, subsequently, as
head of the Internal Security and Foreign Agents Registration
Sections of the Criminal Division in Washington. When the
internal security activities of the Department of Justice were
centralized in a division in 1954, I became executive assistant to
the assistant attorney general in charge of the division. Although
an executive assistant is in effect the operations officer of a divi-
sion, he is also a jack-of-all trade, and so I shift my activities from
supervising the conduct of trials to matters such as publications
or speech-making or dealing with problems of personnel or
budget. In addition, I act as the attorney general’s representative

[ 444 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

on the Planning Board of the National Security Council and
during its first five years was one of the two Justice representa-
tives on the Interdepartmental Committee on Internal Security
of the Council.

Having settled down in Washington, I also ended my bachelor
status when Marguerite Pratt of Washington consented to be my
bride. We now have four active and noisy young ones to help
enliven our home, but although we live in Washington we still
call ourselves residents of Danbury, Connecticut, and spend parts
of each summer in Chocorua, New Hampshire. There have been
two pleasant postwar junkets to Europe, including a delightful
honeymoon visit to the Austrian Alps.

Despite the popular impression about the life of a civil servant,
I have found public office to be a time-consuming task. The
precious hours at home have been severely limited in the past
few years and there has been little time for community activities.
I have remained active in the Naval Reserve, now holding the
rank of a three-striper. My political activities have necessarily
been circumscribed by the restrictions on public servants. I have
been a registered Republican since 1932 and have always retained
my interest in public affairs. I still find time for the daily news-
paper but only occasionally for the theatre or a concert.

ALEXANDER COCHRANE FORBES

HOME AppREss: 640 Charles River St., Needham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cabot, Cabot & Forbes Co., 60 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 3, 1909, Needham, Mass. PARENTS: Francis Murray Forbes, ’96,
Marjorie Cochrane.

PREPARED at: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MarRiED: Irene Helen Robbins, Feb. 10, 1934, Ottawa, Ont., Canada. cHIL-
DREN: Alexandra Robbins, Jan. 30, 1936 (7. James A. S. Walker, June 23,
1956); Charles Stewart, Aug. 26, 1939; Felicity L, Sept. 15, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Murray Forbes, 727.

Occupation: Industrial and commercial real estate development.

OFFIcEs HELD: Director, United Fruit Company, Rockland Atlas National
Bank of Boston; trustee, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, Wellesley Col-
lege, Boston Y.M.C.A., Infant’s Hospital.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club; The Country Club; New Bedford Yacht Club.

[ 445 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

THE first ten years were the hardest, being occupied in New York
selling myself the idea that I was going to have to be a small frog
ina small pond.

The war was spent in the Navy in the Amphibious Force in
command of LST’s. No matter how non reg the performance,
witnessed MacArthur’s island hopping strategy at first hand, and
transported a lot of troops, gasoline, ammunition and impedimenta.

The last ten years in Boston have been the best. Picking up
with old friends and sharing some of the community responsi-
bilities. No matter how hard I tried after graduation to break
the ties that anchored me to New England, I am thankful that
wife, kids and myself agree that there is no place like home.

JOHN MURRAY FORBES

HOME ApDprEsS: Osgood Street, Andover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Consolidated Chemical Industries, Inc., Woburn, Mass.

BORN: July 14, 1910, Milton, Mass. PARENTS: Edward Waldo Forbes, ’95,
Margaret Laighton.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933. DEGREE: S8.B., 1932 (33).

JOSEPH LYNN FORISTALL

HOME AbDpRESS: 1970 Commonwealth Ave., Brighton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 200 Summer St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 4, 1908, West Newton, Mass, parents: John Joseph Foristall,
Rose Anna Lynn.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928~1929.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Arthur Foristall, 23; Thomas Mathew Foristall, ’25.

occuPATION: Associated with brother in Thomas M. Foristall Associates, a
financial public relations firm.

MEMBER OF: Woodland Golf Club.

FROM Harvard to chipping paint on the wet cold decks of an
ocean-going freighter was my initiation into the working class.

L 446 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Seven months of this and I was happy to return to a nice warm
desk job. | . |

Twenty-one years in public relations and personnel work with
Hall Baking Company, Somerville, Massachusetts, less three years
in South Dakota, California and Guam with Uncle Sam’s Air
Force, prepared me for my present occupation as Boston repre-
sentative for my brother’s firm, Thomas M. Foristall Associates,
which specializes in financial public relations.

Never having been married there are no arguments when I
want to spend all my free time at golf, though try as I do, I can’t
play to the ten handicap with which I am burdened. For the
future I plan to induce more New England firms to use our
services so that I may retire to warmer climes and work on that
hook.

ALPHONSO FRANK FORZIATI

HOME ADDRESS: 9812 Dameron Drive, Silver Spring, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Bureau of Standards, Washington 25, D.C.

BoRN: Feb, 27, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Francesco Forziati, Aida
Durazzo.

PREPARED AT: East Boston High School, East Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1932; A.M. 1934}
PH.D., 1939.

MARRIED: Florence E. Hooper, Sept. 22, 1945.

OccUPATION: Research chemist. .

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Entertainment Committee, 1951, member board of
managers, 1953-57, Chemical Society of Washington; member, Mem-
bership Committee, International Association for Dental Research,
1954-57; president, Forest Grove Citizens’ Association, 1955-56,
IIR2 (PIR Squares) Square Dance Group, 1955-56; delegate, Allied
Civic Group, 1955-57.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Washington Academy of Sciences,
American Association for the Advancement of Science; National
Geographic Society; American Dental Association; International As-
sociation for Dental Research; Coblentz Society; Alpha Chi Sigma,
IR2, Columbia Yacht Club; Forest Grove Citizens’ Association.

PusticaTions: About eighteen scientific papers in various journals.

THE war broke out shortly after my arrival in Washington.
This meant working in my laboratory from morn ’til sunset and

[ 447 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

sometimes sunrise again. Among my professional contacts was
a red-headed “professor-ess” of chemistry. We progressed from
the carbon-carbon bond to the matrimonial bond. We now
divide our time between the flowers in the backyard, photog-
raphy, a boat and occasionally a little chemistry.

+ JAMES FARQUHARSON FOSTER

BorN: March 6, 1908, Calabar, Nigeria, paReNTS: Frederick Adolphus Foster,
Frances Farquharson.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

pep: November, 1935, New York, N.Y.

i JOHN TEBBETTS FOSTER

BORN: Jan. 10, 1907, East Walpole, Mass. parents: Fred Walter Foster, Grace
Tebbetts.

PREPARED AT: Wilbraham Academy, Wilbraham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933. DEGREE: $.B., 1932 (33).

mMarrieD: Marion Richardson Smith, Nov. 23, 1934. CHILD; Patience, 1936.

piepD: Nov. 21, 1941, Boston, Mass,

AT the time of his death Foster was regional executive of the
Atlantic Refining Company. He was survived by his wife and
daughter.

SUMNER HATHERLY FOSTER

HOME aporess: 2315 Linden Drive, S.E., Cedar Rapids, Iowa.

OFFICE ApprEss: Penick & Ford Lrd., Inc., Cedar Rapids, Iowa.

BoaNn: Feb. 8, 1910, Brookline, Mass. parents: John Winthrop Foster, ’03,
Ruth Crosby Thomas.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YZARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: 8.B. IN MECH. ENG., 1032.

mannirp: Bertha Holloway Coe, June 9, 1934, Hewlett, Long Island, N.Y.
CHILDREN: Frederica, May 11, 1936; Sandra Holloway, June 22, 1939;
Irene, Dec. 12, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Plant manager, Penick & Ford Ltd., Inc., in charge of all matters
pertaining to production and maintenance.

ovricss HELD: Factory superintendent, Penick & Ford Ltd., Inc., 1948-54;

[ 448 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

communications officer, Conn. Wing, 1942-44, commander, Cedar
Rapids Squadron, 1944-47, Civil Air Patrol; president, Cedar Valley
Radio Club, 1953-55; vice-director, Midwest Division, American Radio
Relay League, 1956-57. °
MEMBER OF: Cedar Rapids Country Club; Rotary Club, A-.R.R.L.; Pickwick
Club, Cedar Rapids; Cedar Valley Radio Club.
TIME has a sly habit of slipping easily by unnoticed until one
is suddenly brought up short by the third goad! Also by the
fact that this is the week my youngest daughter became sixteen.
The others — well, the oldest graduates from college and the
middle one from high school a thousand miles apart during Re-
union next June; all of which will complicate the family attend-
ance at Reunion. I should have thought of that some twenty-one
years ago.

We've been a. fortunate and happy family these past years. Of
course it all started with Harvard graduation, followed two years
later with a wonderful marriage and then the little ones, now so
grown up. We came to Cedar Rapids, Iowa, first in 1936, re-
maining here until 1941 when we returned to Darien, Connect-
icut, for two short years. Transferred again to Cedar Rapids;
it has been our home ever since.

My business life began in August, 1932. I was employed as a
grocery products salesman by Penick and Ford Ltd., Inc., Ver-
mont Maid Syrup and Brer Rabbit Molasses, of course. After
two years at this, I was taken into the New York office as an
assistant to the division sales manager. Shortly thereafter some-
one must have heard of my Harvard education for I was sent to
Cedar Rapids to learn more about our other products and opera-

tions, ostensibly in preparation for a transfer to bulk products
sales. In the process I became interested in the factory operations
and when an opportunity arose I transferred to this field. There
followed several years of education but in this area there is no
substitute for time, hard work, and experience. Eventually in
January, 1948, I became plant superintendent in charge of pro-
duction and seven years later in March, 1955, was promoted to.
my present duties of plant manager of the Cedar Rapids opera-
‘1ons.
My present hobbies are amateur radio, golf (I’m still in the cen-

ury club at this) and woodworking. I was an ardent private

[ 449 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

lot for some twenty years but the demands of a growing family
led to the abandonment of flying in favor of other interests.

I look forward to the future and submit that the fellow who
said “life begins at forty” was not only right but very likely an
old Harvard grad of about forty-six.

JOSEPH MILTON FOX

HOME spnese: 208 Common St, Watertown 72, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 26, 1910, Watertown, Mass. PARENTS: Alexander Fox, Rose Kesle-
vitch.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

OCCUPATION: Business.

DONALD MURDOCH FRAME

HOME ADDRESS: gor W. 118th St., New York 27, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 515 Hamilton Hall, Columbia University, New York 27, N.Y.

BorN: Dec. 14, 1911, New York, N.Y. parents: James Everett Frame, ’91,
Jean Herring Loomis.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; A.M. (Columbia
Univ.), 1935; PHD. Cibid.), 1941.

MaRRIED: Katharine Mailler Wygant, June 7, 1941, . New York, N.Y.
CHILDREN: James Wygant, April 30, 1943; Donald Murdoch, Jan. 27, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Sutherland Frame, ’29; A.M., 730; PH.D., 733.

occupation: Associate professor of French, Columbia University; in charge
of undergraduate French, Columbia College, and of research in sixteenth
century French literature in the graduate faculty.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association of America; American Associa-
tion of Teachers of French; American Association of University Pro-
fessors.

puBLicaTions: Montaigne in France, 1812-1852, Columbia University Press,
1949; editor and translator, Montaigne: Selected Essays, Black, New
York, 1943; editor and translator, Selections from the Essays of
Montaigne, Crofts, New York, 1948; editor, Montaigne: Selected Works,
Harper, New York, 1953; Montaigne’s Discovery of Man, Columbia
University Press, 1955.

MY life since graduation has been largely involved with my
family and my work, which is as I like it. Two years of pre-

[ 450 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

paratory school teaching convinced me that I wanted to teach,
but to teach in a university. I came to Columbia for my graduate
work and ever since 1938 I have been teaching here.

I married later than I might have chosen, but not much later,
and most happily, in 1941. We have two boys, who after public
elementary schooling are now ready, we hope, for private school.

I don’t know what they are likely to become, but I hope it is
what they want.

For a number of years I kept up the tennis and squash racquets
that I had played in college, and I would still like to play them
more than I do. It has been largely the pressure of time that has
led me to give up squash. I have kept up the tennis, but only
occasionally, until this year, when my eligibility for senior com-
petition has led me to play a good deal, with only fair success
but great enjoyment. Money has been a pretty constant problem,
as any teacher with a family nowadays will easily understand.
For about a dozen years, from my entering into active duty in the
U.S.N.R., until a year or so ago, it has been a major one, espe-

cially because of heavy medical expenses. Lately, I am happy to
say, things have improved,

My work here has offered me, and increasingly, a happy bal-
ance of the kinds of academic employment that I like. Some is
of the minor administrative sort, some is in research and the
direction of research, some is simply teaching. A graduate course
in French literature of the sixteenth century is a stimulus to my
specialized work; an undergraduate required course for freshmen

in reading and discussion of important books in western literature
offers a very different kind of challenge and one I particularly
enjoy; and my third course, in undergraduate French, varies
between language and literature. I cannot imagine a finer or more
congenial group of colleagues, and the atmosphere is genial,
open-minded, and exciting.
At present writing I strongly suspect that I shall be doing much
the same thing for the rest of my working years. If so, "I shall
not be sorry.

[ast]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

+ STANISLAS PASCAL FRANCHOT

BORN: Sept. 25, rgr1, Niagara Falls, N.Y. PARENTS: Edward Eels Franchot,
‘oz, Harriet McKnight.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. CU72 laude, 1932.

MarrieD; Helen Brewer Meloon, Feb. 22, 1941. CHILDREN: Two sons.

pieD: July 15, 1945, New York, N.Y.

AFTER graduating from college, Franchot spent two years at
Harvard Law School and then became managing editor of Every
Week. Later he became an editor for Little, Brown & Company.
In 1942 he was a copy writer for the advertising firm of J. Walter
Thompson in New York City. He was survived by his wife and
two sons.

WALTER FRANK, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1313 Lincoln Ave., Highland Park, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS; Equitable Finance Corp., 105 W. Adams St., Chicago 3, Ill.

BorN: April 25, r910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Walter Frank, Irene Brummel.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Elaine Kahn, Oct. 19, 1935, Chicago, Ill. cumpren: Walter, 3d,
May 3, 1939; Margot Ann, Sept. 3, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Partner, Equitable Finance Corporation, commercial finance.

MEMBER OF: Down Town Club; Gin & Tennis Club.

IMMEDIATELY after graduation I attempted to apply the laws
of logic to determine my chosen field. Exploit your strength —
cover up your weakness. My worst area lay in mathematics and
finance, so I fully intended to shun anything and everything per-
taining to those fields. With the pattern firmly established I
sallied forth, only, like the rest of the Class, to run head-on into
the depression.

Like most other well laid plans, mine failed completely and
eventually, of all things, I landed a job in the automobile finance
business which proved so foreign to everything I had learned
that I was wholly enthralled. Somehow, although my family
had never boasted a banker, dealing with people and money
turned out to be so fascinating that I am still in the same field —

[452 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

though today it is commercial rather than automobile. After
becoming a vice-president and director of Merchants Acceptance
Company, the great American dream of being your own boss
gradually came to the front with the result I began all over again
this past November as an interested party in small enterprise.
Now I can work twice as hard and reap some of the reward.

In 1935, deciding the struggle would be easier if shared by two
people, I summoned up enough courage to marry. Our twenty-
first anniversary last October is a tribute to her remarkable pa-
tience and great understanding. In 1939 Walter 3d made his
appearance and was promptly tagged “Buddy.” To this day he
is not sure what his legal name really is. Two years later a bounc-
ing little girl arrived, Margot, and our lives have never since been
the same. She is a teen-ager personified, bubbling along to the
despair of her parents — yet our home has a dismal silence when
she is away.

Spare time? Recreation? There seems to be less and less of it as
the years roll on to indulge in one’s hobbies. Buddy and I have
managed to steal a weck or so from each of the last few years to
take a camping trip in the north woods. The fishing was excel-
lent — not so our cooking. When he was in grade school I spent
an enjoyable and memorable five years as scoutmaster of the school
troop. It was a rewarding experience. Tennis is still my favorite
sport, although my wife tells me that I am too old to play, with
bowling not far behind and golf a poor third.

Twenty-five years seems like a long time on looking back —
one third of my life, if ’'m lucky. Twenty-five years seems like
a short time looking ahead, because I have ideas to put into prac-
tice, things to do, places to go, and grandchildren to play with.
I'm looking forward to them.

GEORGE FRANCIS FRAZIER, JR.
SEE Appendix.

[ 453 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

DONALD KENNETH FREEDMAN

HOME ADbRESS: 8531 Buckingham Drive, El Cerrito 7, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: California State Dept. of Public Health, 2151 Berkeley
Way, Berkeley 4, Calif.

BORN: Sept. 30, 1911, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Eleazer Freedman, ’ 03, Kathryn
Eyges.

PREPARED at: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932; M.D. (Tufts Univ.), 1936;
M.P.H. (Columbia Univ.), 1947.

MARRIED: Elinor Harvey, July 30, 1938, Greenwich, Conn. CHILDREN: Peter
Eliot, May 7, 1940; Frederic Kenneth, July 12, 1942; Joan Carol, March

16, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Burrill Morse Freedman, °25; Norton Sheldon Freed-
man, 729.

occuPATION: Physician; Public Health Officer, California State Dept, of
Public Health; medical consultant to State Department of Social
Welfare.

MEMBER OF: Alameda-Contra Costa County Medical Society; California
Medical Association; American Medical Association; American Public
Health Association; Northern California Public Health Association;
American Board of Preventive Medicine; American Academy of Preven-
tive Medicine; California Conference of Social Work; National Re-
habilitation Association; Royal Society of Health, Harvard Club of
San Francisco; Alameda County Mental Health Association; Mental
Health Society of Northern California; Western Gerontological
Society; National Conference of Social Work; Alameda County
Heart Association; Herrick Memorial Hospital Staff; Association of the
Alumni of Columbia University School of Public Health and Ad-
ministrative Medicine; Family Relations Council of Northern California
(board member).

AFTER graduation from Harvard, I spent four years in medical
school followed by two years of a rotating surgical internship
at King’s County Hospital in Brooklyn. In order to get through
medical school financially, there were a number of educational
and valuable jobs, including sightseeing guide for the Royal Blue
Line Sightseeing Company of Boston, sandhogging in western
Massachusetts, waiter in the Catskills. In addition, I developed a
catering service supplying forty fraternity and sorority houses
around Boston. Sandhogging and sightseeing guide were most
interesting jobs, particularly the former, which included hazards
created by dynamiting and pick and shovel work under pressure
200 feet beneath the ground.

[ 454 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

By the time I completed my internship in Brooklyn, I began
to realize the importance of preventive medicine and public
health, having seen many preventable and needless illnesses and
deaths in the hospital. Consequently, I entered the Yale Uni-
versity School of Public Health, only to be called to Washington
several months later to work in the Social Security Board of the
Federal Security Agency. Before and during the war, I was com-
missioned in the U.S. Public Health Service where I spent five
years on public health assignments throughout the country in
war-born and war-blown communities. During four of these
years I served as a health officer in the State of Virginia, particu-
larly in the Hampton Roads area. Outbreaks of polio, menin-
gitis, food poisoning, venereal disease and diphtheria in this over-
crowded area created challenges. After this experience, I knew
that public health was the career for me. Although the Public
Health Service is a career service, and an exciting one in peace-
time as well as war, I decided to resign in order to get my Mas-
ter’s degree in Public Health at Columbia University.

In 1947, I received a Rockefeller Foundation Fellowship and
traveled the country studying hospital and medical care plans.
During this time, we lived in White Plains, New York, but de-
cided to forego this for Duluth, Minnesota. Contrary to expec-
tations, the weather was delightful despite sub-zero temperatures,
perhaps because of the wonderful sports with skiing, tobogganing
and ice skating. Located on the lake and being close to the Cana-
dian border, Duluth gave us summer sports galore. My largest
salmon were caught in Lake Superior.

During all this time, my wife, also a physician and classmate
at medical school, commenced and terminated private practice
half a dozen times. Whenever and wherever I was stationed or
transferred during these years, Elinor would fold up and reopen
her office for general practice. Every so often she would take
a few weeks off to have another baby, frequently racing with
her patients to see who would deliver first. Many is the time the
two of us spent the night doing home deliveries during the early
war years. We thought this was a thing of the past in urban
areas, but were delightfully surprised, especially during the days
of crowded hospitals, in the early forties. It’s an exciting, in-
Spiring experience having a general practitioner and pediatrician

[455 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

as a wife, especially while the children are small. Nevertheless,
we frequently used other pediatricians during illnesses of our
own children.

Eventually, in 1949, we came to California. We had had such
a hankering for years. For the past seven years, with the State
Department of Public Health, I have been involved in public
health activities throughout California, traveling extensively and
getting to know every nook and cranny intimately. As a public
health medical officer and state consultant, I have engaged in
programs for crippled children, industrial health and chronic
diseases.

Since coming to California, my wife trained four years in psy-
chiatry and conducts a full-time practice in Berkeley. She serves
on numerous boards and committees, currently being president
of the League for Emotionally Disturbed Children in Northern
California. While this naturally creates some problems, what
with my being out of town a good deal and my wife busy much
of the day, it has been rewarding to see how this could be worked
out advantageously for the children. Peter has decided to go
into medicine and he expects to enter Harvard University in 1958.
All three children are wonderful individuals with great ability.
Their activities include cross-country, drums, piano, trumpet,
public speaking, Junior Statesman of America and art. We are
proud of their accomplishments.

In our travels about the United States, we have managed to see
America at first hand. We have lived in five states and have
learned the habits and differences among people of varied cul-
tures. Many of the national and state parks are now under our
belts and we are looking forward to Canadian parks, Mexico,
Hawaii and Europe, Hobbies have been developed around music,
piano, violin, art, hiking, camping and intellectual discussions
with colleagues of a dozen disciplines. Serving on boards of
health and welfare organizations and becoming involved in com-
munity activities seems to have become another hobby. As we
engage in many of these activities ourselves, we recognize in-
creasingly the problem of involving larger proportions of the
population democratically i in community affairs.

At the present time, I serve as medical consultant to the State
Department of Social Welfare, on loan from the Department of

[ 456 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Public Health, in regard to the health and medical problems of
welfare recipients. This is rehabilitation of the disabled and the
less fortunate. It involves bringing public health concepts and
techniques into the field of public welfare as well as stimulating
coordinated activities of both disciplines. The old sociology and
psychology courses turned out to be useful after all.

JOHN LOUIS FREEMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 9 Sherman Ave., White Plains, N.Y.

OFFICE appREss: Wolf, Haldenstein, Adler & Freeman, 270 Madison Ave.,
New York 16, N.Y.

Born: April 16, 1911, New York, N.Y. parents: Charles H. Freeman, Hattie
Simson.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cu laude, 1932; LL.B. (Columbia
Univ.), 1935.

MARRIED: Josephine Wilding, Dec. 14, 1946, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
David John, Aug. 9, 1948; Elizabeth Anne, March 10, 1951; William
Simson, Dec. 29, 1952.

occupation: Attorney in general practice; member of firm of Wolf, Halden-
stein, Adler & Freeman.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, since 1940, secretary, since 1953, Jewish Child Care
Association of New York, member executive committee, since 1946,
vice-chairman, 1952, 1955, co-chairman, Westchester Division, since
1955, New York Chapter, American Jewish Committee; vice-chairman,
White Plains Human Relations Council, since 1955; member, West-
chester County Council of New York State Commission Against Dis-
crimination, 1956.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; New York City Bar Association;
New York State Bar Association; American Veterans Committee, 1946-

50.

WHETHER it was because of a burning desire to become a
lawyer I will never know, but law school seemed like an excellent
idea in the depression year of 1932. After Columbia Law School
I went to work for the law firm of which I became a partner in
1940 and where I have been ever since, except for the war years.

Those war years! On rereading our Fifteenth Anniversary
Report it appears that most of it was filled with classmates’ war
exploits. Right now it all seems extremely dim, except for that
moment on Omaha Beach on D-Day when I wondered why, out

[457]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

of eleven million or so men in the Armed Forces, J had to be just
there. But it was more than compensated for when we met up
with the Russians on the Elbe and the joy and celebration that
ensued.

Back to New York to the practice of the law, and much to
the relief of my married friends, who had despaired of me, I got —
married the following year. When our first-born was old enough
to toddle into New York traffic, we joined the “Drang nach
Suburbs” and have been living in White Plains for the past seven

ears.
” My main extracurricular activities are with children, through
the Jewish Child Care Association of New York, which cares
for dependent and neglected children in institutions and foster
homes; and in the field of intergroup relations, through such
organizations as the White Plains Human Relations Council, the
American Jewish Committee and the Westchester Council of
SCAD, the New York State Commission Against Discrimination.

My principal disappointment in life—that my children are
too young to bring to the Reunion. My principal achievement
— that I won't have to start paying for their college educations
for another eight years.

DAVID STRATTON FRENCH
SEE Appendix.

HOBERT WARD FRENCH, JR.

HOME apprEss: Supervisor Avenue, Colden, N.Y.

OFFICE AppREss: American Optical Co., Buffalo, N.Y.

BorN: Aug. 16, 1911, Chelsea, Mass. PARENTS: Hobert Ward French, Marjorie
Pierce Dutffee.

PREPARED AT: Erie Central High School, Erie Pa.; Phillips Exeter Acad-
emy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1032. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; 8.M. (Mass. Inst. of Tech-
nology), 1935; PH.D. (Univ. of Rochester), 1945.

MaraieD: Marjorie Linehan, Aug. 25, 1934. cHiLD: Deborah, Dec. 3, 1945.

occupation: Special products manager, American Optical Company, optical
instruments,

MEMBER OF: American Physical Society; Optical Society of America.

[ 458 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT RUSSELL FRENCH

HOME ADDRESS: Box 102, Honey Hill Road, Cannondale, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: J. M. Mathes, Inc., 260 Madison Ave., New York 16, N.Y.

BORN: June 10, 1908, Everett, Mass. parents: Abram French, Jemima Seeley
French.

PREPARED AT: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

MaRRiED: Elsie P. Beaumont, March 19, 1939, Princeton, N.J.

OCCUPATION: Account executive, J, M. Mathes, Inc., advertising.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

ITS something of a shock to be asked to look back over twenty-
five years, But here’s my story!

Briefly, my business career can be put this way: Teaching,
space writing for the Boston Herald-Traveler, editorial work for
The Literary Digest (remember?), public relations, advertising
copywriter, and now an account executive. You can see what
higher learning can lead to if one is not careful. The break in my
business career was caused by extensive traveling at the expense
of the U.S. Navy during World War II. This took me from
New York to Washington, D, C., to Bremerton, Washington,
thence by cruise ship (a carrier the Navy turned over to us for
free with food thrown in) to San Diego, San Pedro (shore trips
to Long Beach), Hawaii, Guam, Kwajalein, Eniwetok, Ulithi,
Peleliu, Mindanao, New Guinea, Philippines, Linguyan Gulf, Iwo
Jima, thence by airplane to Air Combat Intelligence School
(Quonset Point, Rhode Island), and then back to Washington,
D. C., and Hawaii. Most of these places and a lot of others not
mentioned will never make Holiday magazine —there’s not a
Bali Ha’i among them. |

Popular or not, thousands made this tour so one never lacked
for company. In fact, many friends were made, the friendships
now kept up by letter, so I feel that the trip was well worth while.
When the war ended, I was in Hawaii serving on board the U.S.S.
Enterprise as air intelligence officer with a night air group, and
this time we did “cruise” to New York. So much has been written
and said by others about “war experiences” that I prefer to shut
up about mine —enough is enough. Frankly, this lieutenant
commander, U.S.N.R., can truthfully make one statement in
regard to himself: “I lived through it.” (This statement is backed

[459 ]

Lae Cn TTT

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

up by campaign ribbons, battle stars, and Naval Unit Citation.)
After returning to New York there were a dozen or more moves
before we settled down in our present home in Wilton, Con-
necticut, in June, 1956. Here I am fortunately far enough away
from New York to be in the country, but unfortunately not so
far away that I am unable to get to the office by nine in the
morning. In this dream house — at least to us —I am content to
stay, but my bride of eighteen years, who in all other things is
perfect, seems to feel that I should get the hell out of my chair
and go visiting. Now, my tastes are simple, my wants few. I
have never desired to be a giant of industry, and may I add I am
not. Nor do I care to foist my ideas on others and sway the minds
of millions — it’s tough enough working out my own life. Yet
when I do get out of my chair and get to wherever we’re going,
I always seem to have a good time. So perhaps I'd best let well
enough alone.

Because of living outside of New York, I miss playing squash
during the winter at the Harvard Club where the past few years
I played on the “C” team. But occasional visits enable me to keep
up friendships with members and with John Jacob, the squash
pro, Tom Doyle, his assistant, and Harry, who has never bet on
an unsure thing. During the summer there is tennis, though
doubles seem more fun to play now. A commuter’s life is not
ideal for theatre-going, so our evenings are made up of reading,
playing the phonograph (hi-fi now), and getting to bed at a
reasonable hour so the 6:30 A.M. rising won’t seem like the
ending of the world. But weekends and summer more than make
up for anything we might have missed by leaving New York.

My nature is such that I have been reluctant to join this organi-
zation or that one. It has not changed over the years, so at this
stage of living I’ve given up on it. Therefore, my list of outside
activities — religious, political, fraternal — is limited which is an
understatement. We were married in Trinity Church, Princeton,
New Jersey, and my church-going has since been limited to
weddings and the funerals of aged relations. Politically, if party
candidates over the years can be believed, the Republicans manage
things better but haven’t had any new ideas since Lincoln, and he
had a monopoly on them. The Democrats, on the other hand, are
quick with a new deal but in their managing of it lies utter chaos,

[ 460 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

This all goes to prove —it seems to me —that the two-party
system is here to stay, so I vote sometimes Republican and some-
times Democratic.

All in all I don’t know where the last twenty-five years went to.
But here I am, after a whale of a depression, a-World War, and a
lot of little World Wars, somewhat battered but hanging on,
with a delightful companion to keep me company; so bring on
the next twenty-five years. But take it easy —all I want is for
people to be friendly.

OTTO ERNEST FUERBRINGER
SEE Appendix.

WILLIAM REA FURLONG, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 3611 Lowell St., N.W., Washington, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bowen Bldg., 815 15th St., N.W., Washington, D.C.

BORN: Oct. 18, 1911, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: William Rea Furlong, Cora
Glover.

PREPARED AT: Coronado High School, Coronado, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; LL.B. 1935.

OCCUPATION: Law.

DAVID ALLEN FUSS

HOME ADDRESS: 2800 Quebec St., N.W., Washington, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 244 Senate Office Bldg., Washington, D.C.

BoRN: Aug. 5, 1911, Pittsburgh, Pa. Parents: Jacob Abraham Fuss, Dora
Robbins.

PREPARED AT: Schenley High School, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932; LLB.
1935 (36).

MarrieD: Martha Jane Keffer, Dec. 16, 1954, Washington, D.C,

Occupation: Lawyer; executive secretary to Senator James H. Duff of
Pennsylvania.

OFFicks HELD: Law secretary, Superior Court of Pennsylvania, 1937-43;
Deputy Attorney General, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, 1943, 1945-

[ 461 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

523 chairman, Attorneys Section, National Association of Tax Ad-
ministrators, 1949.
MEMBER OF: Member of the Bar, Pennsylvania and District of Columbia;
Allegheny County Bar Association; Pennsylvania Bar Association.
PUBLICATIONS: “Doing Business in Pennsylvania, ” 1948; “The United States
Supreme Court and State Taxation,” 9ST . .

IT was not easy to get a job in the summer of 1932 and so I
went to the Law School, Armed with my college degree I
crossed Cambridge Street in the fall of the same year and pre-
pared to wage the battle of the law books. For three years the
struggle for my second degree continued and when it was finally
over, ] returned to my home town, Pittsburgh, to prepare for
formal admission to the Bar of Pennsylvania.

The lean years of the early thirties had not improved greatly
by the middle of the decade. I accepted an appointment as a
law secretary to the Superior Court of Pennsylvania. From this
vantage point the paper cases of the Law School became very
much alive. They were now recognizable as the finished products
of grueling trials, earnest argument and carefully fashioned briefs
struggling for recognition in the continuous development of
American jurisprudence. I had planned to stay for one year but
resigned after five to enter another branch of the Government.

In the early part of 1943, I accepted an appointment as a
Deputy Attorney General in the Department of Justice of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Following the earlier quasi-
judicial experience, the opportunity for functioning in the execu-
tive branch of the government was attractively presented, After
a few short months I obtained a leave of absence to join the Navy.

Apparently that branch of the military service decided that my
education had been somewhat neglected in certain important
respects, and proceeded to fill in the gaps by sending me to two
or three service schools. Properly indoctrinated I was finally
assigned to Military Government and shipped out to the Marshall
Islands in the mid-Pacific. .

The experience in the islands is a story in itself. Briefly stated,
my duties involved the instruction, guidance and orientation of
selected islanders of both sexes. The curriculum was designed
to be roughly equivalent to the standard elementary public
school courses. When graduated, the students were presumably

[ 462 ]

. 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

prepared to assume duties as native island-teachers, interpreters
and scouts for our armed forces. Today, I understand, many
hold responsible positions in the United Nations Trust Territory
of the Marshall Islands. This report has come to me only a few
months ago from the personal account of a former student pres-
ently attending an American College, and who, it may be noted,
will be the first islander to obtain an American university degree.

At the end of World War II, I returned to the Department of
Justice and began earnestly to carry on the duties of a State’s
attorney. I was assigned as adviser to the State Department of
Revenue, and to membership on the Board of Finance and Rev-
enue as personal representative of the Attorney General. Litiga-
tion and legislation consumed the next six years.

In the early part of 1952, I was requested to come to Wash-
ington, D.C., as executive secretary to Senator James H. Duff
of Pennsylvania. It is here that I have spent the last five years in
the course of which I renewed my acquaintance with the young
lady of my choice, Marthajane Keffer from Harrisburg, Pennsy]-
vania, and we were married two years ago.

This account I hope to continue when our next Class Report
is due, Until then, in a phrase I have heard so frequently on the
floor of the United States Senate, “I yield.”

PALMER HOWARD FUTCHER

HOME AppREss: 580 W. University Pkwy., Baltimore 10, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore 5, Md.

BORN: Sept. 13, 1910, Baltimore, Md. PARENTs: Thomas Barnes Futcher,
Gwendolen Marjorie Howard.

PREPARED aT: Gilman School, Baltimore, Md.; Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932; M.D.
(Johns Hopkins Univ.), 1936.

MarRiepD: Mary Viola Rightor, Nov. 21, 1942, Helena, Ark. cHILDREN:
Marjorie Rightor, Jan. 29, 1945; Jane Pillow, Feb. 27, 1947.

OccuPATION: Physician, s specializing 1 in internal medicine; physician-in-charge,
Private Outpatient Service, Johns Hopkins Hospital.

OFFIcEs HELD: Resident in medicine, Johns Hopkins Hospital, 1941; assistant
professor of medicine, Washington University School of Medicine,
1946-48; associate professor of medicine, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, since 1948; trustee, Robert Garrett Hospital;

[ 463 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

president, Tudor and Stuart Club of Johns Hopkins University, 1950-51,
Harvard Club of Maryland, 1952-54; member, National Executive
Council, United World Federalists, 1955-57; member of board, Planned
Parenthood Association of Baltimore, 1956; member executive commit-
tee, Johns Hopkins Alumni Association, 1956.

MEMBER OF: American Society for Clinical Investigation; Central Society for
Clinical Research; Harvey Society; American Association for the
United Nations; Bachelors Cotillion.

pusLications: “Giants and Dwarfs,” Harvard University Press, 1933, con-
tributions to Armed Services and scientific publications on U.S. Naval,
clinical, physiological and educational subjects.

THE clothes tree on which I’ve hung the vestments of the last
twenty-five years is something like this: Medical School, intern-
ship and residency at Johns Hopkins, research in the Medical
Corps of the Navy during the war years, and medical school posts
at Washington University in St. Louis and more recently at Johns
Hopkins in my home port of Baltimore. Along the line, as a
flight surgeon I flew to Yellow Perils (all of sixteen hours of solo
time) in Pensacola and met my wife at that same Gulf Coast
resort through her brother-in-law, Frederick B. Lee, Harvard ’29.
Dick Leonard, Harvard ’33, was persuaded to stop shooting ducks
in Arkansas long enough to serve as an usher at our wedding,
elsewhere in that Land of Opportunity, in November, 1942.

I had served the years 1939 through 1941 in training in clinical
and physiological research under Donald D. Van Slyke at the
hospital of the Rockefeller Institute on the East River in New
York. This experience, tempered by the constant traffic of gray-
hulled and life-raft peppered war-time merchantmen past my
windows there, and by a longstanding interest in (very) small
boats, led me into the field of Navy survival equipment in 1942
and after. My interest was shared by many civilians and service
investigators of the requirements of survivors of disasters at sea;
among these investigators was our classmate Nate Talbot. I in-
terested myself particularly in supplying survivors on life rafts
with devices and techniques to provide or conserve water and
food. By crafty management, my small boat proclivities were
indulged by attending three life-raft sitting experiments without
having to do the sitting myself. During the balance of my war-
time career I was concerned with these and other Navy problems
from the vantage point of the Naval Medical Research Institute

[ 464 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in Bethesda and of chairs in Navy Bureaus along the Potomac.

Post-war, Harry A. Schroeder, Yale ’29, my contemporary at
the Rockefeller Hospital and in Navy Research, and myself took
a U.S. Public Health research grant to Barry Wood’s Department
of Medicine at Washington University in St. Louis, where we
studied various problems, high blood pressure in particular. After
two pleasant years, I returned to Baltimore and the Johns Hop-
kins, convinced that the direct care of patients was more my
forte than was physiological or clinical research.

Since 1948, in Baltimore, I have had an opportunity to partici-
pate in the operation of a clinic for private outpatients in the
environment of a teaching hospital. There I have enjoyed daily
stimulation from the performance of diagnostic studies and from
the care of patients. The medley of influences upon techniques
of patient care in a university hospital, and the recurring reviews
of the contribution to be made by the care of private patients
to the economic stability of a medical school, have guaranteed
me an interesting time of it. A concomitant and rewarding
experience has been my intimate sharing in the postgraduate
medical education of twenty-six physicians, now spread from San
Francisco to Boston, and from Montreal to Ciudad Trujillo.

My wife, Sis, has seen to it that my leisure time has been no
less interesting than my office hours. Her formal experience as
a professional social worker, plus her heritage of southern socia-
bility, has given her an opportunity to fill her days with various
operations in the community, the daily recounting of which con-
tributes to the usual din of a family supper table.

Some of my spare time since 1948 has been given to the task
of educating the people of our country as to the need for sub-
stitution of world law for force in the settlement of international
disputes. To this end, through the medium of the United World
Federalists, I have worked for such objectives as strengthening
the United Nations through the revision of its charter, and effec-
tive multilateral disarmament, As I write this in early November
1956, the recent events in Central Europe and the Middle East
highlight the urgency of the need for techniques for the peaceful
settlement of disputes.

Summer vacations usually see us on the New Hampshire coast,
where a friend’s sailing dory, watching shorebirds, and golf and

[ 465 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

tennis keep me very happy. My secret yearning for a try at
sailplaning I never expect to indulge.

With hopeful anticipation I watch for evidence that man can
develop his valuable religious heritage into a form which can
continue to provide the emotional support which he so needs.
At present the creeds of religion and the teachings of science so
conflict that the problem remains unsolved.

The two transporters of Futcher genes to future generations
pleasantly broaden my experience with the ways of the female
of the species and also my familiarity with its school and college
catalogues. I hope that the female college classes of 1932 every-
where are fattening up scholarships for availability in about ten
years —and that Marjorie and Jane are doing their homework
tonight so they can have a crack at them.

GODOFREDO MANUEL GAETAN

HOME AppRESS: De Diego Ave. 318, Santurce, Puerto Rico.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bouret Bldg., San Juan, Puerto Rico.

BorN: March 17, 1912, San Juan, Puerto Rico. PareENTs: Manuel Gaetan,
Sara Roberts.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, San Juan, Puerto Rico.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1032. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

marriED: Belen Ramos Barbé.

HARVARD BROTHER: Libertad R. Gaetan, °28, M.D., °32 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

OFFicEs HELD: Member of faculty, University of Puerto Rico, 1937-42.

MEMBER OF: Colegio de Abogados de Puerto Rico; Federal Bar Association;
Asociacion Deportiva de San Juan.

PUBLICATIONS: Right of Privacy; Jury Trials in Puerto Rico.

VERY little of general interest has happened to me since my
Cambridge days. :

THOMAS FRANKLIN GALT, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 11 Riverside Drive, New York 23, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: T. Y. Crowell Co., New York 16, N.Y.

BORN: July 29, 1908, Wequetonsing, Mich. parents: Thomas Franklin Galt,
Clarace Goldner Eaton,

[ 466 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927, 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Florella Putnam Craw, Dec. 12. 1929, Boston, Mass.

occuPATION: Writer of books for juvenile readers under pen name of Tom
Galt.

puBLicaTions: Volcano; How The United Nations Works; Peter Zenger,
Fighter For Freedom, The Story of Peace and War, The Rise of the
Thunderer; Seven Days From Sunday.

WHEN I graduated I headed for New York, the city of op-
portunity — but was slow in finding the can opener with which
to open the plum. The combination of an inherited income and
an ambition to write the Great American novel can inhibit real
action.

At last a friend dragged me into school teaching. For eight
years I taught ethics at the Ethical Culture School at Fieldston.
Perhaps more important, I also ran the library in the lower school.
The children taught me that most juvenile books were a bit
empty, and my ambition became more sober: simply to write
juvenile books so full of facts that they would not waste any
reader’s time. I also raised a battle cry for a direct, literate style
— against either mobocratic on the one hand or “distinguished”
on the other. The result has amazed me. My editor crows and
asks for more, Critics cheer. Libraries (and many others) buy.
And two of my books have been translated into fourteen lan-
guages.

You ask about my convictions. In the war I never found out
whether I was a conscientious objector. My draft board classified
me (correctly) as a minister-in-training. So I still don’t know.
In politics ’'m for freedom against any totalitarianisms; I’m no
devotee of any party but tend to liberalism, believing above all
in free opportunity for all persons (I mean all persons), only
mental defectives excepted.

My religion I invented myself. As an undergraduate I thought
it original. Later I found it all over the place in books and en-
cyclopedias, if not always in just the form in which I might
express it. Call it the (really important) American belief in Prog-
ress. Try applying that belief to the way you treat your neighbor
and see what happens.

In 1945 I retired from school teaching and began writing. My

[ 467 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

wife and I studied Spanish, spent three summers in Mexico;
studied French, made five trips to Europe; studied a few other
languages and flew around the world, making long stops on the
way. (I’m after my travel agent now for more tickets.)

FREDERICK MATHER GANNON
SEE Appendix.

PAUL PORTER GATES

HOME ADDRESS: Central Street, West Acton, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 25, 1908, Acton, Mass. PARENTS: Emerick Paul Gates, Nellie
Porter.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence Academy, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1936.

OCCUPATION: Medicine.

+ JAMES HARVEY GAUL

BoRN: May 17, 1911, Pittsburgh, Pa. pARENT;: Harvey Bartlett Gaul, Harriet
Avery.

TRANSFERRED FROM: University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREES: S.B., 1932; A.M., 1938; PH.D., 1940.

pDiED: January, 1945, near Linz, Austria.

GAUL taught anthropology at Brooklyn College and served
with the State Department before entering the Navy. He became
a Naval Intelligence officer in 1941, served in the Middle East, and
joined the O.S.S. in 1944. He was executed by a firing squad at a
concentration camp near Linz, Austria, in January, 1945. He
was posthumously awarded the Czech War Cross and the Dis-
tinguished Service Cross.

[ 468 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM OTIS GAY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 435 E. 52d St.. New York 22, N.Y.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Blyth & Co, Inc., 14 Wall St., New York, N.Y.

BORN: June 24, 1909, Nahant, Mass. pareENTS: William Otis Gay, Ann
Dumaresa.

PREPARED AT: Salisbury School, Salisbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1032. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

DONALD KELTON GERRY

HOME ADpREss: 74 Seminary Hill Rd., Simsbury, Conn.

OFFICE appress: Pratt & Whimey Division, United Aircraft Corp, East
Hartford, Conn.

BORN: Jan. 8, 1905, Somerville, Mass. PARENTS: Edward Everett Gerry, Maud
Tone Kelton.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, South Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: $.B., 1932.

MaraieD: Jennie E. Crampton. 1934, Winchester, Mass, (died August, 1945);
Betty A. McCarthy, 1948, Hartford, Conn, cHitpren: Edward E., 1935;
Donald Kelton, Jr., 1936; Peter C., 1938; William D., 1945; Thomas C.,
1950; Elaine, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Personnel Department, Pratt & Whitney Division, United Air-
craft Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Connecticut.

DURING the ’30’s, I worked for the Universal Credit Company
in Boston and Portland, Maine. I married Jennie Crampton of
Mattapoisett, Massachusetts, and had three sons, Edward and
Donald, Jr.. who are now on sea duty with the United States
Navy and Peter, who is in the Air Force. In the ’go’s, I sold for
the United States Rubber Company and then joined the Pratt
and Whitney Division of the United Aircraft where I worked as
a test inspector before transferring to the personnel department.
Work such as preparing briefs in answer to employee grievances,
writing job descriptions, employee ratings, promotions and other
phases of personnel work has kept me busy up to the present
time. A fourth son, William, was born in 1945, at which time
I lost my first wife. Three years later, I married Betty McCarthy
of Hartford, Connecticut, and we have had two children,
Thomas, born in 1950 and Elaine, born in 1955. Elaine was born

[ 469 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

on Peter's birthday and I am not sure that he considered her an
ideal birthday gift at the time. Most of our vacations have been
spent at Chatham on Cape Cod, but we did backslide and go to
Vermont one year.

STANLEY GERSON

HOME ADDRESS: 570 Park Ave., Paterson 4. N.J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 297 E. 35th St., Paterson 4, N.J.

BORN: May 7, 1911, New York, N.Y. Parents: Bernard Gerson, Julie C.
Sprinz.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932; M.D. (Long Island Coll. of
Medicine), 1936. .

marriED: Dora Joelson, Mp., Aug. 24, 1947, Paterson, N.J. CHILDREN: Ben-
jamin Howard, Oct. 26, 1948; Bernita Claudia, Oct. 17, 1951.

occuPATION: Urologist; in charge of Urology Department, Barnert Memorial
Hospital, Paterson, N.].

OFFICES HELD: Assistant visiting urologist, Sydenham Hospital, New York
City; post surgeon, 1952-56, state surgeon. 1955-56, Jewish War Veterans;
president, Craftsmen’s Club, Humboldt Lodge, 1956.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Urology (diplomate) ; American College of
Surgeons (fellow); American Medical Association; Passaic County.
Medical Society; New Jersey State Medical Society; American Urologi-
cal Association, New Jersey Academy of Medicine; Humboldt Lodge
114, F. & A.M.; Jewish War Veterans of U.S.; Harvard Club of New
Jersey.

PuBLicaTions; “Management of Lower Nephron Nephross? Journal of the
Medical Society of New Jersey, 1950.

I WAS saved many of the problems of our depression by spend-
ing the prewar yedrs in medical school, internship and residency
in preparation for the practice of urology. As the years passed,
I thought I'd never complete the preparation. My training was
interrupted by World War Il, and in 1941 I entered the Army
Medical Corps as a first lieutenant from the Reserves. ‘The only
pleasure this brought was the fact that I was finally being paid
a living wage. My tour of duty was conspicuous by its absence
of medical education but, on looking backward, I was more than
repaid by the experiences I had. Or should I have said “experi-
ence?” It was especially important for one who had led a com-
paratively protected life prior to the War. After the invasion of

[ 470 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Africa I had a particularly ridiculous assignment that had me
crossing the Atlantic as frequently as if I had been in the Navy.
But they say that travel broadens one. I eventually received my
captaincy. It was finally over, and back to hospitals I went to
finish my training to be a urologist. I eventually opened an office
in Paterson in 1947. .

This occurred a few months following my marriage to my first
love, whom I had met in (of all places!) Harvard Summer School
in 1930. I never was the impetuous type! She is still practising
medicine in addition to being a busy wife and mother. Naturally,
our children are young, but Benjy is already certain that he does
not want to be a physician.

I have had the usual difficulties of starting a specialty practice
and making a place for myself in a strange community. I have
received the customary medical degrees and specialty board ap-
proval and, as the years pass, success comes nearer. I’ve joined
various community organizations, have become an officer in some
of them and have trouble finding an evening to relax, since there
are too many meetings to attend. Though I’ve played the piano
since childhood and Dora and I enjoy all types of musical enter-
tainment, we’ve been too busy with medicine and a growing
household to have as much fun as we’d like.

My Harvard Club meetings and the Alumni Bulletin keep me
in touch with the University and my first. ambition for my son
is that he should enter Harvard. He isn’t sold on it yet. Our
daughter isn’t even interested, since she is still in kindergarten.
In retrospect, I’ve realized that Harvard gives the best education
obtainable anywhere and I think it’s a shame that some of us may
have been too young to have appreciated it fully while there. I
am a part of our Jewish community and am a member of the
Reformed Temple. It is umportant to “belong” so that one’s
children do not become confused, Politically, ’m independent,
but for the last two elections I’ve been pro-Republican. Who
knows how long that will last?

Here’s to the Fiftieth Reunion.

[471]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

PETER GEORGE GEURAS

HOME ADoRESS: 101 Sunnyside Ave, Winthrop, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 262 Washington St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: May 1, 1907. Vassara, Sparta, Greece. PARENTS: George S. Geuras,
Mango Condakes.

PREPARED AT: East Boston High School, East Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. cit laude, 1932.

MiarrieD: Theodora Benos, March 3, 1940, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: George
Peter, March 5, 1941; Dean John P., Aug. 19, 1945.

OccUPATION: Attormey at Law.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association.

SINCE 1937 I have been practising law in Boston. Of late, the
practice seems fairly successful. I have been in Europe twice
since graduation. In 1938 I spent eight months in Greece.

Looking back to the years of 1928-32, I feel very happy and
very fortunate I spent them at Harvard. I hope that my two
sons will also be so fortunate. Is it possible that twenty-five years
have elapsed since 1932?

JOHN THAXTER GHIORSE

HOME ADDRESS: 27 Beechwood Rd., East Braintree 84, Mass.

orFice appress: Weymouth High School, Middle Street, East Weymouth 89,
Mass.

BORN: Jan. 5, 1912, Weymouth, Mass. parents: John Augustus Ghiorse,
Charlotte Alma Cushing.

PrepareD AT: Weymouth High School, East Weymouth, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1932 (33); ED.M. (Calvin
Coolidge Coll.), 1956.

magmieD: Ruth Alice Winkler, May 14, 1938, Weymouth, Mass, CHILDREN:
John Thaxter, Jr. May 6, 1939; William Cushing, Dec. 3, 1940; George
Cone, June 13, 1943, Lois Alma, Aug. 17. 1944, Marilyn Edith, Dec. 30,
1945; Peter Winkler, May 9, 1948, Elizabeth Marie, June 24, 1949;
Richard Domenic, Feb. 17, 1955.

occupaTion: Science and mathematics teacher, Weymouth High School;
free lance news photographer for Quincy Patriot Ledger.

ovruwss HELD: Secretary, South Shore Camera Club, 1940-46; Weymouth
Lions Club, 1942-45, supervisor, Weymouth Playgrounds, 1940-46;
vice-president, 1944, president, 1947, Weymouth Teachers Association.

Mamata oF: Quincy Harvard Club (charter member); Braintree Yacht
Club, Braintree Reporters and Photographers, Wessagussett Camera

(472 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Club; Amateur Telescope Makers of Boston; Aquinas League; Sacred
Heart Church Choir, Knights of Columbus, Model Flyers Associates;
Civil Air Patrol, Weymouth Band; Massachusetts Teachers Federation,
Norfolk County Teachers; National Education Association, Brainwey

Players; Clapp Memorial Association, Civil Defense, Troop 11, Wey-
mouth Troop Committee.

PUBLICATIONS: Massachusetts winner in National Fssay Contest for secondary
school teacher in observance of the Fiftieth Anniversary of the Wright
Brothers first powered flight, December 17, 1953; many thousands of
news and feature photographs, some of which (e.g. New England
hurricanes and floods) have been circulated nationwide by wire services
and magazines; songs for Weymouth High School: “Fight! Maroon and

Gold!” 1939, “Cross of Gray,” 1939; “Golden Victory,” 1942; “Zoom,
Zoom, and Touchdown,” 1956.

FOR many years now I have been opening my right eye at six-
thirty A.M. This habit enables me to make a shrewd appraisal
concerning (1) my whereabouts, (2) the state of the weather,
(3) the general condition of the Ghiorse household. It has the
advantage of requiring little effort and almost no commitment on
my fart.
Across the bedroom, standing in his crib sucking his thumb, is
Richard. He is the latest of a long line of Ghiorses, who have
held down this post of right eye watcher. Richard catches the
signal and passes the word. By eight-thirty my wife, Ruth, has
been kissed goodbye by me and her seven other children (other
than Richard) as we go off to school. The busy routine of Wey-
nouth High School allows me to come up for air for twenty
ninutes at noon. My bell-hopping stops at three when I am free
‘0 leave the school for home. Then I relax with my gang till I
eave on evening picture snapping assignments. This is the part
f the day that I treasure. My evening work takes me far and
vide, generally in the South Shore area. I am back home by
=n-thirty and process my stuff in my home dark room before
alling it a day with Steve Allen. Weekends and vacations are
other thing entirely.
Over the years I have been developing two skills by daily prac-

ce: (1) conducting a class, (2) snapping a picture. Both skills
ave elements of science in them in their basic aspects, However,
th afford me considerable opportunity for self-expression.
nd, in addition, as I get more proficient in the mechanics of

[ 473 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

een at

these skills, I become aware that each has some genuinely soul-
satisfying ingredients of an art.

Classroom. work becomes more and more attractive to me as
the years go by, and they certainly are going by! I like high
school age boys and girls. I find it easy to understand them and
their ways. This must enable them to understand me also, for
over the past twenty-three years we have worked together amica-
bly and effectively in the narrow confines of the classroom. And,
now, the children of my former pupils are coming along, whole-
some, alert, fair-minded — somewhat different from their parents
in their outlook on life, and yet so very much the same, Indeed
the gratifications experienced by a teacher are many, and the
disappointments are few.

Probably the better aspects of teaching school have been played
up too strongly. The teacher is in a peculiar position. There
can be strong tensions which can disturb him as he plies his craft
with the children. Physical, emotional, economic, and political
considerations sometimes produce conflicts and strains which can
be counteracted only by the loftiest idealism or a mild sense of
humor, both of which are natural by-products of four years at
Harvard College.

FRANK GILCHRIST

HOME ADDRESS: 22 Meadowbank Rd., Old Greenwich, Conn. -

OFFICE appRrEss: Johns-Manville Corp., 22 E. goth St., New York 16, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 20, 1911, Plainfield, N.J. parents: Frank H. Gilchrist, Mary Eva
Chandler. |

PREPARED AT: New Trier High School, Winnetka, IIl.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. summa cum laude, 1932.

MarrieD: Helen Virginia Hurd, Feb. 10, 1940, Roanoke, Va. cup: Alan
Byrd, Sept. 26, 1940.

OccUPATION: Assistant staff manager, Public Relations Department, Johns-
Manville Corporation, manufacturers of building materials, insulations
and allied industrial products.

MEMBER OF: Kappa Sigma; Phi Beta Kappa (Harvard); Rocky Point Club,
Old Greenwich, Conn.; Yacht Racing Association of Long Island
Sound; United States Power Squadrons.

THE full impact of 1932’s depression did not hit me until 1933,
thanks to nearly a year of travel in Bermuda, Western Europe,

L 474 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

North Africa and the Near East. But when it did hit, it was none
the less severe. My first job, in the fall of 1933, was on a weekly
newspaper in Bronxville, New York, with promised salary of
$0.00 a week. But the publisher was kind-hearted enough to
present me with five dollars at the end of the first week. By the
end of twelve months, this had snowballed to twenty-five dollars.

Then followed four years of public relations and sales promo-
tion of nitrate fertilizer with the Chilean Nitrate Educational
Bureau of New York. Then came a short-lived stab at free-lance
fiction writing. From 1939 to 1942 there was a year and a half
of peddling building materials and a year and a half of advertising
with The Flintkote Company. The peddling took place in Roa-
noke, Virginia, and lasted just long enough for me to find and
marry a Roanoke girl.

Since 1942 it has been public relations with Johns-Manville
Corporation with seldom a dull moment. At the start a spell of
editing the employee magazine —then moving on to broader
public relations activities — with a surprising diversity which can
range from preparing annual reports to stockholders to sitting
out a seven-month strike in a Johns-Manville plant community
in California.

Away from business, a large part of my time is put into keeping
in repair a middle-aged house acquired in 1948. This task is not
made easier by the hurricanes of the past few years, which have
deposited up to four feet of Long Island Sound in our yard and
basement with distressing regularity. It may be fun to watch
kids paddle past the front door or dive off the back porch — but
oh, the clean-up!

As our son has come along in years there have been the usual
associated activities Boy Scout Troop Committee work (the
little monsters run you ragged in the woods at midnight) — more
recently, Race Committee work in our nearby sailing club (some-
how kids in small sailboats seem mostly to behave, but beware
of those outboards! ).

And now it’s time to think about college for the boy. “The
wheel is come full circle.”

[ 475]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

ALDEN COLGATE GILCREAST

HOME AppRESS: 3815 Market St., San Francisco 14, Calif.

OFFIcE apprEss: % Bechtel Corp., 220 Bush St., San Francisco, Calif.

BORN: Oct. 15, 1910, Somerville, Mass. PARENTS: John Ellsworth Gilcreast,
Florence A. Colgate.

PREPARED AT: Lexington High School, Lexington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932.

MarRIED: Ruth Amy Ryan, May 28, 1931, Portsmouth, N.H. cuitp: Ann
Marceau, Aug. 12, 1933 (72. Robert Content, June 16, 1956).

HARVARD BROTHER: Cleveland Gilcreast, ’30, M.B.A., 732.

occupation: Material control designer, Bechtel Corporation, engineers and
contractors.

AFTER college: Ten years as salesman for S. S. Pierce Com-
pany; five years as officer in U.S. Navy Supply Corps with duty
in Algiers, New York and San Francisco; six years with Trans-
Arabian Pipe Line Company, during construction and early
operation, working in material handling, including three years
living in Beirut, Lebanon, affording excellent opportunity for
extensive Middle East traveling; three years as material control
designer for West Coast construction company specializing in
refinery and chemical plant design and construction.

JOHN GLANVILLE GILL, JR.

HOME apprESS: 524 N.C St., Tacoma 3, Wash.

BORN: Nov. 22, 1909, Louisville, Ky, parents: John Glanville Gill, Helen
Chenoweth Stites.

PREPARED AT: St. Christopher’s School, Richmond, Va.; Boys’ High School,
Louisville. Ky.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREES: A.B. (Univ. of Wisconsin), 1936
(Hon.); s.r, (Union Theological Seminary), 1940; PH.D. (Harvard
Univ.), 1947.

MARRIED: Evalyn Ruth Pierpoint, Nov. 10, 1943, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Nancy Pierpoint, Sept. 13, 1946; Mary Louise, July 31, 1950.

OccUPATION: Unitarian minister; presently engaged in writing a biographical
study.

OFFICES HELD: Minister, First Congregational Society (Unitarian), Grafton,
Mass., 1940-41, Second Parish, Hingham, 1942-43, First Unitarian
Church, Alton, Ill., 1944-50, First Unitarian Church, Tacoma, 1951-55;
member, National Executive Committee, Unitarian Ministerial Associa-
tion, 1946-50; member editorial board, The Journal of Liberal Religion,

[ 476 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1947-50; secretary-treasurer, Alton Ministerial Association, 1950; mem-
ber, State Board, 1955; president, Tacoma Chapter, 1956, American
Civil Liberties Union; vice-president, Tacoma North End Shakespeare
Club.

MEMBER OF: American Council of Learned Societies (fellow); American
Philosophical Association; American Association for the Advancement
of Science; Alton Ministerial Association; Tacoma North End Shake-
speare Club, The Mountaineers.

PUBLICATIONS: Poems in Poetry, 1933, two poems in Poetry out of Wiscon-
sin, “The Meaning of Freedom in Christianity Today,” Christian
Register; “Alton Secedes from the Union,” The Humanist, 1951, No. 1.

LIKE the rest of our classmates freshman year, I looked about
me knowing that more than half of us would not graduate; but
I was sure that this meant the other fellow. I worked on the
McKim Garrison poetry contest along with J, R. Agee and we
both won honorable mention—then the muses took him for
their own!

Along about 1929-30 came the depression. Remember? I
felt the pull of the tide and went to work in a steel mill in
Youngstown, swearing that I would come back and finish at
Harvard. This I did, though not the way I planned.

After the Youngstown experience and a bit of beating around,
I published a poem in Poetry magazine while Harriet Monroe
was still editor of it, and two in a small anthology, then entered
the University of Wisconsin, concentrating in philosophy and
writing my honors thesis under Alexander Meiklejohn on the
ideas of Liberty and Equality in Thomas Jefferson. From Wis-
consin, I went on to the Union Theological Seminary in New York,
studying philosophy of religion and turning out a tome on U.S.
War Plans from the Point of View of Christian Ethics. Needless
to say, it wasn’t best seller material.

I became a Unitarian minister and moved to Massachusetts.
Of course I seized the opportunity to return to Harvard. I served
churches in Grafton and Hingham and completed my residence
for a doctorate in 1943. The thesis was accepted in 1946, after
I had moved to Ulinois. From 1944 to 1950 I was minister in
Alton and also editor in charge of book reviews on the Journal
of Liberal Religion.

In 1943 I met Evalyn Pierpoint in New York. We were mar-
tied that fall and lived for six months in Cambridge. She is a

[ 477]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

violinist and artist as well as a literature major. We made the
Alton Unitarian Church a sort of community center with the
civic orchestra meeting there, organizing an art guild and for a
while even putting out a small magazine. Two young artists and
prospective musicians, Nancy and Mary Louise, joined us in 1946
and 1950.

We left Alton in a bit of a furor. At the time there was segre-
gation in many schools in southern Illinois, and the Negroes
undertook to end it. There was a revival of the Ku Klux Klan
and we found ourselves involved, along with some other ministers
and leaders of the Parent-Teachers, in trying to prevent an out-
break of violence. Taking part in that scrap was not the key to
popularity in a small town and I eventually had to move. The
story was written up in Time, January 22, 1951.

Since 1951 we have been living in Tacoma, except for a six
months’ trip to Europe. I was minister of the Unitarian Church
here until 1955. Since then I have been working on a biography
of Elijah P. Lovejoy —a forerunner in the freedom of the press
struggle who lived in Alton. I hope to have the book 1 in the press
well before Reunion time.

I am chairman of the local branch of the Civil Liberties Union,
a member of the Mountaineers doing a bit of climbing in the
mountains which surround us here, and I like to fish for trout.
Evalyn goes on with her art and music. Nancy is in the fifth
grade, Mary Louise in the first —if they are not so large as the
children of some of my classmates, they will also stay young
longer.

CHARLES THOMAS GILLESPIE _
SEE Appendix.

FRANCIS JOSEPH GILLIGAN

LAST KNOWN ADDpRESS: Baldwin Road, Billerica, Mass.
BORN: Sept. 26, 1906, West Newton, Mass. parents: John G. Giligen, Ellen
Dillon.

[ 478 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1032. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

GILLIGAN has been carried as a “lost” man on our records
since 1954.

ARTHUR GILMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 23802 Roman Ave., Wilmington, Calif.

porn: March 2, 1911, Hackensack, N.J. parents: Arthur Scott Gilman, Anne
Drown.

prepare aT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929,

occuPATION; Publishing.

KARL GILMAN

HOME apprEss; 611 E. Second Ave., Roselle, N.J.

OFFICE Apress: American Cyanamid Corp., Bound Brook, N.J.

BorN: March 22, 191t, Plainfield, N.J. parents: Charles Gilman, ’o4, Alva
Howe Story.

PREPARED AT: Plainfield High School, Plainfield, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

UN MARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Roger Howe Gilman, '36.

OccuPATION: Pipefitter, American Cyanamid Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Raritan Yacht Club, Perth Amboy, N.]J.

AFTER leaving college I went to work as a machinist in the
Motive Power Department of the Central Railroad of New
Jersey. After spending seven years on that job I started going
to sea in the engine room on merchant ships, getting an engineer’s
license in 1943. After the war I worked as a machinist with the
South Pacific Railroad and then went to sea again from 1947 to
1949. In 1950 I went to work as a pipefitter with the American
Cyanamid Corporation.

[ 479 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

WILLIAM HENRY GILMAN

HOME appress: 16 Arnold Pk., Rochester 7, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of English, University of Rochester, Rochester 20, N.Y.

BORN: Aug. 9, 1911, Boston, Mass. pareNTs: William Lynch Francis Gilman,
’95, Frances L. Marden.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931, 1932-1933. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932 (33);
a.m. (George Washington Univ.), 1943; PH.D. (Yale Univ.), 1948.

marrieD: Barbara Benson, July 27, 1938, Wellesley, Mass, (died July 21,
1940); Margaret Cox Reilly, June 26, 1943, Albany, N.Y. cHILpRgn:
Barbara, June 4, 1940; Christopher, Nov. 29, 1944; Margaret, June 18,
1948; Kathleen, Aug. 29, 1951; Lucia, June 15, 1955.

occuPATION: Associate professor of English, University of Rochester.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, American Studies Association of Upper New
York State.

MEMBER OF: Elizabethan Club; Modern Language Association; American
Association of University Professors.

PuBLicaTions: Melville’s Early Life and Redburn, New York University
Press, 1951; co-editor with Margaret Denny, The American Writer and
the European Tradition, University of Minnesota Press, 1950; “Melville’s
Liverpool Trip,” Modern Language Notes, December, 1946; Review of
Horsford’s edition of Melville’s Journal, 1856-1857, American Literature,
March, 1956; other articles and reviews in American Literature, Mod-
ern Language Notes, Rochester Review. -

AUTOBIOGRAPHY is evidently the most difficult of all the arts
of writing. I have written articles, lectures, book reviews, and a
biography. Occasionally, I have tried fiction and poetry, none of
it published or publishable. It is relatively easy to tell the truth
as you see it about literature, or other people, or even to invent
characters and tell the truth about them. But I have wasted half
a box of paper on my autobiography. Autobiography means tell-
ing the truth about yourself, and that’s too much for my vanity.
So I will write my brief chronicle— which is not the same as
autobiography. Twenty-five years ago I moved from a three-
room suite in Adams House to a third-floor bedroom in northern
Vermont and taught Latin and French for five dollars a week.
In the fall I tripled the salary, but I was clerking in Filene’s, in the
basement in fact, and since I still had the idea that I wanted to
teach, I was pretty unhappy. So I took a job at Robert College in
Istanbul at no salary at all. Thanks to the generosity of relatives
and friends I got something out of the experience. It meant carry-

[ 480 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing a rucksack and staying in youth hostels, but the next summer
I saw something of Greece, Italy, Germany, and the Balkans, and
on the way home in 1936 I got to Paris, and London, and Strat-
ford.

This was the time to get my professional training, but at that
time graduate schools were not competing for the privilege of
supporting students, and I shortly found myself teaching in a sort
of Dotheboys Hall which prepared boys for Annapolis. It took
five years of steady effort to escape from this semi-militarized
education into college teaching. Meanwhile, I had married, had
a child, and lost my wife in childbirth. I had also acquired the
occupational disease of teachers (as of businessmen) which located
itself in the duodenum, I have survived more desk work than
most officers but the disease cut off any chance to do military
service. My only contribution to the national interest was teach-
ing composition to prospective officers. When the college lost
half its enrollment the time had come to go to graduate school.
I had married again and another child was on the way but my
wife was courageous, patient and frugal. In the fall of 1944 we
went to New Haven, In addition to the normal agony of graduate
school, we endured like everybody else the rationing agony and
the housing agony, averaging three or four moves a year. But I
studied under some of Yale’s great men—Stanley Williams,
Tucker Brooke, Robert J. Menner — and made personal and pro-
fessional friendships which have survived the dispersion all over
the country that followed graduate school. Ten years ago I came
to the University of Rochester where I have much enjoyed my
teaching, scholarship, and friends. In 1953 I received one of the
many Ford Foundation fellowships and went back to Harvard
fora year of reading and research. And next year by a stroke of
luck which I am still too dazed to comprehend, I am going back

to Harvard as a visiting professor.

Since my views as well as my experiences have been called for
in this painful exercise, I would ask leave to hope for a continuing
breakdown of the barriers between the main business of the
country — which is business, as Calvin Coolidge put it — and
humanistic learning. It will not save the country from Com-
munism or liberalism or conservatism, from the Democrats or the
Republicans, from Freudians, Spencerians, or Deweyites, but it

[ 481 ]

"HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

could yield more intellectual maturity and increase the joys of
living. As for hobbies, I have none unless I can count nursing a
slipped disc. My son has made me an enthusiastic fisherman. I
play tennis in summer and volleyball in winter, and see as many
games as I can — hockey, baseball, football, and basketball attract
me most, in that order. [ve been a county: committeeman but
don’t really have time for political action. I view modern Re-
publicanism with some hope and some misgiving and our foreign
policy with positive alarm. If religion means, as I think it does,
regular worship and loving God and neighbor — well, I go to
Mass regularly but on the second score my record is undis-
tinguished.

WILLIAM KNIGHT GINMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 19470 Beverly Rd., Birmingham, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ohio Crankshaft Co. 530 W. > Right Mile Rd., Detroit 20,
Mich.

BorN: May 15, 1909, Muskegon, Mich. parents: Herbert Francis Ginman,
Helena Annie Knight.

PREPARED AT: Muskegon High School, Muskegon. Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B, IN MECH. ENGIN. cum laude, 1932.

MARRIED: Mary Bretz Taylor, Nov. 15, 1941, Arlington, Va. CHILDREN:
Marion Ethel, Dec. 27, 1942; Kate Huntington, Nov. 11, 1944; Richard
Taylor, May 1, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Herbert Thomas Ginman, 36. -

occupaTion: Manager, Michigan District Office. Tocco Division, The Ohio
Crankshaft Company of Cleveland, manufacturers of induction heating
equipment,

OFFICES HELD: In various P.T.A., church and scouting activities locally;
technical societies in Detroit; vice-president and treasurer, Harvard
Club of Eastern Michigan.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Eastern Michigan; Harvard Club of New
York; Army and Navy Club, Washington; Military Order of World
Wars, Orchard Lake Country Club; S.A.E.; A.S.M.; Engineering So-
ciety of Detroit.

THE year 1932! [ll wonder forever why I had to graduate that
year, After struggling through the Engineering School I found
myself a tutor for a year and a half on Cape Cod, and then on Cum-
berland Island, Georgia; another two years working in a tar
plant at Westboro, Massachusetts; three years in a paint plant in

[ 482 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Philadelphia. I finally seem to have anchored in Detroit in the
electrical equipment business. My degree was in mechanical!

Those first years of indecision were enjoyable though — mov-
ing around having new experiences. I even enjoyed learning how
telephone poles were creosoted. I struggled for duPont, trying
to improve paint processes and reduce costs. It was easy to move
over to Budd’s to engage in the manufacture of fabricated stain-
less steel, where I found two classmates. After three years with
Uncle Sam as a colored smoke expert (technically — Munitions
Development Officer), I was transferred by Budd to Detroit and
found some form of permanence, since we stayed in the same spot
when I changed to my present position in 1948.

My bachelor days came to an abrupt and happy end in 1941,
thanks to classmate Fred Fletcher, who introduced me to Polly
Taylor, Vassar ’37. We were driving back from our honeymoon
that fateful Sunday morning of December 7, 1941, and less than
a year later I was in it, and Polly was back living on Army posts
where she had spent much of her early life as an Army “Brat.”
Marion was the first child born in the new Huntsville (Ala.)
Arsenal Hospital — Pol had an entire ward to herself. Kate came
along at the Edgewood (Md.) Arsenal Hospital, but she had a
lot of company there. Dick arrived at the Harper Hospital in
Detroit, where Polly stayed until they tossed her out.

We live happily on our two acres, in a modernized old Michigan
farmhouse. We have too many fruit trees, too much lawn to cut,
a steady stream of neighbors’ children in our yard and barn, but
this is home. Each summer we travel back to Philadelphia for
vacations, and meander about otherwise as much as possible. Our
teen-aged girls give us a liberal education and the realization that
much of what you read of them is really true, Dick has just
become a Cub Scout (Pol, a Den Mother), he tosses a mean foot-
ball and is all boy. We have a rugged airedale who sleeps on the
sofa when we aren’t looking, and is usually one step behind Dick!

My work keeps me traveling a fair amount and involves eve-
ning meetings, so we try to limit our extra-curricular activities.
However, this is the first year at least one of us hasn’t been on
a P.T.A. board. We are regularly active at church and involved
in numerous civic undertakings. Birmingham is a fine town to
live in and we enjoy helping to keep it that way.

[ 483 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

ROGER FRANCIS GLEASON

HOME apprEss: 10 S. Mountain Drive, New Britain, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 27 W. Main St., New Britain, Conn.

BorN: Feb. 27, 1908, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: James Francis Gleason, Nora
Theresa Carey.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: S.B., 1932; LL.B. 1935 (37).

marrizD: Eleanor Sullivan, Oct. 30, 1943, Hartford, Conn. cHILpREN: Daniel
Joseph, Oct. 23, 1944; Eleanora Carey, March 4, 1946.

occuPATION: Partner, Ericson, Politis & Gleason, attorneys.

OFFICES HELD: Administrative assistant, Washington Division, 1937-38, assist-
ant special agent in charge, Huntington, W. Va., 1937, Charlotte, N.C,
1938-39, Panama Canal Zone, 1939, Indianapolis, Ind., 1940, San Juan,
Puerto Rico, 1939-41, New Haven, Conn., 1943-47, F.B.1; member,
Massachusetts Bar, 1935, Connecticut Bar, 1946; secretary, New Britain’s
Lions Club, 1948; director of Civil Defense in Connecticut, 1950;
prosecutor, Common Pleas Criminal Appeal Court, Hartford County,
1952-55.

MEMBER OF: New Britain Lions Club; Harvard Club of Connecticut; New
Britain Bar Association, Hartford County Bar Association; Society of

Former Agents of the F.B.I.; Shuttle Meadow Country Club; New
Britain Club.

JUNE, 1932, brought the coveted Harvard College degree and
left me exhilarated and certain in the career I was to follow, —
the law. Entry into the Harvard Law School came in due course
and [’ll confess that it probably was lucky it all happened twenty-
five years ago. On today’s market perhaps I’d have my troubles!
At any rate, Law School years passed quickly until I found myself
one spring day in 1935 looking at the bulletin board in Austin
Hall where a notice appeared that Hugh Clegg, an assistant di-
rector of the F.B.I., was speaking on work with the F.B.I. I went
and was impressed. Exams for the Bureau soon followed. Little
did I realize, when chosen along with one other boy from the ap-
plicant group taking the tests, how really difficult it was to ob-
tain an appointment as Special Agent of the F.B.I. I managed
to be admitted to the Massachusetts Bar that spring and entered
government service on July 1, 1935.

The next twelve years were fascinating ones, moving over the
country and outside it in various Bureau offices. The early years
brought drama and excitement in the running down of nationally
wanted criminals, while the later years evolved into the intrigue

[ 484 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of counter espionage during World War II. Directing the work
of Mr. Hoover’s G-Men in Panama as Agent in Charge of the
Canal Zone office in 1939 and the subsequent assignment as Special
Agent in Charge of the Caribbean area at San Juan were stimulat-
ing, and are now fond memories. December 7, 1941, was a black
day in our history and certainly a black night in San Juan when
blackout was hysterically enforced after word of Pearl Harbor
and it was dangerous to have a peep-hole of light anywhere, not
to mention attempting to navigate the narrow streets of the Puerto
Rican capital.

In 1943, the assignment as Special Agent in Charge of the New
Haven office brought me to live for the first time in Connecticut,
and here I settled. Early in 1947 I resigned from the F.B.I. and
entered the practice of law. After twelve years away from the
Law School I found the Connecticut Bar exams terrifying, but all
worked out well. Practice in Connecticut’s fine courts has been a
real thrill and I find my chosen field of negligence just what the
doctor ordered.

In 1950, time out from law practice was taken at the request of
Governor Bowles to serve as State Director of Civil Defense for
Connecticut. Following this public service, I was appointed prose-
cutor for the Hartford County Criminal Appeal Court in the
Court of Common Pleas, which position I held until 1955, resign-
ing to devote full time to private practice. In 1953 I was admitted
to practice before the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals of New
York. I was also admitted to practice before the U.S. Treasury
and U.S. Immigration Service.

Family life here in Connecticut can be highly recommended.
For the past few summers, Nora and Dan have gone to summer
camp in New Hampshire and Mom and I relax with golf,
gardening and rest at home, broken by frequent weekends in New
Hampshire’s lake country which we love so well. Winters are
loaded with family skating and other activities. These years
with our children seem so short, we are devoting a great deal of
time to them. We have managed to work in a family trip to
Florida each year in the late spring, an activity the whole family
have enjoyed no end. I still retain a tremendous interest in sports
of all kinds. Community skating has clearly proven that I
wouldn’t last long at hockey, but the kick and memories are still

[ 485 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

vivid, Spectator sports, particularly with Dan, are still very

appealing.
Nineteen thirty-two seems like yesterday. Here’s hoping the

next twenty-five years will be as full.

FREDERICK STANLEY GLYNN, JR.

HOME apprEss: Joaquin Maria Lopez 70 Dpld., Madrid, Spain.

Bors: Aug. 25, 1910, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Frederick Stanley Glynn,
Maud Landers.

prepareD AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929. DEGREE: ADJ. A. 1948.

marrieD: Edith Highland Alexander, July 1, 1933, Oxford, N.Y. curLpren:
Frederick Stanley, 3d, Sept. 23, 1934; Margaret Elizabeth, Nov. 20,
1937; Deirdre Alice, June 12, 1939.

HAVING spent only a year with the Class, I doubt if many would
remember me. Once, by accident, I was privileged to attend a
reunion being held in a place where I was staying. But I was quite
lost.

It occurs to me that I may be the only member of the Class of
"32 to receive the University’s degree of Adjunct in Arts. Other
than that there is little of official interest. I have spent my time
observing the activities of my associates and speculating on their
end. It has been amusing, if not fruitful.

Recently, I spent fifteen months with the Eskimos. An as-
sociation based on survival was necessarily close. I got to admire
their careless joy and to love them —a reaction not uncommon
among those who go to the Arctic from the “Outside” as they —
the Eskimos — call it. It may be that I shall return.

FRANK SAMUEL GOLDIN

HomME aporess: 76 Grove St, Lynn, Mass.

orrice apperss; Public Schools, Lynn, Mass.

Bows: Feb. 14, 1911, Lynn, Mass. parents: Samucl Zachary Goldin, Leah
Mary Olsen.

prepauen at: Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLPLE: 1928-1932, peckees: 8.8, Cunt laude, 1932; A.M. 1933; PH.D.
(Boston Univ.), 1948.

[ 486 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

UNMARRIED.
occuPATION: Teacher of science and psychometrist (days); instructor in
psychology (evenings).
OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Science Curriculum Committee, Lynn Public
Schools, Research Committee, Lynn Teachers Union.
MEMBER OF: American Psychological Association; American Association for
the Advancement of Science; Phi Delta Kappa (national honorary
professional education fraternity); Lynn Teachers Union; American
Federation of Teachers; Harvard Club of Greater Lynn; Boston Uni-
versity Club of the North Shore.
PUBLICATIONS: Professional articles in psychological and educational periodi-
cals. Collaborated on training manuals (Army) and research bulletins
(Lynn Teachers Union).

IN the fall of 1932 I enrolled in the Harvard Graduate School of
Arts and Sciences to study for the Master of Arts degree in the
field of organic chemistry. This degree I received in June, 1933.
Because of the depression, there was no immediate employment
available in the chemical field; I therefore took advantage of an
opportunity to join the faculty of an adult education agency in
Lynn. It was while teaching adult classes science that I discovered
a tremendous adult interest in psychology, which was one of my
minor undergraduate fields of study. Accordingly, I set to work
developing courses in psychology for adult laymen which it was
my privilege to present to large classes.

After a year of adult teaching, I was offered the position of adult
education supervisor, which I accepted with the proviso that I be
permitted to do part-time adult psychology teaching. I remained
in the supervisory position for five years, acting as a combination
principal and supervisor of a faculty of sixty teachers. During
this time I did a good deal of psychology lecture work in clubs,
organizations and forums.

An opportunity to get into secondary education in the Lynn
Public Schools, a field in which I was very much interested,
caused me to resign the adult supervisory position and to take a
job as a school librarian and teacher of mathematics. During the
same year I joined the faculty of the Lynn Evening Schools for
Adult Education where it was my privilege to introduce psy-
chology into the school’s curriculum, |

Throughout this period of psychology teaching, I was con-
Stantly nurturing an ambition to study for the doctorate in psy-

[ 487 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

got me back into Red Cross first aid instruction. I devote some
of my spare time to worthy fund-raising activity. Also, I devote
a good deal of time to the Lynn Teachers Union, our local
teachers’ organization in which I have been serving as chairman
of the research committee and as a member of the executive
council, scholarship committee, speakers’ bureau and various
ad hoc committees.

My mental hobbies include music (both longhair and crewcut),
good literature, and the reading and discussion of philosophy.
My physical hobbies have dwindled, as I grow older, to hiking.
A new hobby which I have acquired in the last year is electronic
computers more commonly referred to as electronic brains. With
a Geniac kit, I have been experimenting with circuitry causing
the machine to do mathematical operations, simple logical de-
cisions, and to play games. I am trying to transfer some of my
interest in electronic computers to my more gifted adolescent
pupils.

In the twenty-five years since that eventful June of 1932, I have
got neither rich nor married. But I have had a wide variety of
interesting experience and activity as our nation went through
depression, war and postwar “peace.” Carlyle has said, “Blessed is
the man who has found his work, for he needs no other blessed-
ness.” I found my work, work which has been a source of great
professional satisfaction to me and which has given me a highly
meaningful relatedness with my environment. My four under-
graduate years at Harvard have both directly and indirectly had
a lot to do with the satisfaction I have derived during these
twenty-five years.

ABRAHAM I. GOLDSTEIN |

HOME ADDRESS: 301 W, ro8th St., New York 25, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 270 Madison Ave., New York 16, N.Y.

BORN: July 18, 1913, New York, N.Y. ParENTs: Jacob M. Goldstein, Mary
Berman.

PREPARED AT: Columbia Grammar School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREE: LL.B. (New York Univ.), 1935.

MarRIED: Blanche Siegel, Oct. 26, 1947, New York, N.Y. caitpren: Mar-
jorie Felice, Oct. 23, 1949; Carol Joan, Oct, 25, 1952.

[ 490 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Former secretary, trustee, since 1949, Congregation Ohab
Zedek, New York City.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles on editorial page of New York Law Journal,
reviewed Ben Morrison’s Wonderful Words in Jewish Social Studies,
October, 1956; “Prayer Books for Jewish Congregations,” in Perakimn,
January, 1952.

FOR a time I worked as a naturalization examiner for the USS.

Department of Justice, During 1942 I purchased electronic

materials at Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Maryland and from 1944

to 1947 I was connected with the New York Supreme Court. In

between I had practised law, but from 1947 on I have been
practising law in New York City. I like it; that is why I stay
with it. I handle all kinds of matters, many of which go up on
appeal. And if I think I am right, I will fight to the bitter end.

And I often get a kick out of beating some bureaucratic hack at his

own game.

We still live in the city, although my wife says that it would be
better to move to the suburbs where the children would have
the fresh air. In several years of looking, I could not find a house
with enough room in which to keep my books. In my spare time
I collect books on different subjects. I am interested in law, in
mathematics and in Judaica, especially old bible and prayer books
used by Jews of different rites. I made it my business to become
a decent bibliographer, especially on the subjects I know about.
From my childhood days I was able to find out what I wanted to
know from books. And, as a lawyer trained in the common-law,
I should be able to follow principles of research into anything in
which I am interested.

Since I was born everybody calls me “Abbie,” as a first name.

ARNOLD MORLEY GOLDSTEIN

HOME appress: 8 Ardmore Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Conrad & Smith, 280 Madison Ave., New York 16, N.Y.

BoRN: Feb. 12, 1910, New York, N.Y. parents: Morris Goldstein, Alice
Werner,

PREPARED at: Union Hill High School, Union City, N_J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1932; LL.B., 1935+

[491 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

mMarriep: Gertrude Hirsch, June 11, 1939, Jersey City, N.J. cHr~pren: Linda,
Dec. 7, 1942; Kenneth, March 8, 1946.

occupation: Lawyer; partner in firm of Conrad & Smith.

OFFIcES HELD: Member board of directors, Hebrew High Schools of New
York; executive member, Research Institute of America, Inc.; secretary
and member executive committee, Berthold Pollak Lodge, B’nai B'rith.

MEMBER OF: Local Bar Associations; Harvard Law School Alumni Associa-
tion; Harvard Law School Alumni Association of New York; Harvard
Club of Westchester, Men’s Council of Jewish Community Center of
White Plains. \

IN the company of many of my classmates, I entered the Harvard
Law School and graduated in 1935. I then served as law secretary
to Judge A. A. Melniker, a very able and distinguished New Jersey
jurist, and was admitted to the Bar of both New York and New
Jersey. I have been engaged in the practice of law ever since.
From 1938 to 1942, I was a member of the firm of Goldstein &
Goldstein, Jersey City, New Jersey. Then in April of 1942, I
was associated with present Supreme Court Justice Nathan L.
Jacobs (Harvard Law School, ’27) in establishing the New Jersey
office of Price Administration (O.P.A.). I was a price attorney
and then became a chief enforcement attorney as the emphasis
of the program shifted. For a time I served as acting Chief Price
Attorney in the Washington office. In December, 1945, I left
O.P.A. to become a partner in the firm of Conrad & Smith of New
York City.

Four and one-half years ago, I bought my present home in
Scarsdale. My son, Kenneth, is in the fifth grade at the “fabulous”
Heathcote School. Life magazine published an article on the
school and illustrated it with a drawing by Kenneth. (Issue of
November 15, 1954.) Asa result of his interest in Cub Scouting,
my poor wife was a Den Mother for two and one-half years, dur-
ing which time I successfully avoided being a Den Father. My
daughter, Linda, is a ninth grader at Scarsdale High School where
she is rapidly compiling a record of which we are justly proud —
Aristoi Honor Society, Leaders Club, Scrivener and active par-
ticipation in intramural sports, My wife is lost in a maze of
gardening, chauffeuring the children, P.T.A.-ing, etc. You can
readily see that I have left most of the communal activities in her
capable hands.

[ 492 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARMON HENDRICKS GOLDSTONE

HOME ADDRESS: 130 East End Ave., New York 28, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Goldstone & Dearborn, 1270 Avenue of the Americas, New
York 20, N.Y.

Born: May 4, 1911, New York, N.Y. parents: Lafayette Anthony Gold-
stone, Aline May Lewis.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln School of Teachers’ College, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: $.B. cum laude, 1932; B.ARCH. (Columbia
School of Arch.), 1936.

occuPATION: Architect, partner in firm, Goldstone & Dearborn.

oFFices HELD: Editor of Oculus, 1951-52, chairman public relations com-
mittee, 1953-54, secretary, 1952, 1954-56, New York Chapter, American
Institute of Architects; trustee, 1947-50, director, Department of
Architecture, 1948-51, Beaux Arts Institute of Design; vice-chairman,
Junior Council, Museum of Modern Art, since 1953; treasurer, Municipal
Art Society of New York, 1954-56.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects, National Institute for Archi-
tectural Education, Harvard Club of New York; American Geograph.
ical Society; American Jewish Historical Society; New York Zoological
Society; Regional Plan Association, American Friends of the Hebrew
University; Citizens’ Housing Council; Real Estate Board of New
York (associate); Citizens’ Council on Foreign Relations.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles for American Architect and Architecture, Magazine
of Art, Journal of the American Institute of Architects, Bulletin of the
New York Zoological Society, programs, critiques and reports for the
Beaux Arts Institute of Design.

FROM 1932 to 1935 I was in France, Switzerland, Austria and
Italy; 1933-35, Harvard School of Architecture; 1935-36, Colum-
bia School of Architecture; 1936, in Holland, Denmark, Sweden,
Finland and England. From 1936 to 1941, I was architectural
designer for Harrison & Fouilhoux, New York City. During
1938-39, I organized and directed New Furniture, Inc., to intro-
duce furniture of modern European design. I was director of
Special Planning Unit in Office of the Coordinator of Inter-
American Affairs, Washington, D.C. during 1941-42. The next
four years I served with the U.S, Army Air Forces,. From 1946
to 1952 I was project manager for Harrison & Abramovitz, New
York City, with leaves of absence for preparing program of re-
quirements and technical research in United Nations Head-
quarters Planning Office (1947-50) and a three-month mission
to Israeli government regarding low-cost housing (Ibec Housing

[ 493 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Corporation, 1949). During 1952-53 I was on a six-month mission
to France regarding NATO construction program, for Ibec Tech-
nical Service Corporation.

In 1953 I opened my own office for the practice of architecture
in New York City and since 1955 have been a partner, with
Eustis Dearborn, ’32, in Goldstone & Dearborn, architects, New

York City.

+ RAMON GOMEZ-SIERRA

BoRN: Oct. 26, 1908, Bogota, Colombia. Parents: Guillermo Gomez, Maria
Sierra.

PREPARED AT: Fessenden School, West Newton, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Acad-
emy, Exeter, N.H.; Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933. DEGREE: S.B., 1932 (33).

MaRRIED: Cecilia Osorio. CHILDREN: José Maria, 19415 Cecilia, 1947.

piep: Dec. 31, 1952, Bogota, Colombia.

wwow: Mrs. Ramén Gomez-Sierra, Calle 22 No. 6-2 1, Bogota, Colombia.

AFTER leaving Harvard Ramon Gomez-Sierra returned to his
beloved Colombia and immediately embarked on the study of
law. However, at the death of his father a few months after
commencing his new studies, he was forced to take over his
father’s affairs.

The enthusiasm and vigor which marked all his enterprises soon
asserted itself in his cattle-raising business. He was a candidate
for the presidency of the Society of Colombian Farmers, in
which he served with patriotic integrity, and in the Holstein
Company he played a brilliant part as one of the most accom-
plished breeders of the Holstein strain. The high regard in which
he was held in his country was reflected in a newspaper article
that appeared shortly after his death:

“He was a creator, a tremendous organizer. He believed
strongly in using modern techniques, and money was an instru-
ment for work. In his hands barren fields became fruitful; if
they were dry, he irrigated them and converted them into
verdant meadows. Obsessed by the love of his country and its
Jand, he envisioned a vast development. He would have been a
great Minister of Agriculture, and his youth } held promise of
wonderful services to Colombia.”

[ 494 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

He loved art and literature; from his reading and travel he drew
wisdom for his campaigns on behalf of Colombian rural develop-
ment. His writings, mostly on civic and agricultural subjects,
were not numerous, but they exerted a great influence on the
welfare of his fellow-countrymen.’ At the time of his death he
was working on a biography of his grandfather, José-Maria
Gomez, of whom he was a great admirer.

Besides his wife, he left one son, José Maria, now a student at
Phillips Exeter Academy, and a daughter, Cecilia,

+ ALBERT RICHARD GOODMAN

BOKN: July 25, 1911, Mexico City, Mexico. parents: Albert Rotild Goodman,
Maud Honey.

PREPARED AT: Oundle School, Northants, England.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932; M.B.A.. 1934,

MARRIED. CHILD: Gay, 1946.

DIED: Jan. 18, 1948, Colton, Calif,

EDWARD CHARLES GOODWIN

HOME apprEss: Meadow Heights, Middleford, Seaford, Del.

OFFICE apprEss: E. J. du Pont de Nemours & Co., Seaford, Del.

BORN: June 10, 1910, Clinton, Mass. parents: James Joseph Goodwin,
Blanche Janet McQuaid.

PREPARED AT: Clinton High School, Clinton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

MaRRIED: Charlotte Layton Stauffer, Sept. 3, 1947, Wilmington, Del. srep-
CHILD: Cecelia Layton Stauffer (7. William Lee Owen, July 1, 1950).
GRANDCHILDREN: William Lee Owen, Jr., Jan. 17, 1952; Cecelia Layton
Owen, Oct. 4, 1953. |

OccuPATION: Production control supervisor, E. I. du Pont De Nemours &
Company, nylon manufacturers. on

GRADUATION ’32. Congressman Tinkham’s observation: “Fine
time to graduate. Teach you there is a bottom to things.” There
was. By January, 1933, Harvard Business School and myself
desperate, what to do next. The “Extra Session” was the answer.

August, ’33. Du Pont Company Plastics Division in market for
talent. Their interest only matched by my need for income.

L495 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Signed on. Minimum wage. Approached living wage quicker
than expected. Nylon launched, 1939. Silk worm on skids. To
Seaford, “Nylon Capital of World,” October, 1939.

1941. Low draft order number, bachelor, reported on first
call. Rejected, Participated in all quota calls to February, 1944.
Medical examiner engrossed in “Racing Form.” In uniform at
last. Waged fifty-one-day campaign through Fort Lee and Fort
Dix. Medical discharge. Army reducing burden costs.

Back to nylon manufacturing. Amateur cooking skill “traps”
wife, 1947. Excellent situation. Happy time begins. Stepdaughter
produces two extraordinary children. Pure joy as vicarious
grandfather. Turn babes “on” and “off” at will.

Normal scramble to connect both ends. Stimulating experience.
Launched woodworking hobby, 1955. Usual symptoms of time’s
passage. Handy sedentary sport.

Keen anticipation of Twenty-fifth Reunion. My first since
North Shore excursion in ’30s. Probable major contribution to
Class of ’32 — helps fill in lower end of “activity” distribution
curve in class statistical summary. One wife, one company, no
neuroses, stimulating work, 100% Republican, mighty happy.
Hope you are.

PAUL EDWARD GORMAN

HOME AppRESS: 3 Crockett Ave., Dorchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., 215 Adams St., Dorchester,
Mass.

BORN: Feb. 17, 1911, Dorchester, Mass. pARENTS: Thomas J. Gorman, Eliza-
beth E. Henchey.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

marrieD; Anna M. Ahern, Sept. 15, 1938. CHILDREN: Paul G., Dec. 9, 1940;
Nancy M., April 1, 1944; Michael T., Nov. 21, 1947.

occupation: Agent, life insurance company.

[ 496 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DANTE GOZZI

HOME ADDRESS: 600 Pleasant St., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Bonding & Insurance Co., ro Post Office Sq,,
Boston, Mass.

porn: March 6, 1910, Bourne, Mass. parRENTs: Vincent Gozzi, Theresa
Poggi.

PREPARED AT: Wellesley High School, Wellesley, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B. cum laude, 1932.

MARRIED: Anna M. Elacqua, 1936, Boston, Mass.

occuPATION: Vice-president, manager of Metro-New England branch office,
Massachusetts Bonding & Insurance Company.

MEMBER OF: Batterymarch Post, American Legion; Association of Casualty
& Property Underwriters, Casualty Managers of Boston; Boston Busi-
ness & Professional Men’s Lodge.

UPON graduation I sought to get located in the insurance busi-
ness but as times were hard I had no immediate success, so I went
to work, on an interim basis, for a small contractor in my home
town as estimator and general handyman. In the fall of 1933, I
took a short refresher course at Babson Institute in Wellesley
and in December of that year I finally succeeded in getting into
the insurance business. My first duties in the automobile under-
writing department of the American Policyholders were of a
menial clerical nature. In 1939 I accepted a position as an auto-
mobile insurance underwriter in the metropolitan branch office
of the Massachusetts Bonding and Insurance Company. Here I
have been ever since and happily so, I’m pleased to report, except
for an interlude of three years for war service. My overseas
service was spent in the China-Burma-India theatre, which need-
less to say, I did not enjoy, The highlight of my Army service
was a trip around the world and the crossing of the Equator as a
guest aboard one of Uncle Sam’s Army troop ships. In 1948 I was
made assistant manager and in 1954 manager of the metropolitan
branch office. In 1955 I was made an assistant vice-president and
in 1956 a full vice-president and placed in charge of the combined
metropolitan and New England branch offices of the company.

[ 497 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

PAUL GRANDISON GRADY

HOME ADDRESS: 94 Pine St.. Belmont, Mass.

oFFIcE appress: Dillaby Fireproofing Co., 242 Bent St., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: June 15, 1910, Chelsea, Mass. PARENTS: John” L. Grady, Lillian A.

Grandison.

PREPARED AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929. ,

MarRRIED: Elizabeth G. Coleman, 1937, Somerville, Mass. CHILD: Mark
Edward, April 18, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Clarke Grady, 733.

occupation: Acoustical and sales engineer; assistant manager of sound-
proofing and acoustical problems, Dillaby Fireproofing Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, Lions Club.

MEMBER OF: Society of Military Engineers; Master Builders Association;
Massachusetts Building Congress; Lions Club.

MY activities in the business field have been confined to con-

struction, starting with a contracting firm established by my

father. On being offered a responsible position by a national

manufacturing company, I accepted for three years, leaving only

when their key account sought my services. 1 have now been

with the Dillaby Fireproofing Company for thirteen years,

specializing in all types of acoustical problems.

For my family: my wife, Betty, and son, Mark, comprise the
triumvirate. We’re kept quite busy during the year with school
activities, Red Cross, social clubs, badminton club, and our summer
place on the North Shore (Ipswich), where boating, swimming
and water-skiing are the order of the day. Recently, we com-
pleted a tour around the entire United States and parts of Canada
which, together with shorter trips, gave us all a real appreciation
of the size, grandeur and types of people in this great country of
ours. —

Those last three items thrown in so lightly among the data
desired for the record (social, political and religious convictions)
— tread softly. Enjoyment of my friends, sharing with them their
happiness and sorrows —the earnest desire to see the best-fitted
man for the position of trust for our country’s needs — and com-
plete respect for the religious feelings of others regardless of my
own convictions and affiliations —all these will provide a very
sound basis for a wonderful way of life if I can only wholly grasp

them.
[ 498 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES RUSSELL GRAFF

HOME ADDRESS: 19 Hillside Rd. Danville, Calif.

OFFICE ADpREss: Raymond Concrete Pile Co., 156 98th Ave., Oakland, Calif,

porn: April 7, 1911, New York, N.Y. parents: Charles John Graff, Gertrude
Lander.

PREPARED AT: New Canaan High School, New Canaan, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B, IN CE. cum laude, 1932.

MARRIED: Estelle Hartshorne, March 9, 1935, New Canaan, Conn. cHILpren:
Richard Hartshorne, Jan. 24. 1937; David Lander, June 16, 1939 (a.
Sylvia Hamblin, July 21, 1956); John H., July 21, 1945; Peter L., May
19, 1947.

HARVARD SON: Richard Hartshorne Graff, 58.

HARVARD BROTHER: Howard Millard Graff, '34.

occupation: District manager, Raymond Concrete Pile Company, a heavy
construction general contracting firm, specializing in foundations and
piling installations.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of trustees, San Ramon Valley High School
District, Danville Calif.; vice-chairman and finance chairman, Mr. Diablo
Council, Boy Scouts of America.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Civil Engineers; Structural Engineers
Association of California, Engineers’ Club of San Francisco; Diablo
Country Club; Olympic Club; Commonwealth Club; East Bay
Structural Engineers’ Society; Society of American Military Engineers
(post director); Sierra Club.

I DIDN'T land a steady job for a year after graduation and when
I did it wasn’t much of a job. I started as a chain man with a
survey party working on the Merritt Parkway in Connecticut.
That job led nowhere. I then worked for a year or so on a re-
search project studying the causes of highway accidents, a
National Research Council project. When that enterprise was
completed, a partner and I opened an office to practice civil en-
gineering in Norwalk, Connecticut. After four years of knowing
the joys of being my own boss and struggling to meet the payroll,
I sold out my interest early in 1941 and went to work for the
Raymond Concrete Pile Company, as assistant superintendent on
shipyard construction for the Sun Shipbuilding Corporation at
Chester, Pennsylvania. Immediately after Pearl Harbor, Raymond
asked me to go to California, where I worked as a superintendent
on the construction of the shipbuilding yard at Sausalito, and
then went to work as assistant to the West Coast manager. I
have been with Raymond ever since, becoming district manager

[ 499 ]

- HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

in San Francisco in 1953. Our business in my district consists
mainly of driving foundation piles for buildings and bridges.

We live in a small unincorporated community which is rapidly

losing the rural atmosphere which was one of the main reasons we
chose it as the place to live. With four sons, most of my leisure
time is spent in activities with which they are connected. Cur-
rently, I am chairman of the building committee for St. Timothy’s
Church and also sing in the choir.

My hobbies are active sports. I used to play a great deal of
tennis, squash and handball, but in recent years have concentrated
on golf as more suitable to my advancing years. Skting has been
my favorite sport since college days and here in California, I
have exceptionally good opportunities to enjoy it. In the summer
we usually manage several camping and fishing trips in the High
Sierra.

JOHN LIVINGSTON GRANDIN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 169 Chestnut Hill Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Gillette Co., Gillette Park, Boston 6, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 22, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: John Livingston Grandin, ’97,
Isabel McCurdy.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: S.B.. 1932} M.B.A. 1934.

MARRIED: Susanne Preston Wilson, Aug. 24, 1940, York, Maine. CHILDREN:
John Livingston, 3d, Dec. 4, 1944; Edward Waring, April 9, 1947;
Preston Breckinridge, Nov. 5, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard McCurdy Grandin, °38.

OccUPATION: Assistant to treasurer, Gillette Company, manufacturers of
razors and blades.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Northfield Schools, since 1936; vice-president and
trustee, Franklin Square House; clerk of corporation, Old South Society
of Boston, since 1939; director, Boston Safe Deposit & Trust Company,
since 1940; vice-president and director, Junior Achievement of Eastern
Massachusetts, since 1953; member of corporation, Northeastern Uni-
versity, since 1947, Massachusetts Memorial Hospitals, since 1954.

MEMBER OF: Commercial Club of Boston; Merchants Club; The Country
Club, Brookline, Mass.

I AM seriously considering dropping a class so that I can write this
on some beach next summer! Of course, that would entail the
decision of whether a chef-d’ocuvre such as this could be pro-

[ 500 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

duced better on the beach at Martha’s Vineyard in July or on the
York Harbor beach in Maine in August. The above indicates that
I split my brief vacation between the two beaches, but never
having seen anything more than a post-card composed on a beach
it seems best to put pen to paper now with the snow a foot deep
in Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts.

Two fruitful depression, but far from depressing, years were
spent at the Harvard Business School right after college, a
further preparation for the “outside” world that I thoroughly
recommend. Then followed seven years of attention to one’s
own affairs with trips to Louisiana and the State of Washington
to comprehend the family lumber business, with stops in North
Dakota to understand the problems of running a large wheat farm.

Whether it is original or not I would like to go on record, and
I don’t see a better opportunity, as stating that “love is a wonder-
ful thing,” even though it didn’t come to me until 1940, By then
most of my classmates were mated, but I had only a year of bliss
before Pearl Harbor, In February, 1942, the Navy snatched me
away from the Army and after indoctrinating me at Quonset,
Rhode Island, as an AVS officer, flew me around in PBM planes
to the Caribbean and out to Okinawa, until I became a lieutenant
commander. But let there be no mistake about it, we “feather
merchants” did the Navy a lot of good while we benefited our-
selves. So the Jast war was not all bad. The loss of our classmates
was bad and I can’t see any time available in the next war to pro-
duce any good at all, so we must all pray, as only a few of us are
in a position to influence earthly potential enemies, that world
wars are finished.

After the war, I came home to a wonderful wife and an unseen
ten months’ old son and decided while sitting on a beach in
Bermuda on terminal leave-— you can see why this should be
written on a beach —that I would offer my talents to a sub-
stantial business concern, so I soon joined the Gillette Company.
I don’t know how to make them any sharper, and I’m not in-
terested in selling any more of them, but the financial problems
do intrigue me daily.

So here we are, with three fine boys — twelve, nine and six.
They are a great inspiration to us to live the fuller life —and I
don’t mean rushing about on railroad trains or in airplanes, as

[ sor ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

there is nothing emptier in my opinion than the stratosphere.
Leisure time activities include bridge, tennis and golf that is well
above par.

I have always considered how a person spends his spare time
to be a good guide to the individual. Not only for the broaden-
ing of oneself but also to be of some service to one’s fellow man,
I think one should assist the church, Community Fund, and other
organizations such as the Y.M.C.A., the Northfield Schools, or
Junior Achievement, which have been my choices in this field.
I trust our boys will do some of the same, and if they successfully
ensnare all the irregular verbs currently flying about the house,
my six-year-old will find himself writing about such things in a
similar summary for his Twenty-fifth Reunion, forty-one years
from now — God, Country and Harvard willing.

EDWIN MILTON GRANT

HOME ApprEss: 18 Prospect Ave., Quincy 70, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Household Finance Corp., 1372 Hancock St., Quincy 69, Mass.

BORN: July 30, 1910, Battle Lake, Minn. parents: Louis Randolph Grant,
Helen Adele Gooch. |

PREPARED AT: Mechanic Arts High School, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Eloise Mabel Taylor, Aug. 31, 1935, Worcester, Mass. (divorced
1945); Dorothy Elaine Radley, June 15, 1946, Boston, Mass. CHIDREN:
Robert Warren, June 30, 1936; Louis Randolph, 2d, March 21, 1939.

occupation: Branch office manager, Household Finance Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Club of Quincy, 1953-55; treasurer, Quincy
Council of Churches, since 1954; trustee, First Baptist Church, 1952-55;

. director, Quincy Rotary Club, 1953-56, Quincy Community Chest &
Council, since 1956, vice-president, Massachusetts Department, R.O.A.
(Navy), 1955, Quincy Taxpayers’ Association; member executive board,
Quincy Boy Scouts.

MEMBER OF: Quincy Rotary Club, Harvard Club of Quincy; Reserve Officers
Association.

THIS outline is only to continue that of the Fifteenth Anni-
versary Report, and although the subsequent ten years have
passed rapidly, they have been most enjoyable and rewarding in
personal satisfaction. No unusual disruptions due to external ¢ cir-
cumstances of the world in general, or in the immediate family.

[ 502 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Have renewed activities in my local civic and community life in
addition to remaining active in the organized Naval Air Reserve.
J was promoted to commander, U.S.N.R—R — associated at
Naval Air Station, South Weymouth, Massachusetts.

Being a part of present day life and its challenges and responsi-
bilities in my restricted sphere makes it all seem eminently worth-
while.

EVERETT AUGUSTUS GRANT

HOME ADDRESS: 16 Kendal Common Rd., Weston 93, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 20 Pemberton Sq., Boston 8, Mass.

BorN: March 2, 1908, Bangor, Maine, parents: Harry Emery Sarent Grant,
Jessie Edna Hanson.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933. DEGREES: A.B, 1932(33); LL.B. (Boston Univ.),

1941.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Attorney-at-Law.

OFFICES HELD: Administrative and legal officer, U.S. Navy, 1941-46; member,
U.S.N.R. Law Company 1-1, Boston, 1947-56, member, Board of Ap-
peals, Board of Fence Viewers, Town of Weston; member board of
trustees, Harvard Methodist Church, Cambridge, Mass.; explorer ad-
viser, Troop 52, Weston; treasurer, Kendal Common Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Boston Bar Association; Cambridge
Bar Association; Longwood Cricket Club.

THE writing of this biographical report has been an especially
difficult task for me. Probably this is due to my becoming
abruptly conscious of the swift passage of the past ten years.
Three main activities have occupied my attention since submitting
my last report ten years ago. These activities are, 1) setting up
my law practice, 2) establishing the cooperative building develop-
ment where I live, and 3) my 1956 Naval legal duty in the Middle
East. . |

I. The first matter of importance I dealt with, upon my return
1ome ten years ago from World War II, was the business of
stablishing myself as a lawyer in the general practice of law.
[he foundation of any law practice is clients. When someone
sks me what I specialize in, my prompt retort generally is
clients.” Without these necessary persons no practice of law

[ 503 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

result of the activities of our ships and our men. I have written

an article for the Jag Journal entitled “Some Aspects of Foreign

Claims in NATO Countries.” The six factual accounts set forth

in this article present a fair picture of the types of worrisome
cases that developed. In brief, my duty was one of Navy legal
diplomacy in action.

The real purpose of our making all these port Visits was to
strengthen the international friendship that our nation is so anxious
to develop. This high objective of good will could easily have
been marred by the inevitable difficult cases which arose during
our port visits. It was my main function to try to smooth over
and to dispose of these troublesome situations so that when our
ships departed we did not have too many loose ends hanging about
to plague us at a later date. I had to play most of this duty by
ear. Every case was different, All in all, it was a great chance for
me to do what I could in my small way to help strengthen our
ties of international friendship by applying my legal experience
to these cases involving foreign claims. ~

Since my return from this extended Navy duty I have made
many talks before all sorts of audiences. These talks are illus-
trated with numerous 35 mm. colored slides which I took on the
cruise. Fortune certainly smiled on me in a photographic sense
as I brought back so many good clear slides that project very
well. At each talk I enjoy seeing again the places I visited and the
many people with whom I become so friendly. From time to time
I receive letters from many of my distant friends, all being written
in their respective languages. As I have trouble reading these
letters I have had to seek the aid of my multi-lingual friends to
translate. It is a delight to hear from my foreign friends. I do
wish though that I might have an easier time of understanding
what they do write in their letters without having to continuously
read them second-hand with the help of interpreters.

The Navy has been very kind to me and has allowed me to
experience the exhilaration of living on a broad scale. You will
never know the zestful feeling that swept over me throughout my
recent Navy duty. Anyway, I am back home again where I am
trying to give my law practice the same enthusiasm that I, with-
out effort, had while with the Navy. Maybe all this is a disguised
way of saying I like the Navy —I do, very much, However, 1

[ 506 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

realize that I belong to the “older group” which very soon will
be on the Naval Reserve retired list. I shall never forget the loyal
group feeling that I see existing in the Navy. Men from all sorts
of backgrounds have melted together in the Navy to become
Americans in a basic emotional way, and I admire and am proud
to be a part of this.

I am a bachelor. This pronouncement inevitably produces
comment of which I am not unmindful. I have been very for-
tunate through the years in knowing some extremely attractive
and friendly women. Setting up a home has always seemed to
me to be a great worthwhile experience. Even now I hope to
establish a home and family even though many of my friends say
“too late.” I am always hearing statements to the effect that a
middle-aged man (and I find it hard to call myself middle-aged —
believe me) will have more than a tough time to weather the
storms of matrimony. I am very familiar with the marital rocks
on which many marriages break up because of the divorce cases
I have handled. I do believe that being so close to these sorrowful
cases has had its traumatic effect on me. I am, though, anxious to
be in this state of marital existence from which existence so many
of my friends are determined to escape at any cost. I do believe
that for all the people I know who have had a dismal marital ex-
perience there are many more who have found in marriage a com-
pletely happy and rewarding experience.

In conclusion, may I say that smiling from the heart, having
lots of patience, keeping my life’s goal clearly in mind, have
helped me weather the ups and downs of striving to live the full
life that we all hope to enjoy.

Sports: squash, tennis. Hobbies: music, photography.

DAVID VERNON MATTHEW GREEN

HOME AppREss: 306 Hickory Lane, Haddonfield, N.J.

OFFICE AppREss: Republic Aviation Corp., Farmingdale, Long Island, N.Y.

BoRN: Dec, 20, 1909, New London, Conn. parents: David Vernon Matthew
Green, Wantieth Anna McCafferty.

PREPARED at: Mansfield High School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930, 1931-1932.

MaRRIED: Nancy Simpson Stewart, July 3, 1944, Germantown, Pa.

OccuPATION: Engineering.

[ 507 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

HAROLD GREEN

HOME ADDRESS: 200 E. Montgomery Ave., Ardmore, Pa.

BoRN: May 6, 1910, Lawrence, Mass. parents: Israel Green, Rose Pecker.
PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

OCCUPATION: Business.

SUMNER NATHANIEL GREENBERG

HOME ADDRESS: 495 Stevens St., Lowell, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 105 Princeton Blvd., Lowell, Mass.

porN: Oct. 21, 1911, Malden, Mass. parents: Samuel Greenberg, Mary
Fratman,

PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; 8.M. IN SOCIAL WoRK (Boston
Univ.), 1949.

MARRIED: Sue Singer, June 3, 1951, Brookline, Mass. camp: David Lewis,
June 16, 1954.

occuPATION: Social agency executive; executive director, Lowell Hebrew
Community Center.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, New England Association of Jewish Center Work-

ers, 1950-51; chairman, Greater Boston Council of Jewish Center
Workers, 1951-52.

MEMBER OF: Lowell Harvard Club; National Association of Jewish Center
Workers; Benjamin S. Pouzzner Lodge 874, B’nai B'rith.

THANKS to the depression in 1932 and its disastrous effect upon
my personal and family fortunes, I discarded my plans for gradu-
ate study and tried a number of short-lived jobs in private indus-
try until the spring of 1935, when I landed in New York City
and was launched in a social work career as a family welfare
worker. For six years I had an exciting and broadening experi-
ence working with underprivileged families. When my draft
board rejected me for imperfect vision early in 1942, I joined the
professional staff of U.S.O. as a field director and served in
Illinois, the Territory of Hawaii, and the West Coast until June,
1943.

Of my thirty-three months in the Army during World War
II, the first half was marked largely by the thousand and one
indignities suffered by so many “over-age” G.I.’s in limited serv-
ice. The second half found me in a challenging field — the re-

[ 508 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

habilitation of soldiers who were being readied for return to
civilian life. Upon my return to civilian life, I joined the Vet-
erans Administration as a vocational psychologist. Within eight-
een moraths I was convinced that the federal government did not
offer me a worthwhile career. I then enrolled in the graduate
school of social work at Boston University to major in social
group work. For the role of Center Executive I served my ap-
prenticeship in Brookline, Massachusetts. Since September, 1955,
I have held my present position in Lowell.

Just a word about the Jewish Center. It is a unique American
institution — almost goo of them — each Center operating inde-
pendently to promote social, cultural and recreational activity for
all segments of the Jewish community.

Hobbies, Returning to New England in 1946, I became keenly
interested in skiing. This exhilarating sport led me to my charm-
ing wife—in Jackson, New Hampshire. Tennis and skiing
continue to hold my interest, but leisure time seems to come more
and more irregularly these days. My greatest “hobby” is living
with my young son, probably one of the youngest of the 1932
family, but already showing promise of developing into an athlete
worthy of Harvard.

Politics. As an independent voter I voted for Stevenson in
1952. I am of the opinion at present that the time is ripe for re-
surgence of the Democratic party — the only party which holds
real promise for the future.

DANIEL CROSBY GREENE
SEE Appendix.

MILTON GREENFIELD, JR.

HOME ApprEss: 7221 Maryland St., University City 5, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 721 Olive St., St. Louis 1, Mo.

BORN: Dec. 13, 1910, St. Louis, Mo. Parents: Milton Greenfield, Hilda
Lowenstein.

PREPARED aT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 19323; LL.B., 1935.

[ 509 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

MARRIED: Jane Stocke Beeler, Nov. 8 1956, St. Louis, Mo, CHILDREN:
George Wood Beeler, Jr, Oct. 5, 1938; Janet Gail Beeler, March 11,
1941 (stepchildren). .

OCCUPATION: Attorney at law, in private practice,

OFFICES HELD: President, St. Louis District Tennis Association, 1948, Council
House, 1950-52, Jewish Community Centers Association, 1954-56,
Westwood Country Club, 1955-57, Midwest Section, National Jewish
Welfare Board, 1955-57; chairman, Junior Section, St. Louis Bar As-
sociation, 1942-43, Missouri Bar Association, 1942-44; chairman, Char-
acter Committee appointed by Supreme Court of Missouri, 1947-56;
vice-president, Midwest Region, National Council of Jewish Federa-
tions and Welfare Funds, 1951-53.

MEMBER OF: Westwood Country Club; St. Charles Club; Bar Association of
St. Louis; Missouri, American and Federal Bar Associations; Better
Business Bureau; Army Ordnance Association, American Camping
Association; Social Planning Council, United Fund.

AS this is written, there seems to be only one significant event in
life and that is my marriage two days hence. I recognize, how-
ever, that by the time this is published I shall be an old family
man. My wife is a native St. Louisan who graduated from
Mary Institute in 1931 and Smith College in 1935. Her first hus-
band, Colonel George W. Beeler, was a West Point graduate and
Army career man who passed away a few years ago. I am very
proud of the son and daughter I am acquiring and hope that the
whole family can be with me at our Reunion.

If I must become more objectively autobiographical, I can go
back in memory more than twenty years to my entry into the
practice of law in St. Louis. This legal career has continued
except for the three years during the Second World War when
I served as a civilian attorney for the St. Louis Ordnance District.

As an individual practitioner, I see a variety of problems. To
the extent possible, I have specialized in probate, trust and estate
work. In line with this specialization, 1 have conducted courses
at St. Louis University School of Law. My favorites have been
Wills (taught for many years) and Estate Planning (which I still
teach). It makes me happier to forget the course I taught on
“Legal Ethics.”

Since I remained a bachelor for so many years, I had ample
opportunity to indulge myself in the luxury of community ac-
tivities, Board meetings, committee meetings, and special meet-
ings seemed to come once, twice or thrice a day and sometimes

[ 510 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

three at a time. Over the years, I have continued my college
tennis, taken up golf, and continued to enjoy bridge.

Since much has undoubtedly been omitted from this Report,
I shall look forward to an opportunity to supplement it when I
see my Classmates in June, : |

ERNEST JULIAN GREENHOOD

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Cross Hill Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Rooms 1023-4-5, 18 Tremont St., Boston 8, Mass.
BoRN: Dec. 18, 1910, Boston, Mass, parents: Benjamin H. Greenhood,

Zelda Jacobson. | Co

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; LL.B. 1935.

MARRIED: Edna G. Woolf, Aug. 25, 1940, Boston, Mass. cumpreN: Robert
Sheldon, April 3, 1942; Barbara Helen, May 1, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alfred Morris Greenhood, ’28.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer. | |
MEMBER OF: Masons; Norfolk County, Middlesex and Boston Bar Associa-

tions; Harvard Law School Association, Temple Ohabei Shalom.

AFTER graduation, I attended Harvard Law School for three
years, graduating and passing the Massachusetts Bar in 1935. I
met my future wife this same year, but, as these were the years
of the depression, we were not married until 1940. During the
interim, my law practice with my father slowly developed. The
practice of law, in the general field of law, continued to expand
over the years; and after my father’s retirement in 1945, I carried
it along alone. | oO
After marriage, we lived in Brighton for several years, in vari-
ous apartments as the family increased. In 1947 we moved to
Newton, and have been living in our present ranch house since
early 1953. Summers have been consistently spent at Nantasket.
Although neither my private, social, political, nor professional
life over the past twenty-five’ years has been characterized by
any spectacular high points, still the same has been free of any
low points. On looking back, there is little about my life that
I would have changed, had I the opportunity to do so. My hope
for the future is that I will be able to say the same thing twenty-

five years hence.

[sr]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

CLINE WILLIAM GREER

ADDRESS: 1712 44th St., Des Moines, Iowa.

BORN: Jan. 10, 1911, Ottumwa, Iowa. PARENTS: John L. Greer, Nina Ramsey.
PREPARED AT: Ottumwa High School, Ottumwa, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

occuPaTION: District manager, Cawnie Furs.

JAMES HENRY GRIGGS

HOME ADDRESS: 949 Walwood PI., Kalamazoo, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Western Michigan College, Kalamazoo, Mich.

BoRN: Oct. 21, 1912, New Monmouth, N.J. parents: James Edward Griggs,
Dora Ann Roberts.

PREPARED AT: Middletown Township High School, Leonardo, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cur laude, 1932; A.M. (Columbia
Univ.), 1933; ED.D. (ibid.), 1940.

MarrieD: Anne Elizabeth Cameron, Sept. 1, 1936, Red Bank, N.J. cHILDREN:
Carol Ann, Nov. 17, 1944; Nancy Jane, Dec. 1, 1947.

occupaTion: Dean, School of Education, Western Michigan College.

MEMBER OF: Phi Delta Kappa; Kappa Delta Pi; National Education Associa-
tion; Michigan Education Association, Rotary Club of Kalamazoo.

PusLications: Parchment, Michigan, School Survey; contributing author to
Curriculum Readers, numerous magazine articles. —

AS I look back in retrospect over twenty-five years, I find myself
eternally grateful to Professor Kenneth B. Murdock, then master
of Leverett House, who guided me into the field of education
in June, 1932. It was he who recommended me for a scholarship
at Teachers’ College, Columbia University, where my vocational
choice was set and my zeal for human service inspired by such
giants as John Dewey, Edward L. Thorndike, William H. Kil-
patrick and many others.

After a year of substitute teaching in my home high school
and of research work at Columbia, I determined to learn the
business of education from the bottom up, and accepted John
Studebaker’s offer to teach in the elementary school of Des
Moines, Iowa. I have since taught all the way from third grade
through junior high school, high school, college and graduate
school, although my favorite spot, other things being equal, is

[512]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

still in sixth grade. At that age youngsters know enough to be
stimulating and challenging, but have not yet acquired the du-
bious veneer of adolescent pseudo-sophistication,

In the fall of 1936, two outstanding events occurred in my life.
The first was marriage, the second a job teaching in college. Our
union has been blessed with two daughters, who arrived after
some years to brighten our home considerably. The teaching

osition involved both college and laboratory school teaching at
National College of Education, Evanston, Illinois —a rare com-
bination which enabled me to experiment with children and to
test theories of education in practical situations with my own
pupils. In due course of time, with two intermissions for pur-
poses of earning a doctorate and service as a lieutenant in the
Army, I became Dean of Instruction at the college until I re-
signed in 1948 to come to Kalamazoo.

Opportunity knocked that year in the form of Paul V. Sangren,
president of Western Michigan College, who offered me a posi-
tion as director of teacher education, and later as Dean of the
school of education, with the major responsibility for the 2500
students who are preparing for teaching and administrative
careers in school systems. In connection with this young but
rapidly growing institution (present enrollment: 7,250), I have
been involved in programs for improving education at the local,
state and national levels, particularly in relation to the preparation
of teachers.

It is my personal conviction that we need large numbers of
teachers who are well-adjusted, reasonably intelligent, and able
to bring to bear sound academic and professional scholarship in
helping students develop for themselves increasingly satisfying
answers to the major questions of life. To this end I have dedi-

cated my remaining years of service.

[513]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

FREDERICK GRINNELL

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Sutton Pl., S., New York 22, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: American Petroleum Institute, 1270 Sixth Ave, New York 2 20,

N.Y.
BORN: Dec. 29, 1909, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: Francis Browne Grinnell,

Elizabeth Plummer.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931, 1932-1933. .
occupaTIoNn: Public Relations.

EDWARD ELBRIDGE GUERNSEY

HOME ADDRESS: Orono, Maine; R.F.D. 1, Bangor, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Maine Broadcasting Co., 100 Main St., Bangor, Maine.

BORN: Sept. 21, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Samuel James Guernsey,
Drusilla Elizabeth Campbell.

PREPARED AT: New Mexico Military Institute, Roswell, N. Mex.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

marriED: Millicent Price, 1931, Onset, Mass. CHILDREN: Edward Elbridge,
Jr, May 28, 1932; Pamela Price, June 29, 1942; Deborah Sue, Nov. 23;
1952.

occuPATION: Manager, Radio Station WLBEZ, Bangor, Maine.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club; Tarratine Club, Bangor.

HERBERT GUSTAFSON

HOME apprEss: 418 Mulberry St., St. Peter, Minn.

BORN: June 29, 1910, Meriden, Conn. parents: Lars August Gustafson, Caro-
line Benson.

prepareD AT: Meriden High School, Meriden, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: 8.B., 1932; B.D. (Augustana Seminary),
1936.

mMarrieD: Adele Eva Christine Carlson, Aug. 8, 1936, Attleboro, Mass.
cHiLpreN: Dale Herbert, March 22, 1939, Anne Adele, April 24, 1943;
Marcia Helene, Nov. 19, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Minister, Augustana Lutheran Church.

OFFICES HELD: Pastor, Emanuel Lutheran Church, Modesto, Calif., 1936-43,
Trinity Lutheran Church, St. Peter, Minn., since 1943; president,
California Conference Luther League, 1938; counsellor, Augustana
Luther League, 1939; member, Board of Parish Education, Augustana
Lutheran Church, 1947-56; chaplain, Boy Scouts, 1946-56; part-time
instructor in Christianity, Gustavus Adolphus College, St. Peter, Minn.,

1944-54.
[514]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MIGHTY few of the Class of 1932 had the ministry in mind as
a profession. If the clerical garb catches your eye and you find
yourself asking who this guy is, let me say that I am one of
your Classmates who is mighty thankful for what Harvard had
to offer. I cannot say that my record as a contributor financial-
wise would convince anyone that I am telling the truth. How-
ever, when vacationing in the East we slip into Cambridge as a
family and quietly re-live my student days.

The vocation of the ministry has kept me within the continen-
tal United States. Seven years in Modesto, California, with sum-
mer travel to our New England parental homes has given us an
appreciation of our beautiful country. Thirteen years in Minne-
sota, “The Theatre of Seasons,” has not changed our opinion.
Our oldest child, a son Dale, high school senior, wants to revisit
California. He was four and a half when we moved. He plans
to study at our church college, Gustavus Adolphus College, right
here in St. Peter, Minnesota, Maybe he will end up in the field
of engineering at Harvard. I know he can beat his old man’s
grades. What do you answer when people ask, “Where does he
get it?” Elis sisters are doing all right t too, but they can say they
get it from their mother.

Photography i in a limited sense is my > hobby. I don’t develop
or print, just get a kick out of taking what I myself judge to be
good pictures. I might be accused of having “building” as a
hobby since educational units have been built in each of the two
parishes during my tenure in them.

By my marrying her, Adele was snatched out of the elemen-
tary grades teaching profession and plunked into a parsonage.
The transition could not have been too violent because she excels
in the latter as she did the former. Therefore, under that caption
of “religious convictions,” besides saying that a Lutheran pastor
is Lutheran by conviction, I can also add that school teachers
make good wives for preachers.

By the way, we are happy about the recognition being given
the Divinity School at Harvard. Harvard should be expected to
give and be able to supply continuing spiritual guidance to our
nation and the world. |

[515]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

WILLIAM HERRIMAN GUYER

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: % Texas Petroleum Co., Apartado 2906, Lima,
Peru.

BORN: March 15, r9ro, Bellavista, Peru. PARENTS: Charles Raymond Guyer,
Elena Chase.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREE: S.B. (New York Univ.), 1946.

miarrieD: Mildred Bohacek, Sept. 9, 1938, New York, N.Y. cHILD: Mary
Elizabeth, April 14, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Assistant to management, Texas Petroleum Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of directors, Colegio Nueva Granada, Bogota,
Colombia, 1947-53.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Beta Gamma Sigma; Lima Golf Club,
American Society of Peru.

MY business career began in the Merchant Marine, when I signed
on a ship’s articles as a Workaway at one cent per month —
which might be considered as starting somewhere near the bot-
tom. At the end of the voyage I received a splendid promotion
to freight checker with a monthly salary of thirty dollars. That
soon led to a position of assistant purser on an intercoastal pas-
senger and cargo vessel, an agreeable post in which I acquired
a fondness for travel. I then spent a few years in the Grace Line
accounting department in New York.

I was married in the Little Church around the Corner to a girl
who had graduated from Grinnell College in Iowa and had taught
school in Puerto Rico for three years. (Now the narrative
changes from first person singular to first person plural.) Our
daughter was born in Manhattan and we moved to Parkchester
in the Bronx. During World War II my employer was the War
Shipping Administration, and we were stationed in New Orleans.
We returned to New York, bought a house in Clifton, New
Jersey, and prepared to settle down. Two weeks later, Texas
Petroleum Company offered me a job in Colombia and we packed
up again.

During seven pleasant years in Bogota our lives were closely
linked with an English-speaking school called the Colegio Nueva
Granada. Our child completed grade school there, my wife
worked as a teacher, and I served on the school board.

In 1954, following enactment in Peru of oil legislation favor-

[516]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

able to new foreign investment, the company was moving in for
some exploratory drilling and we were transferred to Lima. My
work in connection with establishing the local office has been
mainly in the field of industrial relations. It practically never
rains here, golf courses are easily accessible, and the law requires
a lunch period of at least three and a half hours during the sum-
mer months to allow everyone to go to the beach for a swim.
Our daughter is in school at Westtown, Pennsylvania, and visits
us during her vacation. By coincidence, I am now living in the
country where my four grandparents, all of whom were natives
of the United States, lived for many years, where my parents
met and were married, and where I spent the first year of my life.

KENRICK WADSWORTH HACKETT

HOME aAppREss: 105 Whitmoor Terr., Silver Spring, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Headquarters, Second Army, Fort George G. Meade, Md.

BORN: Nov. 3, 1909, Methuen, Mass. PARENTS: Leon Abbott Hackett, ’o4,
Florence May Kenrick.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

marrigD: Alice-Elizabeth Stiles, Aug. 12, 1939, Lynn, Mass. (divorced 1946);
Wilhemina Turner, June 28, 1946, Providence, R.I. cumpren: Kenrick
Wadsworth, Jr., Nov. 12, 1947; Eileen Kathleen, July 24, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Lieutenant-colonel, U.S. Army.

MEMBER OF: Masons; Sojourners; Heroes of ’76; Harvard Club of Boston.

IMMEDIATELY following graduation, I took advantage of a
period of enforced idleness to spend a year in England and Ger-
many, pursuing “higher” education. Pursuit was not hot enough,
however, to result in acquisition of additional degrees. Follow-
ing that rather pleasant interlude, I reported for duty in State
Street.

In 1938 a family situation dictated that I take over manage-
ment of some properties in New Hampshire, so I exchanged
urban privileges for rustic simplicity and moved to Franklin,
New Hampshire. There life was rather idyllic until r9g1. Then
an urge which had been developing for some time, to participate
in World War II, finally resulted in action and I entrained for

[517 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932.

Canada to enlist. Some five years later I reassumed American
citizenship and returned to New Hampshire. ©

Life returned to its peaceful state for a few years, only to be
interrupted once more in 1950 by the police action in Korea. In
the intervening years I had acquired a U.S. Reserve commission
and on this occasion was recalled to active duty i in the U.S. Army.
I have spent better than three years instructing at the Command
& General Staff College, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas; a year and
a half in Korea; and, at this moment of writing, nine months with
Headquarters, Second Army, Fort George G. Meade, Maryland.
Somewhere along the line I accidentally acquired a knowledge
of atomic weapons and I have recently been specializing in this
field. Currently, I bear the title of “Special Weapons Officer,”
Second Army.

To go back in time — in 1939 I married Alice-Flizabeth Stiles
in Lynn. We were divorced in 1946. In that same year I married
Peggy Turner of Montreal, and she, Ricky (Kenrick Wads-
worth, Jr.) and Candy (Eileen Kathleen), following me wher-
ever possible, have led the nomadic life of a typical Army family.
Some day, perhaps, we shall find ourselves back in New Hamp-
shire.

JOHN CURRY HAGERTY

HOME apprEss: 10 Bedon’s Alley, Charleston, S.C.

BorN: Aug. 18, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: John Joseph Hagerty, Josephine
Margaret Curry.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; S.M. (Georgetown Univ.),
1933-

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Fleming Hagerty, ’ 39.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Surgical Sculpture, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

LIEUTENANT (j.g.), U.S. Navy. Roman Catholic. Repub-
lican,

[518 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OTTO HAGMAN»

HOME ADDRESS: Mt. Tabor Road, Lexington 73, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 28, 191%, Lynn, Mass. parents: Fred Hagman, Anna Kaese.
PREPARED AT: Bridgewater High School, Bridgewater, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

occuPATION: Town Government; Member, Board of Selectmen.

"LEO FRANCIS HAGOPIAN

HOME ADDRESS: 41 Cottage St., Franklin, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Crosby Valve & Gage Company, Wrentham, Mass.

BorN: March 6, 1908, Kenosha, Wis. PARENTS: Marcus Hagopian, Lucy
Daniels.

PREPARED AT: Fresno High School, Fresno, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932, DEGREE: S.B. cum laude, 1932.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Bilazarian, Feb. 14, 1942. CHILDREN: Betty, July 17, 1948;
Frances, Dec. 27, 1953.

OccuPATION: Engineering; Crosby Valve & Gage Company. _

HARRY PATTERSON HALE, JR.

HOME AppRESS: Curzon’s Mill, Newburyport, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Towle Manufacturing Co., 260 Merrimac St., Newburyport,
Mass.

BORN: Dec. 6, 1909, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: Harry Patterson Hale,
Martha Anderson.

PREPARED AT: Rivers Country Day School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933. DEGREE: A.B., 1932 (33).

MarRieD: Laura Marquand, Oct. 18, 1941, Newburyport, Mass.

occupation: Assistant treasurer, Towle Manufacturing Company, silver-
smiths,

OFFICES HELD: Financial secretary, First Religious Society (Unitarian), since
1946; auditor, Newburyport Chapter, Mass. S.P.C.C., since 1948; assist-
ant treasurer, Towle Manufacturing Company, since 1952; treasurer,
Newburyport Health Centre, Inc. since 1955.

MEMBER OF: Tuesday Night Club, Newburyport; Oldtown Country Club,
Newbury; Harvard Club of Boston.

WHILE attending the Harvard Business School, I discovered
that I was partial to accounting and this knowledge has shaped
my business life. After several years in public accounting in Bos-

[519]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

ton with a public utility near New York, in 1941, I joined the
Towle Silversmiths of Newburyport, in an accounting capacity.
Since my election as assistant treasurer in 1952, my duties have
been primarily financial.

I still find life agreeable after fifteen years of residence in New-
buryport, a New. England seaport town about an hour’s drive
north of Boston. During the coldest months, we hibernate in an
old federalist-style house in the center of town. The rest of the
year is usually spent at my wife’s ancestral country home, situated
a few miles up the Merrimac River. On nearby Plum Island is
located the Parker River Wild Life Refuge. Here is one of the
few unspoiled stretches of beach on the entire Atlantic seaboard.
One of my pleasures is to drive a jeep over the sand dunes and
seven miles down the beach to picnic, swim or to observe the
abundant bird life, which varies with the seasons. |

I am thankful that I took advantage of opportunities for foreign
travel, particularly in Europe and South America, before com-
mencing my business career. My annual vacation is too short for
extensive travel. However, this is compensated by the variety
afforded by my business. Not only is Towle sterling silverware
distributed on a nation-wide basis, but also the sources of our
design are international. Some patterns are American traditional,
others may be French, and still others reflect contemporary
motifs. Our new 1957 pattern, “Fontana,” was inspired by the
graceful fountains of Italy.

MATTHEW HALE

HOME ADDRESS: 918 Timber Branch Pkwy., Alexandria, Va. »

OFFICE ADDRESS: Room 303, Senate Office Bldg., Washington 25, D.C.

BORN: Nov, 21, 1909, Boston, Mass. paReNTs: Matthew Hale, ’03, Anne
Taggard Piper.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1932; LLB., 1935.

MARRIED: Frances Preston, Sept. 15, 1937, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Sarah, Sept. 24, 1939; Elizabeth, March 24, 1941; Margaret Preston,
May 16, 1942; Matthew, March 15, 1944; Anne, Aug. 10, 1945; Abigail
Grout, Aug. 10, 1952.

occupation: Counsel, Senate Banking & Currency Committee.

OFFICES HELD: President, Alexandria Council of Parent-Teacher Associations,

[ 520 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1955-56; member of vestry, 1954-57, church school superintendent, since
1952, Immanuel Church-on-the-Hill.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington, American and Federal Bar As-
sociations.

AFTER finishing Law School, I became a law clerk and then an —
associate in the law firm of Reynolds, Richards & McCutcheon
in New York City, where I engaged in the many activities typical
of a small and unspecialized firm. I was admitted to practice in
the Supreme Court, New York, 1937, the Supreme Court of the
United States in 1946, and the U.S. District Court for the District
of Columbia in 1954.

In November, 1942, I joined the Office of the General of the
War Production Board, where I worked for three years on con-
struction matters as assistant counsel and then counsel to the
Facilities Bureau, and also other divisions. This involved moving
to Washington in 1943. When the war ended I became an assist-
ant general counsel of the Civilian Production Administration,
working mostly on the veterans’ housing program. In 1947 I
moved to the Commerce Department, as assistant solicitor, and
for two years was acting solicitor. This work included all the
many activities of the Commerce Department, both administra-
tive and legislative. Among the more interesting matters were
the 1950 Decennial Census, efforts to sell the Inland Waterways
Corporation, and the work involved in the enactment of the
Defense Production Act of 1950. In 1951, I became deputy
general counsel of the Office of Defense Mobilization, where I
worked particularly on the extension of Defense Production Act
in 1951 and 1952. In 1952, I became deputy general counsel of
the Mutual Security Agency, later the Foreign Operations Ad-
ministration, where I worked on the foreign aid program, and
stayed there until 1954. In 1955, after a period of inactivity, I
joined the professional staff of the Senate Banking and Currency
Committee. I am assigned as counsel to the Subcommittee on
International Finance and the Subcommittee on Production and
Stabilization.

[521]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

JOSEPH FRANCIS HALEY |

HOME ADDRESS: 501 Wall St., Elmira, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: United Tape & Label Co., Omaha, Nebr.

BORN: Feb. 23, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: John James Haley, Loretta
B. Donovan.

PREPARED AT: St. Anselm’s College High School, Manchester, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931.

MARRIED: Jane E. Baker, 1932, Cleveland, Ohio (divorced 1942); Gladis C.
Cassell, 1949, Elmira, N.Y. cup: Judith Ann, Jan. 10, 1933 (72. John
P, Palmer, 1951).

HARVARD BROTHER: John Robert Haley, "36; Justin J. Haley, ’43. .

occuPaTion: Eastern divisional manager, United Tape & Label Company; in-
dustrial and retail; responsible for sales and sales promotions in eastern
half of United States.

A HAPPY but uneventful life replete with its usual successes
and failures; have been connected in sales promotion and adver-
tising most of the years since leaving Cambridge.

In looking back over these twenty-five years, I would say that
I have been most fortunate. I have friends, a good and loyal wife,
children, and a fair share of the world’s trivia; with that plus a
good position, what more can a man ask? Our health has been
good and I am sure that “someone up there likes me.”

LOUIS JOSEPH HALLE, JR.

HOME appress: Charlottesville, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Woodrow Wilson Dept. of Foreign Affairs, University of
Virginia, Charlottesville, Va.

BORN: Nov. 17, 1910, New York, N.Y. parents: Louis Joseph Halle, Rita
Sulzbacher.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln School of Teachers’ College, New York, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREE: 8.B., 1932.

MarRieD: Barbara Mark, March 16, 1946, Washington, D.C. cutLpREN: John
Joseph, Aug. 10, 1947; Julia, Sept. 16, 1950; Mark, Dec. 17, 1951; Robin,
July 31, 1953; Anne, Nov. 27, 1955.

OccuPATION: Research professor of Foreign Affairs, University of Virginia.

OFFICES HELD: Officer, 1941-54, member, Policy Planning Staff, 1952-54, De-
partment of State.

PUBLICATIONS: Civilization and Foreign Policy; On Facing the World, Spring
in Washington; River of Ruins; Birds Against Men, Transcaribbean.

[ 522 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LIKE others who emerged from college into the depths of the
depression, I enjoyed some years of “knocking around.” This
included working for a railway in Central America, tropical
travel, and a year of graduate study in anthropology at Harvard.
With the advent of war I became an enlisted man in the Army
and later an officer in the Coast Guard Reserve. I spent thirteen
years growing old in the State Department in Washington, leav-
ing at last to take my present position as research professor. At
the moment I am in Geneva, Switzerland, on a year’s leave of
absence from Virginia, to serve as visiting professor at the Institut
Universitaire de Hautes Etudes Internationales. |

NORWOOD PENROSE HALLOWELL, JR.

HOME aAppREssS: 8 Hidden Field, Andover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 2, 1909, Milton, Mass. parents: Norwood Penrose Hallowell,
’97, Margaret Ingersol Bowditch..

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Priscilla Choate, April 3, 1934, New York, N.Y. cuttpreNn: Diana,
June 26, 1939; Angus Barney, March 6, 1942; Norwood Penrose, 3d,
March 27, 1944; Joseph Choate, Sept. 14, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alfred Bowditch Hallowell, ’34.

occupation: Teacher of English and Public Speaking, Phillips Academy. —

OFFICES HELD: Director of dramatics, Phillips Academy, 1946-57; member
board of directors, Andover Youth Center, 1948-57; trustee, Pike School,

_ Andover, 1950-56; member, Republican Town Committee, 1952-573
president, Organ Institute, 1953-57.
MEMBER oF: American National Theatre & Academy.

I WAS born a puny, asthmatic child with the pallor of over-
cooked veal and was, at an early age, appropriately dubbed the
“yalla kid.” How I survived I don’t really know. The usual spade
work done by infant teeth on food was sadly deficient in my
case, My first teeth seemed to come out just about as fast as
they came in. For several years, therefore, I was the toothless
wonder whose food was dispensed to my digestive tracts squeezed
but not chewed. I remained puny as a result. But one night while
I was asleep my second set arrived. My mouth, so long so vacant,
now looked like a cupful of popcorn. My horrified mother

[ 523 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

BENJAMIN HALPERN

HOME ADDRESS: 43 Lancaster Terr., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Center for Middle Eastern Studies, 16 Dunster St., Cam-
bridge, Mass.

BorN: April 10, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Zalman Leib Halpern, Fannie
Epstein.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: AB. magna cum laude, 19323 A.M., 19333
PH.D. 1936; B.JED. (Boston Hebrew Teachers Coll.), 1932.

MarRieD: Gertrude Elizabeth Gumner, Nov. 26, 1936, New York, N.Y.
CHILDREN: Elkan Frank, Feb. 22, 1943; Joseph David, June 25, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Abraham Meyer Halpern, ’33; Samuel Halpern, 41.

occuPATION: Research associate in Israelian Studies.

PUBLICATIONS: The American Jew, A Zionist Analysis; numerous articles in
a variety of periodicals.

I LEFT Harvard, fairly well fed up with the place after eight
years, hoping to go to Palestine and do what I could about build-
ing the Jewish National Home there. My contribution turned
out to be filling executive, editorial, educational and research
positions in various Jewish and Zionist agencies. In 1955, when
I was offered my present position, the State of Israel was well
established and I was doing executive-editorial work for the Jew-
ish Agency for Palestine, my latest attempt to settle in Israel hav-
ing failed to pan out. The McCarthy-Harvard incidents had
made me feel rather better disposed to the University in the mean-
time and [ was glad to come back, hoping to pick up the strands
of some loose ideas I had been playing with twenty years ago in
the fields of my academic interests.

ROBERT TAPPAN HAMLIN

HOME ADDRESS: 120 Sargent Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Loomis Sayles & Co., 140 Federal St., Boston, Mass,

BoRN: Aug. 17, 1908, Marion, Mass, PARENTS: George Peabody Hamlin,
Mary Farnsworth Tappan.

preparep aT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: 8.B., 1932.

Mauuiep: Abigail Aldrich, April 19, 1940, Boston, Mass. cHtLpreN: Robert
Tappan, Jr. March 24, 1943; Dorothea, July 28, 1947.

[526]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: George Peabody Hamlin, Jr., ’30.

OCCUPATION: Investment counsel, Loomis Sayles & Company.

MEMBER OF: Tennis & Racquet Club, Eastern Yacht Club, The Country
Club; Somerset Club.

AFTER finishing four years of a carefree undergraduate life, I
decided to embark on a business career and my first step was to
attend the Harvard Business School. Somehow I was talked into
enrolling in a special session which completed the two-year
course in something like nine months of concentrated work.
This turned out to be the toughest grind I ever experienced but
it proved a very valuable asset for the future. |

The period before the war was spent in the investment banking
field doing statistical work, buying and selling securities and
raising long-term capital for business. I had just decided to con-
centrate my efforts on the financing of companies when the war
started and all my plans were changed. I was asked by the Army
Ordnance Department to head the Cost Analysis Section of the
Boston Renegotiation Board, and I accepted with many reserva-
tions. Later, I became a member of the Renegotiation Board
whose function was to see that no excessive profits were made
on government contracts. At the end of the war, my interests
again turned to the investment banking field and I was able to
concentrate on industry financing. When the Korean War
started, the Army Ordnance Department asked me to give them
two afternoons a week as a member of the Boston Contract
Awards Board. This was on the opposite side of the fence from
my former work and involved receiving and giving approval to
all war contracts awarded by the Boston Ordnance District.
_ About the same time, I decided to leave the investment banking
business and joined Loomis Sayles & Company, which is in the
investment counsel field. |

My family consists of my wife and two children and we are
very fortunate, since we all like to do pretty much the same
things. We do a lot of sailing during the summer and while I
have given up golf, I still play some tennis, We have travelled
quite a bit during recent years and manage to take time off to go
to Bermuda or the West Indies during the winter vacations.

As far as politics are concerned, I find it a great relief to be
tid of the administration which managed to make a mess of

[527]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

almost everything it tackled for twenty consecutive years. The
last four years have shown what a capable administration can do
for the prosperity of the country and I believe that the coming
four years will show still greater gains.

+k GEORGE FREDERICK HAMMAN

Born: Aug. 8, 1910, Houston, Texas. PARENTS: John Hamman, Frances Tran-
som.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932: DEGREE: A-B., 1932.

DIED: Sept. 1, 1941, near Hoskins Mound, Texas.

AFTER leaving college Hamman was associated with his father
and brother in the oil business. He became vice-president of the
Hamman Exploration Company and Hamman Oil & Refining
Company.

MARSHALL MORGAN HAMPTON

HOME appress: Route 7, W. Lake, Carman Drive, Winter Haven, Fla.

BoRN: July 31, 1909, Eagle Lake, Fla. parents: William Morgan Hampton,
Selma Frederickson.

PREPARED AT: Winter Haven High School, Winter Haven, Fla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-19209.

OCCUPATION: Rancher.

RAYMOND FRANCIS HANLON

HOME Appress: % Mrs. Hannah Hanlon, 33 Hood St., Lynn, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 23, 1907, Lynn, Mass. parents: Michael J. Hanlon, Hannah Rea.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929, 1930-1931.

occupation: Real Estate.

LOUIS HANOPOL
SEE A ppendix.
[ 528 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN CARTWRIGHT HARLEY

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Oxford St., Northport, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Penick & Ford, Ltd., Inc., 420 Lexington Ave., New York,
N.Y.

BORN: Dec. 12, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Charles Edwin Harley, Helen
Theresa McBride.

PREPARED AT: Baldwin High School, Baldwin, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1932.

MarRIED: Hilda Kathryn Lucey, Nov. 29, 1941, Forest Hills, N.Y. curtpren:
John Cartwright, Jr., Feb. 17, 1944, Eileen Ann, April 21, 1945; Philip
Charles, Sept. 16, 1947; Michael Jay, Nov. 2, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Buyer and administrative assistant to president, Penick & Ford,

~ Ltd., Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

OUR early progress — particularly, I suppose, for those of us
who entered the business world — was heavily influenced by the
cold and sober realism that our Class took up its economic duties
at the very depth of the depression on June 7, 1932. I mention
this because in looking back over the twenty-five years it strikes
me that the problems we faced upon commencement abnormally
influenced the course of our lives to an extent no other Class
since then has had to experience.

My first several years after college were spent in various ca-
pacities in the investment brokerage business — as order clerk,
Statistician, analyst, customer’s man, and assistant to the managing
partner. In 1940, I had a brief fling in the tabulating machines
division of Remington Rand. The following year I accepted a
position with Penick & Ford and have been with that firm ever
since — except for time out with the United States Navy during
the war. This company is a leading processor of corn, cane, and
maple products and manufactures such nationally distributed
items as Vermont Maid Syrup, My-T-Fine desserts, Brer Rabbit
Molasses and Cocomalt. My particular responsibility is in charge
of sugar and cocoa purchasing, but also I function as assistant to
the president of the company on matters of general purchasing,
factory liaison control and as secretary of the retirement board
for the pension plans of the firm, covering both salaried and
hourly employees.

In 1941, just a week before Pearl Harbor, I had the good for-

[529]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

tune to marry Hilda Lucey at Forest Hills, New York. Hilda
also celebrates her twenty-fifth in 1957, from Manhattanville
College of the Sacred Heart at Purchase, New York. We are
proud of our family of three sons and one daughter. John, Jr.,
is the eldest child and enters high school this coming September.
We live what I suppose can be termed a typical suburban life
in the picturesque town of Northport, Long Island, from which
I commute to business in New York —a distance of about forty
miles each way.

After my Navy period of indoctrination in 1942 at Quonset
Point, I spent two years as paymaster of the Waves at Hunter
College and then was ordered to duty as supply officer of the
KA 20 in the Pacific. The interesting point here is that the KA
zo was the locale of the “Mr. Roberts” story. The author,
Tommy Heggen, was communications officer on this ship. In-
cidentally, we were stationed in Tokyo Bay for six months’ oc-
cupation duty after the signing on the Missouri.

As this piece is being penned in November, 1956, Eisenhower
has just been assured another term of office and the Middle East
is aflame. The next few years should provide plenty of excite-
ment.

I am looking forward to the Class Reunion and hope to see
some of my good friends from distant parts of the nation whom
I haven’t had a chance to see since 1932.

RAPHAEL SIMOND HARPER

HOME aporess: R.F.D. 2, Peekskill, N.Y.

OFFice AppREss: Birds Eye Div. of General Foods Corp., White Plains, N.Y.

BorN: Sept. 8, 1908, Fitchburg, Mass. parents: John Oscar Haapanienu,
Maria Hietala,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

occupation: Marketing, Statistical and Research Group.

[ 530 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES DANA HARRINGTON

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mallinckrodt Chemical Co., St. Louis, Mo.

BORN: July 22, 1910, White Plains, N.Y. parents: Eugene Thomas Harring-
ton, Mary Elizabeth Quirk.

PREPARED AT: Rindge Technical School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931, 1936-1937. DEGREES: S.B., 1932(37); A.M. 1939;
PH.D., 1941.

GEORGE HARRIS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: P.O. Box 121, Margaretville, N.Y.

Born: March 18, 1912, Stamford, N.Y. PaRENTS: Harry Harris, Julia Miller.

PREPARED AT: Stamford Seminary, Stamford, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

MARRIED: Eleanor Davidson, July 8, 1932, Brooklyn, N.Y. cHLpren: Jeffrey,
Feb. 18, 1941; Marc, March 17, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Owner, department stores.

OFFICES HELD: F, & A.M.: Royal Arch Mason.

MY son, Jeffrey, is now attending Vermont Academy and son,
Marc, is at the Fay School.

PAUL STEWART HARRIS

HOME AppREss: 60 Eastover Pk., Louisville 6, Ky.

OFFICE ADDREss: % J. B. Speed Art Museum, Louisville 8, Ky.

BORN: March 7, 1906, Orange, Mass. PARENTS: Carl Chester Harris, Marie
Elizabeth Stewart.

PREPARED aT: Orange High School, Orange, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: 8.B. (Antioch Coll.), 1929; s.8. (Har-
vard Univ.), 1932 (33).

MARRIED: Jean Linda Morrill, Jan. 28, 1944, Honolulu, T.H. cHwpren:
Andrew Morrill, Aug. 3, 1947; Alexandra Morrill, Sept. 2, 1950.

occuPATION: Director and curator, J. B. Speed Art Museum.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant curator and curatorial assistant, Dept. of Decorative
Arts, Medieval Art and The Cloisters, Metropolitan Museum of Art,
New York City, 1933-38; director and member of planning committee
for new museum, Des Moines Association of Fine Arts, 1938-40; senior
curator, Minneapolis Institute of Arts, 1941-46 (except war service) ;
director, J. B. Speed Art Museum, since 1946; lieutenant to lieutenant
commander, U.S.N.R., 1942-46; lecturer, Art Dept, University of

C531]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932 -

Minnesota, 1946; registrar, Kentucky Society of Colonial Wars; member
of board, Kentucky Branch, English-Speaking Union, since 1950, Filson
Club of Kentucky (historical society), 1952-55, American Federation
of Arts, since 1955, Antioch College Alumni Association, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: College Art Association; American Association of Museums,

Southeastern Museum Conference; Midwestern Museum Conference,
American Federation of Arts; Friends of the Fogg Art Museum, Filson
Club of Kentucky; Harvard Club of Kentucky; Arts Club, Wynn-Stay
Club, Pendennis Club, Rotary Club, Louisville, Society of Colonial
Wars, Kentucky and Massachusetts; Armor and Arms Club of New
York; Harvard Club of New York; Falls City Lodge 376, F. & A.M.,
Louisville.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on medieval art in the Bulletins of the Metropolitan
Museum of Art and Minneapolis Institute of Arts, articles about paint-
ings, sculpture, prints, decorative arts, including Kentucky art in the
Bulletin of the J. B. Speed Art Museum; also special exhibition catalogue
material for publications of the Metropolitan Museum and the J. B.
Speed Art Museum.

A BACKWARD glance towards Cambridge has a Hallowe’en
atmosphere and haze of Indian summer in Kentucky, accom-
panied by rumblings of TV and clatter of children’s games. Live-
liest of the academic spirits looms the standard of excellence
dangled before our eyes in youthful struggles with honors lists,
and ever since. Gayest is the lasting humor of the College. Sad-
dest is the ghost of some eloquent voices, young and old, now
twisted to an echo by the years. Bifocal vision of middle age
outlines the distant decade after College in professional museum
work at New York, Des Moines and Minneapolis; the next four,
dominated by wartime service with the Navy; and ten fruitful
years at Louisville in the foreground.

We are four, Andrew is a fourth-grader discovering the won-
ders of reading, arithmetic, football and Cub Scouting. Alex-
andra’s only disappointment on emerging from kindergarten has
been that the bigger world of first grade has as yet no homework.
Jean, their mother, taught school at Winnetka when we were
engaged and at Honolulu after we were married, She was raised
at St. Louis and studied at Bryn Mawr and Columbia. Fortun-
ately for us all, the chores of motherhood have not dimmed her
sparkle. Our family summer trips camping in New England,
Colorado, Wyoming and Alberta have been refreshing antidotes

[ 532 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to city pavements at a time when further European tours are not
feasible.

The Quincy Street gate of the Yard and the Fogg Museum
doors opened a new vista of professional art museum work for
me, after previous studies in engineering and geology at Antioch.
Farlier expectations of going into business with my father at
Orange, Massachusetts, were ended by family decision. In the
midst of the depression, Joseph Breck hired me in April, 1933,
to work with him and my contemporary, Jim Rorimer, at the
Metropolitan Museum on development of The Cloisters and other
affairs of the Medieval Department, then within the Decorative
_ Arts section. Soon after the branch museum opened in 1938,
Gardner Cowles, Jr., offered me a challenging opportunity for
experience planning new activities and a new building for two
busy years, using small resources in the midwestern capital, Des
Moines, Iowa. There followed a rewarding year-and-a-half of
research and educational work as senior curator at the Minne-
apolis Institute of Arts, from January, 1941, until the immediate
effect of Pearl Harbor was felt in August, 1942.

Then the Navy took over for the larger part of four years.
Headquarters Squadron of Fleet Air Wing Two at Kaneohe Bay,
Oahu, T.H., was my duty station for two years after June, 1943,
following indoctrination at Quonset and Ground School routine
at Glenview, Illinois, The shortage of schoolteachers gave Jean
a chance for a convoyed cruise to the Islands, where she taught
at Hanahauoli for a year and a half after we were married. One
day of liberty in ten seemed like a privilege at that period. How
an art museum man became maintenance officer or garageman
for two squadrons of Mariner patrol planes and, later, adminis-
trative officer and assistant executive officer for personnel, baw!-
ing good men out for minor offenses at Captain’s Mast, in that
outfit of four thousand men and a hundred and thirty-five ofh-
cers, is somewhat of a mystery in retrospect. In May, 1945,
orders to the Naval War College at Newport for a staff training
course offered my best prospect for a sea-going post. My last
orders, after the course, were to sea as flag secretary to an admiral
in command of a heavy carrier division in the war area, which
was probably the most I could have expected if the Japanese
surrender and the point system had not intervened. Promotion

[533]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

zone for commander was my status on release to inactive duty.
In February, 1946, my bride and I went back to the museum at
Minneapolis. Lecturing on modern art at the University of
Minnesota in the spring term helped to brush away professional
cobwebs of the war years. One evening a telephone call brought
word that I was the leading candidate for a museum directorship
at Louisville, Kentucky. With some trepidations over the chance
of a Yankee in the South, albeit with Virginia blood, it seemed
wise to try my hand at the helm before settling deeper into cura-
torial research, And here we are ten years later, still enjoying
the opportunities at Louisville and finding ourselves the richer
by two children born and bred in Kentucky. The Satterwhite
Wi ing of the museum was opened 1 in October, 1954, using some
years of professional experience as adviser to the governors’
building committee and as director. Membership in the museum
has grown several-fold, thanks to all concerned; collections are
increasing gradually, and the program of special exhibitions is
more active than in some larger institutions. A show of Canadian
abstract paintings is just leaving as we are preparing for a new
show of American glass designs and for the Steichen photo-
graphic panorama of “The Family of Man.” |
The viewpoint of public educational service appears to be the
spirit of American art museums at their best. Both services and
the arts usually may be related historically to the economics of
civilization and to human ideals, whether religious, political,
social or personal — witness Athens, Chartres, Florence, New
York or Louisville. Granted that fine quality is a sime qua non,
each art object seems to be a potential touchstone to the under-
standing of civilizations and peoples, often limited by local means
or resources of interpretation in museums, but surmounting dif-
ferences in tongues or conditions of men throughout the world..
If man does not live by bread alone and if wars or peace are to
gain greater freedoms for civilization, surely there must be a
worthy contribution to be rendered by museums in a nation “of.
the people, by the people, and for the people.” Museums thus
might be likened to a perennial All Elallow’s Eve when the spirits
of ‘the sacred and the earthly past come to life on earth for the
enrichment of mankind, in the realms of modern and historic art.

[ 534]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM HENRY HARRIS

HOME AppRESs: Underhill Farm, R-F.D. 1, Litchfield, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Scovill Manufacturing Co., Waterbury, Conn.

BORN: Feb. 9, 1910, Athens, N.Y. parents: Rosslyn Phillip Harris, Susan
Marian McKenna.

PREPARED AT: Hudson High School, Hudson, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Prudence Ann Lamont, June 9, 1934, Newark, N.J. cumopren:
Rosslyn Phillip, Oct. 25, 1936; Kathleen Lamont, Sept. 13, 1940.

HARVARD SON: Rosslyn Phillip Harris, ’58.

occuPATION: Sales manager, Drug and Cosmetic Container Division, Scovill
Manufacturing Company.

MEMBER OF: American Forestry Association; Appalachian Mountain Club;
Atlantic Salmon Association; Connecticut Forest & Park Association;
Green Mountain Club; Harvard Club of Connecticut; Harvard Club
of New York; Miramichi Salmon Association; National Sales Execu-
tives Club; Society of American Military Engineers, Waterbury Club;
Waterbury Sales Executives Club. -

ALTHOUGH I have not yet reached the fifty-year mark, my
life to date falls into two major periods of roughly a quarter
century each. The first of these—from 1910 to 1933 — when
my formal education came to a close, seems in retrospect to have
been much longer and more leisurely than the second — from
1933 to 1957 — which covers my business career up to the present,
and finds me facing a Twenty-fifth Reunion. I could wish that
the pace might slacken in the years which lie ahead, so that if
I am privileged to look back upon them, in the process of pre-
paring a biography for a Fiftieth Reunion, they may more nearly
resemble the years of my youth than those of my middle age.
This should not be construed as a desire for a second childhood
— but rather as an indication that life has been good enough to
make the increasing rapidity of its passing a matter of real regret.
Like all of you, I, of course, completed my undergraduate work
during a period when gainful employment was virtually an
impossibility. At the time a teaching career, with the promise of
long summers in the out-of-doors, beckoned appealingly. So, in
the hope that jobs might be more plentiful in another year, I
returned to Harvard to do some graduate work as further prepara-
tion for this profession. But conditions were no better in 1933,
and after a few months of selling stocks and bonds in Albany,

(535 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

New York, I became associated with the Irving Trust Company
in New York City. I remained in the banking business in various
capacities, until the spring of 1941, when I left to go with the
Scovill Manufacturing Company of Waterbury, Connecticut.

The period prior to World War II witnessed my marriage and
the birth of my two children. During those years, my home was
in Basking Ridge, New Jersey, and my office in New York.
Early in the war, my company appointed me as Washington rep-
resentative to handle contacts with the various Services in gov-
ernmental agencies with which we were dealing. I functioned in
this capacity from 1942 through 1945, at which time I was
transferred to Waterbury, where I have since been located.
During the past ten years, my work has all been in sales and I
have been successively sales manager of several divisions of the
company.

Shortly after World War II, the University of Connecticut
established a branch in Waterbury, and I was offered an oppor-
tunity to conduct several evening classes in English literature,
which I accepted—thus indulging my early desire to teach.
Later I also gave courses in salesmanship at the University and
at Post Junior College of Commerce in Waterbury. Ultimately,
business pressures necessitated the termination of both of these
connections, but the work was interesting and gratifying.

Throughout my life, the mountains, woods, lakes and streams
have been an abiding love and a source of rest and inspiration.
Little wonder then that my vacations have for many years been
spent among them, largely in New England and Canada. Trout
and salmon fishing, hunting, camping, mountain climbing (more
recently “scrambling”), skiing and photography are my hobbies;
and the 130 acres of rocky wooded terrain on which my colonial
home is situated afford me the opportunity to indulge them all on
weekends and short holidays.

My son prepared for college at Hotchkiss and after two less-
than-mediocre years at Harvard, decided, upon the advice of
those in authority, to take his military service between his sopho-
more and junior years, He is currently serving a two-year enlist-
ment in the Marine Corps. My daughter, a junior at St. Margaret’s
School, plans to train for nursing upon graduation. Both children
have been raised in the Episcopal faith, and both, I am happy to

[ 536]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

say, have inherited the love of the out-of-doors which is shared
by their father and mother.

My views on world affairs, domestic politics and current social
conditions are probably best kept to myself. Suffice it to say, I do
not regard all progress as progress. Chalking up what we have
gained against what we have lost since those long-ago Cambridge
days leaves me with the feeling that the balance may be in doubt.
One can only hope that there will still be fish in the rivers, game
in the woods and peace and solitude in the mountains — come

1982.

KEMPTON HARRISON

HOME ADDRESS: 316 Cedar Ave., Swansea, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Borden & Remington Co., Fall River, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 26, 1910, Fall River, Mass. parents: Albert Alonzo Harrison,
Cora Bernice Vestal.

PREPARED AT: Moses Brown School, Providence, RI.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MarRRIED: Ellen Adams, Aug. 23, 1939, Fall River, Mass. cumpren: Albert
Alonzo, 2d, April 21, 1940; Sherman B., Jan. 25, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richmond Harrison, 735.

OCCUPATION: President, Borden & Remington Company, chemical dealers.

MEMBER OF: Quequechan Club; Chemists’ Club, Southern New England
Textile Club; Chemical Club of New England; American Association
of Textile Chemists and Colorists; Coles River Club; Cedar Cove Club.

IN the fall of 1932, after graduation, I went to work for my
father’s concern, Borden & Remington Company in Fall River.
The business is old, having been started in 1837 as a drugstore,
branching out through the years into dealing in heavy chemicals,
dyestuffs, building materials and the like. Father went to work
for the company in 1888 and became principal owner about 1920.
At present we deal mainly in synthetic detergents and industrial
chemicals in Eastern Connecticut, Rhode Island, Southeastern
Massachusetts and the Boston area, selling mainly to textile dyers,
printers and finishers and the rubber and metal trades. In 1945
I became sales manager of the firm, and after the death of my
father in 1946, president, my brother Richmond becoming

treasurer.
[ 537]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

In 1939 I married Ellen Adams, a childhood neighbor. We
went to live in Swansea, a suburb of Fall River, and have two
children as above,

In politics — Republican. As to my hobbies, reading history
and a little amateur acting.

ROBERT BRANDON HARRISON

HOME ADDRESS: 8615 Indian Hill Rd. Cincinnati 27, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 720 Fifth Third Bank Bldg. Cincinnati, Ohio,

BORN: March 3, 1909, Cincinnati, Ohio. PARENTS: Charles Learner Harrison,
°86, Bertha Webster.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Douglass, Sept. 22, 1934, Cincinnati, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Robert Brandon, Jr. May 16, 1938; Sally Douglass, Feb. 26, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles Learner Harrison, Jr. °18, Edmund Webster
Harnson, 727.

STARTING back in undergraduate days, I met a girl named

Elizabeth Douglass, Libby to you, in the fall of my sophomore

year, at a dance at Pi Eta Club. She came from Cincinnati and

was attending Wellesley. After five years of occasionally trou-

bled courting through college and business school, we joined

forces on September 22, 1934.

Although I had previously resolved not to go into banking, I
entered the First National Bank of Cincinnati upon our return
from a honeymoon in Bermuda. The year 1934 was not a par-
ticularly good one for being choosy about a job. Three years
later, I joined the teaching staff of Cincinnati Country Day
School. For three years I endeavored to get some arithmetic,
French and geography into the crania of the small human dyna-
mos working in the fifth, sixth and seventh grades. No wonder
there is a shortage of teachers. Very few have nerves strong
enough to long endure the effervescent energies of those demons.

Then came the war. In January, 1942, I entered Civil Service
as an employee of the Cincinnati Ordnance District. For three
years there I was reasonably successful in keeping track of some
3800 wage earners, as head of the payroll department. In June,
1942, | was commissioned second lieutenant, promoted to first in

[ 538 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

November. My discharge date in February 1946 found me stil]
a lieutenant, although my assignment had changed to contract
terminations, Like so many, my postwar objective was to join or
establish a nice successful small business in order to stay out from
under “the big boss.” I regret to admit that several such efforts
were not financially successful. The great experience gained was
beneficial but not remunerative. At the moment of writing, one
such business has recently been sold and I am working at setting
up another, hoping that it will be of a more successful and
permanent nature.

Junior, going by the name of Brandon, arrived in May, 1938.
The first born certainly occupied the entire attention of the par-
ents. Partial though I may be, I think he’s turning out well. He
graduated from Deerfield in 1956, but returned for a postgrad-
uate course for a year. As of this moment his college and/or
military service have not been determined by the appropriate
authorities. Sally was the next, and last, in May, 1941. Now
fifteen, she has all the looks, personality and studious ability
anyone could ask for. :

Honeymoon and the two succeeding vacations were spent in
that delightful island of Bermuda. It is no doubt still nice, but
considerably changed I hear, what with airplanes, automobiles
and no longer that little railroad. Most vacations from 1937 to
1951 were at Chatham, Massachusetts, with an occasional winter
flier in Florida. Then, in order to prove to the family that there
was more to this country than Cincinnati and Chatham, we took
to the West, largely Wyoming dude ranches, but with appro-
priate sight-seeing detours. Since Libby yearns for the sea again,

1957 will be at Edgartown.

Hobbies have been too numerous to list. Current interests in-
clude tennis (I just plain don’t care much for golf), bridge, wood-
working, antique automobiles, boating, jewelry making, hunting,
fishing and keeping the household equipment operating. We
must like to remodel houses, too, as we are working on our third
one now. By June we hope to be under way on an all new abode,
and, we hope, our last such effort.

[ 539]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

WILLIAM EDWARD HARRISON

HOME ADpress: 3A Columbus Sq., Boston 16, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 794 Tremont St. Boston 18, Mass.

BorN: July 25, 1910, Boston, Mass. pareNts: Luther Apollos Eleazar Harri-
son, Ada Louisa Young.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; A.M. 1934.

OCCUPATION: Journalist; associate editor, Boston Chronicle.

orFices HELD: Mfember board of directors, since 1942, secretary to corpora-
tion, 1942-56, Square Deal-Boston Chronicle Publishing Company; mem-
ber of board, Communist Party of New England, 1945-50; literary
consultant, William A. Rhodes Opera Society, since 1948.

MEMBER OF: Boston Branch, National Association for the Advancement of
Colored People; Jamaican Associates, Inc.

A QUARTER of a century after admission by the late President
Abbott Lawrence Lowell into the “company of educated men,”

I know more than ever before that, as my friend of cherished
memory, the late Professor Harold Laski, once said, “Men who
live differently think differently. ” The currents of thought
which have carried me along in my determined quest of the
Truth, at once universal and applicable in particular to my life
experience as a Negro born in the United States and loving his
country, place me at sharp divergence from those which have
motivated my classmates in our common “pursuit of happiness.”

I am not enough of a scholar to know positively whether the
phrased originated with Thomas Jefferson, whose memory I
venerate, but I am sure that my pursuit, guided by such incom-
patible cicerones as Karl Marx, W. E. Burghardt DuBois, William
Monroe Trotter and George Santayana, to say less of Irving
Babbitt, has differed profoundly from those who probably in-
spired even my most beloved classmates, Harry Isaacs, Reverend
Father Christopher Huntington, Dr. John E, Moseley and Charles
Mason, none of whom is a Marxist like myself, but all of whom
have at the Jeast tolerated my unorthodoxy and hence kept my
love of Harvard glowing through the years.

In reflecting upon the course of development which my private
and public life has followed to date, I can only re-affirm partially
the recollection of Confucius: “At fifteen, my heart was set on
study; at thirty, I was established; at fifty, I had no doubts.”

[ 540]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The repetition is partial, because I have not reached fifty and
so can enter no claims, modest or preposterous, to having learned
Heaven’s will. That kind of knowledge has indeed, to be sure,
been most elusive, refusing to be trapped by all the stratagems
employed in my voracious pursuit of other kinds of knowledge.

Any account of my life, spiritual or material, is bound to be
incomplete until its end, about which I shall have nothing to say,
and if I have any biographers among younger men and women
who know and love me they may discern influences on my
thought and action which now escape me and of which, in fact,
I may not be consciously aware. I can only hope that the judg-
ment of others at that time will be considerate and charitable,
blessed as they will be with an inevitably more objective view of
the totality of my life than is vouchsafed to either my friends or
enemies. Of course, they will never entirely know my inmost
thoughts, some of which I set down here, however close they
may come to divining them without prejudice in surviving docu-
ments. However, that incompleteness does not now dismay me,
since it is the common experience of mankind each individually
not to be wholly understood by others, because we are all ulti-
mately unknown and unknowable to one another, and can only
cast about for common bases of communication, in the resources
of language.

I must have recourse to what is simple in my daily selfish-
unselfish living, and that is my invincible resolve to struggle for
the full citizenship of my people, specifically the American Negro
people, on the basis of complete equality with all other Ameri-
cans, If, at one period, I enlisted in what seemed to be a crusade,
but turned out to be a conspiracy, to paraphrase the words of
Professor Irving Howe of Brandeis University, I have no regrets,
since I met and associated with many brave, lovable and self-
Sacrificing Americans not infected with the virus of racial preju-
dice to the extent that it is unfortunately pestilential in our
country. As Dr. DuBois proclaimed at its outset, “The problem
of the twentieth century is the problem of the color line.” I pray
that my hope that it will be solved before I die is not vain.

[ 54r ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

GEORGE GADSDEN HARTRIDGE

HOME ADDRESS: 38 Park Ave., White Plains, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fuller & Smith & Ross Advertising Agency, 230 Park Ave,
New York, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 6, 1910, Elizabeth, N.J. PARENTS: Julian Hartridge, ’90, Maria de
Moynelo.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

marrieD: Margaret Catherine Todd, Nov. 9, 1935, Atlantic Highlands, N.J.
CHILDREN: Judith Wayne, Feb. 17, 1941; Diana Todd, Nov. 21, 1943,
Stephen, Feb. 14, 1948; Catherine, Jan. 27, 1951.

occupation: Advertising, account executive.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Paragon Club, 1936-38; chairman, Finance and
Taxation Committee, Browers Hill Civic Association, 1947-49; member
board of directors, North Broadway Civic Association.

MEMBER OF: St. George’s Episcopal Church; Harvard Club of New York,
Westchester Hills Golf Club.

MY career has been almost entirely in the field of advertising
and selling. Starting with Proctor & Gamble, my business ac-
tivities took me over all of the United States, much of Canada
and part of Mexico. Obviously, my family and I enjoyed seeing
so much of our hemisphere.

My connection with the Pepsi-Cola Company led to a desire
to operate a soft drink bottling company — and this I did in
Vicksburg, Mississippi, from 1949 to 1953. The experience was
most interesting, but my family and I missed our close friends and
the activities available in New York City. So we returned to the
advertising business and the life of suburbanites.

During World War II, I was a naval officer expediting the
delivery of material and ordnance to the Navy Dry Dock on
Terminal Island, California. The job was a busy one and most
interesting.

My family is now located in a big, old house in White Plains
— where my wife, my four children, my dog and I lead a full
life. I enjoy very much my frequent contacts with those of m
classmates who lunch at the New York Harvard Club — and
hope that I shall have the pleasure of seeing many other classmates
during the years to come.

[ 542 ]

Sea i

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN SLEEPER HARTWELL

“HOME ADDRESS: 2365 Midwick Drive, Altadena, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 625 S. Spring St., Los Angeles, Calif.

BORN: Sept. 26, 1911, Detroit, Mich, parents: Chester Martin Hartwell, ’os,
Dorothy May Sleeper.

PREPARED AT: Evanston Township High School, Evanston, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932, M.B.A., 1934.

maRRIED: Elizabeth Abbot Sargent, Feb. 21, 1938, Concord, Mass. cur:
Penelope Abbot, Nov. 23, 1939.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, branch administrator, California Bank, Los
Angeles, Calif.

MEMBER OF: Stock Exchange Club; Altadena Town & Country Club, Har-

_vard Business School Club of Southern California; Harvard Club of

Southern California.

NOT having my fill of formal education at Harvard College, I
spent the two years following our graduation at the Business
School. The correct answers to all of the business problems have
long since been forgotten.

On July 1, 1934, I re-entered the business world at the Manu-
facturers Trust Company of New York to earn a livelihood and
to find out why its personnel office did not like college graduates.
The answer was obvious — the progress was too slow and most
college compatriots left for greener fields.

During periodic visits to Boston, I dated Betty Sargent, sister
of Classmate Bill Sargent, and succumbed to her charms. We
were married in February, 1938, and set up housekeeping at
Bronxville, New York. Our daughter, Penny, arrived a year and
a half later.

My banking education followed the usual training periods and
then I was assigned to the foreign department to assist in its busi-
ness development program. In 1941, I resolved to change my
vocation to other fields, resigned from the Manufacturers Trust
Company, and made a temporary connection with the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York. Events beyond all of our control
deferred the implementation of further progress in that direction.

In May, 1942, as a newly sworn-in lieutenant (j.g.), I left my
family and proceeded to Tutuila, Samoa, to be operating officer
of the Bank of American Samoa with incidental collateral duties
such as comptroller of the Island Government, assistant to the

[ 543 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Ships Loading Officer, etc. After twenty months on “Alcatraz
in Technicolor,” I returned to the States for a tour of duty at
the Navy Department, Washington, Planning Division, Bureau
of Supplies and Accounts. My final Navy assignment was plan-
ning officer, Navy Supply Depot, Seattle, Washington. In June,
1946, I left the service with the rank of commander.
The ties in the East having been severed during the war, Betty,
Penny and I selected Southern California as the most favorable
place to live. Although one reason for going West was to escape
from the big cities, we located in a suburb of Los Angeles which,
needless to say, exhibits considerable growth potential. Having
found a place to live, I sought a new connection in the business
world. As could be expected, I was of greater value to banks
than to industrial or other commercial firms, In December, 1946,
I joined California Bank, Los Angeles, to assist in the adminis-
tration of the foreign department, but fortunately spent a con-
tinually greater portion of my time in the commercial loan field. I
now have one of the most interesting billets in the bank — that
of branch administrator which embraces the supervision of com-
mercial loans, public relation programs and personnel in a number
of the bank’s branches.

Hobbies, if you could call them that, are part-time do-it-your-
self caretaker of a two-acre homestead and too infrequent and
too-many-stroke rounds of golf. One of the reasons for the acre-
age was to pursue the hobby of raising St. Bernards, but that
project never materialized, Betty and 1 have found it possible
to do some traveling every second or third year, covering the
Hawaiian Islands, Mexico, and parts of the West Coast. Penny
joined us in our trip to Boston via the Caribbean for the 1955
Christmas holidays. The next projected trip is to Cambridge in
June, 1957. How many of the family will join us is not yet de-
termined, as Penny’s graduation from high school coincides with
the Reunion. See you there.

[544]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SYDNEY HARWOOD

HOME ADDRESS: 58 Beechmont St., Worcester, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: Geo. 5. Harwood & Son, Inc., 50 Lagrange St., Worcester,
Mass.

porN: April 7, 1909, Brookline, Mass. parents: John Henry Harwood, 93,
Anne Bolend Reed.’

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE A.B. cum laude, 1932.

MARRIED; Janice Butler, Oct. 7, 1944, Worcester, Mass. cuitpreN: John
Henry, 2d, Sept. 20, 1945; Timothy H., June 30, 1947; Nancy R.,

June 3, 1949.
HARVARD BROTHERS: John Henry Harwood, Jr., ’27 (deceased); Reed Har-

wood, ’29, M.D., 734.

OCCUPATION: President, Geo. S. Harwood & Son, Inc., machinery manu-
facturers. .

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer and director, Lewandos French Dyeing & Cleansing
Company, through April, 1956; director, Worcester Travelers Aid
Society, through September, 1956. .

MEMBER OF: Tatnuck Country Club, Worcester; Acoaxet Club, Westport
Harbor, Mass.

WITHOUT ever having thought much about it before, I find
that my history since graduation is keyed very largely to my oc-
cupation, which may be a common enough situation but raises
a question of how interesting it may therefore be to anyone else.
However, it is too late to change things now.
After one highly valuable year at the Harvard Business School,
I joined my father in a small family business devoted to the manu-
facture of a specialized line of textile machinery. Probably be-
cause my family also had a laundry-cleaning business in the
Boston area, the machinery business had a management-sales
office in downtown Boston, while its factory was in Worcester,
Massachusetts. Being required to work between Business School
years, I first went at it in that dusty old office where things were
so slow in the depression summer of 1933 that I quickly requested
a transfer into the Worcester plant and began to learn the funda-
mentals of our products by helping to make what little was being
sold.
As business began to pick up, it became apparent that my
father needed aid, so I stayed on a few months at Worcester
rather than returning to the Business School. Thereafter, I spent

[ 545 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

a few years traveling as salesman with headquarters in the Boston

office, where I learned more about that end of the business and
made frequent liaison visits at the Worcester plant. Around 1938
my father became incapacitated and I moved our office to Water-
town, Massachusetts, next door to the Jaundry-cleaning business
being run by my brother Jack. Each being financially interested
in the other’s company, we thought this arrangement would keep
us in better touch and enable us to spell one another in time of
need. But these objectives were not fulfilled in practice for lack
of such need and of detailed familiarity with the other’s daily
tasks. |

So a second move of my office into the Worcester plant, this
time, was an easy step after management trouble in the latter had
put me in Worcester for several months and finally decided me
in favor of the change in the fall of 1940. This was a thoroughly
satisfactory event, not only from the standpoint of the machinery
business, but of my own life which took a completely fresh and
delightful departure — new surroundings, new friends and new
independence.

With the onslaught of the war, my company found itself obli-
gated to maintain outstanding machinery but forbidden to build
any more except for vital needs, so we turned to subcontract ma-
chine work with our vacated capacity and made parts and assem-
blies for such diverse things as steel rolling mills, machine tools,
rifles, piston grinders for tanks, metal-cutting saws, under-water
sound detection equipment for ships, and sometimes unknown
items. It was hard but worthwhile work keeping a small plant
operating on such a mixture of unrelated equipment.

Then in 1944, I met and wed my wonderful wife, and life took
a marvelous turn which was soon enhanced by termination of the
war and a return to normal living and occupations, In the course
of events we produced our three children, took a variety of
modest vacation trips when the kids could be tended at home,
and eventually acquired a seashore summer house which has been
one of our chief joys for several years, especially with a small
ficet of little boats to keep us on (and sometimes in) the ocean
waters.

With the sudden death of my brother Jack, late in 1954, life
took a mean turn. Among other things, 1 found mysclf with the

[ 546 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

responsibility of running his business as well as mine until I
finally managed to dig up a buyer and negotiate the sale of his
to the joyous relief of all concerned. So, as of this writing, I am
in the process of settling down again to my old familiar tasks.
These include such problems as sales, engineering, patents, trade-
marks, production, accounting, personnel, advertising, financing,
and I know not how many other phases of business which made
the management of a small company endlessly interesting, ex-
citing and demanding. oe

Perhaps the only thing which has prevented this occupation
from being fully satisfactory has been the burdensome incursion
of government and government policies into everyday affairs
during the course of my business lifetime. The result is that the
owners and risk-takers of a so-called free enterprise actually have
a senior partner who gets a majority of their hard-earned profits,
who imposes and directs from afar invariably expensive func-
tions, but who contributes nothing visibly constructive towards
its successful operation. What that silent senior partner’s attitude
will be is a prime and often paralyzing consideration in any major
move contemplated by allegedly private business.

But since political ears are virtually deaf to cries of distress
about such matters, I solace myself with a wonderful family life
which includes vacations mainly on or around the salt water,
and preferably involving sailboats up to a comfortable cruising
size. Weekend hobbies are an occasional round of bad golf, even
less frequent but more frightening adventures on skis, and my
winter favorite of skating fairly long distances on rivers or lakes.

WALTER PAUL HAVENS, JR.

HOME AppREss: 300 Cherry Lane, Wynnewood, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1025 Walnut St., Philadelphia 7, Pa.

BORN: Dec, 20, 1911, Farmingdale, N.J. parents: Walter Paul Havens,
Jessie Florence Crousé.

PREPARED AT: Freehold High School, Freehold, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1932; M.Dy 1936.

marrigD: Ida Markle Hessenbruch, June 14, 1941, Philadelphia, Pa. cHILDREN:
Florence Dreer, Jan. 14, 1943; Timothy Markle, Oct. 20, 1945; Michael
Crousé, Dec. 28, 1948; Peter Hessenbruch, July 1, 1954; John Paul,
Sept, 12, 1956.

[ 547]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

occupanon: Physician, professor of clinical microbiology; associate pro-
fessor of medicine, Jefferson Medical College.
oFFices HELD: Professor of clinical microbiology, associate professor of
medicine, chicf of Division of Infectious Diseases, Jefferson Medical
College; chief, Section of Infectious Diseases, physician, Pennsylvania
Hospital; consultant to Surgeon General, Department of Army; con-
sultant, Veterans Administration; member, Commission on Viral
Infections, Armed Forces Epidemiological Board; member, World
Health Organization Expert Advisory Panel on Virus Diseases; mem-
ber, World Health Organization Expert Committee on Viral Hepatitis;
member board of trustees, Dietrich Foundation, Inc.; editorial director,
History of Internal Medicine in World War I, United States Army,
honorary member, Faculty of Medicine, University of Chile Medical
School, Santiago, Chile.
MEMBER OF: American Afedical Association; American Society for Clinical
Investigation; College of Physicians, Philadelphia; Philadelphia County
Medical Society; American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases;
J. Aitken Meigs Medical Association, Racquet Club; Merion Cricket
Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Over one hundred medical articles.

FOLLOWING graduation from the College in 1932, it was
only a short trip across the Charles to the Harvard Medical School
where the next four years were spent. In 1936, my horizons had
broadened sufficiently to allow a somewhat longer journey to
Philadelphia, Here the ensuing years were as delightful as these
halcyon times permitted — the first two of them as intern at the
Lankenau Hospital, and the last three as resident in medicine at
the Jefferson Medical College Hospital. The termination of the
Philadelphia part of the story was properly celebrated by a nuptial
service, and off we went on a peripatetic course that has taken us
to all parts of the world. The year 1941-42 was spent in New
York, where I was privileged to work as a fellow of the National
Research Council at the Hospital of the Rockefeller Institute.
These wonderful days did not last long enough and in May, 1942,
was begun another journey, as a member of the Armed Forces,
taking us both first to Texas and then removing me to the Middle
East where I enjoyed a most profitable, albeit somewhat lonely,
eighteen months. The blessings outweighed the disadvantages,
however, and experiences there directed my activities and in-
terests along the lines that still dominate my working career. The
Important impact of vital hepatitis as a cause of loss of time among
our troops in the Middle East and Mediterranean theatres served as

[ 548}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a stimulus for certain investigations concerned with this disease
and eventually sent me back to New Haven, Connecticut, in 1944,
where the following two years were spent at the Yale University
Medical School, undertaking various researches in this disease.
In 1946, the second journey was made back to Philadelphia where
I have remained, settled down in civilian life again, working as a
consultant in medicine, doing research and teaching medical
students — a triad of activities that is highly enjoyable.

The wonders of the open road are still alluring, however, and a

ear does not pass that we do not set out for some distant corner

of the world. The last trip this past September to Santiago,
Chile, was indeed a pleasant one and added to the ever-widening
circle of friends and acquaintances. In addition, fortune has
favored me with repeated opportunities of association with the
military, and these assignments have sent me almost yearly to
various parts of the world as consultant, affording a very nice
relief from the more stable existence of the Quaker City.

The children — four sons and a daughter-—have grown as
children do, some too wide and some too narrow, with none of
them as yet at an age where the final smoothing out process can
be said to be near completion. The five of them occupy the time
left over from work and travel so that I have had little concern
about the development of hobbies, nor actually have felt the
necessity of them. In conclusion, my religious and political con-
victions reflect, I fear, the faith of certain of the very busy per-
sons who live in a very conservative community — to wit, Episco-
palian and Republican.

JOHN BROMHAM HAWES

HOME AND OFFICE apprEss: Williams Hall, Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

BORN: June 27, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: John Bromham Hawes, ’oo,
Cornelia Lawrence Hyatt.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.; Phillips Acad-
emy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932} ED.M., 1951.

Marrigp: Nancy Shattuck Brigham, June 21, 1941, Marblehead, Mass. cHILD:
John Bromham, Jr., Jan. 11, 1943.

[ 549 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

OCCUPATION: Teacher.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Ekwanok (Manchester, Vt.) Country
Club.

WHEN I first read Marquand’s H. M. Pulham, Esquire, many
years ago, I wondered idly what it would seem like to review for
one’s twenty-fifth reunion the frustrations and fulfillments of a
post-college quarter of a century. Like Pulham, I approach the
task humbly and, I hope, not so long-windedly. Certain things
stand out. Others, thank the Lord, are buried in a merciful limbo.

First things first. In looking backwards, one discerns a series
of hills and valleys, interspersed with occasional plateaus. The
hills and some of the plateaus are worthy perhaps of brief mention,
not so the valleys.

An early and cherished memory is a year spent at Magdalene
College, Cambridge, England, 1932-33. Many, too many, of the
fine Englishmen I knew during that year are no longer alive.
This fact alone reminds me how lucky we were on this side of the
Atlantic and how few empty places there are in the ranks of our
friends. One man died at Dunkirk, another crashed in his Spitfire,
a third went down with the Hood. I wish the list stopped there.
But still alive are the very many happy memories — the chit-chat
at the Hawks Club, the coming-of-age parties (a happy custom
relatively unobserved in this country), purple patches of tutorials
with J. A. Richards and F. R. Leavis, the lectures of Housman,
Pritchard, and old “Q”, a few badly run but nevertheless enjoy-
able sprinting races, topped off by some excellent pub-crawls.
For me, it was the “grand tour,” which served to pull together a
good many personal and heretofore unresolved uncertainties.
Classmates glimpsed during these halcyon days included Hallowell
and Howland at Oxford, Lewis and Sutermeister at Cambridge,
Jim Ames in Munich, and, on one fine evening, Bill Gay in
Piccadilly Circus.

Back to the U.S., F.D.R., and the New Deal, sans job and almost
sans cash. A publishing career, as smugly stated in the Senior
Album of the previous spring, did not welcome me with the ex-
pected open arms. A teaching job at Andover did, thanks to one
of those extraordinary chances that, as the Bard says, shape our
ends. Much to my surprise, terror, and eventual enjoyment, I
found myself face to face with Young America. Three happy

[550]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

years went by before I cast the die and entered publishing
through a partially opened door. Thanks to a princely weekly
wage of fifteen dollars, I could do no wrong. Thanks to a con-
tinuing allowance from a generous parent, I could — on rare oc-
casions. This happy if restricted state of things lasted for another
three years, at which point the sudden death of one parent and
the illness of the other brought me back to Boston from what is
known in publishing circles as the “field.” On the day Germany
entered Poland in 1939, I was invited to re-enter the teaching
profession at Andover where, except for the war years, I have
been happily located ever since. In June, 1941, on the eve of
Hitler’s invasion of Russia, I was married to Nancy Brigham, she
has very patiently put up with me ever since. (Why is it so easy
to remember one’s own important dates with the aid of a very
unpleasant international chronometer? )

The war years went quickly and are more difficult to pigeon-
hole than those that preceded them. A-V(S) at Quonset and then,
God save the mark, Memphis, Tennessee, for a year of strenuous
combat, This year was punctuated by the arrival of our only
child and son. There followed another year of warfare at Colgate
University, the center of New York’s milkshed, before a friend in
BuPers heard the small voice in the wilderness. My last duty was
with Fighting Squadron 2 on a succession of carriers and tropical
islands, I think I enjoyed the islands,

Back to Andover in 1946. Leave of absence in 1950-51 to take
advantage of the G.I. Bill of Rights at the Harvard School of
Education, on the theory that I didn’t know everything about
teaching. Result —I still don’t, but I did acquire a profound
knowledge of my own ignorance and limitations. In 1948 came
the purchase of a restored farm in Londonderry, Vermont. I
will resist manfully the temptation to dwell at length upon the
charms of a home in the Green Mountains. Consider as said the
usual injunction to all classmates to drop in between June and
September. No boys, no bells, no buzzers, and a few non-
academic books, but plenty of the extra-curricular activities of a
Horatian Sabine farm.

Now itis 1956. I go to church fairly regularly, vote Republican,
play golf in the 80’s, cut brush for exercise in the summertime,
tide herd on fifty-plus fourteen-year-olds for exercise the rest

[551]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

of the time, annoy wife and friends slightly less than heretofore,
and find the present world a very pleasant place indeed in which
to work and play. And I am very glad I went to Harvard.

DONALD ROBERT HAYES

HOME ADDRESS: 114 Crescent Rd., Longmeadow, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 281 State St., Springfield, Mass.

BoRN: Jan. 25, 1911, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Wentworth Larabee Hayes,
Grace Edna Hixon.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: AB. Cum laude, 19323 M.D. 1936.

MARRIED: Rosamond Allen Whitcomb, May 15, 1937, Waltham, Mass.
curLpREN: Allen Wentworth, July 19, 1939; Margo Hixon, Sept. 5, 1941;
Cynthia Whitcomb, Oct. 25, 1944; Susan Spear, Jan. 15, 1947; Donald
Robert, Jr., Jan. 8, 1950.

occuPaTion: Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Member, executive committee, Hampden District Medical So-
ciety, 1950-54; alternate delegate to American Medical Association,
1951-52, 1956-57; member, board of directors, Springfield Academy of
Medicine, 1952-57; member, secretary staff, since 1954, executive com-
mittee staff, senior surgeon, Wesson Memorial Hospital; councilor,
Massachusetts Medical Society; consulting surgeon, VA Hospital,
Northampton, Mary Lane Hospital, Ware and Cooley Dickinson Hos-
pital, Northampton, civilian surgical consultant, Westover Air Base
S.A.C, Chicopee; surgeon, Westfield State Cancer Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Hampden District Medical Society; Massachusetts Medical
Society; American Medical Association, American College of Surgeons
(fellow); American Board of Surgery (diplomate); New England
Cancer Society; Springfield Academy of Medicine, John Leonard
Medical Society; Osler Club; Daland Society; Association of Military
Surgeons; Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of Springfield;
Colony Club.

IT is difficult to realize that twenty-five years have passed since
my graduation from Harvard, and yet when I think of all the
good things that have gone on in that period of time, it hardly
seems possible.

From college I went to Harvard Medical School for four years
where I thought I learned a lot and then spent the next six years
in surgical training finding out how much I had yet to learn.
The year after graduating from Medical School I married Rosa-
mond Whitcomb, Radcliffe ’32. It is of interest to note that

[552]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

although we spent the same four years in Cambridge, we did not
meet until my senior year in Medical School.

By 1942 I was working for Uncle Sam and my peregrinations
are well documented in the fifteen-year Class Report. Suffice it
to say that it was a wonderful experience which I do not care to
repeat, At least I was privileged to practise surgery while in the
Army, which was something of note.

In 1946 my family —now with three children —settled in
Springfield, Massachusetts, and I started in the practice of general
surgery. My family grew along with my practice and they now
range from seventeen years to seven years of age, with a boy at
each end and three girls in the middle. How fortunate we are!

Western Massachusetts, at one time, seemed a long way from
Mecca but with a state cancer hospital close by and in my capacity
as consultant to a Veterans Hospital in Northampton and con-
sultant to Westover Field Air Base Hospital, I have sufficient
academic contacts to keep me on my toes professionally. Spring-
field has other advantages in that we can live amongst the green
trees in Longmeadow and be only ten minutes’ drive from the
hospital without much of a traffic problem. The Connecticut
valley is beautiful.

In addition to the practice of surgery, I find medical administra-
tion and organization interesting and have become involved from
time to time in the affairs of the State Medical Society as well
as the local and hospital affairs. This involves time-consuming
and frequently frustrating meetings but after a bit, one can see
order evolve from chaos and a feeling of satisfaction ensues.

I do not have much time left over for hobbies, but I love my
month of August in New Hampshire and usually manage to get
back there in October in search of a few partridge.

My religion is of the liberal variety and I am currently serving
as chairman of the standing committee of the Church of the Unity
which is a federated church combining a Unitarian and Universa-
list congregation.

As I review my twenty-five years out of college, I feel most
fortunate with my wonderful family, my reasonably busy pro-
fessional life, and my continuing good health.

[553]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

+ NATHAN HAYWARD, JR.

porn: Oct. 25, 1909, Villa Nova, Pa. parents: Nathan Hayward, Anna
Lloyd.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Rosa Packard Laird, June 7, 1941, Wilmington, Del. crtpren:
Nancy Lloyd, June 19, 1942; Nathan, 3d, Sept. 25, 1943; Rosa Laird,
Dec. 26, 1945; Pierre duPont.

piep: June 7, 1953, Wilmington, Del.

wow: Mrs. Nathan Hayward, Jr., 2512 W. 17th St. Wilmington, Del.

NATHAN HAYWARD was a member of the insurance firm of
Downs & Company in Wilmington. Before the war, he had
worked for the Philadelphia & Reading Coal and Iron Company,
the Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company, the C. J. Devine Com-
pany, the Smith, Kline & French Laboratories, the American
Pulley Company of Philadelphia, and as a teacher.

From 1934 to 1937 and again from 1939 to 1941, he was in the
52d Cavalry Brigade of the Pennsylvania National Guard. He
went on active duty as a second lieutenant in February, 1941, and
was discharged as a captain in March, 1946. In December of 1946
he was promoted to the rank of major in the Cavalry Reserve.

With the end of World War II, he settled in Wilmington with
his wife and children. He was much beloved in Wilmington,
where he had many cultural and civic affiliations. He was presi-
dent of the Delaware State Society of Mental Health (now the
Mental Health Association of Delaware, Inc.), and vestryman of
Christ Church, Christiana Hundred. He was survived by his
wife and four children.

ARTHUR HORTON HEALY

HoMe appesss; 4 Howland Lane, Hingham, Mass.

orice apvarss: Office of Naval Research, 495 Summer St., Boston 10, Mass.

Bown: Jan. 7, 1912, Fitchburg, Mass. parents: Walter Healy, Grace Mae
Scherrf,

paipaxeD AT; Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1928-1932, DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1932; M.B.Ay 1934.

Marup: Frances Bell MacLeod, March 25, 1939, Brookline, Mass.

[554]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Head, Research Contract Administration Dept., Office of Naval
Research.

OFFICES HELD: Member, since 1942, currently commander, U.S. Naval Reserve.

MEMBER OF: The Boston Club.

I CROSSED the Charles to the Business School and spent two
wonderful years sparring with classmates and faculty over the
case system. Then came a job with Dun & Bradstreet, as a credit
reporter and eventual promotion to service manager in the Spring-
field (Mass.) district. Marriage followed and then World War
II in which I volunteered for Navy duty.

After the usual indoctrination I was assigned to the Special
Devices Division in the Bureau of Aeronautics. Little did I know
that this was to be a turning point in my carrer and that I was to
become so enthused about the Navy and its changing concept of
sponsoring basic research that I would eventually accept a posi-
tion at the war’s end with the new Office of Naval Research.
Presently I am head of the contract administration department
in the Boston office, a position which daily brings me in contact
with the scientific greats of Harvard, M.LT., and the other uni-
versities and hospitals in New England. Since our Navy pro-
grams run pretty much across the board in all sciences, I have an
Opportunity to poke my nose into such diverse fields as nuclear
physics and plastic corneas. I venture few people enjoy more
exciting work, literally on the threshold of the future.

CLINTON HEBBERD

HOME ApprEss: 11 Everett St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., 200 Berkeley St.,
Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 21, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Frank Clinton Hebberd,
Martha Young. :

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

MarrieD: Ann Catherine Jesk, Aug. 23, 1933, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Gail, Oct. 18, 1935 (2. Merritt Curtis Card, March 10, 1956); Susan,
Oct. 31, 1943.

Occupation: Analyst; mortgage loans and investment real estate purchases,
City Mortgage Department.

[555]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

TO me, at least, it is confounding to be asked as the Class Secre-
tary has done, “\What have you been doing for the past twenty-
five years?” My immediate reaction is to give that stock answer
one uses when someone you meet says, “What’s new?”, to wit:
“Nothing!” But then, this is a little more serious than that.
I haven’t been in jail so I must have been doing something.
What was it?

Well, to start with, I have been eating (the scales say), drink-
ing (too much occasionally), reading, exercising, following the
Red Sox and politics, getting haircuts, and, for the past few years,
involuntarily watching television.

My home life has been happy and my business interesting. In
our department we now manage over a billion dollars’ worth of
investments. We do a national business, so you get to meet a lot
of wheels. Any number of vice-presidents call me “Clint,” but to
offset this, so do any number of bartenders. In fact, the invest-
ment department of a large insurance company is almost like going
to Harvard. You meet nice people and don’t make any money.
You can spend all morning talking millions with the only thought
in the back of your mind being, “Whom am I going to tap for lunch
money?” My work has enabled me to attain a certain knowledge
of high finance and a better one of low finance. I seem to have
had no spectacular success nor any outstanding failure, if you
want to skip certain imperfections in my Daily Double system.

I have the same wife, business, residence, teeth, eyes but not
hair and not the same color as I had twenty-five years ago. This
would scem to point out a prosaic existence, but since I also retain
the same bad habits, life has been fairly enjoyable. To sum it up,
we have had an awful lot of fun while not setting the world on
fire.

I was born a Baptist, but my wife and children go to the
Methodist Church on my behalf, Iam a Democrat, but can vote
Republican, if the need arises.

Now, Mr. Secretary, do you suppose that with all these statis-
tics and information, plus a couple of character references and a
dollar bill, I could get a martini at the Parker Hfouse men’s bar

from Louis?

[ 556 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LAWRENCE JOSEPH HENDERSON, JR.
SEE Appendix.

NORCOTT STANHOPE HENRIQUEZ

HOME ADDRESS: 1648 Rodman St., Hollywood, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: F’. A. Johnson, Inc., 130 S.W. 24th St., Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

BORN: July 19, 1910, Havana, Cuba, parents: Norcott Sigismund Henriquez,
Martha Marie Dedge.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

MARRIED: Lorraine Wilkinson, April 18, 1938, Havana, Cuba. c#Hrtpren:
Marion Ray, Nov. 16, 1941; Charles Augustus, Sept. 19, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Comptroller, F. A. Johnson, Inc., engaged in construction
business in South Florida.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Miami; American Institute of Accountants;
Florida Institute of Certified Public Accountants.

AS is true of all of us, I’ve lived through a depression and a war,
and it would have been remarkable if they had not shaped the
course of my life since college. The depression is to blame for
my choice of accounting as a profession, and I am now an
American citizen because of the war.

After leaving Cambridge I returned to Cuba and spent six or
seven months trying to find a job. The first offer of a permanent
position was as an accountant for a sugar company, which I
accepted although my knowledge of accounting was not great.
By taking a correspondence school course in the subject, I
remedied the deficiency, and held down the job for the next
eight years. During this period I married a girl I still rave about.
We had not been previously unacquainted, but the last time I had
seen her, she was a pig-tailed girl and I was a freshman at Harvard.

Life on an American-owned sugar plantation was dolce far
niente, and it is quite possible that if the war had not started when
it did, my family and I would still be there chewing on our lotus
leaves. But the war came. My sympathies were pro-British, and
I felt very strongly that the United States could not long remain
out of the struggle. In addition, I had come to realize that I was
more American in my attitudes than Cuban, Accordingly, my

[557]

a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

wife and I made plans to move to the United States. The final
spur to the move was the imminent arrival of our first child, whom
we wanted to be born an American.

In the fall of 1941, we settled in Boston and our daughter,
Marion, was born in November, making me a pre-Pearl Harbor
father, and draft-exempt at the time. Somehow or other, the
draft never did catch up with me, and I passed through the war
as a staff member of one of the larger New York accounting firms.

New York was too nervous and exhausting for our Latin
temperaments and the winters were too rugged for our thin blood,
so as soon as the war ended, we moved to Hollywood, Florida,
where we have been ever since. Here, our second child, a boy,
joined us, just as we were beginning to enjoy the thought that our
elder child was finishing grade school and P.T.A. functions were
a thing of the past.

Shortly after moving to Florida, I became an American citizen
and a little later a certified public accountant. When this latter
event occurred, I became a partner in a firm organized by my
former employer and myself. This venture into the ranks of
capitalist was successful, but lasted only a few years. To be a
public accountant, the practitioner should be prepared to devote
his whole time to his clients and to work under constant pressure.
Deadlines are the rule, not the exception. It is remarkable that
so many men in the profession are able to maintain the pace. I
was not one of these. When I was offered the position of comp-
troller of a corporation engaged in the construction business in
South Florida, I accepted. Now I find that I can spend a quiet
evening at home without being harried by telephone calls about
income taxes, payroll taxes, working capital and deficits. It’s a
wonderful life.

Aside from my family and my work, my main interest is music,
particularly the piano. A few years ago I began taking lessons and
am now beginning to play tolerably. In addition, I have com-
posed several pieces for the piano, none of which have been
published yet. My teacher informs me that I am a “genius,” and
my wife agrees with her. I have not dared as yet to get the
opinion of more competent authoritics,

[558]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WALTER HENSHAW

HOME ADDRESS: 105 Farmfield St., Fairhaven, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 558 Pleasant St., New Bedford, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 12, 1911, Springfield, Mass. PARENTS: James Henshaw, Annie
Pinner.

PREPARED AT: Fairhaven High School, Fairhaven, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928~1930.

marrieD: Ethel Allene Burgess, Aug. 16, 1934, Alamance County, N.C,

_ Caroline A. Walker, Aug. 5, 1947, Washington, D.C. cumpren:

Dorothy Ann, May 5, 1935; Linda Lee, June 30, 1940; Susan Amanda,
Nov. 6, 1949; James Walter, Jan. 10, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Insurance broker.

MEMBER OF: Masons.

AFTER leaving Harvard in 1930 I worked in the Patent Office
from 1931 to 1935. Then, following a trend among the Patent
Office lower echelon, I transferred to the Internal Revenue Ser-
vice where I remained for the next twenty years, resigning to
return to Fairhaven and enter the insurance business with my
dad. My position upon resigning from the Internal Revenue
Service was chief of the ruling section of the Tobacco Branch.
While in government service I lived in Maryland, District of
Columbia, Virginia, and North Carolina. Since entering the in-
surance business in February, 1955, I have had some success in
obtaining new business, but not nearly enough to satisfy my dad
who has been in the business since 1912. (Class members living in
Massachusetts please take note.)

We live in an old eight-room house about s00 feet from
Buzzards Bay. Our family includes a cat and a cocker spaniel
pup that my wife Caroline won’t allow in the house. One of my
reasons for returning to Massachusetts was to be near salt water
and to own a small boat. The latter desire is still in the indefinite
future. For a hobby I dabble in photography, having accumu-
lated about ten thousand snapshots. Someday I hope to learn
how to develop and print them.

As far as the future is concerned —if I can manage to sell
enough insurance to make ends meet, I can look forward to an
annuity at age sixty, a government pension at sixty-two, social
eecurity at sixty-five, and maybe the power boat that will sleep

our.

[559]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

THOMAS HERLIHY

HOME aporFss: Old Deerfield Street, Deerfield, Mass.

oFrFicE aporess: Deerficld Academy, Deerficld, Mass.

Bors: April 7, 1908, Holyoke, Mass. PARENTS: Michael Herlihy, Catherine
Sullivan.

preparrp at: Holyoke High School, Holyoke, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; A.M. (Boston Univ.), 1935.

mcarrieD: \{argaret Hanley, April 11, 1941, Stafford Springs, Conn. CHILDREN:
Catherine, Jan. 21, 1943; Thomas, 2d, April 12, 1944, Margaret H., May
29, 1946, Mary Christine; Elizabeth.

occupation: Drama director, speech teacher, coach of football and squash,
Deerficld Academy.

OFFICES HELD: Member, School Committee, 1946-50; Selectman, 1950-52; town
chairman, March of Dimes, 1946-55; treasurer, Franklin County Select-
men’s Association, 1953-55; president, Pocumtuck Valley Harvard Club,
since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Selectmen’s Association; Pocumtuck Valley Harvard Club.

LIKE many of my fellow graduates in 1932, I found it very diffi-
cult to obtain just the position as a teacher which I wanted. I
settled for a spot with C. F. Childs on Wall Street and stayed
there for two years before giving up on the Big City which I
could not learn to enjoy.

After a short training course with Aetna in Hartford, I came
back to Holyoke to open an insurance agency. This turned out
to be a very successful enterprise, but when a teaching opportunity
in Pepperell, Massachusetts, came along, it took no time at all for
me to decide that I'd be a lot happier in that type of work despite
the much smaller financial return. I stayed there for three years,
moved to the Amherst school system for three more, and came to
my present spot at Deerfield Academy in 1942.

After ten very happy years at Deerfield, during which we
acquired a home of our own and five children, I accepted a posi-
tion as the headmaster of St. David’s School, a day school for
boys in New York City, located at 12 East 89th Street. Un-
fortunately, the passing years had not changed my feeling about
living in the city and the end of the school term found us heading
back to our home in Deerfield. After one year at the Eaglebrook
School, Mr. Boyden asked me to return to the Academy where I
am in charge of the dramatics.

During the summer and other vacations we keep busy with a

[ 560 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

small antique shop in our yard and with estate liquidation sales
in connection with it. Lest I be caught with any spare time, |
have held offices in the local government for several years.

DAVID ARNOLD HERMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 2607 N. Wahl Ave., Milwaukee 11, Wis.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Barkin, Herman & Associates, 735 N. Water St., Milwaukee
2, Wis.

BORN: Oct. 14, 1910, Marion, Ohio. parents: Henry Louis Herman, Jennie
B. Schadel.

PREPARED AT: Sandusky High School, Sandusky, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B, cum laude, 1932 (33).

MARRIED: Jean E, Saltzstein, Nov. 16, 1941, Milwaukee, Wis. cHILDREN:
Mary Jennifer, March 7, 1947; Thomas David, June 21, 1948; John
Benjamin, Sept. 6, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Public relations counsellor, partner, Barkin, Herman & As-
sociates.

OFFICES HELD: Member board, Jewish Family and Children’s Service, 1948-53,
Advertising Council of America, 1950-52; Jewish Vocational Service,
1951-53, Jewish Welfare Fund, since 1954; member board of directors,
Children’s Art Program, since 1955, Phoenix Hosiery Company, since
1956; chairman, 1952-53, member executive committee, since 1953, Mil-
waukee Chapter, American Jewish Committee; member executive board,
Milwaukee County Council, Boy Scouts, since 1953; trustee, Milwaukee
Art Institute, since 1955.

MEMBER OF: Public Relations Society of America; Rotary; American Legion,
National Conference of Christians and Jews; Kentucky Colonels;
Fourteenth Air Force Association; Brynwood Country Club; Harvard
Club of Milwaukee.

SOME bromidic old statement-maker once stated: “Nothing you
do in your life is ever wasted.” Or maybe it wasn’t a bromide
until it kept on being true. In any case, it was never truer than
in the case of David A. Herman of Barkin, Herman & Associates,
public relations counsel, Milwaukee, Class of 1932.

Among the worthwhile, un-wasted things this fellow Herman
did, as I recall, was the daily dash from Winthrop House to just
make that nine o’clock class in the Yard, or even the futile efforts
in the high-jumping pit of the old Briggs Cage. If you have
trouble fitting that breathless character into the popular stereoty pe
of a Madison Avenue public relations man, let me say, “Don’t try.”

[ 561 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

“A little too much work, a little too little money, some-
one to love and all the health in the world.”
If this is it, 've got it made!

ADOLPH HERRMANN

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Wildwood St. Winchester, Mass.

OFFicE ApprEss: Mfedford Auto Co. 27 Harvard Ave., West Medford, Mass.

BorN: July 1, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Louis Adolph Herrmann, Laura
MacDougall.

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1932.

marrieD: Grace W. Pratt, Aug. 6, 1932, Plymouth, Mass. (divorced 1937);
Audrey D. Smith, March 20, 1942, Lynn, Mass. cHiLpREN: C. Russell,
Oct. 28, 1933; Florence, Oct. 7, 1935; George Paul, Sept. 13, 1944; Janet
Ruth, Oct. 17, 1946; Robert Louis, May 4, 1953; Scott Richard, Nov. 3,
195 4-

occuPATION: Sales manager, Medford Auto Company.

OFFICES HELD: Past Master, Fourth Estate Lodge; past president, Medford
Lions Club.

MEMBER OF: Several Masonic bodies; Medford Lions Club.

HAVING finally overcome, for the moment at least, a growing
habit of procrastination, I shall try to set forth the few events
which may be of interest in this report. Before the war and during
the depression, I sold national advertising for the now defunct
Boston Evening Transcript. \t was like fighting with one hand
tied behind your back as our rates in proportion to circulation
were approximately ten times higher than competition. Shortly
before the Transcript finally succumbed to chronic mismanage-
ment and shortage of funds, 1 went into the brokerage business
with Elwell & Company, Inc., where I remained until 1948.

Uncle Sam’s greetings arrived in March, 1944, so the next two
years were spent in the Air Corps, mostly in Arizona and Texas.
Believe it or not, I was trained as a lower ball gunner on a B-17.
Aside from four months’ duty as an M.P., I spent the time teach-
ing or doing administrative work.

Upon my return to civilian life I experienced a strong feeling
of discontent which still lingers on. This was not because of any
fondness for military life, but for some unknown reason, In
1448 this fecling became so strong that I severed my connection

[ 564]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with Elwell & Company and joined Medford Auto Company,
now a Chrysler-Plymouth agency. My thought was to try some-
thing entirely different.

My family is my hobby. My great pleasure is to do things with
Audrey and the children. There is a wide range in ages from
Russ, who is twenty-three and in Germany with the Army, to
Scott who is two. We love to do things together, a few days in
New York or a long weekend in Maine. As soon as school per-
mits, we go to Gloucester where we have a summer home which
we all enjoy. I hate to leave in September and look forward to the
day when school will not dictate the length of the summer season.

One of the beliefs that I acquired at Harvard is a faith in liberal
government. Therefore, I am an enrolled Democrat, although I
have never voted a straight ticket and never expect to. The
majority of my friends are Republicans and I have been much
amused at listening to their dire predictions every time the
Democrats have won an election. In recent years I have become
comfort and pleasure I have derived from reasonably regular
attendance each Sunday.

Provided World War III does not obliterate our civilization,
which at this writing seems quite likely, I believe we face a won-
derful period of growth, scientific advancement and increased
leisure time. If there is no major war, Communism will either die
or mellow. Under such conditions our scientific and industrial
advancement, tempered by the current religious revival, should
lead us into a period of ease and comfort undreamed of even
during the rapid progress of the last decades.

I look forward to an early retirement and feel that my children
will have wonderful, interesting lives.

HENRY ROYDON HERRMANN

HOME Appress: Charcoal Hill, Westport, Conn.

OFFICE ApprEss: J. Walter Thompson Co., 420 Lexington Ave, New York,
N.Y.

BORN: March 14, 1908, Great Neck, Long Island, N.Y, parents: Oscar
Herrmann, Lalla Rookh Wenige.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Garden City, Long Island, N.Y.

[ 565 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932; 8.M. (Columbia School of
Journalism), 1936.
Maagriep: Eleanor Silver, March 26, 1941, Greenwich, Conn. cnitp: Hillary
Jacqueline, Feb. 25, 1953.
HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Herrmann, °35 (deceased).
occupaTion: Television producer and director.
OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, J. Walter Thompson Company, H. Herrmann
Lumber Company.
MEMBER OF; City Island Yacht Club, The Fortian Society; Rodger’s Memorial
Swimming Pool Foundation.
PUBLICATIONS: Articles, speeches, etc. on the creative side of the radio and
television industry.

AND it shall be the duty of the District Attorney not only to
prosecute to the limit of the law all persons accused of crime
within this county, but to defend with equal vigor the rights
and privileges of all its citizens . . .” I quote this profound tenet
in the hope that it will form a link of recognition between me and
my classmates, because I wrote it and every one of them must
have heard it. It was the opening gong on the “Mr. District At-
torney” radio program for more than fifteen years.

The way I came to write it... Well, after the Godspeed
wished me by Classmate Paul Hoffman (in Greek) during the
1932 Commencement exercises (I call them exercises because I
have not run in the physical sense more than I did that day), my
family insisted that law was the touchstone of success in the race
for fame and fortune. I realize now how right they were because
I am working hard to support a barrister who is striving to keep
my affairs on an even keel. With a halfhearted nod to those who
held the family purse, I skimmed through two years of Williston
and Tally-Ho in the company of such future legal lights as John
Shubert and Hal Meyers, whose only association with the bench
since those days has been “Good morning, Judge.” But a lot of
it stuck. By the time I received my S.M. degree from the Colum-
bia School of Journalism, I found myself entrenched in radio
writing for no other reason than self-support. I had run into a
fellow named Edward F. Poggenburg, known better to the world
at large as Archie, the mentor of “Duffy’s Tavern.” Archie gravi-
tated to comedy while I, burdened with a working knowledge of
the Jaw, gave forth as the expert in fictional crime for such pro-
grams as “Mr, District Attorney,” “Mr. and Mrs. North,” “The

[ 566]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Thin Man,” and a host of others that enjoyed good rating in the
thirties and early forties.

All of this experience naturally made me a natural for the radio
propaganda efforts of O.W.L, once we understood Pearl Harbor
really had been bombed. Teamed with Bob Sherwood and Wild
Bill Donovan, we gave Hitler “what for” over the most powerful
stations Westinghouse and R.C.A. could build. Something must
have come of it because we won that war.

In the Valhalla of the gods of entertainment, John Reber of
the J. Walter Thompson Company brooked no peer. He had
devised thé formats for the presentations of Burns and Allen,

_ Rudy Vallee, Bing Crosby, Edgar Bergen and other radio greats.
My planets were in conjunction the day John invited me to join
the company to produce and write a potpourri of entertainment
based on the combined talents of Guy Lombardo and Odgen
Nash. I never seemed to be able to get those two together but
my wife liked it. And meanwhile, there were many other things
to do. Dramatic spots for the Vallee show, adaptations for the
Lux Radio Theatre, inspirational dramas for the Shell show, when
along came television.

Tiffany Thayer was the man who hung a cup outside his office
door with a sign reading, “Help Wipe Out TV.” That was in
1945 when I already had been infected by the television virus by
producing a variety show that gave the first hot bat of lights to
Ed Sullivan, Edgar Bergen, Imogene Coca and the first line of
dancing girls — the Hour Glass. A side issue of this activity was
the writing, directing and sweating out of a Broadway revue
starring Grace and Paul Hartman called, “Tickets, Please.”

Between those days and this I have been living in control
rooms, film studios, client conferences and sail boats on Long
Island Sound. I have worked hard long hours with people of
great talent to build a new medium of entertainment that tries to
bring happiness and excitement into everyone’s home, and I hope
that when I write my piece for our Fiftieth Anniversary Report,
I shall be doing the same thing.

[ 567 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

+ WILLIAM RALPH HERZOG

BORN: Dec. 29, 1909, Troy, N.Y. parents: Loren Willard Herzog, Alice
Craver.

PREPARED AT: Troy Academy, Troy, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 19323 LL.B., 1935-

piep: Killed in action, Oct. 29, 1942, in the North Atlantic.

HERZOG was admitted to the New York State Bar in 1935 and
then spent six years with the Guaranty Trust Company of New
York. In 1942 he enlisted in the U.S. Navy, was promoted to
lieutenant, and assigned to sea duty. He was killed in action
in the North Atlantic, October 29, 1942. He was posthumously
awarded the Purple Heart, with certificate, the Navy and Marine
Corps medal with citation, and the ribbon bar. The U.S.
Herzog was named in his honor.

-FREDERIC LEO HEWES

HOME ADDRESS: 2020 Anacapa St., Santa Barbara, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1423 Chapala St., Santa Barbara, Calif.

BORN: Aug. 29, 1910, Boston, Mass. Parents: Frederic Leroy Hewes, Chris-
tina Barry. |

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1936.

mareiep; Lillian Taylor Cowles, June 29, 1942, Cumberland, Md. cut:
Tony, April 30, 1951 (adopted).

OccUPATION: Radiologist.

HEWES’ wife sent us the following information:

“War record old by now and not at all exciting. Had four
years in service with thirty-two months overseas. In as captain,
out as major.

“Think we now are settled in a very beautiful place, Santa
Barbara, California. Have little time to enjoy it, as life is spent
going up and down the coast. Three days south to Ventura,
Oxnard. Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday’ north to the towns
of flower seeds and Danish pastry, Lompoc and Solvang. Between
times stops at his office and the County General Hospital.

“Have just returned from a trip to Panama. Had a grand time
on the Johnson Lines freighter. Food was so very tempting, Fred

[ 568 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

gained eight pounds. He really needed them. Tony learned to
swim.

“Tony is Fred’s heart interest. They go on trips to museums,
zoos, Marine Land, and Disneyland is an old story to them. At
home they wrangle over jigsaw puzzles and anything under the
1,000-piece is a sissy and not worthy of their time. Fred loves to
golf and would like to do more, but at this time, the rains have
really made that impossible.”

HENRY ALLISON HEWITT

HOME ApprEss: 209 Gifford St., Springfield, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Technical High School, Springficld, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 12, 1911, Holyoke, Mass. PARENTS: Frederick Parker Hewitt,
Fanny May Allison.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School (formerly Central High School), Spring-
field, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; ED.M. (Boston Univ.), 1936.

MARRIED: Mary Rebecca Breinig, May 8, 1942, Cotuit, Mass. critpren: Henry
Frederick, Nov. 26, 1945; Elizabeth May, Jan. 24, 1950.

occuPATION: Instructor of mathematics, Technical High School and Western
New England College.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Springficld Education Association, 1950-56.

MEMBER OF: National Education Association (life member); Massachu-
setts Teachers Association; Springfield Education Association; American
Legion.

A KINDLY and rich grandmother paid my expenses in college.

But after graduation I was faced with the necessity of earning a liv-

ing. Jobs were not too easy to find as everyone remembers. I lived

at home and contributed a share of the cost by painting houses,

picking up dirty dishes in restaurants, packing toys for a local

company, and by substituting in the local schools. I also managed

to get my Master’s degree in education. In 1936 1 got the regular

appointment as teacher in the city schools and ever since have

been at Technical High School and, frankly, I like it. It is true

that I probably have an income less than most of my classmates,

but perhaps I also have fewer headaches and can spend more time

with my family than some. Of course, it helps that my wife has

a bit of an income of her own.

We live in a smallish house about four miles from work. Life

[ 569 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

doesn’t seem quite as exciting as it did ten or fifteen years ago.
Mary runs a Cub Scout den and I assist once a month at pack
mectings as a committee member. Enough said about that.
Partics don’t come often enough and even then don’t seem as
much fun as they used to. Can it be that we are growing old?
I teach one night a week at Western New England College, Too
bad I can’t brag about being a professor. A stag monthly poker
game is fun even though I have not as yet got it to pay many
expenses. As much as I hate to admit it, I wonder if our life isn’t
pretty much average life of the middle class with plenty of se-
curity and not enough excitement.

I suppose I should mention my war experiences. Not having
been smart enough to take R.O.T.C. at Harvard and not having
been smart enough to get married early and have a family and
also not being smart enough to get a low draft number, I was
inducted as a private on the first day of spring, 1941. Even then
I was kind of old for a soldier. They were going to discharge
everyone over thirty when we got back from our maneuvers.
We got back on the first Saturday of December. Remember
what happened on Sunday? But I didn’t stay unlucky all through
the war. Our division was assigned coast patrol. I had good duty
in Maine and then again in Florida. O.C.S, seemed like a good
idea and I went off to Camp Davis in North Carolina. After very
close to the prescribed thirteen weeks, the colonel and I had a
disagreement. Of course, he won the argument and I went back
to the troops with the magnificent rating of a corporal. Progress
was awfully slow. We had been activated for over two years and
were still accomplishing very little.

I applied for A.S.T.P. work and was sent to the University of
Florida as an advanced student in engineering. Life there was
real pleasant. A young professor who had his Master’s from Har-
vard requested that 1 be released from active duty to teach at
the university. Much to everyone’s surprise, the request was
granted and I found myself teaching the same men who had been
students with me a few days before. Then my young professor
friend Jeft for another job and I found myself head of the fluid
mechanics department with two full professors as my assistants.
Thank goodness, I had taken hydraulics as a senior at Harvard.
Even so, I needed help to get the water flowing through all the

[570]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pipes, channels, and orifices in the lab, and then I needed help to
stop the water. But, of course, it was fun and good experience.
I was sorry for my two assistants who knew a lot more about a
lot of things than I did, even though I might have known a little
more about fluid mechanics than they. After six months’ teach-
ing, I was recalled to active duty and sent to Fort Bragg. I still
had my corporal rating and was put in with some new recruits.
They were all eighteen and I was thirty-two or-three. You can
imagine how slow I was compared with the others on the obstacle
and infiltration courses. They were good kids and never laughed
even though it must have been really funny. At the required time
I took my overseas physical exam. It was well over three years
and a half since I had been inducted. The doctor took one look
at my varicose veins and decided I was unfit for overseas duty.
A discharge followed soon. So I was really one of the lucky
ones after all.

ARTHUR DEHON HILL, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 3774 Gunston Rd., Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1125 17th St., N.W., Washington, D.C.

BORN: March 30, 1910, Boston, Mass, Parents: Arthur Dehon Hill, ris.
"94, Henriette Post McLean.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; LL.B. 1935.

MarRieD; Mianne Palfrey, Aug. 27, 1932, Sharon, Mass, (divorced 1938);
Sally Eleanor Fultz, April 19, 1939, Kennebunk, Maine. curity: John
Arthur, Aug. 31, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Adams Sherman Hill, ’20.

OccuPATION: Special assistant to president, International Union of Operating
Engineers, since March, 1946.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Wage Adjustment Board,” in collaboration with John
T. Dunlop, published by Harvard Press.

LYMAN HINCKLEY

HOME ApprEss: 360 Riverside Drive, New York, 25, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1430 Broadway, New York, N.Y.

BORN: March 11, 1911, Jonesport, Maine. parents: Lester Lee Hinckley,
Evanelia Norton.

[s7r]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

PREPARED aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: AB. Cum laude, 1932; A.M. 1933.

UNMARRIED,

occupation: Records supervisor; accessioning, maintenance, servicing and
disposal of company files (manufacturer).

PUBLICATIONS: Mamual of Civilization, 1949; Handbook of Democracy, Notes
for Revolution, 1951; “Faith Without Religion,” August, 1951.

I COMPLETED most of the work for the Ed.M. in 1933-34.
In 1935 I was appointed to the staff of the U.S, Civil Service
Commission in Washington. This was examination-research work ,
and not much to my liking. In 1939 I became an archivist at
the National Archives. There I was in charge of older records
of the Navy Department, many of which contributed to the war
effort. While in Washington, I had two houses, the second a
beautiful new rambler at Alaska Avenue and Sixteenth Street,
where I experienced the pleasure and ordeals of a householder.
In 1955, having completed twenty years of civil service, I re-
signed and came to New York for a try in the field of private
industry. Lately, I have traveled a bit, along the west coast, to
New Orleans, Florida, and the West Indies.

I am still in records work, drawing there a degree of satisfac-
tion from bringing order out of chaos, from finding things in a
mess and pulling them into shape. That urge is the ruling motive
of my whole mental life. I am a fanatical perfectionist. One finds
the acme here and there, as in an étude of Frederick Chopin, a
poem which Thomas Gray polished for eleven years, the life of
a Lincoln or a Corot. I have dispensed with all religions and phi-
losophies; I have instead an unrivaled ideology composed of the
simple rational faith, the partly realized freedoms (opportunities)
of total democracy, the complex principle of complete regimen-
tation of all of the material means of living. Humanism most
nearly approaches it intellectually, and classical socialism in the
realm of action. But neither of these has become sufficiently
emancipated to accept the sweeping away of all fetters to indi-
vidual thinking, acting, and living within the broad expanse of
simple justice. Few realize that our enlightenment, like its found-
ing fathers, is a living repudiation of al! doctrinal belief and the
delinquent conduct which it spawns, They do not grasp that
democracy means a cosmic bill of rights for the meanest individ-

[572]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ual which no power in all of civilization can touch. If you sa
the United States had no right to make the people of Utah aban-
don polygamy, they suppose that you want to set up a harem
for yourself, If the glorious revolution of Englishmen, French-
men and Americans ever outraces catastrophe to completion,
there must be a more tremendous revolution — of education and
in the manner of human thinking.

Well, no evolutionary or revolutionary process was ever very
prompt or clean-cut. I may get around to writing some more,
perhaps something relatively detached and unpolemical. I am
mindful of poor Roger Bacon, trying to get along with the able,
potent people of the horrible thirteenth century; and of the pre-
cocious heathen Chinese, who found that he is richest who has few
wants; and Bertrand Russell, whose successful career has been
no help in making his magnificent conclusions palatable to this
age. To borrow his sentiment in An Outline of Intellectual Rub-
bish, or as Mark Twain of What Is Man? might have said, “All
this is depressing, but gloom is a useless emotion!”

PEYTON LESHURE HINKLE

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: R.F.D. 1, Ottsville, Pa.

BoRN: Nov. 19, 1907, New York, N.Y. parents: Eugene Eldredge Hinkle,
Emily MacFarlane.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

MaRRIED: Elizabeth Asher, April 28, 1933, Washington, D.C. CHILDREN:
Peyton Blaine, Nov. 3, 1935; Stephen Asher, Oct. 20, 1942; Anne
MacFarlane, Aug. 21, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Eugene MacFarlane Hinkle, ’24.

OCCUPATION: Poultry and crop farmer.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Bucks County Producers Cooperative Association,
Bedminster Township School Board; Republican Committeeman, Bed-
minster Township.

AFTER college I headed for Wall Street and the firm of D. M.
Stewart & Company, makers of technical charts of the market
and individual stocks. In less than a year I found myself married
and living on East 54th Street, just off Fifth Avenue. The year
1935 came along with our first son, a change to another apartment
on 72d Street, Srewart & Company moving up town to Madison

[573 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Avenue and 6oth Street, and our first summer out near Smith-
town, Long Island. The next change came in 1939 with a new
apartment at 89th and Lexington Avenue and a new job with
Rushmore & Company, an unlisted broker and underwriter of
small stock issues.

The fall of 1939 saw a big upheaval. I was not at all happy in
Wall Street, so I went to the University of Maryland as a special
student in poultry husbandry. Then in February, 1940, I bought
a farm in Bucks County, Pennsylvania, and started raising
chickens. Quite a change from our former life, but my wife and
I managed somehow, and our baby chicks turned into beautiful
leghorn pullets which soon started in laying beautiful white eggs.
My stock came from the Leader Farms of York, Pennsylvania
(raisers of better chickens than governors), so I was able to start
right in selling hatching eggs which I have been doing ever since
during the hatching season,

In 1942, we had a second son (about time), while I fought the
war out on the farm, quite a fight without any help and a broken
ankle just before my baby chicks arrived. The next important
year was 1948: we had a daughter. I changed to Mount Hope
leghorns of Williamstown, Massachusetts, and I became a school
board director and a director of the Bucks County Cooperative
Association. In 1949 I started crop farming to help cut down
feed bills and have now worked up to about 200 tillable acres.

In the fall of 1951, I had the pleasure of having the man I
voted for become president, for the first time in my life. My
wife was committeewoman for Bedminster Township at the time
and we felt well rewarded for the work we did.

As things stand now, I have a son over twenty-one, which
doesn’t seem possible, who is in his last year at the University of
Maryland; a son, fourteen, at St. Peter’s School in Peekskill, New
York; and a daughter, eight, in the third grade in the local school.
You have all heard of the plight of the American farmer? On
January 7, 1957, 1 received thirty-seven cents for large eggs, the
same identical price I received on January 7, 1941. So this is my
last year in the poultry business. What 1958 will bring is still a
question mark,

[574]

—.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AARON HIRSHON

HOME ADDRESS: 127 E. Elm Ave., Quincy 69, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Thayer Pharmacy of Rockland, Inc., Rockland, Mass.
BORN: May 25, 1910, Worcester, Mass. parents: Max Getchel Hirshon,

Jenny Petkun.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.B.A., 1934.

MARRIED: Esta Sidman, 1940. CHILDREN: Joan Marla, 1942; Meredith Gail,
1946; Rochelle Hinda, 1951.

IN 1942 I became a registered pharmacist to assume management
of the family drug store. During 1934-44 I served in the Navy
Hospital Corps. Since 1950 ] have been manager of Thayer
Pharmacy of Rockland, Inc.

HENRY RUDOLF HOERIG

HOME appREss: Chancey Road, Zephyrhills, Fla.
BoRN: Jan. 15, 1910, Dresden, Germany. Parents: Rudolph Oswald Hoerig.

Elisabeth Bassler.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1930. DEGREE: DR. JuUR. (Univ. of Leipzig), 1933.
MARRIED: Marianne Bloch, June 2, 1932, Neisse, Germany.
occuPATION: Poultry farmer.

I WAS born at Dresden, Germany, While attending the “Real-
gymnasium,” I hoped I could study for a while in the U.S.A.
With the maiden voyage of the airship, Graf Zeppelin, I sent
letters to Yale and Harvard asking about scholarships. The letter
to Harvard changed my whole life, for I was given the Holzer
Scholarship, I studied at Harvard College from 1929 to April,
1930, having been admitted as a sophomore and became a member
of the Class of ’32.

Then I returned to Germany and studied law there, receiving
the degree of Doctor of Jurisprudence at the University of Leip-
zig. Being against the Hitler regime made a law career impossible.
From 1933 to 1939, I was a buyer with a wholesale firm in Berlin.
I escaped from Germany one month before the outbreak of the
war and stayed half a year in Italy until I got my visa to go to
the U.S.A. in February, 1940, when I was reunited with my wife
who had spent a year in England. Then followed the typical

[575]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

refugee jobs. We worked as a couple, as cooks, and I worked in
a hosiery mill. We bought an old farm in Windham, New
Hampshire, which we made livable and later changed into a
poultry farm. For two years I was assistant to the export man-
ager of the Bolta Company in Lawrence, Massachusetts. From
1944 to 1956 we raised eggs.

In November, 1956, having sold the farm, we moved to
Zephyrhills, Florida, where we are just starting to set up a new
poultry farm in a climate more to our liking.

PAUL GERHARDT HOFFMAN

HOME AppRESS: 713 N. 25th St., Philadelphia 30, Pa.

OFEICE appREss: Westminster Press, Witherspoon Bldg., Philadelphia 7, Pa.

BORN: Feb, 22, 1906, Utica, N.Y. PARENTS: Franz Rudolf Ferdinand Hoffman,
Klara Karolina Kleinfelder.

PREPARED AT: Utica Free Academy, Utica, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1932.

UNMARRIED.

occupaTION: Book publishing; trade book editor, Westminster Press.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Literary Arts Committee and director, Philadelphia
Art Alliance, 1952-56; director, Philadelphia Regional Writers Con-
ference, 1953-56.

MEMBER OF; Harvard Clubs of Philadelphia and New York; Philadelphia
Art Alliance; Franklin Inn Club; Philadelphia Booksellers’ Association.

PUBLICATIONS: One novel and assorted short stories and verses.

FROM 1932 to 1933, 1 was a private tutor in Wiscasset, Maine,
and the following year was a free-lance writer. From 1934 to
1937, I was assistant editor of the Atlantic and assistant to Edward
Weeks, The Atlantic Monthly Press. From 1938 to 1942, I was
associate editor for Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., and from 1943 to 1950,
a free-lance writer. Since then I have been trade book editor for
the Westminster Press.

HENRY LOUIS HOGUET

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 3656 E. First St. Long Beach, Calif,
BorN: Oct. 20, 1910, New York, N.Y. parents: Robert Louis Hoguet, ’99,
Louise Robbins Lynch.

[ 576]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933.

MARRIED: Evelina Hollins, April 27, 1937, New York, N.Y. curpren:
Henry Louis, Jr., April 19, 1939; Hollins, Dec. 2, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Robert Louis Hoguet, Jr. °31, M.B-Ay '33; Joseph Lynch
Hoguet, °35; Peter William Hoguet, 37; James Dominic Hoguet, °37
(deceased).

OCCUPATION: Construction; licensed general contractor; licensed real estate
broker.

MEMBER OF: Long Beach Recreation Park Tennis Club; Y.M.C.A.; Bay
Shore Congregational Church; Associated General Contractors; Debo-
nair Dance Club.

AFTER leaving Harvard in 1933 I came out to a New Mexico
ranch where I stayed four months and then through my father’s
generosity I went on a trip to Europe, first a month in Switzer-
land and then a month’s cruise in Greece. It was a great revelation
to me to come into contact with the remains of the great Greck
civilization and to realize that all this excellence had flourished
long before our Christian era had started. The relics are mostly
in uninhabited areas in open fields and so are unspoiled by modern
developments. We visited Delphi, Corinth, Mount Athos, Athens,
Cos, Troy, Constantinople, Olympia, Tyrnavos, Sparta, and swam
the Hellespont. On returning to New York I went to work for
a Wall Street investment company.

In 1937 I married Evelina Hollins of Fast Islip, Long Island,
daughter of the late Harry Bowly Hollins, Jr., ’o4, and sister of
Harry Bowly Hollins, 3d, ’31 and of Robert Livingston Hollins,
’35. We have two sons, Henry Louis, Jr., born in 1939 and
Hollins, born in 1941. They have always been healthy and
vigorous but their grades in school are a different matter.

During the war I worked for Todd Shipyards Corporation in
Hoboken, New Jersey. Uncle Sam didn’t call me and I didn’t
volunteer. After the war I remained in construction work. I
enjoy working in the open and I like the type of work — it’s
creative and diversified. Also a person can become his own boss
in this field either in general contracting or in speculative building
and you are not pinned down to any particular locality.

In 1949 I left the East and came out to California where I have
been ever since, living in Long Beach, with the exception of a five
months’ stay in Las Vegas, Nevada, two months in Phoenix,

[577]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Arizona, and two months in Apple Valley, an upper desert resort
near here. Of course I share the opinion of virtually every one
who moves here that there is no comparison between the east and
the west. Not only is the climate so much better here, but the
continual population growth keeps everything thriving.

I play quite a lot of tennis every weekend throughout the year
and often on weekdays, swimming often during six months of
the year, as I live a block from the ocean. That and dancing are
the extent of my sports activities. I belong to the Congregational
Church and attend regularly. Since coming to California in 1949,
I have made considerable use of the wonderful facilities here for
evening education.

My own opinion about the future is that there are great changes
coming, very soon.

WILLIAM JOSEPH HOLLAND

HOME appREss: 154 Georgia Ave., Oak Ridge, Tenn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Union Carbide Nuclear Co., Oak Ridge, Tenn.

BORN: Oct. 15, 1906, Fall River, Mass. PARENTS: James Edward Holland,
Mary Shea.

PREPARED AT: Dean Academy, Franklin, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

MaRRIED: Maria Rezendes, Nov. 22, 1943, Kingsport, Tenn. CHILDREN:
Michael J., Oct. 18, 1944; Mary E., Oct. 31, 1945; Margaret A. May 22,
1947; William T., July 10, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Daniel Francis Holland, ’19.

OCCUPATION; Superintendent of mechanical engineering, Union Carbide
Nuclear Company, producing Uranium 235.

GEORGE CASPAR HOMANS

HOME ADDRESS: 11 Francis Ave., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Emerson Hall, Harvard University, Cambridge 38, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 11, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Robert Homans, ’94, Abigail
Adams.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: AB. magna cum laude, 1932; M.A.
(Univ. of Cambridge), 1955. °

[ 578 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MarRiED: Nancy Parshall Cooper, June 28, 1941, Hyde Park, N.Y. cHILpren:
Elizabeth Cooper, Oct. 6, 1942; Susan Wells, July 11, 1944; Peter
Brooks, Aug. 6, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Homans, ’40, LLB., '43 (48).

occuPATION: Professor of sociology, Harvard University.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Boston Athenaeum, since 1934; member Standing
Committee, since 1934, vice-president, since 1956, Massachusetts Society
of the Cincinnati; junior fellow, 1934-39, associate professor, 1946-53,
professor, since 1953, associate, Kirkland House, since 1953, Harvard
University; Simon Visiting Professor, University of Manchester, 1953;
professor of social theory, University of Cambridge, 1955-56; fellow,
Christ’s College, Cambridge, 1955-56, member of council, Massachu-
setts Historical Society, 1954-55.

MEMBER OF: Tavern Club; Massachusetts Society of the Cincinnati; Massa-
chusetts Historical Society; American Sociological Society; American
Anthropological Association; Society for Applied Anthropology.

PUBLICATIONS: Massachusetts on the Sea (with S. E. Morison), 1930; An In-
troduction to Pareto (with C. P. Curtis), 1934; English Villagers of the
Thirteenth Century, 1941; Fatigue of Workers (Report of the Com-
mittee on Work in Industry, National Research Council), 1941; The
Society of Fellows (with O. J. Bailey), 1948, The Human Group, 1950;
Marriage, Authority, and Final Causes (with D. M. Schneider), 1955.

I GRADUATED from Harvard a poet who thought he wanted
to become a newspaperman, and for this purpose I had a job
lined up, beginning in the fall of 1932, with William Allen White
on the then-famous Emporia (Kansas) Gazette, Before the fall,
White reported that the Depression had hit Kansas, that he was
collecting subscriptions to the Gazette by sending out the staff
car with a chicken-coop in the back seat, and that, under the cir-
cumstances, he would have to call the job off. He would employ
me instead gathering material in Massachusetts for the life of
Calvin Coolidge he was writing. This job got me some good
Coolidge stories, but did not get me any further ahead in a career.
My tutor at college had been Bernard DeVoto. He was a
friend of Lawrence Henderson, professor of biochemistry, who
started the work that led to blood plasma. Henderson was also
a philosopher of science and had become an enthusiast for the
Sociologie Générale of Vilfredo Pareto. DeVoto ordered me to
read Pareto’s book as part of my general education. In the fall
of 1933, Henderson offered a seminar on Pareto’s sociology, the
first such seminar in the United States, and knowing me through
DeVoto, suggested that I attend. Another member was Charles

[579 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

visiting professor at British universities — Manchester and Cam-

bridge.

Through it all runs the more intellectual current of an intellec-
tual’s life—the ceaseless and ever-developing dialogue, some-
times conscious, sometimes not, between the mind and the data,
groping, in my case, towards a comprehensive, if loose, general-
ization of the nature of social behaviour in small groups. We
certainly won't get the subject in the bag, but we might — we
just might — get it in a net. If we did it would be the greatest
contribution to sociology that can be made in our time.

Most of the time I remain a Republican, or hard-boiled egg-
head, but I fail to see in my friends the Democratic, or soft-boiled,
eggheads a menace to the Republic. They may take some of your
property, but they won’t take all of your lives, and that’s a great
deal these days, especially as they will certainly leave you the
bottle. I enjoy the reputation of a dangerous radical in Boston
and of a mindless reactionary in Cambridge.

I spend my long academic summers in the eastern townships of
the Province of Quebec, half wilderness, half pasture, and alto-
gether a good mix. I spend my weekends the rest of the year
trying to turn sixty acres of wood-lot in Medfield, Massachusetts,
into a romantic park. In this I find hurricanes a minor difficulty.

FRANCIS WHITTIER HOOPER

HOME apprEss: 75 Cliff St., Quincy 69, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jordan Marsh Co., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 9, 1910, Somerville, Mass. parents: Arthur Mann Hooper, Mar-
garet Redmond.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932.: DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.D. (Boston Univ.), 1936.

marrieD: Anna M. Murphy. cuitpren: Margaret, 1941; Thérése, 1943;
Francis, 1949; Arthur, 1954. .

OccUPATION: Medical director, Jordon Marsh Company.

AFTER graduation from Harvard in 1932, I went to Boston
University School of Medicine, receiving my M.D. in 1936. I
interned at Quincy City Hospital, in Quincy, Massachusetts, and
was in general practice near Boston, until World War II. In
addition, I was an industrial physician at the New England Tele-

[ 584 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

phone & Telegraph Company in Boston and at Fore River Ship-
yard in Quincy. During World War II, I served as a captain in
the Army Medical Corps in the European Theatre. At the end
of the war, I was district health officer for the Massachusetts De-
partment of Public Health and attended the Harvard School of
Public Health for one year. Following this, I was industrial phy-
sician for E. I. duPont de Nemours & Company in New Jersey.
Since 1951, I have been medical director of Jordan Marsh Com-
pany in Boston.

I married Anna M. Murphy and we have four children: Mar-
garet, aged fifteen; Thérese, aged thirteen; Francis, aged seven,
and Arthur, aged two,

* GEORGE HOPKINSON

BorN: March 22, 1909, Boston, Mass, parents: George Hopkinson, M.., 'o5,
Helen Andrews.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932; M.B.A,, 1934:

marrigep: Helen Gray, June 23, 1936, Utica, N.Y. cuitp: George, Jr4 1947.

DIED: June 27, 1950, Seoul, Korea.

wipow: Mrs. George Hopkinson, 73 Gates Ave., Montclair, N.J.

GEORGE HOPKINSON, Marshall Plan administrator, died in
Korea of polio. He was the son of the late George Hopkinson,
noted Boston surgeon and founder of the Berkeley Preparatory
School.

From 1934 until he entered the Army in 1942, he was associated
with the New York Bankers Trust Company. In December,
1942, he was graduated from O.C.S. and assigned to the Quarter-
master Corps. He studied in the first naval class in military
government at Princeton and was sent overseas to Okinawa in
1945. Later he was appointed treasurer of the Korean Commodity
Company (rice distribution agency), and promoted to major.
In 1946 he was discharged from the Army and became adviser
to the Property Custodian USAMGIK, later assuming the position
of Deputy Property Custodian.

He was survived by his wife and son.

[ 585]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

ORVILLE HORWITZ

HOME Appress: Haverford, Pa.

OFFICE Aporess: Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, 3600 Spruce St.,
Philadelphia 4, Pa.

BoRN: Nov. 20, 1909, Strafford, Pa. parents: George Quintard Horwitz,
Marian Newhall.

PREPARED aT: St. George’s School, Newport, RI.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: $.B., 1932; M.D. (Johns Hopkins Univ.),
1938.

MARRIED: Nataline Baynard Dulles, Sept. 15, 1934, Devon, Pa. cHmpren:
Marian Newhall, July 28, 1935; George Dulles, June 12, 1938; Jonathan,
Dec. 12, 1941.

occuPATION: Physician; assistant professor of medicine, University of
Pennsylvania; research laboratory, Hospital of University of Pennsyl-
vania.

OFFICES HELD: Lieutenant (j.g.), to lieutenant commander, U.S.N.R., 1942-

45, consultant to U.S. Navy 1945-56; medical director, Committee of
70, 1945-50; member, board of trustees and education committee, Jack-
son Laboratory, Bar Harbor, Maine, 1948-56; chief physician, Brownell
Convalescent Hospital, 1949-55; senior ward physician, Hospital of |
the University of Pennsylvania, 1950-55; chief, Vascular Clinic, Bryn
Mawr Hospital, 1952-56; member Scientific Advisory Committee on
Circulation, American Heart Association; governor, Heart Association
of Southwest Pennsylvania.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American Physiological So-
ciety; Sigma Xi; John Morgan Society; Philadelphia Club, Gulph Mills
Golf Club.

PuBLications: About fifty medical articles dealing for the most part with
the physiology, diagnosis and treatment of cardiovascular disease.

EVEN those who are lucky enough to keep their mood swings
in fairly good control still must obey the cyclic laws of biology
up to a certain point. In considering my life for the past twenty-
five years I find that after postponing this effort for a month or
two, my enthusiasm for writing has varied from day to day.
Sometimes I think these years have been for me unique (tech-
nically true) and much more fascinating than anyone else’s. At
other times it is difficult for me to sce how they could differ a
great deal from the years spent by several hundred thousand
other people. Be that as it may, I feel certain that these past
twenty-five years have been by far the most interesting ones for
anyone to be alive in— particularly in the ficld of medicine —

[ 586 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

although I am forced to admit that at times I'd be willing to trade
a good bit of interest for a trifle less confusion.

The pertinent data, given in the first sixteen headings of this
blank, seem to give the essential facts and a fair idea of my ac-
complishments, such as they are. My reactions to all this must,
be pretty much according to the rest of your experiences —
delight and heartache. In my case, I have been delighted at hav-
ing a lovely wife and fine, healthy children, at having an excellent
place to work with associates of whom anyone might be proud,
and at having people whom I admire show confidence in me. My
heartaches have been mostly the result of not living up to what
I personally should expect of myself. Others have come from
inevitables, such as separation from the family during the war and
observing some of my own ghastly traits appearing in the chil-
dren and wondering what to do about it. |

The ten years after graduating seem to have been taken up with
training and now seem to have been thoroughly enjoyable — the
Johns Hopkins Medical School, interning at the old Pennsylvania
Hospital (oldest in the country), residency there and here at the
University Hospital, teaching pharmacology, doing my first re-
search and writing my first papers. The war years, 1942-46, were
spent as a medical officer of the U.S.N.R. — with the Marines in
the Pacific, teaching at the School of Aviation Medicine in Pensa-
cola and at the Naval Hospitals. The worst part was the “stand-
ing by” — Navy for waiting and being thoroughly bored. But
my brain or subconscious has been kind enough to submerge most
of this in my memory, Since then, I guess, I’ve been trying to
raise the family and capitalize on the very good training I was
lucky enough to get. For the most part it’s been fun, too!

CHARLES FOX. HOVEY

HOME Appress: 190 Chestnut Hill Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass.

orrice appress: Herrick, Smith, Donald, Farley & Ketchum, 294 Washington
St., Boston 8, Mass.

BORN: May 3, 1909, Weston, Mass. Parents: Chandler Hovey, Dorothy
Allen,

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. CU7H# laude, 1932; LB. 1935.

[ 587 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932
Marriep: Anita Candler Hinckley, June 29, 1935, Providence, R.I. cum-
DREN: Benjamin, Aug. 16, 1943; Elizabeth Candler, April 23, 1945;
Charles Fox, Jr., Feb. 4, 1948.
HARVARD BROTHER: Chandler Hovey, Jr., ’39.
occupaTion: Attorney, parmer in law firm of Herrick, Smith, Donald, Far-
ley & Ketchum.

“orFices HELD: Alderman, City of Newton, Mass., since 1955; president, Chest-
nut Hill School, 1951-55, Elizabeth Peabody House, Boston, since 1953;
trustee and secretary, Dexter School, Brookline, Mass., since 1954; chair-
man, board of trustees, Vincent Hospital, Boston, since 1957.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club, Brookline; Cruising Club of America.

FROM graduation until Pearl Harbor I made one really smart
move —i.e., married Anita Candler Hinckley of Providence.
Meanwhile I went to Harvard Law School and worked for the
law firm of Herrick, Smith, Donald, Farley & Ketchum in Boston.
Spent vacations sailing, one summer in Sweden and Denmark and
others on the New England coast on all sizes of boats, including
the J-class boats, the largest racing sloops built.

War years found me in the Navy with the first two years on a
minelayer in the Atlantic and Mediterranean, and the last part in
the Pacific Amphibian Force. Wound up as a commander. I
then rejoined the same firm, becoming a partner in 1950. I have
continued my interest in sailing, having sailed in Bermuda, Annap-
olis and Halifax races. In 1955 I decided to try local politics and
am now an Alderman in Newton.

Last summer, our three children finally took us away from
the water on a most successful family junket to the West.

+ ALLEN GUILD HOWE

BoRN: Aug. 22, 1910, Chestnut Hill, Mass. parents: Chester Allen Howe,
Edith White.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

DIED: July 5, 1930, Brookline, Mass.

[ 588 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANCIS LINCOLN HOWE

HOME aAppREss: 6 Colonel Hunt Drive, Abington, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Old Colony Trust Co., 1 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: April 17, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: William Prentiss Howe, Minnie
S. Dennison.

PREPARED AT: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931, 1932-1033. DEGREE: A.B. 1932 (33).

MarRieD: Elizabeth Ann McLaughlin, 1942, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Mary Conroy, March 29, 1943; Frances, April 30, 1946; Sara D., July
19, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Prentiss Howe, *24.

occuPATION: Supervisor, First National Bank of Boston.

OFFICES HELD: Member Finance Committee, Town of Abington, 1951-57;
elected vestryman, All Saints Episcopal Church, Whitman, Mass.

MEMBER OF: University Club, Boston, 1934-41.

TWENTY-FIVE years seems a very short period of time. In
the world much has happened, but in the House of Howe little
of importance has taken place. After graduation I worked for
the Shell Oil Company on the business end of a gasoline hose for
a period of four years. Then the Boston and Albany Railroad
beckoned and I worked for them for about fifteen years. In 1955
the railroad and I parted company. They offered me jobs out of
Boston and out of this State, but I was born in Boston and I did
not want to leave. Thus we parted company.

In an article in the magazine section of the Boston Sunday
Herald the subject of obtaining work and changing the field of
work was discussed. I agree with the author of this article. I
turned my back on the railroad and walked and looked. After
this was not a success, I looked and walked. Today I work for
the Old Colony Trust Company of Boston, not successful but
happy.

I have a good wife, Betty, three daughters, Mary, Frances and
Sara, and, to protect myself from so many females, a male dachs-
hund, Bismark.

[ 589 ]

men lS sii ei Ri Renae EAN aT NN lalla

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

+ JOHN HOWLAND

Born: May at, 1910, Quincy, Mass. parents: Charles Allen Howland, ’oo,
Helen Tisdale.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. ctr laude, 19323 LL.B4 1936(37)3
tum. (Columbia Univ.), 1939.

marriep: Nancy H. Meier, April 24, 1954.

prep: Oct. 6, 1955, Washington, D.C.

wipow; Mrs. John Howland, 2511 Q St.. N.W., Washington, D.C.

JOHN HOWLAND was an attorney in the Office of the General

Counsel of the Navy Department in Washington, D. C. After

graduation from Harvard and a year of study at Exeter College,

Oxford University, where he read law in the Honor School of

Jurisprudence, he entered Harvard Law School, receiving an

LL.B. in 1936. In 1939 he received a Master’s degree, LL.M., from

Columbia Law School, his thesis being, “The Work of the Tempo-

rary National Economic Committee.”

He was commissioned a second lieutenant in the Marine Corps
Reserve in 1934. He was called to active duty in 1940, and was
ordered to Cuba, where the 1st Marine Division was formed. He
was a company commander in the assault landing and campaign
on Guadalcanal, and was returned to the United States for hospi-
talization. He became Commanding Officer, Navy V-12 Unit,
Dartmouth College, the unit consisting of some 2,000 officer can-
didates. He subsequently served a tour as legal adviser to the
District Marine Officer, Third Naval District. He had the perma-
nent rank of lieutenant colonel, Marine Corps Reserve. His work
at Dartmouth, described as superlative, gained him the affection
and respect of President Hopkins and several official commenda-
tions, as well as the offer of the presidency of Norwich College.
His article in the Harvard Alumni Bulletin XLV No. 14 (April
24, 1943) was used as special source material by Professor Samuel
E. Morison (later Admiral Morison) for the section on the Battle
of the Tenaru River in the latter’s book, The Struggle for
Guadalcanal, The preface to this book further credits Howland
with furnishing information and expert advice on the ground
fighting.

He received the Presidential Unit Citation, American Defense
Medal with star, Asiatic-Pacific Theatre Medal with two stars,

[ 590 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

American Theatre Medal, Victory Medal and the Marine Corps
Reserve Service Medal.

In 1940 he collaborated with F. Trowbridge vom Baur in writ-
ing a book, Federal Administrative Law. After the war, he was
engaged in the general practice of law in New York City until
February, 1954, when he became assistant counsel in the Office
of General Counsel, Department of the Navy, in Washington.
In this capacity he was loaned to the Hoover Commission for
special advisory work on a study of the judiciary branch of the
Government, receiving a commendation for his memorandum
on the subject.

In 1954 he married Nancy H. Meier, daughter of Clement
R. D. Meier, ’os. His funeral services were held at Fort Myer
Chapel and burial was in Arlington National Cemetary, conducted
with full military honours by the United States Marine Corps.

GEORGE CHARLES HUNT, JR.

AppREss: P.O. Box 651, Rochester 2, N.Y.

BORN: May 13, 1910, Rochester, N.Y. parents: George Charles Hunt, Fliza-
beth Kelly.

PREPARED AT: Monroe High School, Rochester, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929, 1930-1931.

MARRIED: Marjorie Whitford, Feb. 4, 1944, Rochester, N.Y. cHmpren: Don-
ald William, 2d, Oct. 2, 1945; Kristin Elizabeth, March 11, 1947.

OccUPATION: Owner, Sav-U-Time Sales Company.

RICHARD HENRY HUNT

HOME AppRESS: White Oak Shade Road, New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Cyanamid Co., 1937 W. Main St., Stamford, Conn.

BORN: May 29, 1910, Springfield, Mass. parents: Richard Harold Hunt, ’97,
Mabel Ross.

PREPARED AT: Springfield Central High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B, 1932.

Marrigp: Marion Elizabeth Smith, Nov. 27, 1935, Springfield, Mass. cHup:
William Bennett, Sept. 8, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHER: Ross Franklin Hunt, '26.

OccUPATION: Research chemist, Plastics and Resins Branch, American Cyana-
mid Company.

[591 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

orrices HELD: Treasurer, Alpha Chi Sigma ( professional chapter), Stamford,
Conn.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Association for the
Advancement of Science; Alpha Chi Sigma; Listed American Men of
Science and Chemical Who's Who; Ski Club, Springfield, Mass.; Cyco
Ski Club, Stamford.

puBLicaTions: U.S. Patents 2,422,017; 2,456,453; 2.§27,4073 2,574,741; ‘“Re-
action and Cure in Melamine Plastics,” Industrial and Engineering
chemistry, Vol. 48, No. 1, January, 1956.

AFTER graduation I, like so many others, really discovered that
there was a depression. A year of the discipline of door to door
selling passed before an opening in chemistry could be landed.
On August 15, 1933, I proudly started doing research work on
plastics (forty-five cents an hour) for the Fiberloid Corporation
in Springfield, Massachusetts. Development of molding com-
pounds was my first taste of the heady wine of a successful
project. In 1938 Fiberloid was absorbed by the Monsanto Chem-
ical Company, but after a year in production I returned to re-
search. This time it was on modifiers for industrial finishes. (I
like to think that many automobiles, stoves, washing machines,
etc., last longer because of this work.) In 1952 a shift to the
American Cyanamid Company Research Laboratories was made.
Here I do research on nitrogenous plastics.

Other than business, life has been very full. Hobbies have been
very important. The principal one for both my wife and myself
has been our son. It is surprising how a child influences one’s life.
Because of him I have been involved in the Massachusetts State
Guard, the Cub and Boy Scouts. Our closest non-home associa-
tions have been skiing and camping. I used to have to wait for
him on the ski hill, but now the shoe is on the other foot. He is
as good as 1 would like to be. In 1942 we bought fifteen acres
of pasture land in the Berkshire Hills, Here we have worked
together to try to create the sort of a place we want. It is coming
slowly, but it has been and continues to be fun.

Life in the semi-rural portion of “suburbia” has its compensa-
tions. We have found many fine friends and the challenge of
trying to build a lawn and garden in glacial detritus is never-
ending. Last summer, Bill, when he was home from Syracuse
University, and I dug the garden with a pickax.

I have no complaint with life.

[ 592 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHRISTOPHER HUNTINGTON

HOME AND OFFICE appress: St. Aloysius Rectory, Great Neck, N.Y.

BORN: Feb. 27, 1911, New York, N.Y, parents: Francis Cleaveland Hunting-
ton, ’87, Susan Louisa Butler.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; A.M., 1936; S.T.L.
(Catholic Univ. of America), 1952.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHERS; Prescott Butler Huntington, ’26; William Reed Hunting-
ton, 28.

OCCUPATION: Priest, Roman Catholic Diocese of Brooklyn; assistant pastor,
St. Aloysius Church.

OFFICES HELD: Teaching assistant, Dept. of German, University of Wiscon-
sin, 1936-37; instructor in German, 1937-41, freshman adviser, 1938-40,
proctor in Freshman Dormitories, 1939-42, tutor in Division of Modern
Languages, 1941-42, assistant dean, 1940-42, Harvard College, member
board of directors, Fides Settlement House, Washington, 1942-52; mem-
ber advisory committee on recreation, Great Neck Board of Educa-
tion, since 1955.

MEMBER OF: Alumni Association of Catholic University of America; Catho-
lic Renascence Society; Catholic Theological Society of America;
Liturgical Conference; Liturgical Arts Society; Priests’ Eucharistic
League; Harvard Clubs of New York and Boston.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Voice of Authority,” being an autobiographical con-
tribution to John A. O’Brien (editor), The Way to Emmaus, McGraw-
Hill, 1953; occasional book reviews; translator, Pieper & Raskop, What
Catholics Belteve, Pantheon, 1952.

HOOVER got my first vote, Roosevelt got the country, and
Heinrich Briining fell. Viewed from a mid-Atlantic deck chair,
these unequally momentous occurrences manifested no mutually
casual connection. I put down the ship’s newspaper, brooded for
a moment on my deplorable undergraduate omission of any
course with Irving Babbitt, and then turned hopefully to the
pages of Geoffrey Scott’s Architecture of Humanism, a bon
voyage present well chosen to prepare me for Bavaria. Thus
began the first of what, were one simply to divide these twenty-

five years, would be four main periods: Germany, Harvard, the
Navy, and the priesthood.

Germany (1932-35): As yet unaware of the impending rise of
Hitler, New York publishers wanted men with German ex-
perience; but R. Oldenbourg of Munich, polite though he was
about the letter of introduction, was firm: “You are a foreigner.

[ 593 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

England would seem to me as a Catholic. Would all the beloved
landmarks, endeared to me on visits in the twenties and thirties,
now not seem painfully alien and out of reach? One day was
enough to dispel that quaint anxiety forever. England was intelli-
gible for the first time! And all that was beloved and endearing
in her was all the more so when seen in the light of the 1000
years of England’s full Catholic life. The dull, unlovely things
have their origin later, and insofar as they live at all, borrow from
the past — or, if they only knew it, from the present that is in
their midst. London was very cold and black in 1944, but the
warmth of Westminster Cathedral was the warmth, not of central
heating, but of life. |
The priesthood: The training comprises six years —two of
philosophy, four of theology. The two philosophical ones are
undergraduate — junior and senior — and if any man of thirty-
five wants to try that much college life over again, I recommend
it. The if, admittedly, is a big one and there must be a good
reason. In my case, the reason not only was good, it was plain.
As to the seminary, I can report that I know of no institutional
life on earth, whether academic, civil, nautical, or military, which
can compare with it in wholesome, unabashed, unaffected, un-
sullied, and happy fraternity. Those few of us who were well
above the average student age were repeatedly amazed at the
true inner vivacity of the community. Not the least interesting
thing about it was its telling effect on characteristically outward
things. “The Army,” said one man, “never got dishes washed
like this!” Since 1952, when I was ordained a priest in Brooklyn,
I have been a curate (or assistant) in a large and busy parish on
the edge of the real estate boom in “the United States’ fastest
growing county.” The surroundings are important, of course,
but as in University 9, so in the rectory front office, there are no
limits to what an interview may bring up. As in the proctor’s
room in Holworthy, so in the curate’s here, the telephone rings
at any hour. As on the forecastle of a DE, so at a bedside or in
the confessional, people pour out their troubles. But where else
does anything match what happens at the Altar? In Heaven. I
should add that this parish is but an hour’s drive from my family’s
home, and that habitually and happily I sce them all often.

[ 596 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE PUTNAM HUNTINGTON

HOME appreEss: St. Mary’s Rectory, Stuart, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: St. Mary’s Church, Box 1266, Stuart, Fla.

BORN: July 24, 1909, Providence, R.I. parents: Henry Barrett Huntington,
’97, Alice Howland Mason.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: B.D, (Episcopal Theological Seminary,
Alexandria, Va.), 1935.

MarRiED: Honora Mary Heminway, May 30, 1939, Sherburne, Vt. CHILDREN:
Mary Rebecca Hopkins, Dec. 10, 1940 (died Feb. 10, 1944); James
Otis Sargent, June 27, 1945.

occuPATION: Priest, Episcopal Church; rector, St. Mary’s Church, Stuart;
priest-in-charge, St. Monica’s Church, Stuart, and All Saints’ Church,
Jensen Beach, Florida.

OFFICES HELD: Curate, St. John Evangelist Church, Newport, R.L, 1935-36;
second curate, 1936-38, first curate, 1938-40, St. Stephen’s Church,
Providence, R.I.; chaplain and teacher, St. Dunstan’s School, Providence,
1938-40; rector, Holy Trinity Church, Tiverton, R.I., 1940-44, Im-
manuel Church, Bellows Falls, Vt., 1944-48; assistant to Archdeacon,
Diocese of Rhode Island, 1948-49; rector, St. Mary’s Church, Stuart,

since 1949; priest-in-charge, St. Monica’s Church, Stuart, All Saints’
Church, Jensen Beach, Fla. since 1949; dean, Palm Beach Deanery,
Diocese of South Florida, since 1955.

CHRISTOPHER WHEATON HURD

HOME apprEss: Upland Fields, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADprEss: Christopher W. Hurd, Realtor, Independence Court, Con- _
cord, Mass.

BORN: June 29, 1909, Jamaica Plain, Mass. parents: John Hurd, Emilie
Wheaton Porter.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930, 1931-1932.

MarRIED: Nancy Dabney, June 18, 1932, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Christopher Wheaton, Jr, May 11, 1935; John, 2d, April 23, 19373
Charles Dabney, Dec. 15, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Porter Hurd, 23; John Hurd, a.M., ’24; Frederick Hurd,
M.B.A.y 732.

occupaTIon: Realtor, owner of real estate brokerage firm.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary and director, Family Service Association of Greater
Boston; director, Olivia James Settlement House; trustee of Bemis
Fund, Town of Lincoln; former director, Washingtonian Hospital,
American Overseas Association; president, Harvard Club of Concord,

1954-56.
[597]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

HAPPILY some dozen classmates and an equal number from
1931 live within a six-mile radius. Often in business and in most
civic enterprises I enjoy working closely with them. Those civic
jobs have been mostly money-raising for a local hospital, Com-
munity Fund, Republican Party, Red Cross, Scouts, Episcopal
Church, etc. Of chief interest has been volunteer work as a di-
rector and secretary of the Family Service Association of Greater
Boston, the fourth largest non-sectarian family agency in the
country. I have especially liked serving as secretary of the Har-
vard Club in Concord and for two terms as president, trying to
raise scholarship money and to interest boys in going to Harvard.
(Despite this work one of my sons chose Haverford, one Yale,
and the third at Belmont Hill School is still undecided.)

Harvard’s influence on my life has stimulated me to continue
in a relaxed fashion some furthering of my education. At Sanders
Theatre (as well as Symphony Hall), I listen regularly to the
Boston Symphony. I hear Chamber concerts at the Harvard
Musical Association. Exposed to much contemporary music I
still prefer the three “B’s” and Mozart, though my sons are teach-
ing me to like modern jazz. “Doc” Davison, a neighbor now,
introduced me to choral music and I have joined a number of
choruses under him,— the most recent at the Lowell Institute
Lecture Series which he gave.

The School of Architecture with Gropius and his group has
given me an understanding and liking of contemporary archi-
tecture, As well as being a pleasure it has been most helpful in
my real estate business, A conservative taste in art started under
Professor Edgell has advanced through recent years to accept
and like much in the modern American School. Fortunately,
Perry Rathbone, the new director of the Boston Museum of Fine
Arts, has already devoted more space and money in exhibiting
such works.

The theatre, of great interest after Kittredge’s and Murray’s
courses, takes me to town often and to New York yearly. At
Harvard, since President Pusey’s arrival, my family and I have
seen many performances in the Houses —all parts of a theatre
revival there. When Memorial Hall burned, hopes for a new
theatre were raised, but unfortunately, the Cambridge Fire De-
partment was too close!

[ 598 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In a more indirect fashion, Harvard connections helped during
my war work in Italy and Greece, even in fairly remote spots.

Very spasmodically, I have been preparing for publication a
series of letters of the English author, Frederic Hamilton. Biog-
raphy and literary reminiscences bring me the greatest reading
pleasure.

I have enjoyed living in a small town and taking part in it, but
contrary to Marquand’s belief, credit is due the University that
I am not hemmed in by it and have a broader and more liberal
point of view of the world than would have seemed possible
twenty-five years ago.

LEO MAURICE HURVICH

HOME ADDRESS: 770 Hoffman Rd., Rochester 9, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Eastman Kodak Co., Rochester 4, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 11, 1910, Malden, Mass. PARENTS: Julius Solomon Hurvich,
Celia Singer.

PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B, magna cum laude, 1932; A.M.,
1934; PH.D. 1936.

MarRIED: Dorothea Jameson, Oct. 23, 1948, Rochester, N.Y.

occupation: Research psychologist, Color Technology Division, Eastman
Kodak Company.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary and vice-president, Harvard Teachers Union, chair-
man, American Association of Scientific Workers (Boston-Cambridge),
1945-46.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Sigma Xi; American, Eastern and Rochester
Psychological Associations; American Association for the Advancement
of Science (fellow); New York Academy of Sciences (fellow); Inter-
Society Color Council (APA delegate); Optical Society of America,
American Association of Scienufic Workers.

PuBLIcATIONS: Co-author with Dorothea Jameson of some thirty publica-
tions, including, “Chromatic Responses and Spectral Saturation,” 1955;
“Brightness, Saturation and Hue in Normal and Dichromatic Vision,”
1955, “Changes in Brightness, Saturation and Hue with Chromatic

Adaptation,” 1956, “A Color Specification System,” 1956, in Journal of
Optical Society of America.

AFTER receiving my Ph.D., I assisted and taught in psychology
for four years at Harvard and Radcliffe. Since then I have spent
full time in research in various aspects of sensory psychology and

[599]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

physiology: in the division of research at the Harvard Business
School until 1947 and then at the Eastman Kodak Company. The
war years were spent in research for OSRD, mostly at the
Business School; of the brief diversions elsewhere, the farthest,
longest and coldest was at Camp Churchill on Hudson Bay.

In 1948 I married Dorothea Jameson with whom I had worked
at the Business School and who had also accepted a research job
with Kodak. Working together we have been concentrating on
various problems of color vision and the effort to date is sum-
marized in our papers in the scientific journals. What there is
about nervous tissue that enables it to come up with reds, whites,
greens, etc., never stops fascinating me.

We have a small house in a country-like spot and what with
books, music, the matchless Dryden Theatre film collection, con-
versational friends and the daily dishwashing routine, the days
and evenings are pretty full. A vegetable garden competes for
time in the spring and summer and what there is about the
physico-chemical innards of a seed that enables it to come up
with lettuce, beets, corn, etc., is also something that never stops
fascinating me.

WILLIAM EDWARD HUTCHINS

HOME appreEss: 151 Woodhaven Drive, Mt. Lebanon 28, Pa.

OFFICE ApprESS: 717 Liberty Ave., Pittsburgh 22, Pa.

Born; Dec. 30, 1910, Palmyra, N.J. parents: George Barnes Hutchins, Vir-
ginia Capey Sparks.

PREPARED AT: Palmyra High School, Palmyra, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: $.B. IN MECH. ENGIN., 1932.

Marniep; Evelyn Agnethe Beckvold, Sept. 19, 1935, Chelmsford, Mass.
CHILDREN: William Edward, Jr., Dec. 6, 1936; Constance Evelyn, Oct. 3,
1939.

OCCUPATION: Insurance; business sales representative, sales and service of
casualty and fire insurance.

orrices HELD; Vice-chairman, New Jersey Chapter, American Society of
Safety Engincers, 1943; chairman, various key committees, officers’ posts,
since 1944, chairman, 1954-55, West Pennsylvania Chapter, American
Socicty of Safety Engineers; lay reader, since 1950, vestryman, 1952-56,
St. Paul's Protestant Episcopal Church, Mt. Lebanon.

Memusge oF: American Society of Safety Engineers (full member); Harvard
Engineering Socicty; American Society of Mechanical. Engincers (full

{ 600 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

member); Montclair Engineering Society (past member), Eastern
Association of Intercollegiate Football Officials (active); National As-
sociation of Basketball Officials (retired); Masonic Orders— Blue
Lodge, Scottish Rite, Shrine; Harvard Club of Western Pennsylvania.

FOLLOWING graduation I followed the then common practice
of turning to whatever came to hand — chiefly short-term em-
ployments. This period included spells as an insurance clerk,
salesman of electrical appliances, football coach of the Adams
House team, fruit and poultry farming and paper mill work.
Long term employment came on July 9, 1934, as a safety engineer
with Liberty Mutual Life Insurance Company. This connection
has been retained to the present, with progression from cub to
resident engineer, to supervising engineer, to division service
manager and then assistant division manager of loss prevention.
Also, this meant residing in five different states as the moves pro-
gressed. In latter years it also meant traveling the entire U.S.A.,
east of the Rockies, For the past eighteen months I have trans-
ferred my efforts to the business sales part of the organization,
concentrating in western Pennsylvania. This has resulted in a
considerable broadening of view and knowledge (at no incon-
siderable effort, I might inject) but quite candidly has not yet
fully resolved whether my ultimate preference will lie with the
selling or the buying of insurance for business enterprises.

Meantime, I find myself a twelve-year resident of Mt, Lebanon,
reputedly “one of the finest communities in America.” We find
it so, having enjoyed living here better than at any of the various
other locales en route. For the civic and business enterprise, we
have a ringside seat for the activities so well-publicized about the
“Golden Triangle” in all the magazines.

As is undoubtedly the case with our Class at this time, our
family interests are concentrated on the doings and progress of
our children. Suffice it to say, we feel we have two stalwarts,
both about to enter college (neither at Harvard, to my regret,
although I am sure that will not prevent their being very worth-
while citizens! ).

Hobbies have leaned to the athletic, with the children inherit-
ing this tendency and outdoing us in most respects these days.
Football fever still grips us each fall, with weekends finding me
in the traditional “official’s uniform.” Yes, “Slippery Rock” is

[ Gor |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

not just a name to joke with here, but a real live college where I
am going to handle a ball game next Saturday! And where better
can you see a Pitt-Army game than on the field with the players,
the week following? And let us not forget that the Western Penn-
sylvania enthusiasts have been sending more men to Harvard each
year, with the last two football captains included. Ed Gallup,
’20, heads this effort and I help in a small way.

Evelyn’s interest includes more of the fine arts touch — like
amateur oil painting, ceramics, directress of a ball-room dancing
class for six years and, of course, the domestic arts incidental to
keeping a house and raising children.

On the serious side, I was rejected for service (physical and
family) but much involved in “work critical to the war effort.”
Also much activity has been devoted to the usual organizations
common to life in the U.S.A. — Boy and Girl Scouts, rehabilitat-
ing and building up a church to be one of the largest parishes
in America, engineering societies, Men’s Club, Women’s Club,
guest lecturing, safety council and insurance society work. One
of my greatest regrets is our ability to see so little of the activities
at Harvard since we left New England many years ago. God
willing, we look forward to a most enjoyable Twenty-fifth Re-
union.

JOSEPH BAER HYMAN

HOME ApprEss: R..D. Shepherdstown, W. Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 216 Prince St. Alexandria, Va.

BORN: Feb. 5, 1912, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Isidore Sidney Hyman, Eva
Simon.

PREPARED AT: Huntington High School, Huntington, W. Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932; LL.B., 1935.

MarRieD: Elizabeth Hannan, May 2, 1938, New York, N.Y.

OCCUPATION: Farmer; lawyer.

AS I write this, my seven years in Cambridge as an undergraduate
and a student in the Law School seem immensely remote. There
is no clearly visible thread running back from the present to
where we all were in the last fading light of the 1920's. I, at
least, feel as though I had come blindfolded, by twists and turns,
through the years of the depression and war and this curiously

[ 602 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

unconvincing boom time of the postwar. I realize that I owe my
wife to having gone to tea in Cambridge on a Sunday afternoon
twenty-two years ago this fall, There are, moreover, a few good
friendships which run back to our undergraduate time. Never-
theless I suspect I would be, like most of us, puzzled if I were to
encounter the Harvard College Class of 1932 as it was in Mr.
Hoover's days.

My twenty-five years have been normal ones. I have done
some things I expected to do, and some I did not. I have kept
some tastes and interests; traded others for new ones, The
process of living is more interesting now than it was in my
younger days, and more satisfactory.

Much of what I have done has been routine. For want of any-
thing else, I went to the Law School. In 1935 I went to work for
a committee of the U.S. Senate which was concerned with rail-
roads and railroad financing. I worked there for six years and
wrote two reports — in nine volumes. One was called The Van
Sweringen Corporate System, and one, The History of Railroad
Consolidation in the Eastern Region, They were, as I recall them,
interesting accounts of one kind of moving and shaking during
the period that ended in the great depression of the ’30s,

I spent the first year of the war as legal adviser to Professor
Seymour Harris, who was charged with the responsibility of
controlling the prices of exports and imports, After that I dis-
appeared into the Navy until the beginning of 1946. I suffered
in the Navy’s Bureau of Ordnance. I was a gang boss with a
small group at Kwajalein in the Marshalls and at the end I was a
partly employed valet and clerk at Okinawa for middle-aged
graduates of the Naval Academy. It was a great thing to sce the
Japanese plane, painted white and marked with green crosses,
bring the Japanese down to Ie Shima to arrange their surrender.
I did not expect people to talk about another war so soon again as
they have.

For the past nearly ten years I have practised law after a fash-
ion, though I worked for the Government again in 1951 and 1952.
Most of the law I have done has been litigation before the very
finest agencies and courts. My conclusion is that the law is a
bottomless pit, interesting but a bottomless pit all the same. Logic
appears to have little to do with the decisions of judges, and a

[ 603 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

lawsuit by now strikes me as being neither more nor less pre-
dictable than a horse-race.

My main interest and pleasure in the past nearly ten years has
been farming. In 1948 we bought a farm without thinking much
about what we were doing. The years since then have been full
of learning new things and recalling experiences we once knew.
Our farm is on the Potomac River, in Jefferson County, West
Virginia, and looks east to the Blue Ridge across the battlefield
at Antietam Creek. It is limestone country, good for orchards,
which we had at the beginning, and for cattle, which we now
have. We spend half of the days of the year at the farm, and as
few days as we can get by with in town.

In my undergraduate time I never thought life would be as
pleasing as I find it now in the country. I enjoy the company of
the dogs, especially the senior members of the family, Felix and
Jackson, Watching or working with the cattle is peaceful and
good for the spirit. Then there are the various small animals,

rabbits and squirrels and woodchucks, and even an occasional fox
or deer. We all suffer, I think, from too much paper and too
many large abstractions. Farming is a good antidote. The things
we work with are real and have modest, human dimensions.

The troubles of our time seem to me to result in good part
from the fact that the world is run almost wholly from cities.
Anyone who has doubts about this, or anyone who agrees, is
always welcome to discuss the question with us at Shepherds-
town.

GEORGE RONALD INCE

HOME ApprEss: 115 Sackville Rd., Garden City, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bankers Trust Co., 16 Wall St., New York 15, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 2, 1909, New York, N.Y. parents: George Hamilton Ince,

' Carlie Louise Ashby Russell.

PREPARED AT: Patchogue High School, Patchogue, Long Island, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MaRRiED: Isabel Sorzano, Sept. 19, 1936, New York, N.Y. cuitpren: Judith
Hamilton, March 22, 1938; Catherine Louise, June 30, 1941; George
Ronald, Jr., Sept. 9, 1943; Carlie Russell, May 31, 1945; John Frederic,
July 1, 1948.

[ 604 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Assistant vice-president and head of Corporate Trust and
Agency Administration Section of Trust Department, Bankers Trust
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Sapolio Products Company, since 1951, Cub Pack
No. 56, Boy Scouts of America, 1953, 1956-57; Property Owners
Association of Garden City Estates, Inc. since 1955; Class Secretary,
agth Session, Advanced Management Program of Harvard School of
Business Administration, since 1956, member executive council, Harvard
Business School Association, 1956-57.

MEMBER OF: Garden City Casino; American Society of Corporate Secre-
taries, Inc.

LAST spring when I was talking with some students of the Har-
vard Business School about the opportunities for them in banking,
I could not but ponder on the great gulf between the problems
of “looking for a job” today and that of twenty-five years ago.
Then, looking for a job meant just that: looking in the Help
Wanted columns, walking to offices and employment agencies
and trying to get by secretaries in the outer office. Today look-
ing for a job is mostly learning about various opportunities and
making a choice between them. After graduation, I learned the
hard way by trying out several diverse ficlds including selling
automobile insurance in Baltimore and being a section manager
in Gimbel’s basement. In 1934 I went to Bankers Trust Com-
pany. Located at 16 Wall Street, this spot was destined to become
my “home away from home” for many years to come.

In September, 1936, I married Isabel Sorzano, Wellesley ’33,
whom I had met on a blind date in my senior year. We lived in
Brooklyn for two years and there our first child and first daugh-
ter was born on March 22, 1938. Said daughter, Judith Hamilton
Ince, is now a freshman at Wellesley (a Pendleton Scholar, no
less) and enjoying greatly college life-— including dates with
Harvard men. In this same year, so long, long ago, we moved to
East Rockaway, Long Island. In 1941, we had another girl,
Catherine Louise, who is now a lively blonde sophomore in high
school and who makes life interesting for all around her. George
Ronald, Jr., was born in 1943. At thirteen, his main interest in
life is sports. He is a Yankee fan, plays tennis in the summer,
football and soccer in the fall and basketball in the winter and
his enthusiasm is contagious no matter what he is doing. In a
few years a girl, Carlie Russell, was born. She is now eleven,

[ 605 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

has big eyes, a big dimple and is proud of the fact that she can
throw a ball and climb a tree like a boy. In the summer of 1945,
when Carlie was three months old and the three older children
all had whooping cough, we bought and moved into our own home
here in Garden City.

Isabel still shudders when reminded of that summer. We have
lived here eleven years, having added one more boy, John Fred-
eric, to the family. He is a personality kid and gets away with
murder according to the other children. That is the status quo,
family-wise, as of today.

During this time I progressed gradually at Bankers Trust from
plain ordinary clerk to estate administrator in the Personnel Trust
Department, then shifted to the Corporate Trust Division where
I was given the title of assistant secretary. (This puzzled the
family who could not understand why an assistant secretary
would have a secretary working for him.) Later I was made an
assistant vice-president and last year the bank sent me to the Ad-
vanced Management Program at Harvard where I enjoyed re-
visiting many remembered spots. I am presently head of the
Corporate Trust and Agency Administration Section of the Trust
Department.

Aside from interests around the house, such as pine paneling
the cellar so that we could have our living room to ourselves
occasionally, community activities have kept me busy, ie., Cub
Scouts, church, school committee, Youth Recreation Committee
and, of recent years, acting as a director of our Property Owners’
Association, In my so-called spare time, my favorite pastime ts
sailing with my family on Great South Bay in our Crosby cat-
boat, the Grayling, and teaching the younger ones to sail in the
little dinghy that we trail behind us. Isabel and I also enoy play-
ing tennis — mostly doubles as the years roll by. In the evening
we enjoy a friendly game of bridge and play duplicate (friendly
cut-throat),

As everyone knows, there are not enough hours in the day and
not enough days in the week. There never seems to be quite time
to do all the things I want to do, but maybe in the next twenty-five
I'll get them done.

[ 606 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARRY COLUMBUS ISAACS

HOME ADDRESS: 516 Forest Ave., Rye, N.Y. .

OFFICE ADDRESS: The B.V.D. Co., 265 Madison Ave., New York 16, N.Y,

BorN: Oct. 12, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Saul Isaacs, Harriet Marsman,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929, 1930-1933. DEGREE: A.B. 1932 (33).

MaRRIED: Natalie Strauss, Oct. 12, 1935, Boston, Mass. crtpren: Stephen
Laurence, Aug. 25, 1939; Richard (Riki) Bruce, Nov. 12, 1942; Naomi
Judith, April 3, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, in charge of advertising, sales promotion and
public relations, The B.V.D. Company, manufacturers of various items
of apparel from underwear to neckwear under the “B.V.D.” brand label.

OFFICES HELD: President, Rye Boy Scout Foundation, 1953-55; director,
Siwanoy Council, Boy Scout Association, Rye United Fund, Rye Com-
munity Synagogue, Rye High School Dad's Club; president, Citizen’s
Committee for Rye Public Schools; member, Publicity Club of New
York, Mayor Wagner’s Olympic Committee, New York and National
Sales Executive Club.

MEMBER oF; Harvard Club of Westchester.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional contributions to trade publications.

ALL the things you have ever done somehow fall into place and
play an important part in your life if you are lucky as I have
been. I majored in English literature, was director of merchandise
development for Butler Brothers in Chicago for thirteen years,
came back east to work as assistant to the president of a paint
brush factory — and then found that all of these various experi-
ences fell into place and played each their important part in con-
tributing to my current job.

While all this was going on, I was lucky enough to marry Nata-
lie, a Boston school teacher and psychiatric social worker, have
three lovely children, and enjoy spending a great deal of time on
community affairs in this ideal small city in Westchester.

Incidentally, while this is being written, my eldest, Stephen,
is a senior at Rye High School. By the time of the Twenty-fifth
he will have been admitted to a college —I hope it’s Harvard.

Over and above the exciting job I have, the most important
activities of my daily living center about community activities.
These have been most rewarding and any time spent is more than
paid for by the feelings of satisfaction in doing the job. I have
got much more from these activities than I have given.

[ 607 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

I have only one ambition left to which I look forward. Some-
day, when all the kids are out of college, Natalie and I would
like to pick up and spend our last years around Harvard. We

hope that we shall be able to move back to Cambridge, do a lot

of reading, attend lectures, and I would hope to give a few at the
Business School. At that point we shall be able to say with deep
satisfaction that we are truly living “the last of life for which
the first was made.”

ARNOLD ISENBERG

HOME ADDRESS: 520 Cowper St., Palo Alto, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Philosophy Dept., Stanford University, Stanford, Calif.

BORN: Sept. 12, 1911, Haverhill, Mass. parents: David Isenberg, Fannie
Apteker.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932; AM,
19335 PH.D., 1935.

UNMARRIED.

occupaTioN: Associate professor of philosophy, Stanford University.

JOHN BRINCKERHOFF JACKSON

HOME apprEss: P.O. Box 215, Route 2, Santa Fe, N. Mex.

OFFICE ADRESS: Landscape Magazine, P.O. Box 2149, Santa Fe, N. Mex.

BORN: Sept. 25, 1909, Dinard, France. PARENTS: William Brinckerhoft Jack-
son, Alice Richardson.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932 (33). .

UNMARRIED. .

occupation: Editor and publisher, Landscape Magazine.

PUBLICATIONS: One novel; numerous magazine and newspaper articles.

AFTER serving on the Harvard Tercentenary Committee, I
moved to New Mexico to ranch. I enlisted in the First Cavalry
Division in September, 1940, and was commissioned a year later.
I served overseas with the Ninth Infantry Division as Assistant
G-2 and, finally, as G-2. I was discharged in January, 1946. After
another attempt at ranching in New Mexico, I undertook in 1951

[ 608 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to publish a magazine devoted to human geography. I am still
engaged in the undertaking, which has the merit of allowing me
to travel abroad a portion of each year.

PHILLIP SHERMAN JACKSON

HOME AppRESS: 59 Griggs Rd., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 53 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 7, 1910, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Joseph Barron Jackson, Ray
R. Grandberg.

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: 8.B., 1932; LL.B. 1935.

marrieD: Anne Adele Fisher, Nov. 23, 1941, Brookline, Mass. cHILpREN:
Peter S., Dec. 8, 1942; Eric E., Feb. 9, 1946, Ira A., July 1, 1948.

occuPATION: Lawyer in private practice; instructor in Contracts and Busi-
ness Law, Northeastern University.

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1947-49, executive director, 1949, Chelsea Housing
Authority; general chairman, Chelsea Community Fund, 1948; com-
mander, Post 71, Jewish War Veterans, 1948-q9; state vice-chairman,
American Veterans Committee, 1949-50; clerk, director and assistant
treasurer, Liberty Credit Union, since 1954; Town Meeting Member,
Brookline, since 1954; director, since 1954, chairman, 1955-56, Brookline

Committee, Inc.
MEMBER oF: American Veterans Committee, Jewish War Veterans;
Brookline Committee, Inc.; member of the Bar, Massachusetts and

Federal District Court of Massachusetts.

I SUPPOSE that at one time or another everyone of us had the
desire to write a book and probably an autobiography, especially
after experiencing an exciting or exceedingly emotional episode
in our lives. I confess that I have had such desires, but after
reading my first attempt for this class history I realize that what-
ever experiences I have had they must be similar to a large degree
to those of all of us—only the names, places, and dates are
different. Additional schooling, the Armed Services, courtship,
marriage, children, earning a living — fill in your names, change
the places and dates—that is your life. Of course, some are
more exciting or of more importance than others, but each can
be dull reading unless the writer can translate his emotions into
words. However, since most of you have had similar experiences,
I leave it to you to fill in the feelings or emotions accompanying

the events in my life.
[ 609 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Congressman and Mayor of Cambridge, Richard Russell, Execu-
tive Councillor, “Chub” Peabody, Colonel Paul Counihan, and
Julian Yesley at OPS in the legal section where I remained until
April, 1953, when the office folded.

Since then I have been practising law and settling down to be a
resident husband and parent and taking an interest in the town
affairs of Brookline where I own my home over the GI mortgage.
Anne and I have both been elected Town Meeting members (one
of the few husband and wife combinations at Town Meeting).
We do not control the Town Meeting, nor do we always vote
alike, but we do caucus now and then, sometimes in bed. I helped
organize the Brookline Committee, Inc., and am a former chair-
man of that group. I have taken an active part in rent control
legislation and have appeared before legislative committees on
Beacon Hill for or against many bills dealing with housing, rent
control, and veterans affairs. I am a director, assistant treasurer,
and clerk of a credit union, meeting one evening a week. I was
appointed an instructor in law at Northeastern University a couple
of years ago and teach contracts and business law two nights a
week, Teaching, the credit union, meetings of the Brookline
Committee, Town Meetings, PTA meetings, faculty meetings,
some social life, and trying to make a ning leave very little time
for television or golf.

Write an autobiography? Never.

+ WALTER JACOBS

BoRN: Feb. 7, 1909, Oil City, Pa. parents: Max Jacobs, Bella Metzger.

PREPARED AT: Oil City High School, Oil City, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; A.M. 19333
LL.B. 1938(39).

pieD: March 29, 1954, Oil City, Pa,

sister: Mrs, Herman Dreyfuss, 21 Pearl Ave., Oil City, Pa.

ERNEST JACOBY

HOME ADDRESS: 71 Mt. Vernon St., Boston 8, Mass.
oFFice appress: North Bennet Street Industrial School, 39 N. Bennet St.,
Boston 13, Mass.

[ 612 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BorN: March 8, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Ernest Jacoby, Alice Gardiner
Hovey.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B. AN C.E., 1932.

MaRRIED: Mary Morison, March 19, 1955, Boston, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Jacoby, ’35.

occupaTion: Director, North Bennet Street Industrial School, a trade school
and settlement house.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant secretary and assistant treasurer, James Talcott, Inc.,
1938-39; board member and president, Jacoby Club of Boston, since
19353 assistant treasurer, Commercial Filters Corporation, 1941-46; vice-
president and general manager, Credit Inc. 1946-47; board member,
since 1945, former vice-president, Ellis Memorial and Eldredge House,
Inc.; board member, Social Service Credit Union, since 1946, United
Prison Association, since 1951, Boston Center for Adult Education,
1950; member, examining committee, Boston Public Library, 1956-57;
former board member, Federation of South End Settlements, various
offices with Boston Settlement Council.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Society (former vice-president and
former president of New England Section); Junior Executives Club
of Boston Chamber of Commerce, 1937-51; Monday Lunch Club
(social work executives).

OVER the last twenty-five years my life seems to have consisted
of a constant effort to attain constantly changing objectives. My
objective on graduation was to get a job, preferably in civil
engineering which I had been studying. This I was unable to do
and was finally hired by my father at ten dollars a week. His
company was engaged in selling crude rubber and chemicals.
I left this job due to illness which incapacitated me for a number
of months. It was during this period that for the first time I read
some worth-while books and gave myself what now passes for a
college education. In 1934 it was almost impossible to get an
engineering position without experience, so I volunteered with
the Town of Brookline Engineering Department. Fortunately,
I soon afterwards obtained a job with Hall Nichols, '16, executive
secretary of the Massachusetts commission dispensing money for
state public works projects. This was interrupted by the necessity
of returning to my father’s office after his death.
I still had as my objective a career in engineering, and in spite
of the employment situation I was fortunate in working for a
number of different engineers, including Howard M. Turner,

[ 613 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

’06, John F. Vaughan, ’95, and Lawrence Bond, *20. In 1937 |
had seven different jobs but was only idle for a week. Asa result
of my experience with engineering, I changed my objective and
decided that I wanted a job where I could learn about all types of
business and one where engineering experience would be of value.
Thanks to Charles F. Batchelder, ’20, I obtained work in the
Boston office of a factoring firm— James Talcott, Inc., under
Amos H. C. Brown, ’16. Here I progressed up the usual ladder
until the company closed its Boston office. At this point I changed
my objective again and looked for a small manufacturing com-
pany where I could start at the bottom and work up. This job
hunt resulted in my employment with Commercial Filters Corpo-
ration which had twenty-five employees in 1939 and four hundred
when I left in 1946, after having become purchasing agent and
assistant treasurer. My next objective —to get into business for
myself — resulted in what amounted to a partnership in a finance
and collection company. The arrangement was not a happy one,
nor was it of long duration.

In the meantime, being unmarried I had devoted considerable
time to taking evening courses and being active in clubs of young
businessmen and engineers. In addition, much against my will I
was obliged to take over the presidency of a small charitable
corporation started by my father. To my surprise I enjoyed this
type of voluntary work and soon became an active board member
of Ellis Memorial, a Boston settlement house. The increased in-
terest in social work coincided with my period of job hunting
and I, therefore, again changed my objective, this time for a job
where business experience would be most useful in educational,
social work, or hospital administration. Again I was fortunate
enough to attain my objective by being appointed assistant to
George C. Greener, director of North Bennet Street Industrial
School in Boston’s North End. Here I was able to combine my
outside interests with my business experience, thus converting
an avocation into a vocation. North Bennet Street Industrial
School includes trade classes (such as cabinetmaking, sheet metal
work, carpentry, and watch repairing), evening classes, pre-
vocational classes, a boys’ club, a full settlement house program
including a nursery, and an affiliated credit union. In the summer
there are two caddy camps, a boys’ and girls’ camp, and a day

[ 614 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

camp. My work here has been a constant joy. Since the retire-
ment of Mr. Greener I have been the director.

In 1955 I discovered Mary Morison in a South End settlement
house. On learning of her many relatives in the Class of 1932, I
convinced her that she was the logical one to share my Twenty-
fifth Reunion and at present we plan to continue the arrangement
even after June. Except for my marriage the above report reads
like a drab account of jobs held and changes made, but actually
the twenty-five years have been great fun, thanks largely to all
the fine people with whom I have been associated, While there
are some things in my life which I might change if I had it to live
over again, they are relatively minor and I look forward each
day to a new challenge and new opportunities to be of service

to others.

MARIUS STEPHEN JALET

HOME ADDRESS: 396 Bleecker St.. New York 14, N.Y.
BORN: Dec. 7, 1909, Glens Falls, N.Y. parents: John William Jalet, Venessa

Guyette.
PrePARED AT: Glens Falls Academy, Glens Falls, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1932.

IN the twenty-five years since we graduated, I cannot point to
any really worthwhile business or other achievements. Moreover,
my family life also came completely apart in the late 1940's.

Sufficient to say, I do not have any complaints of any kind.
By all conventional standards, I have been blessed beyond words
with children, with good health, with interesting and fine business
opportunities, with good and helpful friends.

I do not fear the next twenty-five. Rather I look forward to
them. Perhaps in this leg I shall do better. In any event I shall try.

ROBERT ULRICH JAMESON

HOME AppREss: R.D. 2, Phoenixville, Pa.

OFFIcE appress: Haverford School, Haverford, Pa.

BORN: July 25, 1910, Grand Rapids, Mich. Parents: Paris Cornelius Jameson,
Bella Rosenthal.

[ 615 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

PREPARED AT: East Grand Rapids High School, East Grand Rapids, Mich.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932.
MARRIED: Suzanne Sharpless Chance, Sept. 2, 1944, Germantown, Pa.

occupATION: Teaching; free-lance writing; chairman, English Department,
Haverford School.

OFFICES HELD: National Council of Teachers of English delegate to pre-
paratory commission for UNESCO, 1945; chief reader, English Examina-
tion for Foreign Service, Department of State, 1950; visiting associate
in humanities, Educational Testing Service, 1956; president, Private
School Teachers’ Association of Philadelphia and vicinity, 1957.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Pickering Hunt Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Editor, Essays Old and New, Harcourt, Brace, 1954; co-author
with Lou LaBrant, Your English, Book Four, McGraw-Hill, 1957; “So
You Want to Go to College,” 1953, “How to Stay in College,” 1954,

“Common Sense about Children’s Reading,” 1956, Saturday Evening
Post.

WATCHING the Labrador sleeping in the best chair and the
cat sleeping in my shoe as I type this — just after having removed
the goat from the front porch, where she always comes to notify
us that the supply of weeds in her little staked circle has given
out — makes me think one of two things: either there is no value
in education, or the animals are making out better than we are.
Obviously the latter is correct. As to the former: how can an
“educator” do other than write about education? Education is
a pretty decent thing, even if without wild life like the critters
mentioned here,

My teaching career started, of course, in 1932, thanks to the
fact that I had a friend who had a father who ran a school — this
after, as I recall, eighty-one applications for jobs to schools which
were firing only two teachers out of eight because of something
vaguely called the “depression.” The marvel, of course, is that
in extremis an English major can teach anything. He can — if
I am any indication—teach Latin, algebra, general science,
French and history. All he needs is the gift of gab, together with
a whole lot of hours for homework.

Fortunately for this teacher, my present school rather thought
that an English major ought to teach English. So I seem to have
been teaching English for a terribly long time at a very good
school. When you have two ex-students as the number one and
number two candidates for a Rhodes Scholarship in the same year,

[ 616 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ou obviously take the credit for their proficiency. (Hideous

note: the boy from Princeton beat out his friend from Harvard.)

Of course the way one earns a “living” (the quotes belong to

the teacher) is really a very minor matter. Item. One stays a

bachelor until the middle of the Second World War, for some

stupid reason. One gets turned down for military service. One
spends time working on things like ration boards, denying people
gasoline which they mrust have to visit their ailing uncle in Winni-
peg. One goes toa rationed New Year's Eve party, and there is

a blonde.

Item. The following fall, I acquired the blonde, who as I write
this looks about four years older than she did then; also her three
children, who are by common consent the three most attractive
children in Chester County, Pennsylvania. I regret to state that
the boy goes to Cornell now; but he likes it. The wonderful
thing about this marriage is that my wife is a country girl at heart,
though a William Penn type Quaker by birth: she led me into the
country where we have honeysuckle for the goat to eat, rodents
for the cat to eat, and birds for the Labrador to hunt, Also fox-
hunting which my girl does better than most. What? School
teacher a fox hunter? No, not me. I follow by car and try not

to run over the fox. |

In any case, I strongly recommend the old house in the country,

regardless of what you do. On our first New Year's Eve here (we
had just moved in), we all sat up, rather sleepily, until midnight.
The radio said the New Year had come in, We went outside on
a brilliant night to welcome the New Year. Not a sound. Not a
light. Not a noisemaker. Just the trees, the creek, the animals,
and us. Good.

Of course life is not this close to the noble savage business of
Rousseau. One works, too, often on extra-curricular items which
are most rewarding. I have, for instance, had a very rewarding
series of years working at the scoring of examinations in English
for the Department of State — the Foreign Service program.
This may sound awful to the uninitiated. It is not. This is only
a sample of the extras that a teacher can manage, if he does not
bother to sleep, for instance, How can one evaluate the thrill of
selling a first article to the Saturday Evening Post, for instance?
Or of publishing a number of textbooks? Or, basically, of seeing

[ 617 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

a large number of young men take hold of ideas and use these
ideas to make something of themselves in the world?

I recommend very strongly the kind of existence I lead: teach-
ing as the so-called productive part of the day, followed by more
important things like a very handsome wife who leads the way
around here, like those beautiful kids, like even the creek when it
floods. All right, like the Labrador retriever. She has more brains
than most of us have.

ROBERT BRUCE JAMIESON, JR.

HOME aporEss: P.O. Box 174, Tangerine, Fla.
OFFicE apprEss: U.S. Naval Hospital, Great Lakes, ILL.

BORN: June 12, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Robert Bruce Jamieson, Esther
Amabel Sampson.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.D. (Yale Univ.), 1937.

MaRRiED: Talitha Rush Clark, Nov. 25, 1942, Pensacola, Fla. CHILDREN:
Melanie Louise, July 3, 1944; Robert Bruce, 3d, Dec. 21, 1947; Ellen
Margaret, May 2, 1951; Philip Ament, July 5, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon; captain, Medical Corps, U.S. Navy.

THESE twenty-five years have passed so quickly and have been
so full that I have not, at any time, clearly defined my profound
convictions and philosophy. My family and the practice of
surgery in the Navy complete my sphere. I find that all my
activities pertain to one or the other.

After finishing medical school at Yale in 1937, I entered the
U.S. Navy. For two and a half years, I was in China as a medical
officer, was harassed by the Japanese, was fortunate enough to
return to the U.S. in 1941. Then I spent a year in Greenland.
From 1942 to 1946 I was in the South Pacific in carriers, Since
that time, except for a tour in a hospital ship in Korea, I have
been on surgical services in various naval hospitals.

My other interest is my family. First, there is Talitha — her
antecedents made the first bourbon in Kentucky, God bless ’em.
In order of appearance came Melanie born in Texas, Bruce in
Massachusetts, Peggy in Florida and Phil in Virginia. Melie
dances a la ballet and plays the piano; Bruce can pitch a mean
curve and is hot with a .22; equestrienne Peggy took her first

[ 618 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ribbon at the age of three; and Phil, since Christmas, can saw the
legs off any chair in the house, All the children are proficient in
geography and in reading route maps. They thrive on my having
a change of duty. Last year, while we resided in a stationary
neighborhood, Melie felt so sorry for her friend next door who
had lived in the same house all her life.

My extra-curricular activities include photography and, in the
summer, golf —that is, when I am not repairing the sundry
bicycles, wagons and dolls, weeding the garden, or fishing.

I have been in many foreign lands and have treated many,
many other nationals. I can classify them as to their fighting
ability and their courage, their apathy and their stoicism, their
philosophy and their patriotism. Of one thing I am certain — I
am most fortunate to be an American and to have my family
living in our country and protected by it.

EUGENE AUGUST LOUIS JANTZEN

HOME ADDRESS: 8022 Venetian Drive, St. Louis 5, Mo.
OFFICE ApprEss: Gene Jantzen Chevrolet Co., 5434 Natural Bridge, St. Louis

20, Mo.
BoRN: March 2, 1910, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Jean Jantzen, Justina Reinert.

PREPARED AT: John Burroughs School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREE: $.B., 1932.
marrieD: Mary Hennigan, Dec. 26, 1946, St. Louis, Mo. cuitp: Mary, Nov.

21, 1949.
OCCUPATION: President, Gene Jantzen Chevrolet Company.
MEMBER OF: Serra Club; Manresa Society; University Club; Glen Echo

Country Club; Beta Theta Pi; Harvard Varsity Club; Harvard Club of
St. Louis; Holy Name Society.

IT’S fun to read about others in a class book, but it is downright
sobering to write about oneself. Since leaving Kirkland House,
the Yard, my loyal and companionable classmates, and things in
connection with Cambridge, I have covered a lot of ground.
Some of that ground was sown with trials and tribulations but,
like our Harvard education, I would not want to change any of
it even if I could have another chance, The year 1932 was 2
“rough time” to leave the protection of a formal education but
it was a truly excellent time to get the cold facts on life as it could

[ 619 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

never be taught in a classroom, nor learned by reading textbooks.
The depression had hit most of my friends the same as me so
that even the lowliest job in the business world was something
for which to be thankful.

For about six months after graduation, in 1932, I managed to
obtain an assortment of part-time jobs. Finally, an opening de-
veloped with a National Dairy Company subsidiary named St.
Louis Dairy. This association lasted until 1941, when I joined
the Navy. In the dairy business I had been promoted through
many jobs so that at the time of volunteering in the Navy, I was
wholesale sales manager. Four years of service in the Navy were
full of experience, but at no time can I say I was really “fighting
the war.” Over half the time was spent in the North Pacific along
the Aleutian chain. Separation from Uncle Sam was as a lieuten-
ant commander U.S.N.R., in December, 1945.

Since “coming of age” I did much gadding about socially,
thinking I was having lots of fun. In fact I was, but there was no
lasting effect. Fortunately for me, I met an Irish colleen early
in 1946, whom I married at St. Pius Catholic Church before the
year ended. From then on life became more significant ...
what with a wife and a little daughter whom I have nicknamed
“Sugar.”

Following the war, I went back into business again in a sales
capacity. That has always been what I liked to do best. For the
next ten years I was in the shoe industry. Today I am in the
automobile business operating the Gene Jantzen Chevrolet Com-
pany.

The previous five paragraphs scantily cover a quarter century
since college. At the age of forty-seven, I like to think that I am
only a little beyond half way through life, but when I look
around I don’t see or know many men who are even eighty. God
willing, however, I shall add more for the Fiftieth Reunion,

WILLIAM ALDERMAN JAQUETTE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 9616 S.E. 34th St., Mercer Island, Wash.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1305 Seneca St., Seattle, Wash.

BORN: March 26, 1910, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: William Alderman Ja-
quette, Henrietta Gibbon Stratton.

[ 620 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Swarthmore High School, Swarthmore, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.D. (Univ. of Pennsyl-
vania), 1936.

MARRIED: Harriet Stone, May 30, 1936, Wayne, Pa. CHILDREN: William
Alderman, 3d, March 26, 1942; Louise, Feb. 25, 1944; Daniel Stone,
Oct. 26, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Joseph Jaquette, M.B.A., "41.

occupaTION: Physician, specializing in pediatrics, private practice.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Seattle Pediatric Society; president, Seattle Pediatric
Society; secretary-treasurer, North Pacific Pediatric Society; assistant
clinical professor of pediatrics, University of Washington.

MEMBER OF: Seattle Pediatric Society; American Academy of Pediatrics;
King County Medical Society; American Medical Association, |

PuBLicaTions: “Meningococic Infection in Soldiers,” Journal of the Ameri-
can Medical Association, “Kaposi’s Vavicelliform Eruption,” Am. J.
Dis. Child.

AFTER graduation from Harvard College, I attended medical
school at the University of Pennsylvania, graduating in 1936.
Following this, there was a two-year rotating internship at the
Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania and three years’
training in my specialty of pediatrics. I interned at the Philadel-
phia Children’s Hospital and at the New York Hospital and was
chief resident at the Philadelphia Children’s Hospital from 1940
tO 1941.

At first the Army turned me down because of a residual of
poliomyelitis that I had while at Harvard, so I practised in my
home town of Swarthmore for one year until the Army revised
their standards and no longer said that I was “mentally, morally
or physically unfit.” I was in the Army Medical Corps from July,
1942, to January, 1946, and was promoted from first lieutenant to
captain. I served in the United States, England, France and
Belgium at station, field and general hospitals.

Following the service I again practised in Swarthmore for six
months before moving to Seattle in August, 1946, Since coming
here I have practised my specialty of pediatrics and served on
the staff of the Children’s Orthopedic Hospital. In 1948, the
University of Washington established a medical school here and
I have served on the part-time or clinical faculty ever since its
beginning, I now have the august title of assistant clinical pro-
fessor.

Our family life started the day after my last examination in

[ 621 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

medical school when I married Harriet Stone (daughter of John
H. Stone, ’o4). My wife supported me through five years of
hospital training. We never had a home of our own until 1946,
when we moved out here at the suggestion of a group of Seattle
doctors whom I met in France. Our first child, Bill, was born on
my birthday, just before I went into the service. He is now in the
ninth grade in the Mercer Island School. Louise was born while
I was overseas and was seventeen months old before I first saw
her. On the occasion of our first meeting she ran up and said,
“Hi Daddy.” The interval of six and one-half years between
Louise and Daniel, I say, was the result of the war and the
postwar reconstruction. He has now achieved the advanced
academic rank of first grade.

One of the reasons we moved to Seattle was that I could have
an opportunity for my hobby of small boat sailing, but now
that we are here I find neither the time nor the money. Under
false propaganda I took up salmon fishing as a poor man’s sport
and at the advanced age of forty-six years, with my old peg leg
from polio, I learned to water ski much to the amusement of the

children,

WILLIAM FURNESS JENKS

HOME ADDRESS: 4049 Clifton Ave., Cincinnati 20, Ohio.

OFFICE appRESS: Dept. of Geology and Geography, University of Cincinnati,
Cincinnati 21, Ohio.

BORN: June 28, 1909, Philadelphia, Pa. PARENTS: Horace Howard Jenks,
Eloise Comstock North.

PREPARED AT: William Penn Charter School, Philadelphia, Pa.,; The Hill
School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; A.M. (Univ.
of Wisconsin), 1933; PH.D. (Harvard Univ.), 1936.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Pratt, June 10, 1935, Haverford, Pa. cumpren: Barbara
Eloise, Sept. 29, 1936; Margaret Carolyn, April 30, 1939; Helen Carnan,
Aug. 3, 1943. |

OCCUPATION: Professor of geology; head of Department of Geology and
Geography, University of Cincinnati; director, University of Cin-
cinnati Museum.

OFFICES HELD: Member, South American Map. Comm., 1946-56, editor, South
American Volume, 1953-56, Geological Society of America; chairman,
Education Comm., 1951-53, director, 1952-54, vice-president, 1954-55,

[ 622 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Rochester Association for the United Nations; member of council,
Rochester Academy of Science, 1953-55; chairman, Subcommittee on
International Affairs, Third Presbyterian Church, Rochester, 1953-54.
MEMBER OF: Geological Society of America; American Association of
Petroleum Geologists; Society of Economic Geologists, American Geo-
physical Union, Ohio Academy of Sciences; Sociedad Geoldgica del
Peri; American Civil Liberties Union; Rochester (N.Y.) Association
for the United Nations, Explorers Club (AcNR); Sigma Xi; Sigma
Gamma Epsilon (associate).
puBLications: Handbook of South American Geology, editor, 1956;
“Memoir 65,” Geological Society of America 1956, “Geology of the
Arequipa Quadrangle, Lima, Peru,” 1948; various geological articles in
the American Journal of Science, Journal of Geology and Bulletin of
the Geological Society of America.
LOOKING back through twenty-five years is like trying to re-
member the patterns of a kaleidoscope, but it gradually shapes up.
Main themes are twenty-one years of partnership in marriage,
three daughters, geology, a degree of liberal political feeling and
the experiences of work and travel in North and South America.
After a year at Wisconsin, I returned to become an inhabitant
of Oxford Street, the Museum and the old Rotch Building. In
February, 1935, on one of the B, & M. snow train excursions, I
met Betty Pratt on the Maple Villa trail, We were married on
June tenth, in time for a summer field season in Montana, topped
off by some honeymoon time in British Columbia. A year later
came the job hunt. The first offer, roustabout in a Texas oilfield,
was turned down in favor of a job as junior geologist for the
Texas Company in Denver. Our first daughter, Barbara, arrived
during a blizzard, and in her first year survived trips through all
the Rocky Mountain states, For, though we called Denver
“home,” our abode shifted continually. Special occasions: climbs
around Aspen and Ouray, and into the Black Canyon of the Gun-
nison, Barbara’s first pack trip (at ten weeks, in the pack), and
witnessing a successful deep oil test in northwest Colorado at
Christmas time.
In 1938 I decided to shift to metals and we went to Peru for
a three-year contract. When we returned to the States eight
years later, we were richer by two daughters and by some under-
standing of and much affection for the people and landscape of
the Andean country. In Cerro de Pasco, I learned much from a
diversified mining district and studied in some detail the effects

[ 623 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

of pisco at high altitudes. Vacations down in the jungle and up
in the high peaks were mixed with more “civilized” ones in Lima.
For a while we lived in Arequipa, “white city” of southern
Peru. Here my assignment as exploration geologist carried me
to the back country of the Andes, the jungle and the coastal
desert, sometimes away from home for months at a time, travel-
ing mostly on muleback and foot. In 1945 I was introduced to
teaching and to Latin American university life as U.S. State De-
partment visiting professor at the University of San Augustin.
We must have met the right kind of people in Arequipa, for when
I passed through there in 1951, I found that a number of our good
friends were in political exile or jail.

Back in the States, after a brief period of adjustment to the
difference in pace after South America, we settled into a restless
enjoyment of life in upstate New York. Summer consulting took
me back to Peru twice, to Mexico with the family, to British
Columbia and the Yukon. The girls grew up and Barbara went
off to Smith and is now taking her junior year in Spain. In Roch-
ester, we soon met Steve Thomas, and each of us was surprised
to find that the other was Harvard ’32. Bill Gilman, ’32, was a
friend and colleague at the University. I became interested and
eventually almost submerged in the activities of the Rochester
Association for the United Nations.

In 1955 we moved to Cincinnati, where I am thoroughly en-
joying a combination of administration, teaching and summer
field work. We bought a home nearly one hundred years old and
show signs of taking root here as we have not done before. But
we never know how long we can keep that wanderlust under
control.

ROBERTO JUAN JIMENEZ

HOME ADDRESS: 52 Nairn St., Condado, San Juan, Puerto Rico.

OFFICE appREsS: Presbyterian Hospital, San Juan, Puerto Rico.

BORN: Oct. 21, 1909, Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico. PARENTS: Juan José Jiménez,
Mila Lopez Nussa.

PREPARED AT: Mayaguez High School, Mayaguez, Puerto Rico; English High
School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932; M.D., 1936.

[ 624 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Josefina del Valle, June 21, 1941, San Juan, Puerto Rico, CHILDREN:
Roberto José, Dec. 13, 1942; Rafael Angel, March 4, 1944; José Raul,
Dec. 14, 1945; Jorge Juan, Dec. 31, 1947: Juan Manuel, March 27, 1952.

occuPATION: Physician.

oFFIces HELD: Medical Corps, U.S.A., 1940-46; director, Sanitation and
Medical Services, Government of the Capital of Puerto Rico, San Juan,
1947-53; medical director, San Juan City Hospital; consultant to Di-
rector of Sanitation and Medical Services, 1953-56; medical director,
Presbyterian Hospital, San Juan, since November, 1956; associate pro-
fessor of clinical surgery, School of Medicine, University of Puerto
Rico, since 1952; chairman, editorial board, four years, public relations
committee, one year, Puerto Rico Medical Association Bulletin, secre-

tary-treasurer, 1951-55, vice-president, 1955, Puerto Rico Chapter,
American College of Surgeons.

MEMBER OF: Puerto Rico Medical Association; American Medical Associa-
tion; American College of Surgeons (fellow); Reserve Officers As-
sociation; Fraternidad AFDA, San Juan.

PUBLICATIONS: “Ruptured Pancreatic Cyst,” Bol. Asoc. Med. de P.R., 1950;
“Thrombophlebitis and Phlebothrombosis,” Bol. Asoc. Med. de P.R,
1951; “Meckel’s Diverticulum,” Bol. Asoc. Med. de P.R,, 1953.

TO write about oneself and make it interesting to others and

not merely fill space under a couple of rather contrasting pictures,

has been the hardest assignment since English A, almost three
decades ago.

The first four years are easily accounted for: a hard grind at
Harvard Medical School towards the M.D. which seemed just
around the corner, like the filled pot of Herbert Hoover which
tipped over to reveal emptiness. Things did look rather black and
prospects were poor for a budding médico. The next four years
also went by fast: internship at University Hospital in Ann
Arbor, Michigan; residency in a tuberculosis sanatorium in Pon-
tiac, Michigan. I then wanted to be a “rib remover,” before the
miracle drugs of this decade, and that is why I chose Ann Arbor
where meeting and working with John Alexander more than re-
paid me, though holding on to a retractor from afar might have
been the nearest I ever got to that great man, George A. Sher-
man, in Pontiac, was another early guiding influence, but his
insistence did not deter me from returning to the little island of
Puerto Rico in 1938. The next two years were uninteresting —
general practice and some surgery in local clinics in San Juan.
One day, as a senior medic in good old M.G.H., I was advised

to apply for an Army commission which was handed out to me

[ 625 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

with the M.D. degree. Four years later, I decided to serve my
year out and donned the khaki as a first lieutenant to step out as
q lieutenant colonel five years later. I received foreign duty pay
except for one month at Carlisle Barracks, Pennsylvania, in a spe-
cial cadre class getting ready for a triangular division which never
materialized. So I was happy to be classified as a “foreigner” in
my own country and be paid for it, far from bursting shells except
at the firing range. An overseas seven-striper but I have never
sewn even one on my blouse. I have kept my commission active
and got the “chick” two years ago.

When the war ended, I went back to my profession and settled
down to getting a surgical background. One year’ s residency in
surgery at the Presbyterian Hospital in San Juan, then to the City
Hospital. There the G.I. spirit helped me whip the Surgical De-
partment into shape. For the next ten years I did my share to
fashion something really worthwhile in charity medical services,
as medical director of the largest general hospital in this island
for six years and as consultant for another three. We saw the
birth of a medical school in the University of Puerto Rico, put
our shoulders to the wheel and rose along with it so that for these
past four years I have held a much too high professorial rank.

I have taken a few postgraduate courses; among them was six
months at Emory University in Atlanta, Georgia, in 1952, under
Daniel C, Elkin, now president of our American College of Sur-
geons. I hold the same post, but only in our local chapter of the
college. This veneer of training has vested me with a specialty in
peripheral vascular surgery which, coupled with general surgery,
makes my practice rather interesting and remunerating enough to
keep the kids in shoes. Later, if you have read this far, I will tell
you about them.

People must have been satisfied with my hospital administrative
endeavors, or possibly I did not come down too hard on any-
one’s toes, for in November of this year, I was selected to be the
medical director of the Presbyterian Hospital in San Juan, just
when it was in the midst of over a million dollars worth of ex-
pansion. The possibilities for creative action challenged me to

accept the post despite the many probable headaches which I
could have side-stepped.

Now for some news of a private nature, In 1941 I waited at

[ 626 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the altar for a lovely June bride. She has helped make the past
sixteen years worth living and our home has been blessed with
five future Harvard men (not one single Radcliffe candidate),
that is, if I make enough to send them there, what with the high
tuition and collections from sundry worthy causes and Funds!

Now, as I read these few lines, and, if you have read them also,
you will undoubtedly agree that I should never have passed Eng-
lish A! Maybe I shall do better for the Fiftieth Reunion and per-
haps learn how to write about my accomplishments if there are
any to report.

CHARLES COPELAND JOHNSON

HOME appress: 19 S. Hawthorne Stc., Manchester, Conn.

OFFICE AppREss: Barnard Junior High School, Manchester, Conn.

BORN: Oct. 22, 1910, Newton, Mass. PARENTS: Raymond Bergner Johnson,
A.M., '27, Elizabeth S. Damon.

PREPARED AT: Blake School, Minneapolis, Minn.; Public Latin School, Boston
Mass.; Roger Ascham School, White Plains, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932; ED.M. (Boston Univ.), 1954.

MARRIED: Inger Burns, Nov. 24, 1932, White Plains, N.Y. cuttpren: Henry
Prince, Feb. 17, 1934; Eileen, Aug. 10, 1935.

HARVARD SON: Henry Prince Johnson, ‘55.

OCCUPATION: Principal, Barnard Junior High School.

MEMBER OF: Manchester Education Association; Connecticut Education As-

sociation; National Education Association.

MY twenty-five years since graduation have brought proof to
two theses. One, a pedagogical heritage is hard to escape. Two,
a close and happy family life can compensate for the disadvan-
tages of family mobility.

Like many other Harvard freshmen in 1928 I entered those
hallowed halls determined to sidestep my father’s footsteps, as
well as the example of my distinguished namesake. My father
had by then served more than twenty years as private school
teacher and administrator. By 1932 my revolt against this heritage
ended with acceptance of a teaching position at the Utica Country
Day School. Since that time I have been in this field continu-
ously. Even two excursions into military life in 1942 and 1951
were not a complete escape, since I served both times as a Naval
Aviation training officer. During these years I have made two

[ 627 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

slight shifts in direction within the field of education, both oc-
curring on return to civilian life. The first was a change from
teaching to administration in 1946; the second, from private to

ublic school administration in 1954.

This heritage has extended its influence to my daughter, Eileen,
who finished Wellesley in 1956 and now teaches English in
Saugus High School. My son, Henry, Harvard ’55, is a wavering
hold-out. He is in his second year of graduate work at the Johns
Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies, this year at
their center in the University of Bologna.

After three years as principal of the Barnard Junior High
School in Manchester, I find that I have no regrets concerning
my lifetime in the field of education, nor my recent shift to public
education. I hope to serve many more years in this challenging
field. |

My family life had an auspicious start when I married Inger
Burns in November, 1932. After the first nine years in Utica,
where both children were born and started their education, our
life has been without strong geographic roots. This circumstance
seems to have strengthened the roots of our family unity. Two
years on Long Island at the Lawrence School in Hewlett were
interrupted by my entry into service. During three nomadic
years in Florida and Virginia, we managed to remain together
almost continuously. In 1946 we were glad to return north and
settle for three and a half years in New Hope, Pennsylvania,
where I became principal of the Holmquist School. ‘T'wo years
in West Bridgewater, Massachusetts, as director of Howard
Seminary were terminated by an urgent invitation to resume
naval service in 1951. During two and a half years of service with
D.C.N.O. (Air) in the Pentagon, we lived in Falls Church, Vir-
ginia, and sent our children off to college. On my release in
January, 1954, I decided to use a half-year completing work for
a Master’s degree at Boston University before entering the edu-
cational market. I received the degree in August and we moved
immediately to Manchester where I took up my present duties.

Here we are entering a new phase of our life together, with
our children on their own, with new and challenging jobs in a
hew community, and with undiminished capacity to enjoy such
recreational activities as reading, listening to music, painting,

[ 628 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
mountain-climbing, camping, skiing and boating whenever we
can lay hands on a boat. Meanwhile I am hacking away in a
leisurely fashion at the course requirements for a Ph.D. at the
University of Connecticut. My family life has proved as satisfy-
ing and fulfilling as my professional life. What more could one
ask?
“What is this I hear of sorrow and weariness,
Anger, discontent, and drooping hopes?”

FELWOOD LIVY JOHNSON

BORN: May 29, 1909, Cogswell, N.Dak. parents: Livy Johnson, Mabel
Marie Powers.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Jamestown College, Jamestown, N.Dak.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREES: 8.B. cuz Jaude, 1932; A.M. IN Social

Work (Univ. of Washington), 1956.
marrieD: Hilda Margaret Hanson, Nov. 8, 1941, Scattle, Wash. cHILDREN:

Evelyn Diane, May 16, 1948; Jennifer Kathryn, July 14, 1950.
pieD: Nov. 29, 1956, en route from Atlanta, Georgia, to Park Forest,

Llinois.
wipow: Mrs. Elwood L, Johnson, 150 Elm St., Park Forest, Ill,
JOHNSON'S death occurred just a week after he had sent in
his biographical material for this book. Therefore, the Secretary
is printing the story as it was prepared in place of an obituary.

“It was my plan upon graduation in 1932 to continue in the
study of international law on the graduate level by going on to
the Harvard Law School. I had been admitted to the Law School
and hoped that somehow between June and October, 1932, I
would be able to make the necessary financial arrangements to be
able to use that admittance. My interest in international law
probably arose from my urge to do something to improve human
relationships generally. The course I took with Professor George
Wilson, Dr. Poppin, Dr. Emerson, and Professor Holcombe sup-
ported and enforced my interest in that regard.

“I found upon leaving the shelter of the ivied halls and return-
ing to the rugged realities of my home community in North
Dakota that a drought and the depression had laid the people
low with want that was stark and real. It soon became apparent
to me that I would not soon be in a financial position to return

[ 629 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

ent job very challenging and interesting. Hopefully, it will lead
to a complete and satisfying life for me and my family.
“As to my social, political and religious convictions, I might

say that I consider myself essentially a realist. I am impressed
more with deeds than with fine speeches, This quality in my per-
sonality leaves me cold in the presence of form and ritual. I see
our organized religious movements today becoming more and
more an end in themselves rather than the means to an end which
they should logically be. It seems to me that our civilization has
reached the stage in cultural development where human behav-
iour can better be controlled from intellectual understanding than
through fear of the supernatural. I have real concern at the nega-
tive values which accrue psychologically to us as a people from
so many of us marching under banners in which we do not truly
believe. As to my social and political beliefs I must say that my
work in these twenty-five years has put me in close contact with
that element of our population that has fared less well econom-
ically. I believe that the majority of these people are in this posi-
tion because they cannot cope with the pressures of our present
complex industrial economy. For this reason I believe that gov-
ernment must be paternalistic to the extent of seeing that want
does not exist among our people. Only with government taking
such a stand will our way of life continue. I am sure that I need
not add at this point that I am definitely a liberal, politically.”

HERBERT SPENCER JOHNSON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 150 Vernon St., San Francisco 25, Calif,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 518 Balboa Bldg., 593 Market St., San Francisco, Calif.

BoRN: Nov. 2, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Herbert Spencer Johnson, ’91,
Mary Crane.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.; New York
Military Academy, Cornwall, N.Y.

mMarkieD: Ora Douglas, May 17, 1941, Brookline, Mass.

occuPATION: Law.

[ 632 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

KENDALL LUEY JOHNSON

HOME ApprEss: 11 Marion Ave., Woburn, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Johnson & Johnson, 7 Winn St., Woburn, Mass.

BORN: July 15, 1910, Woburn, Mass. parents: Harold Pendexter Johnson,
’o5, Marion Luey.

PREPARED AT: Woburn High School, Woburn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-10932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; LL.B. 1935.

mMaRRIED: Evelyn E. Kean, Oct. 15, 1935, Woburn, Mass. cHttoreNn: Julia
Ann, Nov. 15, 1937 (m. Michael J. Murphy, 1956); Bruce Kean, June
6, 1940; Carolyn, Nov. 30, 1954. GRANDCHILD: Michael Paul Murphy,
Jan. 19, 1957.

occupaATION: Attorney-at-Law,

OFFICES HELD: Alderman for City of Woburn, 1936-37; Burlington Town
Counsel, 1946-52; chairman, Woburn Community Fund Drive, 1947;
vice-president, Woburn Chamber of Commerce, 1950-53; president,
Bar Association of Middlesex County, 1955-56; clerk, Winning Home,
1947-56; member of trustees, Choate Memorial Hospital, 1935-55.

MEMBER OF: Woburn, Boston, Middlesex County, Massachusetts, Massachu-
setts Conveyancers and City Solicitors and Town Counsel Bar Asso-
ciations, American Legion; Veterans of Foreign Wars, Masons.

ALL the goads have come and gone,
But my life sketch is still forlorn.
If it isn’t quickly done,

My life’s course will have run.

After college I thought I saw

A glorious future in the law,

So o’er to Dean Pound's school I went,
And started my work as a law student,

I hung out my shingle in thirty-five
Hoping the law could keep me alive.
And here I am in fifty-seven,
Twenty-two years nearer Heaven.

’Twas in ’35 that Evelyn and I carried

Out our five-year plan to be married.

That was long before World War II

When students got married without more adieu.

I went into politics and got elected
As alderman as I expected.

[ 633 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

When two years later I ran for mayor,
The voters showed they didn’t care.

Everything was going well at the law

Until our country went to war.

So I filled out a form and said, “Here I am,
Come and get me, if you need me, Uncle Sam.”

Uncle Sam had a million things to do

So didn’t call me till late in 1942,

And then on five days’ notice away I went
A full-fledged first lieutenant

In the anti-aircraft artillery

Wondering what would happen to me.

I was trained in the U.S. till ’44 _

And then I started the Grand European Tour.
First to England, then to France;

Kept very busy, no time to dance.

Defended the air-fields from attack

Worked like a dog, then hit the sack.

Finally in November, 1944,

Shooting at buzz bombs became our chore.
Twenty-two hundred were successfully engaged
Before their launching sites were caged.

I finally got home in forty-five

Very happy to be alive,

To get back home and meet my wife

And resume again the country life,

Of going to P.T.A., and having some fun,

And returning home when one’s work was done.

And so it’s been for the last twelve years,

A lot of laughs and occasional tears.

We've had three children, two girls and a boy,
And each of them has brought us exceeding joy.
Julie is married and Bruce is at school

And two-year Carolyn our home does rule.

Bruce at Mt. Hermon School is acquiring knowledge
And hopes this fall to go to college.

[ 634 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

And now my life’s sketch is done
And off to work I’ve got to run.
Please excuse this doggerel,
Something I don’t do very well.
You're probably glad I didn’t try verse,
There is no question but that would be even worse.

LAWRENCE STOTZ JOHNSTON

HOME aporess: Carlisle Road, Westford, Mass.
orFice appress: Godfrey L. Cabot, Inc., 77 Franklin St., Boston 10, Mass.
Born: Aug. 30, 1911, Medford, Mass. parents: John Johnston, Barbara

Stotz.

PREPARED aT: Stoncham High School, Stoneham, Mass.; Dean Academy,
Franklin, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; M.B.A., 1934.

MARRIED: Eleanor F, Pardue, Sept. 7, 1936, Hyannis, Mass. CHILDREN:
Susan Barbara, April 15, 1939; Douglas Rankin, Feb. 4, 1942; Linda
Eleanor, June 9, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Richard Johnston, °34.

occupaTIoN: Director of Personnel and Organization, Godfrey L, Cabot,

Inc., petrochemicals.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, First Baptist Church of Stoneham, 1944-48, Stone-
ham Red Cross Chapter, 1945-48; member, Finance Committee, Town
of Stoneham, 1946-48; Cubmaster, Scoutmaster, or member, Troop
Committee, Westford Boy Scouts, 1951-55; member, since 1955, chair-
man Finance Committee, Republican Town Committee, since 1956,
Town of Westford; chairman, Prudential Committee, First Parish
Church United of Westford, since 1955.

ALTHOUGH I had chosen banking as a career, June, 1932
offered no jobs and a diminishing number of banks, so I borrowed
enough money to attend Harvard Business School for two years.
When Godfrey L. Cabot, Inc., needed an accountant in 1934, I
was employed as an assistant to the chief accountant. After nine
years of debits and credits, it became obvious that people rather
than figures were of more interest to me, and I was asked to help
in creating a Cabot Personnel Department. Since 1943, I have
progressed through various stages of Personnel work and am now
director of personnel and organization. My work is extremely
interesting and my company is the best. I hope our association
will continue for many years.

[ 635 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Three teen-age children keep the house in an uproar when they
are all home together. Susan, the oldest, is a freshman at the Uni-
versity of New Hampshire, after having graduated from North-
field School for Girls. Douglas, is a sophomore at Mount Hermon
School, while Linda is in seventh grade in Westford, just now
getting acquainted with home work and very busy with Girl
Scouts and piano lessons.

Believing that Stoneham was becoming too urban, in 1948 we
bought a house and fifty acres of land (not a farm) in Westford,
where we enjoy all four seasons of the year just living. Tennis,
scrabble and home maintenance occupy the time that would
otherwise be devoted to a bona fide hobby. At the moment, my
family is excited over our purchase of land on Curtis Cove in
Biddeford, Maine. We hope to be able to build a place there in
time to enjoy it next summer.

My social philosophy is that a man should devote himself first
of all to his local situation — church, youth activities, town af-
fairs. If there is time left over for other outside activities, such
as clubs, politics, etc., let him become interested in these.

Along this line I have been engaged in helping to unite the
Congregational and Unitarian Churches in Westford. This has
been accomplished and we now have one strong church in place
of two struggling ones. I have devoted several years to the build-
ing up of the Boy Scout organization in Westford. My chairman-
ship of the Westford Finance Committee keeps me very busy. This
committee is the watch dog of town finances and is a very im-
portant balance wheel, especially in a growing suburban town
where the increasing need for town services is forcing changes
in the old way of doing things.

I am a moderate, rather than a rabid Republican, I believe that
there isa need for better candidates in the Party but that on the
whole our country and our state are best served by men who
stand for the principles of the Republican party.

[ 636 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT BORN JOHNSTON

HOME ADpRESS: 50 W. Schiller St., Chicago, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: First National Bank of Chicago, Chicago go, Ill.

BORN: June 21, 1910, Rock Falls, Ill. parents: Robert Ewer Johnston, Alda
Halderman Born.

PREPARED AT: Rock Falls High School, Rock Falls, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: S.B., 1932(33); M.B.A., 1934.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Assistant vice-president, First National Bank of Chicago; presi-
dent, Johnston Lumber Company.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant treasurer, Chicago Boy’s Club; vice-president and
governor, Racquet Club of Chicago.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Chicago, Harvard Business School Club of
Chicago; Racquet Club of Chicago; Shoreacres; Phi Delta Phi.

WITHIN some ten days after Business School, I rather un-
expectedly found myself behind a mahogany desk in the same
bank where I now labor —behind the same style desk, since
bleached. Banking was interrupted by an interregnum, first with
the Army, and then with the Navy, which showed me a fair
chunk of the world, largely consisting of salt water, but with a
time at school on Loch Ness (monster hibernating for the dura-
tion), school again in London, sailing within the Arctic circle,
to the equator, off Africa, and to the Philippines. Now lieutenant
commander, retired.

Still play an occasional inter-club squash match, hack away at
golf and rather ardently ski. The last gives me an excuse to take
off for Switzerland and Austria, and end up in Paris. Spent a few
weeks in Europe this past year and also roamed around Brazil
for the first time. Am presently looking forward to Sun Valley.

No credit to your “Goads” for getting this report written. I
was inspired to do the job by Mr. Pusey’s fine talk at the 1ooth
Anniversary of the Harvard Club of Chicago the other evening.
As one member of the dinner committee, I felt well rewarded.

In case you plan to compile a statistical analysis of the political
affiliations of the Class, I will admit to being a Republican.

[ 637 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

LOUIS BERNARD JONES

HOME aporEss: Winthrop Terrace, Wayland, Mass.

OFFicE aporess: General Electric Co., Boston, Mass.

BORN: April 20, 1910, Malden, Mass. paRENTS: Lombard Carter Jones, ’87,
Nina Dutton.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

oocupaTION: Manufacturing.

WHIPPLE VaxNESS JONES

HOME appress: P.O, Box 211, Aspen, Colo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Smuggler, Aspen, Colo.

BORN: Nov. 8, 1909, Milwaukee, Wis. parents: Frank William Jones,
Fsther Whipple.

PREPARED AT: Oconomowoc High School, Oconomowoc, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: AB., 1932.

marrigeD: Mary Sue McCulloch, 1931, Waukegan, Ill. (divorced 1947);
Georgia Cleveland Coleman, May 20, 1950, El Centro, Calif. (died
Jan. 12, 1954); Penelope Emier Tucker, Aug. 29, 1955, Aspen,
Colo. cuttpren: Daphne VanNess, March 20, 1932, Richard McCulloch,
May 19, 1933 (7. Constance Clark, May 15, 1954); Diane Carroll,
Nov. 9, 1936 (7. Norwood Norfleet, June 25, 1955); Whipple VanNess,
Jr., Oct. 25, 1942. GRANDCHILDREN: Diane Norfleet, May 8, 1956; Mary
Clark Jones, Oct. 12, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frank William Jones, ’35.

occuPaATION: Independent oil and gas producer.

OFFICES HELD: President and director, Aspen Chamber of Commerce, 1956-
57-

MEMBER OF: St. Louis Country Club; Noonday Club of St. Louis; Denver
Club; Petroleum Club, Denver.

AFTER spending one year as a part-time special student at the
Business School, I started work in 1933 in the trust and investment
department of the St. Louis Union Trust Company in St. Louis
and settled down to raise a family. In 1936 I became a partner in
the investment firm of Hill Bros., St. Louis. The spring of 1942
found me joining the Air Force as a second lieutenant. After
duty at several bases in the continental United States, I ended up
in Los Angeles as a lieutenant colonel in charge of the termina-
tion and settlement of Air Force contracts on the Pacific Coast.
In the fall of 1946 I was discharged. My last duty assignment

[ 638 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

proved to be both interesting and challenging —a pleasant
change!

After the war I discovered skiing. Thus it was inevitable that
I should find my way to Aspen, Colorado, and it was during the
Goethe Bicentennial in the summer of 1949 that I bought a home
in this small mountain town. Naturally my recreational activities
have centered around the ski mountain, the marvelous fishing
streams and the high country for hunting and pack trips.

My investment background led me into the oil, gas and ura-
nium developments in this region and have, needless to say, kept
me very busy. The growth of natural energy resources on the
western slope of the Rockies has been tremendous and it is most
interesting to watch these developments and to be a part of them
if only in a small way. Look what skiing got me into!

Due to long distances and winding mountain roads, flying
seemed to make a lot of sense and so after a struggle for my li-
cense, I fly my Cessna 180 for business and pleasure trips all over
the country — even have my wife flying now. More recently I
have acquired a ski lodge named The Smuggler — never thought
I'd be an innkeeper! Last spring we bought a ranch just outside
of town on which we hope to build a home and raise cattle, horses
and more children. Aspen’s summer music festival, an Institute
of Humanistic Studies, the Music School, the New Health Center
for tired executives and a small college probably opening its doors

in the fall of 1957, together with the necessary municipal im-
provements, keep me interested locally and it looks as if I shall be
happily settled here for the rest of my life. But one never knows.

BENJAMIN GORMAN JORDAN

HOME apprEss: 2508 15th Ave., S., Birmingham 5, Ala.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Gold Branch Coal & Coke Co., 650 Brown-Marx Bldg,
Birmingham 3, Ala.

BORN: March 31, 1904, Jordan (Elmore County), Ala. parents: Benjamin
Jordan, 2d, Belle Kennedy.

TRANSFERRED FROM: University of Georgia, Athens, Ga.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1932.

MARRIED: Ruth Crowell, Oct. 23, 1933, Watertown, Mass. CHILDREN: Jane,
May 28, 1935 (7. Frank Willis Barnett, 3d, March 21, 1954); Carolyn,

[ 639 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Dec. 7, 1941; Diana, Oct. 10, 1947. GRANDcHILD: David Jordan Barnett,
March 2, 1955.

OccUPATION: Owner and manager, Gold Branch Coal & Coke Company,
wholesale distributors and mine agents, bituminous coal.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of directors, National Coke Manufacturers
Association, 1933-34; vice-president, Birmingham Alumni Chapter,
Sigma Chi Fraternity, 1951-52; alternate member for War Dept. Com-
bined Coal Committee (U.S. Operating Group), July, 1943, to Novem-
ber, 1945.

MEMBER OF: The Club, Inc., Birmingham.

TAKING leave of Cambridge and Lowell House in June, 1932,
in the midst of the depression, I remained in the East almost two
years dividing my time among New York, Washington, and
Boston. In early 1934, complete with New England wife, I
returned to Alabama to establish a home and enter the bituminous
coal industry, spending five years of almost continuous traveling
and five years as sales manager. Following America’s entry into
World War II I served for a time on various industrial committees
but in May, 1943, entered the Army, being assigned as assistant
chief, Solid Fuels Branch, Office of the Quartermaster General,
Washington, first as captain and then as major. Collateral war-
time duties were alternate member for the War Department of
the United States Operating Group, Combined Coal Committee,
comprised of representatives of the United States, United King-
dom, and Canadian governments whose mission was international
allocation of solid fuel supplies. I managed to see a limited amount
of overseas service in England, France, Belgium, Holland, Ger-
many, and Italy on staff assignments, which although unspectacu-
lar proved, nevertheless, challenging and educational. Obtaining
relief from active duty after V-J Day, I returned home in late
1945 with my wife and daughters and not without the feeling
that even the wartime years had their compensations.

In March, 1952, 1 organized my own business which now
occupies most of my time, the past five years having been devoted
to getting a new business off to a good start in an already highly
competitive industry. I have experienced much satisfaction in
watching this new enterprise develop and assume its own indi-
viduality and personality as it becomes a self-accelerating and
useful (if modest) part of the industrial picture. I join few
things and am perhaps the poorest of all “joiners.” I am never

[ 640 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

happier than to be owt of the spotlight but in the company of
friends, family, or at work. These seem, however, to consume
most of the available time, except for infrequent opportunities to
slip off to the farm for a bit of hunting or to the Gulf of Mexico
for a try at fishing. In religion, a Protestant; in politics, I remain
an Independent, although in national elections my preferences
seem invariably to have been Republican since prior to 1932. I
take an exceedingly dim view of excessive centralization of
authority in Washington, believing that the federal government
might better distinguish itself in the vital areas of national defense
and foreign affairs if it would meddle less with matters that are
essentially the responsibilities and prerogatives of the states. To
me it seems the most transparent nonsense for the states to supply
money to the federal government to do things the states should
do for themselves and could undoubtedly do better. Although
genuinely concerned over the dangers menacing the world in this
uneasy peace, I am still optimistic enough to persist in the hope
and confidence that the next twenty-five years are going to be
even better!

JOHN F. JOYCE

HOME ADDRESS: 33 Exchange St., Leominster, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Senior High School, Leominster, Mass.

Born: April 20, 1910, Leominster, Mass, parents: John Francis Joyce, Wini-
fred Theresa Gibbons.

PREPARED AT: Senior High School, Leominster, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932: DEGREES: A.B., 1932(38); A.M., 1952.

UN MARRIED,

occupation: Teacher of English, Languages, Dramatic Arts, Senior High
School.

OFFices HELD: Chairman, Leominster Community Projects Association.

MEMBER OF: National Education Association; National Association of
Teachers of English; American Association of Teachers of German;
Harvard Teachers Association; American Educational Theatre Asso-
ciation; Massachusetts Teachers Association, New England Reading
Association, New England Association of Teachers of English; Leomin-
ster Teachers Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in English Journal.

LIKE so many of my classmates of 1932, I was deflected by the
caprices of the Great Depression from my original goal —

[ 641 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

ROBERT SAMUEL KADETS

HOME ADDRESS: 18 Seaview Ave., Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sylvania Sales Corp., 920 Commonwealth Ave., Boston,
Mass.

BORN: Sept. 12, 1911, Hartford, Conn. parents: Edward Kadets, Eva Caro.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932.

MARRIED: Selma Golub, Oct. 3, 1937, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Ellen Virginia,
March 6, 1940; Nancy Terri, Jan. 25, 1944.

OccuPATION: Vice-president and general manager, Sylvania Sales Corpora-
tion, division of Sylvania Electric Products, Inc., New England dis-
tribution of Sylvania TV, radio, Hi-Fi.

OFFICES HELD: Sustaining member, Electric Institute of Boston, since 1947;

vice-president, 1952-54, member board of trustees, 1952-56, Temple
Emann-El.

EMERGED into the cold business world of 1932. Having
worked my way through the retail radio and appliance business,
I was given a branch store in Brookline, Massachusetts, to manage
—the remuneration was small but I was working. Fortunately,
I married Selma Golub in 1937. A combination of youth and fear
of putting a pencil to paper — dollar-wise — brought forth the
happiest marriage man could ever have. We now have two lovely
daughters. For many years our family “had no money, but lots
of fun.” The struggle to keep our family happy has been the most
rewarding effort of my life.

My war years were spent in a supervisory capacity with Beth-
lehem Steel. After the war I joined Metropolitan Distributors,
Boston, as sales manager of the Motorola Division. Then on to
National Appliance Distributors, Inc., as general manager — this
operation was absorbed by CBS as CBS-Columbia of Boston. Un-
fortunately, CBS this very year withdrew from the TV and radio
manufacturing business. I was immediately invited by the Syl-
vania Corporation to take a similar post with them, and trust to
a long future with my present company.

As for my career —the TV and appliance business has a few
advantages to offset the rough and tumble, survival of the fittest,
and “turning on a dime” aspects. On the plus side, this industry
will never permit me to get old. It moves so quickly that you
never have a chance to sit back and reflect or think of the past.

[ 644 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
I further enjoy my work for the many wonderful people I have
met — the “impossible” deals I have consummated — and finally
because with all its weaknesses, evils and constant changes, I love
the ever-present challenge of the television industry.

My hobbies are many, if commonplace, I enjoy gardening,
music and all sports. We love to take vacations and trips as a
family group and have spent many wonderful days and weeks in
this manner.

GILBERT KAHN
HOME ADoREss: 98 Riverside Drive, New York, N.Y.

oFFice AppREss: Council of Jewish Federations, 165 W. 46th St., New York,

N.Y.
Born: Nov. 18, 1907, New York, N.Y. parents: Benjamin Gabriel Kahn,

Mane Murin.

PREPARED AT: Manual Training High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cur laude, 1932; 8.M. (New
York School of Social Work), 1947.

marrieD: Esther Rosenbaum, July 18, 1932, Brooklyn, N.Y.

OCCUPATION: Social worker (at present concerned with personnel placement
for Jewish agencies throughout the country).

MEMBER OF: National Association of Social Workers,

PUBLICATIONS: Short stories in various magazines.

I HAD wanted to be a professor of literature, but circumstances
made graduate study difficult — and other channels such as pub-
lishing not available at the time of graduation, I found social work
most immediately possible and perhaps (without fully realizing
it at the time) the area where I could function most comfortably.
With the war, and induction into military service, I was sent
overseas; and partly because of my social work experience and
some language ability, I was eventually assigned to Army Civil
Affairs. In Africa, Italy, and France, accordingly, I worked with
displaced persons — concerned, fittingly enough I suppose for a
social worker, with saving and restoring what could be saved and
restored. When the war ended I decided — thanks to the G.I.
Bill — to professionalize my experience, and took my Master’s at
the New York School of Social Work. Following graduation I
became the executive of a small agency concerned with coérdi-

[ 645 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

nating social services, but after a time I left to work abroad once
more with displaced persons. It would be skirting the truth to
deny the old wanderlust in my going abroad again — and I did
want my wife to have the experience of travel. At the same time,
as director of a country operation for an American agency, I was
able to do a rescue job which brought satisfactions beyond mere
telling. I remained abroad for several years, and then returned
home.

I am once again wtih an agency and, to a certain extent, in a
teaching position (my first love) — because my work also in-
volves helping some of the younger people in social work chart
their future courses.

BRADEN BAYARD KANE

HOME ADDRESS: Church Road, Devon, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Edward Don & Co., 7 Ritner St., Philadelphia, Pa.

BORN: Dec. 23, 1909, Villanova, Pa. PARENTs: John Kent Kane, Margaret
Ogelsby Paul.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931.

MarRiED: Elizabeth Creswell Larzelere, June 2, 1933, Radnor, Pa. CHILDREN:
Katharine Creswell, June 11, 1937; Nancy Bayard, Oct. 24, 1939; Braden
Bayard, Jr., Nov. 29, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frank Paul Kane, 26,

OCCUPATION: Vice-president in charge of engineering, Edward Don &
Company, hotel suppliers and equipment.

OFFICES HELD: Republican County Committeeman; member executive com-
mittee, Devon Citizens Association. |

TIME passes very quickly and exact dates fade from memory

overnight. However, for what it is worth I submit as follows:

After a year of business school at Franklin & Marshall, in 1933

I joined an investment firm in Philadelphia and married a lovely
girl. The marriage lasted but not the job. Several years later I
went into the kitchen equipment and supply business with a small
manufacturing firm which I eventually controlled as a majority
stockholder and which two years ago I merged with a national
concern, Edward Don & Company of Chicago. The net result
being my present job as a Philadelphia vice-president in charge
of all engineering sales and fabrication.

[ 646 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My business career was interrupted by military service for
three and a half years, 1942-45, lieutenant (j.g.) to lieutenant com-
mander with the Navy. The only lasting result of this part of my
career is the spread in ages of my three children, two pre-service
and one post-service.

A motor trip to California and a month’s stay in England cover
my recent travels of any import. I cannot afford to make travel
a hobby so have stuck to fishing and salt-water boating of any
sort for my main outside activities. I also still rate as a drinking
Republican supporting, at times actively, the Episcopal Church
around the corner,

HAROLD LUDWIG KAST

HOME aporess: 155 Woodland Ave., Summit, N.J.

oFFice appress: Valley Molding Co. Inc. Boonton, N.J.

Born: Feb. 20, 1909, Greenwich, Conn. parents: Alois Alfred Kast, Maria
Christina Erickson.

PREPARED aT: Lyman Hall High School, Wallingford, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929, 1930-1931.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Mae Clark, Oct. 28, 1939, Yalesville, Conn.

OccuPATION: Manager, Valley Molding Company, compression molders of
thermostating plastics, direct supervision of entire operation.

MEMBER OF: Society of the Plastic Engineers; Society of the Plastic Industry.

WHEN I left Harvard in the summer of ’31, the Depression had
already begun to shape the course of my life. I considered myself
an engineer, which, of course, I was not. Everywhere I went in
search of employment I was reminded that I must start somewhere
and after I had proved my worth, they would be willing to take
a chance with me.

When I received an offer from the General Electric Company’s
Plastic Plant in Meridian, to start at the bottom and work up, I
gladly consented to do just that: start molding. This to the
chagrin of my father who had great hopes of my taking over the
small nursery which he had worked so hard to build. My first
years at General Electric were years of the bright future and the
tremendous strides of a new business, when every day brought
solutions to yesterday’s problems. The war, on the other hand,
created many new problems which had to be overcome without

[ 647 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

delay. There was always that reaching out for something better
which brought the industry along at a rapid pace.

After twelve years with General Electric, I felt that I had stag-
nated and so decided to strike out again, After three brief hops,
I find that I have jumped from the largest to one of the smallest
concerns in the industry. I am now managing a small plastics
plant in Jersey, to which the United States Government has
unwittingly entrusted some of its most difficult molding problems.

In the religious sphere, I am an Episcopalian and attend St.
Paul’s Church in Chatham, New Jersey.

SAMUEL JACOB KATZ

HOME ADDRESS: 22 Lowell Rd., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 37 Kneeland St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Feb, 4, 1911, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Katz, Elizabeth
Baker.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1932.

MarRIED: Edith Robbins, 1935. CHILDREN: Joan Deborah, Sept. 25, 1938;
Barbara Ruth, Sept. 14, 1942.

OccUPATION: Textile business.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Katz, Campbell Company, Inc.; trustee, Allerton
Hospital.

MEMBER OF: United Lodge, AF. & A.M.; Sigma Alpha Mu Fraternity; Blue
Hill Country Club.

AFTER graduation I joined my father’s textile business and was
sent to New York to establish a branch office for the twofold
purpose of increasing our sales and of affording me an oppor-
tunity to learn the business in the industry’s primary market.
While in New York I had the privilege of attending the concerts
of the Philharmonic Orchestra under the baton of the great
Arturo Toscanini. My seat was in the last row of the last
balcony of Carnegie Hall. This hike (no elevators) to the roof
of that famed edifice was no problem as I was then twenty-five
years younger than I am now and the stairways were much
shorter in those days,

I returned to Boston after two years in New York, very
pleased to be back as I never could see myself making my

[ 648 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

permanent home in New York City. In 1935 I married Edith
Robbins of Cambridge, whom I had been dating while I was at
college. In 1942, one week after the birth of our second daughter,
we moved into our own home in Brookline and I have lived here
ever since. As I had undergone major surgery in 1941, I was
no fit candidate for the Army. Our business, due to the war, was
practically on an allotment basis and whatever textiles we were
able to obtain were readily sold. At this time, a firm making
Army uniforms found itself in both financial and manufacturing
difficulties. I took over this company, and with the help of a new
production man was able to transform that firm within one year
into an efficient company producing over 3000 uniforms per
week for the government. After the war I returned to the
family textile business, and three years ago I became treasurer
of the company.

My outside activities have centered mainly in hospital work
and golf. My hospital work has been done with the Allerton
Hospital of Brookline, of which] ama trustee. At the present time,
the hospital is undertaking the erection of a new building, and
I am sure that when it is completed it will be the most modern
and efficient building, enabling it to further its good work. I am
a member of the Blue Hill Country Club where I play an average
game of golf without too much hope of improving. My two
daughters — Joan, a freshman at college, and Barbara, a freshman
at high school — are looking forward with great enthusiasm to
the Twenty-fifth Reunion. So, too, is my wife.

JOHN CHARLES KAYSER

HOME appress: R.D. 4, Pocahontas, III.

BORN: Aug. 20, 1909, Pocahontas, Ill. parents: John Henry Kayser, Grace
McDowell.

PREPARED at: Greenville High School, Greenville, IL.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

[ 649 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932.

ISRAEL JOSEPH KAZIS ~

HOME ADDRESS: 861 W. Roxbury Pkwy., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Temple Mishkan Tefila, 122 Elm Hill Ave., Roxbury, Mass.

BorN: March 29, 1911, Boston, Mass. PARENTs: Jacob Kazis, Bessie Rimmer-
man.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932; AM,
1933; PHD. 1939; B.J.ED. (Hebrew Teachers Coll. Boston); Rabbi
(Jewish Theological Seminary of America), 1940.

MarrieD: Bernice Gondelman, Aug. 15, 1954, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Amy
Gondelman, Jan. 4, 1947: Toby Gondelman, July 22, 1949; Richard
Gondelman, June 8, 1952 (all stepchildren).

OccUPATION: Rabbi, Temple Mishkan Tefila, Boston.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, United Jewish Appeal, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. 1942,
Massachusetts Commission on Juvenile Delinquency, 1955-56; president,
Rabbinical Assembly of New England, 1952-53; member executive
council, Rabbinical Assembly of America, 1946-49, 1953-56, member
board of directors, Associated Jewish Philanthropies of Boston, since
1953, Boston Rotary Club, since 1956, Hebrew Teachers College, since
1956; grand marshal, Israel Bond Drive, Boston, 1952; member of Voting
Body, United Community Services of Greater Boston.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Zionist Organization of America; B’nai i Brith;
Jewish War Veterans; American Academy of Political and Social
Science.

PUBLICATIONS: PH.D. dissertation: “Hasidism, A Study in the History and
Sociology of Religion,” 1939; “The Challenge of Inevitabilism” in New
Palestine, March 21, 1941; “Keeping Faith,” Best Jewish Sermons of 1953;
“If I Were a Movie Producer,” in Rotarian, December, 1955; “Is Your
Approach to Life Positive?” in The Torch, summer issue, 1956.

AFTER graduation I stayed on at Harvard for four years of
graduate study in sociology and then entered the Jewish Theo-
logical Seminary in New York, where I was ordained in 1940.
My first pulpit was at Temple Israel, Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania,
where I served from 1940 to 1942. They were a very warm group
and most tolerant of my lack of experience. It was there that I
learned that a sermon should be endowed with sound terminal
facilities. I recall one elderly gentleman in that congregation who
fell asleep during my sermons, but who would at the conclusion
of the service tell me regularly that my preaching was getting
“better and better.” In December, 1942, I enlisted as a chaplain
in the Army and served in that capacity from January, 1943, to
July, 1946. My army experience, especially with the 85th In-

[ 650 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fantry Division in the Italian Campaign, taught me that a human

being possesses an incredible capacity for enduring hardships, that

self-regard is vital to intelligent courage; and that one should never
underestimate man’s readiness to help his fellow man, Upon my
discharge from the Army, I was fortunate enough to be called
to Temple Mishkan Tefila where I have been the rabbi for the
past ten years. It has been a rich and rewarding experience.

A clergyman today is expected to be many things to many
people: preacher, teacher, counsellor, pastor, social worker, or-
ganizer, participant in community affairs, etc, It is a tall order
and one can only pray for the wisdom, energy and the time neces-
sary to fulfill the tasks of his office and to mect the challenges
they present. Of late, I have found that a good deal of my time
is spent in counselling people with personal problems. Perhaps
the recent literature on the relation between religion and psy-

chology has caused people to turn to their pastors for advice and
council.

Being in Boston has made it possible to make use of Widener
Library which has been a source of great help to me in a piece
of research work that I have been doing on a medieval Hebrew
manuscript on Alexander the Great. The work is near comple-
tion and I hope to publish it soon. [ have also had the pleasant
opportunity to meet, from time to time, with some of our Boston
classmates.

In the spring of 1954, I took a trip abroad which included a
few days in Paris and about a month in Israel. I was, of course,
impressed by the splendor of Paris but also disturbed by the dis-
parity between the high cost of living and the low incomes of °
most people. In Israel I found a people who were completely
dedicated to the task of building a state under the most difficult
‘ircumstances. I was impressed not only with their agricultural,
ndustrial and scientific progress in the short space of six years,
‘ut also with their spirit of confidence in the face of the many
roblems confronting them.

The most significant event for me in the past twenty-five years
‘as my marriage two years ago. There is perhaps something
lique to report about it as I became a husband and a father at
e same time inasmuch as Bernice, my charming wife, was the

other of three lovely children whose devoted father had died. I
[ 651 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

have adopted the children and we are a very happy family. Rich-
ard will enter kindergarten next fall in order, as he puts it, to get
ready for Harvard; Toby is studying ballet; and Amy, the piano.
Last year I served on a commission appointed by Governor
Herter to study the relation between juvenile delinquency and
publications portraying crime, obscenity and horror. In the
course of our study, we realized how very serious the problem
of juvenile delinquency is and how much is yet to be done in
order to understand it and to treat it effectively.
At the present time, our Congregation has just begun building
a new Temple in Newton which we hope will be ready in a year.
The year 1957 will be one of celebration for me on two counts:
the Twenty-fifth Reunion of my Class and the 1ooth anniversary
of the founding of the Congregation which I am serving. Sol
am looking forward to double festivities.

WILLIAM RUSSELL KEANY

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 70 Buckingham Rd., Milton 86, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 11, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Peter Keany, Katherine Conley.
PREPARED AT: Boston College High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932.

SHELDON WAUGH KECK

HOME apprEss: 87 State St., Brooklyn 1, N.Y.

OFFICE AppREsS: Brooklyn Museum, Eastern Parkway, Brooklyn 38, N.Y.

BoRN: May 30, 1910, Utica, N.Y. parents: Fred Rutherford Keck, Myra E.
Waugh.

PREPARED AT: Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MaRRIED: Caroline Martin Kohn, Oct. 31, 1933, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Lawrence Underhill, May 2, 1942 (died May 30, 1942); Albert Cosgrave,
May 8, 1943; Lawrence Waugh, Jan. 9, 1948.

OccUPATION: Conservation of paintings.

MEMBER OF: International Institute for the Conservation of Museum Ob-
jects (fellow); ICOM Committee of Scientific Laboratories; Century
Association, N.Y.,; Rembrandt Club, Brooklyn, Brooklyn Heights
Casino; Harvard Club of Long Island.

PuBLICATIONS: Articles on painting conservation and examination in Brooklyn

[ 652]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Museum Bulletin, Magazine of Art, Antiques Magazine, New York

History; Technical Studies in the Field of Fine Arts.
THE office address given above is only one of two. The second
office is shared with my wife whom I first met in Fine Arts 15B
at Harvard. Ic is 87 State Street where we practise the profession
or craft of preservation of paintings. We have been carrying on
this way almost since we were married, with time out for wars,
travel and holidays. Our work and our two boys are our primary

interests.
I spend three days per week in the conservation laboratory at

the Brooklyn Museum, The other four days are spent working

at home with my wife trying to repair or prevent the ravages of
wear and tear on paintings. These come to us regularly from a
number of institutions including the Museum of Modern Art,
New York, the S. R. Guggenheiin Muscum, Newark Museum,
Colonial Williamsburg, as well as frequently from other collec-
tions and historical societies. The work is varied, interesting and
rewarding and we both enjoy it and live it seven days per weck.
There are occasionally times when everything scems to go wrong
and we wish we had taken up an easy profession like photogra-
phy, banking or law. We have had the honor and pleasure of
treating, preserving and cleaning and getting to know intimately
works by most of the great masters — Rembrandt, El Greco,
Velasquez, Van Gogh, Gauguin, Renoir — even including Ma-
tisse and Picasso. One of the jobs which gave us the greatest
pleasure from the sheer beauty and magnificence of its handling
and subject was the relining and cleaning of Renoir’s ““Dejeuner
des Canotiers,” from the Phillips Collection in Washington, D.C.

This work often takes me to various parts of the United States
for the purposes of advising, lecturing or actually treating paint-
ngs in museum collections. Last year, I was invited to travel to
aris for three months to care for the physical security of
7,000,000 worth of French paintings from American museums
nd collections which were shown as part of the Salute to France
t the Musee de POrangerie. This was an exciting as well as
leasant assignment, although I was happy to see the sixty-four
acking cases safely through customs on the return to their U.S.

Wners.

[ 653 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Conservation also influenced my army career in World War II,
where I was eventually assigned to the Monuments, Fine Arts
and Archives Section of the Ninth Army in the European The-
atre. Here not only did I have a chance to see interiors of castles,
salt mines and cathedrals, but did a great deal of moving of ex-
posed and damaged art objects to safety in collecting points. |
even kept my hand in by removing an advanced mould growth
from a couple of paintings by Van Gogh. .

My wife and I have long been interested in teaching some of
the fundamentals of conservation to both museum personnel and
future conservators, who must at present get their training on an
apprenticeship basis. To this end we have conducted seminars at
Cooperstown, New York, and have taken on, from time to time,
apprentices who learn both theory and practice. In this same
connection we have turned a hobby to practical use and have
made a number of documentary 16mm films which record meth-
ods of conservation. One, “A Future for the Past,” has national
distribution and we hope is acquainting museums and collectors
with the need for high professional standards in our field.

We own our house and studio and I play an occasional game
of tennis for exercise and now and then go off on a fishing trip.
Our two boys are headed generally in the direction of Harvard,
but the decision as to just where they will g° will in part be up
to them. |

JOSEPH MICHELS KELLER

HOME ADDRESS: 3313 Oakland St., Ames, Towa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Physics, Towa State College, Ames, Iowa.

BoRN: April 23, 1911, New York, N.Y. parents: Joseph Fink Keller, Edna
- Sophie Michels.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School for Boys, New York, N LY.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: 8.B. IN MECH, ENG. summa cum laude,
1932; PH.D. (Univ. of California), 1940.

MarRRIED: Kathleen Clear, May 13, 1939, San Francisco, Calif. CHILDREN:
David Michael, May 26, 1941; Betty Joan, April 23, 1944; Roberta Lynn,
April 29, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: George David Keller, *37.

occuPATION: Professor, Department of Physics, physicist in Institute for
Atomic Research, Iowa State College.

[ 654]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Council delegate to Federation of American Scientists, 1955-
56.

MEMBER OF: American Physical Society; Civil Liberties Union, Federation
of American Scientists, Sierra Club; Sigma Xi.

pusLicaTions: A half dozen papers on assorted topics in physics published in

Physical Review, American Journal of Physics, and Review of Scientific
Instruments.

FORMS to fill out! Forms! Forms! Maybe this one will be the
last for another year —today is Christmas. If you leave some

things go a few months, they take care of themselves. Not this
one.

Got my first job after leaving college, as a research engineer
at Westinghouse in South Philadelphia, in the spring of 1933,
from Harvard contacts. And then after three years, back to
school to study physics. (This was partly due to the prompting
of a very sympathetic boss.) I was told that the best place to
study physics was Harvard, but I had already put in four years
there, so I settled for a fine second-best, the University of Cali-
fornia. After four years of graduate study, there followed a year
of teaching at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver,
another at Washington University in St. Louis, and then two
more at Columbia University during the early years of the war
I had switched to physics partly because it had always seemed
a fascinating ficld, and it appeals to my admiration — or dream
— of a certain type of scholarship, and of the people who know
everything about how the world and all works. Starting with
-his somewhat idealistic approach, no one was more surprised than
to learn that physicists could be useful. After sandwiching some
art-time work in the S.A.M. (atomic energy) laboratory at
-olumbia, I spent two years at Los Alamos. The social and scicn-
fic intimacies with the many wonderful and able people there
made this personally a very exciting and profitable time.
After the war, I found myself in the physics department and
ie Institute for Atomic Research at Iowa State College. “Found
yself” may not be the precise description, but if any one had
Id me in ’32 that I would spend at least ten years in the Middle
est, and like it... I’ve Jearned that out there it is not pro-
unced “O-hi-o.”

Hobbies — music and hiking —though I don’t do much of
[655 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

the latter. As for music, in Cambridge I could drive my room-
mate out-of-doors any time by attempting a Mozart piano sonata
—any one. And not so long ago, a former Los Alamos poker
player identified me as the fellow who played Beethoven with
one finger, upstairs over the game,

Spare time? If there were a man I admire more than a good,
outgoing scholar, it would be a physicist with spare time. Right
now, I am in the middle of a year off, in Europe. And one of
the most interesting things I am getting to know here is my own
family.

But I am seeing and hearing other things, too. We are at the
moment living in a city (Stuttgart) that is being almost com-
pletely rebuilt — because about ten years ago we Americans had
to destroy large parts of it. And for the last few months, not too
many miles east of here in Hungary, a new fight for freedom has
been going on, in which Americans seem unable to help. Perhaps
being away from home, and being a little closer to the scene of '
things makes even more pressing and terrible the problem of find-
ing the right combination of intellect, morality and force to
handle such situations.

KARL WILLIAM KELLER

HOME ADDRESS: 2908 Woodcliff Rd., N.W., Avondale, Canton 8, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 928 Market Ave., N., Canton 2, Ohio.

BoRN: Nov. 2, 1909, Cleveland Heights, Ohio. parents: William H. Keller,

~ Mabel Louise Einig.

PREPARED AT: McKinley High School, Canton, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.D., 1936.

MarrieD: Elizabeth Jean Hartman, April 26, 1947, Butler, Pa. cHILDREN:
Karl William, Jr., Feb. 21, 1948; James Edward, Aug. 5, 1952.

occupation: General surgeon.

MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons (fellow); American Medical
Association; Industrial Medical Association; Ohio State Medical Asso-
ciation.

IN beginning this review I would like to say a word or two about
my roommate for four years at Harvard. He was Paul C. Rear-
don, now chief justice of the Superior Court of Massachusetts. I
need not tell you that I was lucky in the little suite in Gore Hall

[ 656 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

starting a friendship with this classmate that has lasted over the

years. During my years in college I learned to like the East very

much, and my roommate who had never been west of the Hudson
made frequent visits to Canton and thought we had something
to offer out here as well,

While at Harvard College and at the Medical School, I en-
joyed spending time at the observatory. My happiest hours were
spent there working and being inspired by the brilliance and
teaching of Dr. Harlow Shapley. I look back upon him as one
of the greatest men I have ever known. Astronomy has remained
a hobby and together with geopolitics gives me many hours of
relaxation. After graduating from college I entered Harvard
Medical School and prepared for the profession I am now follow-
ing. The years in Medical School passed quickly with plenty of
hard but interesting work. In my third year I was elected to the
Alpha Omega Alpha National Honor Medical Fraternity. After
graduation I completed five years of surgical training n Cleve-
land and Boston. By this time war clouds had gathered and in
1942 I was called into the Army. During my tour of duty I re-

ceived training at the University of Pennsylvania, the Mayo

Clinic, and finally was sent to the E.T.O. as a member of the 16th
General Hospital. As D-Day neared I was assigned to a hospital
ship to care for the wounded which were evacuated from the
Normandy landing. This proved to be a very exciting tour of
duty as we were bombed every night after dark by the Germans.
Following the invasion I was assigned to the 131st General Hos-
pital as chief of orthopedic surgery. After the close of the war I
remained overseas for nearly a year, eight months of which were
spent on or near the French Riviera. The opportunity to become
well acquainted with this beautiful region was indeed fortunate. I
hope to return to southern France for a prolonged visit and have
set aside both time and finances to accomplish this ambition in
the near future. My discharge from the Army came in July, 1946,
with the rank of major. Then the practice of general surgery
Started in Canton.

At the present time I am a member of the senior staff in surgery
at Mercy Hospital, Timken-Mercy Hospital, and the courtesy
staff at Aultman Hospital. I am a member of the American Col-
lege of Surgeons, Industrial Medical Association, The American

[ 657 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Medical Association, and take part in local activities when time
permits. In 1947 I married Elizabeth Hartman of Butler, Pennsyl-
vania. We have two sons, aged nine and five. They are lively
boys, at least they make a lot more noise than I ever made as I
recall, This is one point on which their mother and I disagree; she,
being one of a family of nine children and the most patient person
in the world, says they are just normal boys, one and one-half
times as noisy as girls. In closing I would like to say that I believe
we are lucky to be Harvard graduates. I would like to send my
sons to Harvard, but at the present time I am not sure they would
be eligible for admission. They are much too interested in having
fun.

BARTRAM KELLEY

HOME ADDRESS: 4808 Drexel Drive, Dallas 5, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bell Aircraft Corp. Box 482, Fort Worth, Texas.

BORN: Nov. 28, 1909, Rosemont, Pa. parents: Albert Bartram Kelley,
Marianna Parrish.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930, 1931-1933. DEGREES: A.B. 1932(33)3 A.M. 1934

MARRIED: Dorothea Nolte Bestor, March 7, 1942, Buffalo, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Jason, Sept. 8, 1943; Parrish, July 26, 1945; Jeremiah Bartram, July 10,
1948.

occuPATION: Chief engineer, Texas Division, Bell Aircraft Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: President, American Helicopter Society, 1951-52; chairman,
National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, Subcommittee for Heli-
copters, 1953-55.

MEMBER oF: American Helicopter Society; Society of Automotive Engi-
neers; Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences; Helicopter Association of
Great Britain; University Club of Washington.

PUBLICATIONS: About twenty technical papers, mostly published by the above
organizations; several patents. .

AS reported in 1947, I left Harvard to teach at Choate for two
years and at Andover for four. I then gave up teaching for heli-
copters, a previous interest stimulated by Arthur Young of Phila-
delphia. We joined Bell Aircraft in Buffalo and there I met my
wife, After the war the helicopter prospered and we eventually
became a separate division of Bell, moving to Texas in 1952. We
continue in the stimulating but perilous life of designing, building

[ 658 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and selling machines. We are concerned exclusively with heli-
copters and other machines capable of verticle flight. We are in
the process of changing our name to Bell Helicopter Corpora-
tion. It’s a fascinating, if unstable existence; chicken one week
and feathers the next. At the moment we are doing well. So
much for business.

I “discovered” music late in life, ie, when at Harvard. The

Glee Club was a major influence and I struggled through all the
Bach I had time for on various keyboards, but fingers were al-
ready too stiff to learn any technique. In 1936 I took up the oboe
and I’ve never stopped studying it regularly as a serious amateur.
For purposes of this Report the oboe is my hobby, but to me it
is much more than that. Music is a very serious part of my life.
Through music I met Dorothea, a professional viola player with
a thorough grounding in piano, composition, and music educa-
tion and administration. She currently plays in the Dallas Sym-
phony, writes the program notes for all its concerts, and manages
a first-class chamber music series. We are building a house in
Dallas and hope to move into it soon. Its central theme is a music
room worthy of our two Steinways, with enough space for a
chamber orchestra. Our three boys, though exposed to much
music, are no geniuses, I’m afraid they are like their father, and
will not wake up until later. Their only really worthwhile musi-
cal activity, at present, is the choir at St. Mark’s School of Texas,
an organization of high standards.

Ever since fighting through German B in sophomore year I
have kept up my German, and still read, write and speak it when-
ever the opportunity allows, Perhaps this should really be classi-
fied as my hobby. It caused me to be sent to Europe in 1945, and
again in 1947, 1951 and 1956.

Moving to Texas was quite a wrench, and it hasn’t been easy
for us Yankees to adjust ourselves to the South. But we've kept
our summer place in Westfield, N.Y., and go there every year.
Dorothea plays in the Chautauqua Symphony for the summer

season and the boys run wild in the woods. When business trips
take me northeastward I stop off and take my vacation with the
family i in snatches. Seven times I’ve managed to arrive at our
spot in the wilderness by helicopter.
On the subject of business again, I am a commercial pilot with

[ 659 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

rating for helicopters only. Although I am in charge of adminis-
tration of a department of 450 people, I occasionally get a chance
to do some experimental work—a great help in maintaining
sanity. Much of my old Harvard math and physics stands me in
good stead, though I have not been able to keep up with modern

hysics. I wish I could entice more Ivy League graduates into
the helicopter business. At present we get too many young men
with extremely shaky backgrounds, especially in mathematics and
English. Texas turns out to be a good place to build helicopters.
The people are enthusiastic and energetic. Though we don’t al-
ways agree with our new friends, we have managed to fit into
the community and have really settled here.

JOHN HAROLD KENNARD

HOME ADDRESS: Box 150, R.F.D. 2, Manchester, (Liberty Hill Road, Bed-
ford), N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 967 Elm St., Manchester, N.H.

BORN: Dec. 14, 1910, Newton, Mass. parents: Frederic Hedge Kennard, ’88,
Sarah Harrison Eisenbrey.

PREPARED AT: Browne & Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.; Evans School,
Tucson, Ariz.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932} M.D. 1936; F.A.CS., 1948.

Mareiep: Lydia Margaret Lund, June 5, 1935, Newton Center, Mass. cHtL-
DREN: Joseph Harrison, Dec. 21, 1941; Margaret Lydia, Sept. 29, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Frederic Hedge Kennard, Jr. "24 (deceased); Harrison
Eisenbrey Kennard, ’25; Robert Martin Pany Kennard, ’26.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

' OFFICES HELD: Senior surgeon, 1949, staff secretary, 1956, Elliot Hospital
Staff; director, 1951, vice-president, 1954-56, president, 1956-58, Man-
chester Community Chest, secretary, 1949-53, president, 1954, Man-
chester Medical Society; president, Uncanoonuc Ski Club, 1951; modera-
tor, Town of Bedford, N.H., since 1955.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Travelers Club; Harvard Mountaineering Club, Man-
chester, Hillsboro County, New Hampshire State and American Medi-
cal Societies; New Hampshire Surgical Club; American College of
Surgeons (past secretary, New Hampshire Chapter, Trauma Com-
mittee); Kiwanis; Bedford Presbyterian Church (trustee, 1951-57);
New England Bird Banding Association,

UNWILLING to stand on my own two feet and face the world
in 1932, I returned to Harvard for four more years of medical

[ 660 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

school, briefly interrupted by marriage and a honeymoon during

the summer between junior and senior years. I stayed on four

more years as intern and resident, first in pathology at the Boston

City Hospital, then in surgery at the Peter Bent Brigham and the

Children’s Hospitals, and finally in Gyn at the Free Hospital for
Women in Brookline, finishing in June, 1940.
During a ten-week vacation between appointments in 1939, we
toured the country, looking particularly at the northwest, before
deciding to make our permanent home in New England. So, in
July, 1940, I finally made the break, and hung up my shingle in
surgery in Manchester, New Hampshire. Business was slow in
starting, and I was just beginning to get both feet on the ground
and be able to support myself when Pearl Harbor exploded my
plans. I joined the Air Force and was called to active duty as a
first lieutenant in May, 1942. After a summer in Dow Field,
Bangor, Maine, I went to the School of Aviation Medicine and
became a flight surgeon. After a year in Florida, I toured Europe
as guest of Uncle Sam until discharged as major in January, 1946.

Then I returned to Manchester and during the past ten years
have been increasingly bound down by private practice. In 1952
I built a house on a twenty-seven-acre hilltop in Bedford, and have
enough woodchopping, landscaping projects and miscellaneous
improvements to keep me well exercised, and consume my spare
time for the rest of my life.

The whole family enjoys skiing in winter, camping, fishing,
mountain climbing and tennis in summer, and traveling anytime.
I have been in all forty-eight states and the southern tier of Cana-
dian provinces, including three trips to the Canadian Rockies. We
also operate a small bird-banding station and get a great deal of
pleasure out of our small scale bird sanctua

In politics, I am definitely an Eisenhower Republican, but have
no political aspirations beyond that of moderator of the Town of
Bedford. Although we live within five miles of the city hall of
the state’s largest city, we enjoy really living in rural New Hamp-
shire. Although I may not be a very big toad, our puddle is rela-

tively small, and we find it exceedingly pleasant.

[ 661 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

VIVIAN HALDANE KENNEDY

HOME appress: 5416 Windsor Lane, Kansas City 3, Kans.
OFFICE ApprEss; Kansas City Fire & Marine Insurance Co, 301 W. uth St,
Kansas City, Mo.

porn: Nov. 25, 1909, Kansas City, Mo. parents: Haldane William Kennedy,
Lillie Peed.

PREPARED at: Central High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

Marartep: Thelma Dahn Saunders, Oct. 9, 1944, Los Angeles, Calif.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Kansas City Fire & Marine Insurance Company,
investments and public relations,

orFicrs HELD: President, Kansas City Society of Financial Analysts, 1955,
Kansas City Public Relations Society, 1955; vice-president and director,
National Federation of Financial Analysts Societies, since 1953; treas-
urer, Kansas City Press Club, 1956.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Kansas City; Kansas City Society of Financial
Analysts; National Federation of Financial Analysts Societies; Sigma
Delta Chi; Kansas Ciry Press Club, Kansas City Public Relations So-
ciety; Delta Upsilon Fraternity; University Club of Kansas City;
Carriage Club of Kansas City,

AFTER a period of free-lance newspaper work and a stint at
Jackson & Curtis in Boston, I became associated with the Kansas
City Fire & Marine Insurance Company in the financial depart-
ment, in 1932 and have been here ever since. During the war, I
served as an agent for the Office of Naval Intelligence in the
Asiatic-Pacific and American Areas. Political affiliation: currently
Republican. Hobbies: photography, collecting fire memorabilia.

ROCKWELL KENT, Ill

HOME Appress: 57 Brookside Rd, Needham, Mass.

orFice appress: Raytheon Manufacturing Co, 55 Chapel St. Waltham,
Mass.

BORN: Oct. 25, 1909, New York, N.Y. parents: Rockwell Kent, II, Kathleen
Whiting.

PrepareD aT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: SB. 1932; sc.D, (Mass. Inst. of Tech-
nology), 1948.

Marriep: Margaret White, June, 1932, Pittsfield, Mass. (divorced 1950);
Margaret Wolfe, December, 1951, Roanoke, Va. CHILDREN: Susan
Thayer, March 27, 1933; Sara Natasha, Aug. 16, 1938; Rockwell, qth,

[ 662 }

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Nov. 1, 1952; Elizabeth Duval, May 31, 1954; Christopher Wolfe and
Sally (twins), May 1, 1956.

occupation: Physicist, foreman or group leader, Spectroscopy Laboratory,
Raytheon Manufacturing Company, electronics industry.

MEMBER OF: American Physical Society; New England Spectroscopic So-
ciety; American Society for Testing Materials; Sigma Xi; N.A.A.CP.;
Liberal Citizens of Massachusetts; Emergency Civil Liberties Com-
mittee; South Shore Yacht Club; Choral Union; American Optical
Society (New England Section).

pusLications: “Original Glazes,” Craft Horizons, Vol. 12, No. 5, 1952;
“Applying Spectrographic Techniques to Tube Problems,” Ceramic
Age, October, 1955.

IMMEDIATELY after graduating I married a young lady from
Lynn and retreated with her to a farm in the Adirondacks where,
for four years, we grubbed and milked our cows in the long gray
shadow of the proverbial wolf. The toil and hardships were end-
less, culminating on one fine summer day in a fire which reduced
the barns to a film of dust and several charred chicken bones. A
few days of milking the cows in the pasture, sometimes with the
rainwash from their backs diluting the milk, removed the last
glories of farm life. So, back to school we went, first to the Yale
School of Forestry and, because of insufficient funds, then to
Massachusetts Institute of Technology where I was given half-
time employment in the Physics Department while studying for
a higher degree. |
A doctorate was finally granted (for sheer doggedness, I am
sure) in 1948, after an interruption in its pursuit of eight years
divided among the Mineralogy Department at Harvard, the Man-
hattan Project at M.LT., and the Jarrell-Ash Company of Water-
town, Massachusetts. An attempt to join the Navy during those
years only left me more than ever sadly aware of color blindness.
In 1948 the Raytheon Manufacturing Company hired me as a
physicist. It is common gossip that “no one is ever fired at Ray-
theon.” 7
In 1933 the first daughter, Susan, was born. The second, Na-
tasha, was born in 1938. In 1950 their parents were divorced. In
1951 their father married Margaret Wolfe of Roanoke, Virginia.
Then followed more children in rapid succession: Rockwell, 4th, |
in 1952; Elizabeth in 1954; and twins, Christopher and Sally, in
1956. |

[ 663 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Nearly two years ago we moved to Needham from where, sur-
rounded by animals (including two cows), we emerge only for
provender or for the further salvation or restoration of our pet
“white elephant” — an old schooner.

Since you ask:

Religiously, I am unaffiliated but my sympathies are in the di-
rection of Unitarianism. Politically, I am, I suppose, most akin to
a Jeffersonian. I am opposed to the tendency today of governing
circles to stifle unpopular beliefs, to discourage free discussion,
and to channel the thinking and the lives of the governed. I be-
lieve in peace and in people and in the innocence of the Rosen-
bergs, but I am naively amazed at the hypocrisy of me, of other
men, and of governments the world over.

DAVID PRATT KETCHAM

appress: Hudson River State Hospital, Poughkeepsie, N.Y.

BoRN: Aug. 24, 1908, Indianapolis, Ind. Parents: Donald McDonald
Ketcham, Lois Pratt (Mrs. Ernest Knefler).

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1928-1932, DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

NORMAN RAUCH KEVERS

ADDRESS: 509 W. soth St. Miami Beach qo, Fla.

BORN: June 2, 1907. PARENTS: Gustave Kevers, Emma Rauch.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

MarRiED: Alice Fulton, Feb. 16, 1933, Indianapolis, Ind. cHmpren: Sandra,
Aug. 17, 1937; Norman Rauch, Jr, Aug. 20, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

LAWRENCE KILHAM

HOME appress: 7815 Aberdeen Rd., Bethesda 14, Md.
OFFICE appREss: National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Md.
BORN: Aug. 10, 1910, Brookline, Mass. parents: Walter Harrington Kilham,

Jane Houston.
PREPARED at: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

[ 664 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; A.M., 19353 M.D. 1940.

mMaRRIED: Jane Kaufholz, May 10, 1941, Canton, Ohio, cHitpreN: Peter,
June 26, 1943; Michael, Nov. 14, 1944; Joshua, Aug. 20, 1950; Benjamin,
July 25, 1952; Phoebe, Sept. 12, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Walter Harrington Kilham, Jr., ’25; Peter Houston
Kilham, ’28.

occuPATION: Medical research.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington; Harvard Travelers Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on viruses and infectious diseases in various medical
and scientific journals; many articles and notes written as an amateur
for journals of ornithology, mammalogy and Audubon magazines;
“Breeding and Other Habits of Hornbills,” Special Publication Smith-
sonian Institution, 1956.

AT the quarter century I find my avocations something of a
vocation and my job bordering on a hobby, a situation simpli-
fied by interests centering on biology. My job is primarily re-
search, presently on viruses in relation to cancer. Spare time
activities run to the study of wildlife. There is no Horatio
Alger quality to enliven my curriculum vitae. I did not start on
a royal road in 1932. The immediate problem, doubtless common
to others, was one of support in depression years, but more im-
portant of finding a way of doing what I really liked and of
getting paid for it. The result was four years of mostly school
and college teaching around Cambridge while working in the
field of biology at Harvard. It became obvious that medicine
offered the widest range of interest. Although I went through the
Harvard Medical School with an idea of research rather than
practice, I did have three clinical years, the first being as a medical
intern at Lakeside Hospital. ‘This move to Cleveland was a good
thing for I met my wife, also an M.D., as a fellow intern. Not
long after our marriage I was appointed to the American Red
Cross-Harvard Hospital in Salisbury, England. In October, 1941,
I crossed the Atlantic in a convoy of thirty slow ships and three
corvettes. The expedition was a gamble, but once across, I was
able to arrange for Jane to join the British Emergency Medical
Service. We thus spent most of the war together and we enjoyed
England immensely. In 1942 I joined the Army. Our eldest son
was born in Salisbury in 1943.
With the Normandy invasion I was most eager to get across.
Fortunately I happened to have made myself somewhat obnoxious

[ 665 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

to the psychopathic commander of a dull unit in London. A
transfer to the front was in order. I actually landed in a field
hospital in Patton’s army. There was no place I would rather
have served, for we were usually close to the front. The year of
war from Normandy to Salzkammergut was one of the grandest
experiences of my life, not only for the hospital experience itself,
which was considerable, but also for the chance to explore Europe
informally; we were in operation less than half the time. I spoke
French and German fairly well, having studied for two years in
England. The result was that 1 could talk with all kinds of
people, even Russian officers. My rambles in France, Germany,
Belgium and Austria, drinking schnaps, looking for birds and
visiting with local people were fortunately without mishap,
although I narrowly missed a few booby traps and was tempo-
rarily held during the Battle of the Bulge as a possible German
spy. There were a few less pleasant experiences, of which a visit
to Buchenwald concentration camp shortly after its liberation
was the most nauseating. We met the Red Army in Austria on
VE Day. 1 spent the next few months climbing in Bavaria and
the Tyrol.

After the war I returned to Harvard Medical School to get
started in virus research, which I have continued ever since. In
1949 I joined the Public Health Service and moved to Maryland.
The South has been a great improvement over my native New
England in regard to the out-of-doors and natural history activi-
ties from which I am never far removed. My wife and I have
raised raccoons, ferrets, skunks, squirrels, crows, owls, bluejays
and other creatures about the house. Expeditions have been one
of the greatest thrills of my life. The first of these was in 1933,
when I sailed to northeast Greenland aboard a Norwegian sealing
vessel to collect mammals and birds for the Harvard museum.
Polar bears, musk-ox, narwhals and millions of sea birds enlivened
the experience. In the following years I spent some summers in
the Rockies, one as doctor on a ranch in Wyoming. It was not
until 1950, however, that I got to the tropics, taking advantage
of a free but most uncertain plane ride to Panama. A week on
Barro Colorado Island can mean a lot to a naturalist. The wonder-
ful luxury of life in the tropics made an impression which I have
never gotten over. The next year I hiked over Guatemala,

[ 666 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

looking for birds from the mangroves of the Pacific coast to the
cloud forests of the volcanoes. I especially enjoyed a few days
living with Indians which gave me what is now a growing interest
in primitive societies. In 1954 I had an invitation to spend a year
as a visiting scientist at the Virus Research Institute, Entebbe,
Uganda. Jane was as eager to go as IJ, even though two of our
five children were still in the diaper stage. The shores of Lake
Victoria are a veritable paradise. We liked Africa and Africans
and, having brought a Ford with us, we took many safaris into
the bush, meeting rhinos, elephants, and natives, both clothed and
unclothed. In addition to virus research I made an extensive
study of hornbills, using time before breakfast and on weekends.
On returning from Africa, I was sent unexpectedly to the Rocky
Mountain Laboratory in Montana. One year of the remote West
was enough. It was a good experience (I did much wild-life
photography of mountain goats, sheep, bear and other prey), but
intellectual opportunities were on the meager side. We were glad
to settle down again in Maryland.

The reader will now guess that anyone who has spent so much
time cavorting around will never be elected to important com-
mittees, directorships or clubs. I haven’t. The only important
organization I belong to is my own family. Of all animals I have
kept, none compare to children. With the years I think I can see
better on two sides of a question, I eschew politics, and I remain
thankful for a Harvard education, to which I have tried to add a
few touches. For example, I recently purchased a Harvard chair.
My son, Joshua, aged six, after sitting in it for a few minutes, pro-
nounced that he was going to Harvard. Consequently, I feel that
my life has not been entirely without influence, even though I
may have had to resort to indirect means to obtain it.

NELSON WINSLOW KIMBALL

HOME appress: Ardsley Park, Irvington-on-Hudson, N.Y,

OFFICE AppREss: 1 Wall St.. New York 15, N.Y.

BoRN: May 29, 1909, Swampscott, Mass. parents: Fred Nelson Kimball,
Leonora B. Stearns.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, M. ass.; Westminster
School, Simsbury, Conn.

[ 667 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B.. 1932.

marriep: Angelica S. Bunner, June 8, 1933, Boston, Mass, CHILDREN Nelson
Winslow, 3d, April 8, 1936; Rudolph Schuyler, Aug. 25, 1938.

occupation: Assistant vice-president, Irving Trust Company; Personnel
Trust Division, investment advisory work.

OFFICES HEID: Trustee, 1948-52, member, Zoning Board of Appeals, 1954—
55, Village of Irvington; member, Finance Committee, Tarrytown
Hospital, 1951-53; assistant secretary, 1951-53, assistant vice-president,
1953-55, Irving Trust Company; treasurer, 1953-54, vice-president,
1954-55, Ardsley Country Club; member, Village Planning Commission,

19§2-54.
MEMBER OF: Ardsley Country Club; Ardsley Curling Club; Shenorock
Shore Club; Harvard Club of New York.

AFTER graduation IJ, with several other members of the Class of
1932, spent what was to me at least the most profitable eight weeks
I was to enjoy for a year or more, at the taxpayer’s expense, first
at Fort Ethan Allen and later at Camp Edwards on the Cape. In
the fall I started my business career in the mailing room of a large
utility company in Boston, from which I finally emerged into the
treasurer’s department. Bunny and I were married in June, 1933,
and in November, 1935, moved to the New York area, where I
was employed by Standard Statistics in the Investment Advisory
Division, Our first son, Nelson, was born in April, 1936, and our
second son, Schuyler, in August, 1938. During the war I served
with the United States Coast Guard on anti-submarine patrol
work, having been handed a medical discharge from the Army
in March, 1942. From the fall of 1945 to early 1951, I was a
member of a small firm engaged in the preparation of the eco-
nomic defense in anti-trust and treble damage actions. Following
this venture, I went with the Irving Trust Company where I am
now located as an assistant vice-president in the Trust Division.

GEORGE GARLAND KIRSTEIN

HOME apprEss: Taylors Lane, Mamaroneck, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 333 Sixth Ave., New York 14, N.Y.

BORN: Dec. 10, 1909, Rochester, N.Y. PARENTS: Louis Edward Kirstein, Rose
Stein.

PREPARED AT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE; A.B., 1932.

[ 668

fi ees dad desta ad biter or Be cee ate t

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Jacquette Kilness, May 6, 1938, New York, N.Y. (divorced 1945);
Elinor Ferry, Jan. 31, 1947, New York, N.Y.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lincoln Edward Kirstein, ’30.

OCCUPATION: Publisher, The Nation.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Montefiore Hospital, 1936-56; trustee, New
York Foundation, 1953-56.

MEMBER OF: Sheldrake Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Stores and Unions, Fairchild Publications, 1950.

THE day of my last class at Harvard I got on a train for Holly-

wood which was as far away geographically and culturally from
my home and background in Boston as anywhere I could think
of. For a year I worked as combination errand-boy and assistant
director on Westerns for RKO Radio Pictures. From sun-up to
exhaustion I routed the outlaws’ horses through the canyons
behind Los Angeles, and then with changed hats on the riders I
routed them back in the reverse réle as the posses’ horses. The
love scenes were shot at night in the studio on any set that
happened to be vacant. .

After a year of too little sleep but a valuable supplementary
education in the harsh facts of life, I took a job at Bloomingdale's
store in New York City. I progressed from stock-boy to “sales
girls” to assistant buyer to buyer to merchandise manager in the
normal way for one who is being trained to be an executive be-
cause dad owns a part of the business. In 1938, as part of the
labor agitation and organization which characterized the New
Deal, the workers in Bloomingdale’s joined the CLO. While it
was none of my business, as I was supposed to be concerned with
buying and selling merchandise, I was openly sympathetic with
the objectives of the employees who I thought were getting a
real pushing around — which they were. As a result, when the
union was recognized, I was made vice-president in charge of
labor relations and negotiated the contracts first with the C.I.O.
and later, when the teamsters joined the A.F.L., I dealt with them.
No one in retailing knew much about bargaining with unions in
those days, so I tried to become an expert. I took a course given
by Mr. William H. Davis at the New School for Social Research
and in this way became acquainted with this remarkable man.

In 1941, when we were preparing for war, President Roosevelt
appointed Mr. Davis chairman of the National Defense Mediation

[ 669 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Board, the government body established to settle labor disputes.
I volunteered my services, and he appointed me executive secre-
tary of the board, the chief administrative post. After Pearl
Harbor, this agency turned into the National War Labor Board.
I presided over its administration as executive secretary while it
grew from forty employees to 3,000 with regional boards in
twelve cities,

Working for the government, particularly on strikes involving
war materials, was exciting and stimulating, but the sound of
shooting echoed even in Washington, and I figured that the Navy
could use someone who had taken small boats to sea since child-
hood.

I volunteered for sea duty and after a little trouble with my
draft board which decided wrongly that I was indispensable in
Washington, I was commissioned lieutenant (j.g.) in the Navy. I
served till the end of the war aboard the U.S.S. General Jobn
Pope, a troop transport. We steamed 115,000 miles in two years
from the North Atlantic to the Indian Ocean with most of the
time being spent in the South Pacific. It was an unheroic war —
like most people’s — with months of boredom relieved only by
fifteen seconds of wild excitement as the helm went hard over to
avoid the oncoming torpedo.

When the war ended, I decided against going back to retailing
and set myself up as a labor relations consultant to managements.
It took me five years to discover that firms which sincerely wanted
to get along with unions didn’t need my advice, and that I had no
interest in advising companies that didn’t want decent relation-
ships. Fortunately, at this time (1950) one of my clients, Health
Insurance Plan of Greater New York, a newly-established, non-
profit medical plan, needed a business manager, and I was invited
to become executive vice-president and a member of the board
of directors.

For five years I resumed the familiar rdle in corporate manage-
ment and learned a good deal about medical economics and in-
surance. The company’s business doubled during the period but
the challenge of pioneering in a new field was replaced by the
routine problems of administering a successful company. It was
time to move along, and in 1955 I started what was planned to

[ 670 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

be a two-year vacation to see the world and enjoy life, It lasted
two months.

The Nation magazine, a liberal journal of opinion, which was
founded in 1865 by Harvardman Godkin, was in serious financial
trouble. I was asked to assume the rdle of publisher and see what
could be done to restore some of the great prestige that this paper
enjoyed under the editorship of Harvardman Oswald Garrison
Villard in the 1920's. I have been at it a year. It’s tough. This
time the challenge is real and continuing. We are trying to run
a magazine for thoughtful people, one which examines with
skepticism the shibboleths and dogmas of our day. Whether we
will make it or not, I don’t yet know, but classmates who want to
help can subscribe — please.

I live by the sea in Mamaroneck. There’s a fifteen-year-old
Casey yawl rocking on her mooring in front of the house plead-
ing: “Let’s go to Nova Scotia again. Or, how about the Carib-
bean?” But she will have to wait till The Nation progresss further.

I have been married twice. Neither stuck. Three cats let me
share their home with them now on the condition that I feed them
regularly. Ido |.

Were it all to do over “again? I cite Robert Frost’s lines:

Two roads diverged in a wood, and I —
I took the one less traveled by,
and that has made all the difference.

I'd like to know how taking the other road would have made
out. If I’d stayed in Dad’s business, stayed put, stayed married,
taken all the sound advice, and done the approved things, it might
have been better — but somehow less rewarding.

ARTHUR KLEIN

HOME AppRESs: 169 Mill St., Newtonville, Mass.
OFFICE AppREss: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
BORN: June 15, 1910, Chelsea, Mass. PARENTS: Martin Klein, Helen Lillian
Hoenig.
PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; EN.M. (Boston
~ Teachers Coll.), 1934.

[ 671 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

MmaRRIED: Ruth §, Stellar, Feb. 19, 1939, Boston, Mass. cHILpREN: Elise
Amy, Feb. 1, 1944; Helaine Lois, April 4, 1949.

HARVARD BRoTHERS: Howard Klein, '27, L.B., °30; Leonard Milton Klein, °36.

OccuPATION: Teacher of mathematics; camp director; youth director.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Kiddie Kamp, Camp Young Judaea; recreational
director, Temple Emeth; youth director, Temple Shalom.

IT is difficult to recall the eventful years since Commencement. A
year of substitute teaching in Boston preceded my enrollment at
Boston Teachers College. Armed with my Master of Education
degree I now tackled the teaching exams. The City of Boston
immediately demonstrated its fine judgment by appointing me a
mathematics teacher at Boston Latin School, where I joined Class-
mate Peter Kozodoy. The year 1940 saw my transfer to Boston
Technical High School and 1954 witnessed my return to Boston
Latin School to “do or die” under the new mathematics head,
Peter Kozodoy.

I became interested and involved in other youth work —
namely, as a division leader and waterfront head at boys’ camps,
director of the Massachusetts Knights of Pythias Kiddie Kamp
for underprivileged boys, and my latest position (since 1946) as
director of Camp Young Judaea. Since 1942 I have been teaching
at the religious school of Temple Israel, Boston; served as recrea-
tional director at Temple Emeth, Brookline, from 1949 to 1956;
and at present have assumed the youth directorship of Temple
Shalom, Newton.

In November, 1943, along with Classmate Phin Tobe, I received
those lovely “greetings” from F.D.R. I was so pleased to be so
honored and invited to don the olive drab. However, military ex-
perience proved quite an education to me, for the Air Force
classified me as a statistician to work with psychological research
units and convalescent outfits. In March, 1945, the Army singled
me out (along with many thousands more) to visit the ETO for
a promised $20,000 overseas trip. Imagine my disappointment
when Germany and Japan called it “quits” and caused Uncle
Sam to cancel my wonderful tour.

Upon return to the quiet civilian “legal eagle” status in Novem-
ber, 1945, I resumed teaching and camping, and began at the
same time to get acquainted with two-year-old daughter, Elise
Amy. Pardon me for neglecting to mention my marriage to Ruth

[ 672 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Stellar in 1939. In April, 1949, daughter number two, Helaine
Lois, increased our happy family trio to a quartet. As you have
noted, Ruth and I have not done our share to produce direct
sources for Harvard enrollment, but we are leaving that up to
the girls. (Some day we shall inform them of this responsibility. )

The four of us eagerly anticipate the Reunion; Ruth and I to
renew old friendships; the girls to be inside Harvard instead of
being on the outside. They are making all sorts of plans. Come
next June, I wouldn’t be surprised that they'll be looking ahead
to the Fiftieth Reunion.

PRESTON JEROME KLINE

HOME ADDRESS: 2221 Benedict Canyon Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 215 W., Seventh St., Los Angeles 14, Calif.

BORN: Nov. 15, 1911, Glassport, Pa. PARENTS: William I. Kline, Martha
Jackson.

PREPARED AT: McKeesport High School, McKeesport, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932; LL.B. 1935.

MARRIED: Gertrude Hartfield, Oct. 15, 1940, Los Angeles, Calif. cumpren:
Joan Ellen, June 9, 1943; Jeffrey Robert, Aug. 24, 1946; Eric Hart, May
20, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer and general manager, Mayson Stores, Inc.,
1945-49; vice-president, Broadway & Temple Investment Company,
since 1947; director and general counsel, Hartfield Stores, Inc., since
1949; director, Jewish Free Loan Association of Los Angeles.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California; Harvard Law School As-
sociation of Southern California, Community Service Committee;
Lawyers’ Club of Los Angeles.

LEAVING Cambridge in June, 1932, wasn’t the sad occasion
for me that it might otherwise have been, since I had decided to
return in the fall to enter the Law School. There, after three
years of diligent plugging, I finally emerged with my LL.B. de-
gree. That accomplishment, I felt, called for a celebration, so the
summer of 1935 found me touring parts of Europe together with
Milton Greenfield.

Having passed the Pennsylvania Bar examination I began the
practice of law in Pittsburgh and McKeesport, Pennsylvania, in
the spring of 1936. Those were very trying and onerous times

[ 673 ]

En Ol

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

for everyone in the severely depressed industrial areas of Western

Pennsylvania, but especially so for the young lawyer. However,

with much luck and a few paying clients to help, I managed to

make somewhat steady progress.

By the summer of 1940, feeling that a short holiday had been

earned, I took off for California armed with a list of females, all
guaranteed to be charming, gay and beautiful. Little did I suspect
what Fate had in store for me when I arrived in Los Angeles and
arranged for a date with one of the females on my list. Her name
then was Gertrude Hartfield. She not only was, but she still is,
the most charming, gay and beautiful girl I have ever known.
Gertrude convinced me that we should remain in Los Angeles,
and even though it meant a new start in my profession, ] must
confess that the California bug had bitten me so hard that I
wasn’t very difficult to convince. In October, 1941, we bought
a home in the mountains north of Beverly Hills and there we have
been ever since. Our first child, Joan, was born about a year and
a half after we moved in, and we also have two boys, Jeffrey
and Eric. Naturally, we think each of our children is something
special and, like most fond parents, are very proud of them. If
all goes well, I expect that we shall have a son in the Classes of
1967 and 1972.

My war service was neither exciting nor dangerous. During the
spring and summer of 1942 I sought in vain for a commission in
every branch of every service. It soon became apparent that the
various services just didn’t know what to do with lawyers, with
the result that the lucky ones might become clerks, and those
less fortunate would wind up as riflemen. I was one of the lucky
ones. Enlisted as a private in the Army Air Force on November
23, 1942; honorably discharged on January 30, 1945, in the rank
of staff sergeant. My duty and classification throughout my
military career was that of clerk-typist, and I was continuously
assigned to the Ferrying Division of the Air Transport Command,
stationed at Long Beach, California, thirty miles from my home.
Upon my discharge from service I was presented with and ac-
cepted the opportunity of trying my hand at the chain retail
business, This very fascinating and fiercely competitive busi-
ness kept me occupied until the summer of 1949, at which time
I returned to the law.

[ 674 ]

roa cult he abl ig ats the, x
y

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Since then I have been, for the most part, busily engaged with
my legal practice, devoting most of my efforts to the fields of
estate planning, probate and general corporate law. During the
past five years I have become increasingly involved with the
legal and financial aspects of chain store participation in the
operation and development of suburban shopping centers, I
have found this work to be most interesting and challenging, since
it has been largely a matter of pioneering in the seeking of
solutions of not only the legal but also the economic problems
inherent in the development of this entirely new merchandising
device known as the Shopping Center.

As to hobbies, I guess it would be right to say that I haven’t any.
None that is, except to read a good book as often as possible.
Both my wife and I like to travel, but here we’ve found that
raising the children is a job that keeps us fairly close to home.
Last summer, though, we did arrange a motor trip with the
children and visited some of the National Parks in California,
Utah, Nevada and Arizona. We all had such fun that we hope
to make these trips an annual project and so eventually cover
most of the United States. Outside of my home and office, I
devote most of my free time to the several charitable and service
organizations to which I belong.

Politically, I am one who was born and raised a Republican,
but is now and has been for some years a Democrat by conviction.
In this respect I probably am among the minority of our class.

To close this summary I can only say that I count my years at
Harvard as about the best and most rewarding years of my life.
My fondest hope is that both my sons will one day be able to
join me in that statement.

| A. MORRIS KOBRICK

OFFICE ApprEss: Mintz, Levin and Cohn, 50 Federal St., Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: June 2, 1909. PARENTS: Jacob Kobrick, Minnie Roich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1926-1927, 1929-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 19325
LL.B., 19353 LL.M. 1938.

MarrieD: Dorothy S, Witten, March 30, 1941, Brooklyn, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Jeffrey Richard, June 11, 1942; Frederick Robert, Aug. 6, 1943-

Occupation: Attorney.

[ 675]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

OFFICES HELD: Attorney and head attorney, Staff of General Counsel, Wash-

ington attorney Railroad Retirement Board; principal attorney, Claims
Division, Department of Justice, 1938-46.

AFTER graduation from the Harvard Law School in 1935, and

a brief fling at the practice of law in Boston, I returned to the Law

School to pursue an interest in public law, in due course acquiring

an LL.M. Thence to Washington for a stretch of nearly eight

years as a government lawyer. While serving as principal attorney

in the Department of Justice, I had a hand, together with Walker

Lowrey, a Law School classmate, in fending off mass assaults
against the constitutionality of the War Contracts Renegotiation
Act. My years in Washington netted more interesting dividends:

in 1941 a wife Dorothy Witten of North Carolina; in 1942,
Jeffrey Richard; and in 1943, Frederick Robert—three good
reasons for seeking greener pastures, which I did in 1946. At that
time I became associated with the Boston law firm of Mintz,
Levin & Cohn. After a suitable interval I became a member of
the firm and there matters stand.

WARREN BERTRAM KOHN

HOME appress: 72 Rutledge Rd., Belmont 78, Mass.

Born: Aug. 4, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Samuel Kohn, Anna Wasserman,
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B, Cum laude, 1932; M.B.A., 1934.
MARRIED: Elaine Ascher, Oct. 27, 1946, New York, N.Y.

occupation: Manufacturing,

ROBERT BERNARD KONIKOW

HOME abbRESS: 4433 Belmont Rd., Downers Grove, Ill.

OFFICE appress: Advertising Publications Inc. 200 EF. Illinois St., Chicago
ui, Ill.

BorN: April 9, 1914, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Moses Joseph Konikow, Rose
Bernard.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929, 1930-1933. DEGREE: A.B. Cum laude, 1932 (33).

Marriep: Ella Klaiman, Sept. 4, 1938, Malden, Mass. cuitpren: Robert M.,
March 28, 1945; Tobi H., March 7, 1948.

[ 676 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Managing editor, Advertising Requirements.

OFFICES HELD: President, Capitol View Park Citizens Association, 1953-54;
chairman, Cub Scout Pack 223 (Montgomery County, Md.) Com-
mittee, 1954-56; member executive committee, McKenney Hills, P.T.A.,
1954-56; member board of directors, Washington Chapter, American
Public Relations Association, 1954-56.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles in general and business magazines, includ-
ing Management Methods, Advertising Requirements, Parade, Railway
Progress, and others.

IT comes as something of a shock to be asked to summarize in a
few pages twenty-five years of one’s life. It’s a little hard to know
where to begin. At first thought, it seems an opportunity to grow
philosophical, to look upon it as a momentous occasion, another
threshold in one’s life. But somehow this doesn’t seem realistic.
There doesn’t seem to be that sharp demarcation in the future,
and while the Twenty-fifth may very well be a wonderful occa-
sion the chances are against anybody’s post-twenty-fifth life be-
ing much different from his pre-twenty-fifth. Yet it can’t help
but be a point for stocktaking. The very act of writing this sum-
mary forces one to look at the “might have beens.” What would
have happened if I'd got that job I applied for right after gradua-
tion, or if I’d been commissioned, or gone overseas on some other
assignment, or moved into another neighborhood, or... ? But
the list is endless. |

My current job is as managing editor of Advertising Require-
ments, a monthly magazine that goes to some twenty-odd thou-
sand admen. It is a satisfying job with scope and variety and chal-
lenge, but it is a long way both from the Boston in which I grew
up and went to school and from the mathematics in which I ma-
jored. In the interim, I have worked at a number of jobs that are
related by the thread of “communication,” the task of helping to
transmit ideas from one person to another, whether by written
word, the motion picture, or any of the other communications
media. These have included working for book publishers, han-
dling publicity in the theatre and motion picture field, making
training films, being a presentation editor, and writing magazine
articles on a free-lance basis. I have worked for private industry,
for the government, for a company of which I was part owner,

=

and for myself. While each has its peculiarities, the latter two

phases might be worth talking about.
[ 677 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Right after the war a group of us who had been working to-

gether in the Office of Strategic Services decided to start our own
company, We included writers, editors, designers, artists. “This
team, working together to communicate complicated situations,
utilizing all the modern audio-visual techniques, was an exciting
thing and a satisfying thing to be a part of. We felt there was a
place in private industry for such an organization. Perhaps there
was. We worked hard and tried to build something with limited
financial resources. It took a while for us to learn how to run such
a business and to turn a profit. By the time we had begun to see
black ink on our books, our individual resources had been pretty
well exhausted. What was more important, the effort of living
and working on the precipice of fiscal disaster had built up inter-
nal tensions. Just as we seemed to be over the hump the organiza-
tion blew apart with, unfortunately, a good deal of bitterness.
Nevertheless, it was one of the more satisfying periods of my lite
in many respects.

Free-lance writing is another thing, It can be a very satisfying
way of earning a living. Of all occupations it is perhaps the one
most free from outside supervision, You follow your nose, pick
your ideas from the world around you, interest an editor, and
then sit down to the actual writing, the hardest part of all. Its
main disadvantage is its complete unpredictability. A good month
can be followed by a terrible month, with neither being affected
by the effort you have invested. Articles sell more rapidly and
checks may pile up, leaving a period in which you are working
with no immediate results in the bank account. In addition, to
free lance successfully requires a great deal of self-discipline.
There are many temptations to follow your curiosity, to investi-
gate and investigate without end, to do anything to avoid sitting
down to the typewriter. When this job was offered me I balanced
its security and its regular, predictable paycheck against the stimu-
lation of free lancing, weighed the hazards of the latter, and de-
cided to accept. This moved me from Washington, where we had
lived for fourteen years, to Chicago. We are still getting settled.

During the years with my varied job situations, | have been
fortunate enough to get a great deal of satisfaction out of most
of the jobs in which I have found myself. For that, and perhaps
for other reasons, I have never intensely developed any hobbies.

[ 678 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I haven’t been in Illinois long enough to become involved in com-
munity affairs, but I expect that this will occur before too long.
In Montgomery County, Maryland, where we lived for seven
years I had been active in a number of community organizations,
serving as president of our local citizens’ association, working with
the PTA and the Cub Scouts, and other community groups. Lis-
tening to good music is a satisfying, if passive, form of recreation,
and I miss our hi-fi set which we built into our Maryland home.
It had to be left behind when we moved and has not been replaced
as yet. One of the big problems of my life, as I suppose of others
as well, is keeping ahead of increasing responsibilities. Financial
demands seem to grow at least as rapidly as financial resources,
and one never seems to get ahead. College days which seemed
such a long way off when the children were born now seem
just around the corner, and the rising cost of education is simply
appalling! Somehow, I suppose, the answer will be found, but
it is a little difficult to see where.

PETER HAROLD KOZODOY

HOME ApprEss: 95 Leland Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 9, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: David Kozodoy, Pauline Constant.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; ED.M. (Boston
Teachers Coll.), 1933.

MARRIED: Marion Adelaide Seder, Aug. 9, 1938, Brookline, Mass, CHILDREN:
David Edward, July 7, 1939; Neal, April 4, 1942; Paul, Feb. 16, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Max Kazodoy, ’29.

OCCUPATION: Teacher, head of Mathematics Department, Boston Latin
School.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of directors, Temple Emeth, 1945-57; chair-

man, Key Clubs, member board of directors, 1957-60, Boston Kiwanis;

_ General Electric Fellow in Mathematics,-1952; head of Mathematics

Department, Boston Latin School, since 1955; director, Inter-City Apart-
ments, Inc., 1955; assistant principal, Boston Central Evening High
School, since 1955; chairman, High Schools Mathematics Council, 1956.

MEMBER oF: New England and National Councils, Teachers of Mathematics;
Kiwanis International; Steering Committee for Curriculum Revision;
Rexhame Beach Community Association,

IT would seem simpler to put down a few random thoughts

[679 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

afforded considerable contrast to and some measure of relief from
daily routine.

One benefit resulting from living in this section of the country
is the possibility of meeting classmates unexpectedly. Sad to
relate, the very proximity of these classmates often precludes fre-
quent meetings with them. More and more, one comes to rely
on the telephone to renew and maintain acquantance, Perhaps
the next twenty-five years, with diminishing demands from
children and household, will yield a renewal and strengthening
of the common bond —’32.

EDWARD AUGUSTUS KRACKE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 5716 Harper Ave., Chicago 37, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Oriental Institute, University of Chicago, Chicago 37, Ill.

BORN; Jan. 22, 1908, New York, N.Y. parents: Edward Augustus Kracke,
’0q, Leonora Share.

PREPARED BY: Tutors.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: AB, 1932; A.M., 1935} PH.D. 1941.

MarrieD: Joan Hocking, June 8, 1935, Cambridge, Mass. cHILDREN: Waud
Hocking, Oct. 18, 1939; Ernesta Henrietta, Aug. 9, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Historian; associate professor of Chinese Literature and In-
stitutions, University of Chicago.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of directors, Far Eastern Association, since
1954; editor, Far Eastern Association Monographs, since 1954.

MEMBER oF: American Oriental Society; Far Eastern Association; Société
Asiatique; American Historical Association, American Political Science
Association, Harvard Club of Chicago; Harvard Club of New York,
Quadrangle Club; Chicago Literary Club.

PuBLicaTions: Civil Service in Early Sung China, 960-1067, Cambridge,
Mass., 1953; contributor to Chinese Thought and Institutions, Chicago,
in press; various articles and book reviews on Chinese institutions and
history.

VERY soon after graduation, a brief immersion in calculating

stresses and strains and drawing Petits Trianons made it clear

that for me the attractions of architecture were mainly historical,
and my real attachment was to the study of history. The dimly
glimpsed problems of Chinese civilization, and intriguing hints
that many characteristics of our own world were foreshadowed
there, had begun to attract me as an undergraduate, and I decided

[ 682 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to prepare to delve in the Chinese sources. The following eight
years were spent variously at Harvard or (with my wife) at the
Sorbonne and in China, studying and collecting Chinese materials,
Our son was born in Peiping. Then followed a year of intensive
work in Japanese, and four years with the O.S.S. and the Depart-
ment of State in Washington, where our daughter was born. In
1946 I returned to Chinese history, which I have since taught at
the University of Chicago, together with the Chinese literary
language. Apart from teaching, I try at the moment to combine
the editing of the Far Eastern Association Monographs, contribu-
tion towards an international project for a handbook on the Sung
dynasty (a kind of Chinese cinquecento), and research on the
earlier evolution of Chinese cities — which by Marco Polo’s time
approached the modern metropolis in size.

As for hobbies, even the youngest of the family has now
reached an age with little leisure. We all like, when we can, to
take part in choral singing, life on a New Hampshire farm, travel,
and dalliance with the arts (active with some of us, cheering on
the sidelines for the rest).

_ CALVIN THEODORE KRAFT

HOME AppRESS: Chiricahua National Monument, Dos Cabezas, Ariz.

BORN: Sept. 7, 1910, York, Pa. PARENTS: ‘Calvin Theodore Kraft, Mazie
Stauffer.

PREPARED AT: York High School, York, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1032. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1932; A.M. 19343 PHD,
1937.

MARRIED: June Pauline Porter, June 9, 1932, York, Pa.

OCCUPATION: Writer.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor of Political Science, William and Mary College,
January to June, 1937, Hunter College of the City of New York, 1939-
41; research associate, Royal Commission on Dominion Provincial Re-
lations, Ottawa, Canada, 1937-38; assistant professor of political science,
Kenyon College, 1941-42, Wheaton College, 1944-45.

MEMBER OF: American Society of International Law; American Political
Science Association; Canadian Political Science Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Dominion-Provincial Subsidies, 1939; articles in Christian
Science Monitor, Public Personnel Review, National Tax Association
Bulletin and American Political Science Review,

[ 683 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

FORTUNATELY (or unfortunately), a Twenty-fifth Reunion
forces one to attempt an evaluation of his past twenty-five years.
Along with concrete accomplishments there are, of course, some
regrets. But there are another twenty-five years ahead of most of
us and I hope to make up for the deficiencies of the past. Never-
theless, my life has been extremely varied and interesting and I
look back at most of it with appreciation and satisfaction. Nat-
urally, one should look forward and not be engrossed in the past.

A few weeks before our graduation, I married Pat Porter, a
former high school friend from my old home town. This was a
courageous thing to do —at such a young age and with the De-
pression in full force. But we survived four years of Graduate
School and by 1936, I was ready to enter college teaching. But
a novice had little chance in competition during those difficult
days. I did have a chance to fill in at William and Mary for a
term. Then came a break to go to Canada and do research for a
Royal commission, Wonderful people in Canada and a delight-
ful experience — including a ball given by the Governor-general.
After a brief period of unemployment [ was hired by Hunter
College of the City of New York—the administration could
think of more ways to employ a teacher at a minimum cost! For
two and one-half years, Pat and I enjoyed the various interesting
and fascinating places and things that New York City has to offer.
Then came an opportunity to go to Kenyon College to replace a
man on trial elsewhere my expectations were that he would
not return and I would continue there. Fate decided otherwise
and I found myself out of a post.

My efforts to get a commission during World War II failed
and I was rejected when I finally was drafted. About thi#time,
we decided that Cape Cod was an ideal place to live so we pur-
chased land and built a small summer house. Then I became in-
volved in directing the sailing program at a girls’ camp — this
continued for eight years. For a time, I taught at Wheaton College
in Massachusetts, but we finally decided to spend a long summer
on the Cape and winter in York, Pennsylvania, where I had
business interests.

Then the travel bug bit us and, beginning in 1947, we spent a
part of each winter in Arizona — trying a different section each
year. Eventually, our travels brought us to the Chiricahua Nat-

[ 684 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ional Monument, which is in the southeastern portion of Arizona.
We both decided that if we ever wanted to live in Arizona this
was the area — some winter weather, many trees and much sun-
shine. In time, this came to pass for we felt that Cape Cod was
too crowded and we had an opportunity to purchase some land
in the Monument. As I write this, the final work is being done
on our house and before too long we hope to settle down for
good.

I always enjoyed teaching and the association with the young,
but in time my interests veered elsewhere and I was associated
with several business ventures, including a cranberry bog. At
present, I am primarily interested in the field of writing — the
results of which still remain to be evaluated.

I have had a variety of hobbies — none of which ever became a
passion with me. As a political scientist, I smelled the poison in
the New Deal early in its development and threw my weight for
the G.O.P.— at a time, when such action was decidedly un-
popular on the college campus, especially among the faculty. I
have never been extremely religious but do maintain a tie with the
German Reformed Church.

Pat and I look forward to many happy years in this beautiful
section of Arizona; we plan trips throughout much of the inter-
esting western part of the United States; in time, we shall explore
much of Mexico and some day we shall see some portion of
Europe. I hope that in the near future there will be creative
results from my writing endeavors.

GEORGE WALDEMAR KUEHN

HOME apprEss: 14 Lawrence Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 Post Office Sq., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 9, 1909, Oak Park, Il]. parents: Alfred L. Kuehn, Olive Chacey.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932; A.M., 1939.

MARRIED: Katherine Rust, June 15, 1933, Chestnut Hill, Mass. CHILDREN:
Rosamond Rust, Oct. 4, 1934; Alfred Leonard, 2d, Feb. 24, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Chacey Kuehn, ’30.

OccuPATION: Recently resigned as executive vice-president and director,
American Creosoting Company and subsidiaries.

[ 685 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, Harvard College, 1934-39, Massachusetts Institute
of Technology, 1940-42; assistant vice-president, 1944-50, director and
vice-president, 1950-52, executive vice-president and director, 1952-56,
American Creosoting Company; member, Committee of Overseers of
Harvard University to visit the Department of Biology, 1956.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York; Chicago Club, Pen-
dennis Club, Louisville, Ky.; Rome Club, Rome, N.Y.; Downtown Club,
Boston; The Country Club, Brookline; New England Railroad Club; -
New York Railroad Club; American Wood Preservers Association,
and others.

AFTER graduation in June, 1932, I spent one year at Harvard
Business School, leaving in June, 1933. I was married that month
to Katherine Rust and we lived in Cambridge. In the fall of 1933,
I began teaching at Harvard and studying in the Graduate School
of Arts and Sciences, My field started in English and transferred
to History, Government & Economics, with emphasis on Govern-
ment & Economics. Towards the end of the 1930's, I gradually
entered more and more into business in a firm with which my
family was associated, and in 1939 entered its employ covering
its New England activities, then its relations with government
agencies, including activity in several of these agencies. I became
assistant vice-president handling its East Coast Division, then vice-
president, with these and added duties in its whole territory, cov-
ering also the South and Middle West. I later participated in
ownership of the business, became a director and executive vice-
president with offices in New York, Boston and Louisville, Ken-
tucky. A few months ago, at the end of 1956, the business was
sold, including my interest, and I am now looking for another
business.

In spite of nearly twenty years of continuous traveling, my
home has remained around Boston, although I have seen very little
of it until recently. My children went to schools near Boston, and
my daughter is now a senior at Vassar, while my son is a senior at
Rivers Country Day School.

I have not had time as yet to develop hobbies or other pastimes
outside of business, but am starting in that direction now. The
most interesting thing I have noticed is the chance to observe busi-
ness life as it is developing now against a background of academic
knowledge and habit of study and analysis which I acquired in
the 1930’s. It has many business advantages while providing a use-

[ 686 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ful and meaningful understanding of what is happening — some-

thing that may not be prevalent enough in the business com-
munity today.

ROBERT WOLFE KUHL

HOME ADDRESS: 19 Forest Lane, Scarsdale, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Allied Stores Corp., gor Fifth Ave., New York 16, N.Y.

Born: March 3, 1911, Ann Arbor, Mich. parents: Ernest Peter Kuhl, Lucy
V. Leech.

PREPARED AT: University High School, Iowa City, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1932.

MARRIED: Ruth Brewer Norton, Sept. 24, 1938, Groton, Conn, cHIpREN:
Barbara Brewer, Dec. 17, 1940; Karen Huntington, Jan. 25, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Assistant treasurer, Allied Stores Corporation, department
store chain.

MEMBER OF: Scarsdale Golf Club; Scarsdale Town Club.

HOW hard it is to realize that almost twenty-five years have
slipped away since graduation. Many of us, I know, have lived
interesting and newsworthy lives during this period. I have not.

I was without a job after graduation, so went home for a year
of postgraduate work in law and accounting at the University of
Towa. In 1933, I joined General Electric and spent three years in
Schnectady where several hundred of us worked by day and
studied at night. In 1936 I came to New York City, the city of
“opportunity.” After a brief, unhappy period in a department
store, I joined Allied Stores Corporation, a chain now having
eighty odd stores throughout the country, and have been happily
associated with it ever since. I am indeed fortunate, for while the
company is big, each unit is relatively small, with the resultant
advantages of both big and little business.

My Navy career was both short and undistinguished, lasting
from June, 1944, to March, 1946. Except for three months on a
Destroyer Escort in the North Atlantic during the winter of

1944, I was “supporting” the war effort in Navy schools and
offices. V-J Day found me at the Harvard Business School.

My leisure time is filled with “do-it-yourself” projects ranging
from redecorating to keeping the various electrical and electronic
gadgets in working order. There is homework, too. But,

[ 687 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

fortunately, my wife’s French is adequate and my mathematics is
still in working order.

All the family looks forward to vacations, which have been
spent in recent years, primarily at Westhampton. We were spoiled
in 1952, when we took a seven weeks’ trip to France and England.
This year, 1956, we are compromising with a trip to the Virgin
Islands for a week at Christmas, But nothing will satisfy us until
we can return to Europe.

HARRY RUSHWORTH KURRIE, JR.

HOME AppREsS: 2518 Top Hill Rd., Louisville 6, Ky.

BoRN: Oct. 26, 1910, Rensselaer, Ind, Parents: Henry Rushworth Kurrie,
Edna Thompson.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

MarRiED: Harriet L. Brower, Sept. 15, 1935, Fort Wayne, Ind. (died June
10, 1939); Mary Farris Chick, April 6, 1940, Louisville, Ky. cHILDREN:
Henrietta B. Aug. 8, 1936, Susannah E. June 2, 1939, Harry Rush-
worth, 3d, Oct. 24, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

MAX KUTZER

HOME appreEss: 304 Hurlburt Rd., Syracuse 3, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 509 State Tower Bldg., Syracuse 2, N.Y.

BORN: Feb. 13, 1911, Boston, Mass. paRENTS: George Kutzer, Ida Harris.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932; M.D., 1936.

marrieD: Emma R. Browne, July 4, 1940, Washington, D.C, caitp: Lynne
Allyson (daughter), May 1, 1956 (adopted),

OccuPaTION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Internists Society, chairman, Research Com-
mittee, American Heart Association, professor of clinical medicine,
New York State College of Medicine, Syracuse; attending physician,
Memorial, University and Veterans Hospitals, Griffis Air Force Base
Hospital, Rome, N.Y; chief of medical staff, St. Joseph’s Hospital,
Syracuse.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club; American College of Physicians, American
Heart Association; American Medical Association, New York State
Medical Society; Onondaga County Medical Society; Syracuse Academy

[ 688 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of Medicine; American Board of Internal Medicine, Medical Dis-
cussion Group; Pocahontas Society; Lafayette Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: ““The Cardiac in Industry,” October, 1953; “Splenomegaly,”
1952, New York State Journal of Medicine.

IT hardly seems possible that twenty-five years have elapsed
since I left Harvard Yard. At that time the antics of the twenty-
five-year class impressed me as being carried on by a group of old
fogies, trying to act like kids. I can now understand how the
felt, trying to convince their egos and their audiences that they
were still youthful. Proof of this in my own instance is the fact
that I still refuse to give up and manage to play third base on the
doctors’ softball team twice a year at our clambakes with the
pharmacists and house staffs of the various hospitals. I have yet
to come up with a sore arm or Charlie horse and am the oldest
player by age and service on the team.

After leaving college, I went to Harvard Medical School and
was graduated in 1936, following which I interned at Peter
Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston, This was followed by a two-
year residency in internal medicine at the University Hospital at
Syracuse University Medical School, and this was followed by
a one-year research project in the Department of Medicine and
Bacteriology. In 1941 I entered private practice and also joined
the affiliated unit of the Medical School, the Fifty-second General
Hospital. We were called to active duty in September, 1942, and
went overseas to England in January, 1943, where I remained
until June, 1945. I was returned to the States and closed out my ~
military career in Texas at the Brooke General Hospital as a
major in the medical corps. Upon return to Syracuse, I began
the private practice of internal medicine in May, 1946. I was ap-
pointed associate professor of clinical medicine at the Medical
School and resumed my teaching responsibilities on the wards of
the various hospitals, In 1956 I was appointed a professor of
clinical medicine at the State University College of Medicine at
Syracuse and appointed attending physician at the Memorial
Hospital and University Hospitals, and also appointed chief of
Medical Service at St. Joseph’s Hospital in Syracuse,

My spare time has been filled with various committee meetings,
both in civic and professional organizations. At the present time,
Iam vice-president of the local Internists’ Society, anew organiza-

[ 689 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

tion formed in 1956, and chairman of the Research Committee of
our newly-formed American Heart Association.

We have no children of our own and have adopted a little girl,
born in May 1956, whom we have named Lynne Allyson. Prob-
ably the nearest she can get to Harvard is Radcliffe.

Bridge is my favorite winter pastime. [ have taken up golf
seriously in the last several years, since my wife, who happens to
be a natural golfer of championship calibre, beats me handily all
the time. I manage to play twice a week, and since I have de-
veloped the philosophy that the exercise and sunshine are good for
me, I have enjoyed it much more as compared to the time when
I was concerned about the score. As a result of this hobby, we
take our vacations in the spring and go to Pinehurst, North

Carolina, where we golf to our hearts content, still able to do
thirty-six holes per day, another evidence of convincing my ego
that I am still young and vigorous.

At the present time, I am looking forward to the T'wenty-fifth
Reunion and plan to attend, the good Lord willing.

BORIS IGNATIUS LACHNO

HOME apprEss: 23 Lehigh Ave, Roselle, Wilmington 5, Del.

orrick appress: Atlas Powder Co., Central Research Laboratory, New
Castle, Del.

BORN: Feb, 1, 1909, New York, N.Y. parents: Ignatius Ivan Lachno, Anna
Michelovna Morris.

PREPARED AT: Scranton Central High School, Scranton, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: $.B. IN IND. CHEM., cum laude, 1932.

MarriED: Mary H. Moyer, Nov. 27, 1937, Tamaqua, Pa. cuitp: Jane Marie,
Sept. 11, 1938

HARVARD BROTHER: Nicholas Ignatius Lachno, °30.

occupaTION: Supervisor of chemical research pilot plant.

MEMBER oF: American Institute of Chemical Engineers, American Chemical
Society; P.T.A.

IN interviewing recent chemical engineering graduates I can’t

help recalling the scarcity of jobs which existed when our class

graduated in 1932. 1 was fortunate in landing a job in a recently

organized chemical research department with which I have been

associated ever since. My career started in Tamaqua, Pennsy!-

[ 690 ]

———————ie__N

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

vania, where after serving as a laboratory assistant, then as an
analyst, I found the challenge I was looking for in helping to
organize a pilot plant section. In 1947, the Atlas Powder Com-
pany, with whom I was associated, transferred their chemical re-
search facilities to Wilmington, where I had charge of a new
and expanded pilot plant section. To me there is nothing so excit-
ing as taking a process from the laboratory and nursing it, after
many headaches and setbacks, into a commercial process.

While in Tamaqua, I met and married the girl who was to
share my trials and tribulations, put up with long and unpredict-
able working schedules, postponed vacations, broken social en-
gagements, and still be able to come forth with the right word of
encouragement when the going became tough. Our daughter,
Jane, our pride and joy, is now a vivacious freshman at the Uni-
versity of Delaware, where she is majoring in education. In this
respect she is following her mother’s footsteps. However, I take
responsibility for her keen sense of humor which sometimes drives
her mother to despair. Although we were sure that Jane was an
unspoiled child, last year we took in an eighteen-year-old Swedish
girl under the American Field Service foreign exchange student
plan. The year she spent with us as one of the family was a source
of great enjoyment to us and, we feel, a happy experience for
Britta. We can sincerely recommend this type of broadening and
satisfying adventure to any family. |

I feel my greatest source of relaxation to be my basement work-
shop which I have built up over the years. An avid “Do-it-your-
selfer,” I tackle anything from cabinet work, house remodeling,
equipment repair, Hi-Fi, to designing and building a deep freezer
—the latter to the despair of my patient wife. We enjoy social
bridge, an occasional session of bowling and, of course, TV.

Aside from keeping up with technical journals and my various
hobbies, I stay in touch with current events by reading Time
from cover to cover.

[ 691 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

FRANCIS ALEXANDER LACKNER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 862 Prospect Ave., Winnetka, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cherry-Burrell Corp., 427 W. Randolph St., Chicago, III.

BoRN: Dec. 29, 1910, Winnetka, Ill, parents: Francis Alexander Lackner,
’o2, Clara Kirchhoff.

PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932.

MarriED: Nancy Burley, Aug. 18, 1943, Winnetka, Il. cumpren: Francis
Alexander, 3d, April 17, 1947; Thomas Wells, June 15, 1949; Charles
Dodge, July 30, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Herman Herbert Lackner, °34.

occuPATION: Manager of advertising and commercial research, Cherry-
Burrell Corporation, manufacturer and distributor of machinery, equip-
ment and operating supplies for dairy, brewing beverage and food
plants and of specialized farm equipment.

MEMBER OF: Middleford Tennis Club, Northfield, Ill; Harvard Club of
Chicago; Association of National Advertisers; National Industrial
‘Advertisers’ Association; American Marketing Association, etc.

PusLicaTions: Many articles for company publications; textbook on dairy
processes.

THIS is the first time since leaving college that I have even
slightly envied those active men who rush from one important
function to another. Tomorrow I shall again wonder why they
do it... tonight I realize it is very helpful when writing an
autobiography.

A procession of inconsequential jobs (not positions) during the
thirties led in 1940 to Cherry-Burrell Corp., where I have re-
mained. During the war I was in the U.S. Coast Guard, from
ensign to lieutenant, and spent three years aboard a 125-foot anti-
submarine ship. I had every job from watch officer, commissary
officer, navigator and executive officer through captain. Al-
though my ship was not credited with any submarines, not even
in my stories to my sons, we had our moments. At any rate, I
spent an uneventful though interesting three years cruising in all
parts of the Caribbean, once or twice getting south of ‘Trinidad
or north as far as Baltimore. No activity of a militarily note-
worthy nature, but ample opportunity to learn some seamanship
and to observe a small group of men in cramped surroundings
over a long period of time. Upon my return, and at my sugges-
tion, I organized a department in my company to perform market

[ 692 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

research. The activity continues, somewhat expanded and by now
well recognized.

In December, 1955, the advertising manager resigned. Sug-
gestions for the filling of the vacancy were solicited —I again
suggested. I have added these duties to my existing functions.
We have, I believe, found this combination, in an industrial equip-
ment company, to be quite fruitful. I have found the advertising
work to be exacting, the hours often quite long, the weekends and
evenings often encumbered, the responsibilities greatly increased
— and I continue to enjoy it tremendously.

My hobbies, with three small sons, are largely what you would
expect. Repairing bicycles and toys, going swimming or skating,
fixing the plumbing, putting up shelves, and puttering in the
basement occupy my time. At odd moments I upholster furniture,
build cabinets or benches — or sometimes even read a book. I
find that I am regarded somewhat oddly because I ride a bicycle
to and from the station instead of being driven. I happen to like
this very mild form of outdoor exercise, and it saves much time.

Vacations we have spent in all parts of the country — first
without children and now with them. Rarely have we been to the
same place twice, and each one we like better than the last, and
to each one we promise to return.

Politically, I am one of those independent voters who some-
times, but rarely, find themselves voting for a Democrat. Presi-
dentially, however, my record is clean. I have for many years
been an usher at our church, my wife teaches in the Sunday
school, and we attend many of its activities. In this, as in other
things, we swell the throng.

NATHANIEL HUNTER LADD

HOME appress: 5 Gothland St., Quincy 69, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Aetna Insurance Group, 40 Broad St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 1, 1909, Haverhill, Mass. parents: Arthur Shirley Ladd, Eliza-
beth Wellington Hunter.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Hazel L. Bleakney, Oct. 1, 1949, Newton, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Insurance; automobile underwriter.

[ 693 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

MEMBER OF: Association of Casualty and Property Underwriters; West
Newton Neighborhood Club.

A LATENT interest in music finally started the sequence result-
ing in my marriage on October 1, 1949. Having made a change in
employers early in 1947, I soon discovered one of my new co-
workers was a church organist and choir director. Once the in-
troduction was accomplished, my bachelor days were numbered.
So, now the organist’s husband occupies a seat among the basses
in her choir. Ours is a happy marriage; in fact, one of the events
in my life to which I “point with pride.”

Having received my livelihood from the insurance industr
ever since we were cast unwanted upon the business world, I lack
the comparisons that would enable me to say insurance is much
more fun than the legal profession or being in banking. But
that I do find it fun is attested by my having stayed with it.
The tendency of a sizeable segment of the public to look upon
an insurance application in much the same light as a tax return
offers an underwriter an opportunity for a little battle of wits.
Since a thorough investigation of every new applicant is too costly
a procedure, the task is to guess which ones to suspect. Con-
sequently, there is a sort of smug satisfaction when your hunches
are fruitful and when the percentage of your good hunches rises
over the unproductive ones and the company’s income is increased
because of the greater premium resulting from true information.

If | were to name the hobby that holds the greatest fascination
for me, I'd have to put down one in which I now participate but
little: travel. My yen to be on the move, visit new places, see new
scenes, find out what they do and how they live in other locali-
tles apparently was manifesting itself when as a four-year-old I
used to invite myself for winter rides on the milkman’s pung.
During our first “graduate” years, I sampled several of the
numerous coastwise boat trips then available and, in the summer
of 1937, had a brief visit to France and England with my fresh-
man year roommate, Henry Atherton, Uncle Sam sponsored
some highly satisfactory trips during my time in his service
during World War II. But now, with friend wife’s professional
commitments being for fifty weeks of the year, I have to be
content with an occasional automobile safari, the vicarious bits

[ 694 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

now and then to be had via the movies, and once in a while a
day’s trip offered by Railroad Enthusiasts, Inc. The program of
the latter organization, in addition to the short journeys, some-
times includes visits to yards and shops for a firsthand view of
what makes a railroad tick.

I hope the preceding paragraph does not suggest that I am un-
happy in my surroundings, or seeking Utopia. Far from it. It is
quite an inspiration to be where the number of 1932 men is such
that an account of some classmate’s latest contribution to the
common good is fairly frequent newspaper fare.

JOHN GENSO LAFERTY

HOME ADDRESS: 606 Hastings Rd. Towson, Md.

OFFICE appREss: U.S. Dept. of Labor, Washington, D.C,

BoRN: Nov. 9, 1909. PARENTS: John Edward Laferty, Anna Genso.
PREPARED AT: Gettysburg Academy, Gettysburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1928-1929.

CARL DAVID LAINE

HOME ADDRESS: 711 Post St., San Francisco 9, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Walton N. Moore Dry Goods Co., San Francisco, Calif.

BORN: May 3, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Carl Oscar Laine, Olga Marie
Leeman.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High & Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932, DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.B.A., 1934; C.P.A. (Rhode
Island), 1944.

MARRIED: Frances Margaret Worcester, Feb. 6, 1939, Cambridge, Mass. (di-
vorced 1956). cuttp: Carole Anne, Sept. 21, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Roland Oscar Laine, °47.

occupaTion: Accountant, Walton N. Moore Dry Goods Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of directors, Instituto Cultural Dominicano-
Americano (Ciudad Trujillo), 1952.

MEMBER oF: American Association for the Advancement of Science; Na-
tional Association of Cost Accountants; California Society of Certified
Public Accountants; American Institute of Accountants; Harvard Club
of San Francisco; World Affairs Council of Northern California.

[ 695 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

JAMES WALLACE LAIST

HOME ADDRESS: 14 Glenside Terr., Upper Montclair, N. J.

OFFICE ADDREss: Pennie, Edmonds, Morton, Barrows & Taylor, 247 Park Ave,
New York 17, N.Y.

porN: Aug. 20, 1910, Anaconda, Mont. parents: Frederick Laist, Rosalba
Murphy.

PREPARED AT: Anaconda High School, Anaconda, Mont.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREES: S.B. IN IND. CHEM. cum laude, 1932;
S.M, IN CHEM. ENG. (Columbia Univ.), 1933; 11.3. (Fordham Univ.),
1936.

marrieD: Mildred Grinbeck, June 11, 1938, Little Falls, N.J. carmpren: Ju-
ditch L., Jan. 20, 1940; Frederick Grinbeck, July 19, 1942; David Wallace,
Nov. 2, 1949.

occupaTioN: Patent attorney, member of firm, Pennie, Edmonds, Morton,
Barrows & Taylor.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Library Committee, American Institute of Mining
& Metallurgical Engineers, 1936-48; member, 1940-44, chairman, 1942,
Montclair Budget Research Council; member, since 1949, vice-chairman,
1951-55, chairman, since 1955, Montclair Planning Board; trustee, Mont-
clair Community Hospital, 1949-55; chairman, Employment Commit-
tee, New York Patent Law Association, 1954-55, trustee, member, En-
gineering Index, Inc., since 1956.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Mining & Metallurgical Engineers; Amer-
ican Society for Metals; American Patent Law Association, New York
Patent Law Association, Harvard Club of New York; Beach Haven
Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Volume 2, on Copper, Silver and Gold, of Comprehensive
Inorganic Chemistry.

FOLLOWING graduation I spent a year at Columbia Engineer-
ing School where I received an S.M. in Chemical Engineering.
In 1933 jobs were as scarce as they had been a year earlier, so
when I was offered a chance to became a patent lawyer with the
firm of Pennie, Davis, Marvin & Edmonds, I decided to try it. As
a result, I entered Fordham Law School (night) in the fall of
1933, and received an LL.B. in 1936. With luck I got by the
June Bar exams and in due course, thereafter, a perverted chemical
engineer was sworn in as a member of the New York Bar.

The best (and best looking) secretary at Pennie, Davis, etc.,
was named Mildred Grinbeck. On June 11, 1938, she changed her
name to Mrs. James W, Laist and we've lived ever since in Mont-
clair, Our first child, Judith, was born on January 20, 1940, and

[ 696 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

our second, Frederick Grinbeck, on July 19, 1942. Our third,
David Wallace, arrived quite a bit later, on November 2, 1949.

In October, 1942, I left Pennie, Davis to work as production
manager for Electrons, Inc., of Newark, New Jersey, for the
duration. When the war ended in 1945, I returned to Pennie,
Davis and the practice of patent law. Soon thereafter the firm
name was changed to Pennie, Edmonds, Morton, Barrows &
Taylor, its present name, and since 1940, I have been a member
of the firm.

One of my earliest outside activities, after finishing school, was
that of chairman of the Library Committee of the American In-
stitute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers. In that capacity,
I was a member of the board of directors of the Engineering
Society’s Library from 1936 to 1948. In 1940 I became active in
civic affairs in Montclair, which led to participation in a munici-
pal budget study group organized as the Montclair Budget Re-
search Council, Later, in 1949, I was appointed to the Montclair
Planning Board and became its vice-chairman in 1951 and chair-
man in 1955. Also, in 1949, I became a member of the board of
managers of Montclair Community Hospital, but I had to give up
this activity in 1955, when the Planning Board work became more
time-consuming.

My professional activity for nearly twenty years has been
mainly concerned with metallurgical and chemical patent matters,
mostly for the Anaconda Company. Through that company, I
received a request, about 1948, to write a chapter on the metal-
lurgy and chemistry of copper, silver and gold for a proposed
new text to be entitled, “Comprehensive Chemistry.” The writ-
ing seemed to go on and on — and when it was ended the chapter
had turned into a whole volume, and the text into a set of eleven
volumes. |

Looking back over the main events and activities, professional
and otherwise, of the last twenty-four years, it seems strange that
the one feature common to them all (with the exception — per-
haps — of my literary opus) is that they have been outside the
field for which I consciously prepared as an undergraduate. It
is quite a tribute to the educational processes that somchow, un-
consciously, I nonetheless became enough prepared to cope with
them as they have come to pass.

[ 697 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

BRUCE JAMES LAMB

HOME abpress: 1237 Gilbert Rd., Meadowbrook, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Aluminate Corp., Chicago, Ill.

BORN: Sept. 9, 1910, Mt, Vernon, N.Y. parents: Thomas White Lamb,
Elizabeth Jung.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

marriep: Nell Poe, March, 1942, Dallas, Texas. cuttpreN: Gloria Elizabeth,
1942; Bruce James, Jr., 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Gordon Lamb, M.8.A., ’50.

occupation: Eastern district manager of sales and service, National Alumi-
nate Corporation of Chicago, chemical business.

MEMBER OF: T.A.P.P.1; AS.ME.; Huntington Valley Country Club; Cam-
den Yacht Club; Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of Phila-
delphia.

MY first eight years after graduation were spent in accumulating
a vast amount of experience that was hardly worth the effort.
These were the days when I planned to be a great editor and
ended up as a CBOB (College Boy Office Boy) at Time, Inc.
From here I traveled to Boston, where I represented Time as space
salesman for New England. From space selling to advertising
agency selling is just a jump and I made it in one leap. From here
on my situation gradually deteriorated until 1940 when in desper-
ation I shook myself free of advertising, Boston, and a lot of other
things and headed for Houston, Texas.

As far as ] am concerned everything good that you have heard
about Texas is true — or was true when I was there. The sun is
brighter, the sky is bigger, the rich are richer, the poor are poorer,
and the girls are more lovely. I married one. From my headquar-
ters in Houston J traveled all over the state. In my travels I in-
cluded Louisiana, Arkansas and Oklahoma. But after two years
of this idyllic existence, a formal invitation from the President
introduced me to a nether region of Texas which I had never be- .
fore seen. This did not completely shake my confidence in Texas,
as it was but a comparatively short time before my host delivered
me to an even worse swamp in the State of Alabama. From here
I wandered to more civilized areas of the country as a guest of
the U.S. Army: the University of Illinois, nine months; New
Orleans, nine months; and finally one year in sunny lower Cali-

[ 698 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fornia. Upon my arrival home I received my greatest blow, Two
days after reaching the State of Nirvana, my employer wired that
he had just the right opportunity for me in Philadelphia. I have
been in the East ever since.

In my business I have turned out to be a chemical engineer,
rendering service to many industries. This may not be amazing
to you, but whenever I consider that I am a graduate of Romance
Languages I have to look twice at our day-to-day operations.
But it has been fun. In politics, we are a house divided. My good
wife staunchly maintains her support of the Democrats. This is
undoubtedly an inherited characteristic and apparently recessive
since it has not developed in the children, Our votes are regularly
a standoff, but we are looking forward to the day when my two
young Republicans will add their support and allow our family
to be represented in affairs of state. My children are growing up
— we play golf, some tennis, and spend whatever time we can
on our small sailboat. We cruise Long Island Sound, the Chesa-
peake, or back and forth. Bruce, Jr., is a big help and a wonderful
sailor, Gloria works hard at helping and is coming along fine.
My first mate (Nell) carries her share of the burden when we
go sailing together and is wonderful company.

The past twenty-five years have been rewarding and filled with
memorable experiences. It has been fun to be alive.

WALTER BENEDICT LANE

HOME appress: 20 Pelham Terr., Arlington, Mass.

BORN: July 17, 1908, Arlington, Mass. parents: Michael Francis Lane, Mary
Goodwin.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREE: 8.B. cum laude, 1932.

JOHN ELIOT LARKIN

HOME ADpRESS: 11 Westwood Rd., West Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 998 Farmington Ave., West Hartford, Conn.

Born: Aug. 31, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: William Harrison Larkin, Jr,
Cordelia G. Fessenden.

PREPARED AT: New Haven High School, New Haven, Conn.

[ 699 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932}; LL.B., 1936.

marRiED: Nancy Easley, July 9, 1938, Morristown, N.J. CHILDREN: John
Eliot, Jr, July 3, 1940; William Easley, May 23, 1942; Robert Fessen-
den, Aug. 26, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Harrison Larkin, 3d, °24.

occupation: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Member advisory board, Family Service Society of Hartford,
director, West Hartford Taxpayers’ Association; editor, West Hart-
ford Rotary Club’s Spotlight; member parent council, Kingswood
School; Eaglebrook School, member schools committee, Connecticut
Harvard Club.

MEMBER OF: American, Hartford County and Connecticut State Bar Asso-
ciations; Sigma Alpha Epsilon Alumni in Greater Hartford (secretary);
Hartford Club; Hartford Golf Club, Harvard Club of New York;
Edgartown Yacht Club; Morristown Club.

AFTER graduation from Law School I went to the big city to
take employment. Following several years with General “Wild
Bill” Donovan’s firm, I joined the legal department of one of his
clients, American Cyanamid Company. I was just getting my
bearing there when the war involved me in four years of Navy
duty in New York, San Francisco, and Honolulu. This duty, al-
though much of it was highly interesting, caused me to deter-
mine that I would work for myself. After a review course of ten
weeks and bar examinations in New Jersey, I obtained some valu-
able training in a couple of firms in that state before trying it on
my own here in Connecticut. [ had two experiences I shall never
forget in the course of my postwar employment in legal offices,
these instances representing opposite poles in the field. I worked
for almost a year assisting Professor Austin Scott in the prepara-
tion of a brief and accompanied him to the argument before the
New York Court of Appeals, Over five million dollars was in-
volved, and Scotty’s presentation was on a level warranted by it.
This was a most stimulating experience for me. By way of con-
trast, I once spent a couple of weeks carefully assembling author-
ities on a close question only to have the senior partner, who had
hastily picked up the brief between cases in court, argue the
wrong side of the question. Needless to say, the judge, when pre-
sented with this unusual unanimity among counsel, decided the
case on the spot without troubling to read my brief and before I
could launch my employer on his own refutation.

Through Classmate George Ray I became interested to some

[ 700 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

extent in the oil business and am now a director of Texolina Oil
Company in Oklahoma City. I also travel west on occasion as a
result of being a limited partner in Top O’ the World Farms, an
undertaking in irrigation and large scale farming in the San Luis
and Sunshine Valleys, on either side of the New Mexico-Colorado
line. Water for our irrigation comes down from the Sangre de
Cristo Mountains which tower to a height of over 14,000 feet
alongside us and accumulate snow in winter to build up our water
table in spring.

By way of hobbies, Nancy and I have been greatly influenced
by our three boys. I took up skiing again over five years ago,
going into Hannes Schneider’s Ski School to get into the swing
of it again. The boys started right in class there at North Con-
way, and we have all been through the advanced class at Mont
Tremblant recently. John, Jr. this week took fourth place in the
junior slalom at the state ski meet. Bob also leaves me far behind
on the trails. The boys have involved me in considerable tennis,
swimming, and sailing. Bill has won a number of trophies at
tennis. Last summer the boys kept us active by talking us into a
12,000-mile motor tour of the West, in the course of which we
drove up the Rocky Mountains from New Mexico to British
Columbia. Nancy got so she did not cover her eyes on the hairpin
turns at high altitude, although we passed two cars which had
gone over the edge, one of them just ahead of us. I still get con-
siderable pleasure out of music; a group of us who played in vari-
ous college and other bands at one time or another play for our
own amusement occasionally. Once or twice a month we also get
talked into playing for affairs in which one of us may be inter-
ested, such as Rotary Club parties, political rallies, and the like.
We have played all over the state, including one TV appearance.
The past year I have also played occasionally with the Eli Chosen
Six, an undergraduate dixieland band. Wish I looked more like
an undergraduate at times. This May I am taking a group of my
contemporaries to the Hunt Club in Wilmington, Delaware, for
our second musical weekend there.

At the Hartford Golf Club I have served on the committees for
the New England tennis championships and the national squash
tournament. In winter I play paddle tennis several times a week.
My foursome includes two former national champions who are

[ 7or ]

a S

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

now looking more for exercise than competition, As a hint to
how long they have played tennis, one of them has a set against
Tilden to his credit before he lost to him in the New England
finals. I feel a bit younger on the paddle court than in the Fli Six.
Tomorrow afternoon, however, I may not feel quite so young
as I interview a prospective member of the Class of 1961 at
Harvard!

MARTIN GLOVER LARRABEE

HOME ADDRESS: 1907 South Rd., Baltimore 9, Md.

OFFICE AppREss: Johns Hopkins University, Dept. of Biophysics, Baltimore
18, Md.

BORN: Jan. 25, 1910, Boston, Mass. paRENTS: Ralph Clinton Larrabee, °93, Ada
Perkins Miller.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B, ci laude, 1932; PH.D. (Univ. of
Pennsylvania), 1937.

marriED: Sylvia Kimball, Sept. 10, 1932, Danvers, Mass. (divorced 1944);
Barbara Belcher, March 25, 1944, Springfield, Mass. cHILDREN: Benjamin
K,, June 11, 1940; David B., March 4, 1945.

occupaTion: Associate professor of biophysics, Johns Hopkins University.

MEMBER OF; American Physiological Society; The Physiological Society
(England); Sigma Xi; Appalachian Mountain Club.

Pustications: About two dozen research papers on neurophysiological prob-
lems.

IN the fall of 1932 I went to the University of Pennsylvania to
start graduate studies in biophysics, receiving a Ph.D. degree in
1937. Starting while still a graduate student, I progressively be-
came an established member of the staff and a research colleague
of the director of the Johnson Foundation, a research institute at
Penn. A sojourn in New York (1940-41) was spent as assistant
professor of physiology at Cornell Medical College, followed
by a return to Penn, where I was advanced to associate professor
of biophysics in 1947. With the same title I became a member of
the new Biophysics Department formed at Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity in 1949, where I have since remained.

Throughout this moving around has run a continuity of interest
in certain problems in neurophysiology and in the development
of methods for solving these problems, matters too technical to

[ 702 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

expound here. Considerable pleasure has come from working
with visiting scientists from many places, not only in the United
States, but elsewhere in the world (including Germany, Switzer-
land, England, Mexico and Japan) and from seeing former col-
leagues and students achieve a measure of success. Research has
always been my major interest and activity, Occasional teach-
ing has been not only fun but is perhaps essential to a research
man, (Even if it does not divert him from his particular rut, at
least it gets him high enough on the side to see what is going on
in the rest of the world and whether his own track is going
any where! )

“Extra-curricular activities” in recent years have mostly con-
sisted of family vacation trips for mountain climbing — or rather
“hill walking,” as the New England variety is called. In 1955,
some hills in Colorado and Wyoming were added to our list, and
last summer several passes and one small hump in the Velais region
of Switzerland. That trip was the most fun yet, our first journey
abroad, precipated by an invitation to a scientific meeting in
Denmark, by other meetings of interest in England and Belgium,
and by the discovery that it was the last year that son David
could travel half-price by plane.

HENRY LIVINGSTON LASH

HOME ADDRESS: 227 Via Anita, Hollywood Riviera, Redondo Beach, Calif.

OFFICE apprEss: Los Angeles Trade-Technical Junior College, 1646 S. Olive
St., Los Angeles 15, Calif.

BORN: Dec. 4, 1910, New York, N.Y. PARENTS: Samuel Lash, Anna Living-
ston,

PREPARED AT: Kelvin School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1932; A.M. (Columbia
Teachers Coll.), 1933; s3B. In Ls. (Univ. of Southern California), 1938.

MarriED: Loretta Pauline Williams, Aug. 7, 1948, Los Angeles, Calif.

OCCUPATION: Librarian.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Los Angeles Junior College Library Association,
1955-56; chairman nominating committee, Junior College Section, Amer-
ican Library Association, 1955-56.

MEMBER oF: American Library Association, California Teachers Associa-
tion; Associated Teachers of Los Angeles; Harvard Club of Southern
California.

[ 703 ]

\

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional articles in Library Journal and other publications
in the fields of librarianship and education.

SITTING here in my hotel room behind Buckingham Palace, my
belly full of fine roast beef and delicious English ale and beer,
life seems very good and wonderful—as indeed it should at
this moment when my wife and I are on the first lap of what
already appears to be a marvelous sabbatical year in Europe. We
came over on the French liner, Liberte, than which it seems to
me there ain’t no finer when it comes to good eating and drinking
and living. We bought an Austin A-50 here in London and as
soon as we get it back from the body and fender shop we'll tour
the Continent. (Some bloke driving a huge cement lorry wasn’t
watching where we were going and smashed us but good on
Grosvenor Road.) We'll remain for the longest time — four
months — in Nice where we shall attend classes at Aix-Marseille.
We plan to end up in Copenhagen and fly home over the pole to
Los Angeles in August, 1957. No wonder I feel so good right
now! The dreary days of 1932 seem very far away.

I remember —to avoid the depression for at least a year I
grabbed a scholarship that was offered me by Teachers College,
Columbia, in 1933 and got my A.M. But the depression caught
me and held me in its cold, hard grip for a couple of years. In
1936 I came west to take a job as high school librarian in Greeley,
Colorado, The following year I took a degree in library work at
the University of Southern California, worked in the Los Angeles
Public Library for a couple of years and then became librarian of
California State Polytechnic College, San Luis Obispo, 1940-42.

In 1942 I enlisted in the Air Corps, went to O.CS, in Miami
Beach in 1943, and was in the Training Command right here in
this country for the whole war. Right at the very end I was sent
overseas and ended up a captain on Guam, 20th Air Force Head-
quarters in 1946. When the war was over, I came back to Los
Angeles and ever since have been working for the Los Angeles
City Schools as librarian of Trade-Technical Junior College.

Southern California is the nation’s junior college capital. We
have seven of these two-year colleges run by the city school
system right here in Los Angeles alone. They are the greatest
way I know of to promote the democratic principle of equality

L 704 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of educational opportunity for all American youth. Trade-Tech is
the second largest junior college in Los Angeles. We have almost
10,000 day and night students. I’m so sold on this type of edu-
cation that I willingly act as press representative of this school.
The job is rewarding in more ways than one: e.g., last year I had
Anita Ekberg come pose for some figure studies in our photog-
raphy department. Naturally this made four columns in eve
paper in town. Photography being a hobby of mine, I shot three
rolls of her myself!

It was at Trade-Tech that I met my wife. Loretta was a local
dress designer who came to school to teach costume design. When
she first walked into the library, I took one look and then per-
sonally had her fill out a form. I asked for her name, address,
marital status — and, of course, telephone number. We love the
beach and recently bought a small house with a lovely ocean view
just this side of Palos Verdes Estates. Loretta and I are both
Democrats. We're both renegades from religious orthodoxy.
We love to lie on the warm sand and worship the blue sky and
the sun and the sea.

If any of you fellows are out our way, we'd love you to drop
in and take a look at our color slides. We ought to have some
pretty good ones after this trip: France, Spain, Italy, Germany,
the Benelux countries, Scandinavia . . . and, of course, by special
request I’ve got those Anita Ekberg shots!

ROBERT BARRETT LAWSON

HOME ADprREss: 6440 S.W. 46th Terr., Miami 43, Fla.

OFFICE AppREss: Dept. of Pediatrics, University of Miami School of Medicine,
Miami, Fla.; Jackson Memorial Hospital, Miami, Fla.

BORN: Aug. 24, 1911, Oakland, Calif. parents: William Ellsworth Lawson,
Florence Alice Shera.

PREPARED AT: Foxboro High School, Foxboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.D. 1936.

MARRIED: Elsie Chatterton Earle, June 9, 1939, Winnetka, IJ]. cur~pren: Ed-
ward Earle, Aug. 6, 1946; Richard Lougheed, Feb. 22, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Edward Shera Lawson, ’24; Wilbur Lougheed Lawson,
"31.

occupation: Professor of pediatrics and chairman of department, University

[ 705 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932
of Miami School of Medicine; pediatrician in chief, Jackson Memorial
Hospital, Miami, Florida.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant professor of pediatrics, 1940-45, associate professor
of pediatrics, 1945-50, professor of pediatrics and director, Dept. of
Pediatrics, 1950-54, Bowman-Gray School of Medicine, Wake Forest
College; professor of pediatrics, School of Public Health, University of
North Carolina, 1940-42; associate in pediatrics, Duke Medical School,
1940-42; pediatric consultant, North Carolina State Board of Health,
1940-42; professor of pediatrics and chairman of department, Univer-
sity of Miami School of Medicine, since 1954; Pediatrician in Chief,
Jackson Memorial Hospital, since 1954; chief editor, A.M.A. Journal of
Diseases of Children; secretary, board of trustees, American Board of
Pediatrics; member board of governors, Playtex Park Research Institute;
member advisory board, American Child Guidance Foundation.

MEMBER OF: American Pediatric Society; Society for Pediatric Research,
American Academy of Pediatrics; American Medical Association, Mi-

ami Harvard Club; Riviera Country Club; Coral Gables Country Club,
Coconut Grove Sailing Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in the scientific pediatric literature dealing
primarily with infectious disease in children, virology, poliomyelitis,
etc.

MY life since graduation has been a very interesting one, but one

restricted to preparation for the profession of medicine followed

by a career in academic medicine.

The academic air about Harvard has been responsible for the
fact that there are more full-time teachers in medical schools
who have graduated from Harvard than any other school. This
is undoubtedly one of the factors leading me into the same direc-
tion. When I finished medical school I felt that I had been in and
around Boston long enough, so I “went West” to Rochester, New
York, then to Johns Hopkins and back to Rochester for my
hospital training. While at medical school I had decided to
specialize in pediatrics primarily because of the tremendous
satisfaction derived from helping a small child get well. Since
then I have learned there is a lot more to child care than care of
the obviously sick, but the satisfaction of helping children have a
better preparation for life as adults is still a rewarding one.

It was while looking for an academic connection that I heard of
Wake Forest Medical School in North Carolina, being expanded
as the Bowman-Gray School of Medicine. Despite or possibly
because of my youth, I was able to join the faculty as one of a
group of young men most of whom were just out of residency

[ 706 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

training, who became the nucleus for the faculty of that new
school when it moved to Winston-Salem from Wake Forest in
1941.

By virtue of my being the only full-time man in the Department
of Pediatrics, 1 was declared to be in a position essential to the
war effort and, therefore, did not join the uniformed services.
When the Korean War came and we had more than one-man
departments, it seemed time to make up for this by volunteering
for active duty. However, a trip to Washington at this point was
met with the statement that “The Army wants young men,” so
I hobbled back home at the advanced age of forty years to the
“peaceful” life of helping run a struggling medical school.

In 1954 a new prospectus was presented when the University of
Miami gave me an opportunity to help organize their new medical
school. There are few chances to be in on the birth of two new
medical schools, and one might well wonder about the sanity of
one who would try it twice. However, the challenge was great,
the outlook for the University of Miami is a splendid one (now
that it is getting over its earlier “Country Club” reputation), and
the sailing is definitely superior to that in western North Caro-
lina! So we moved again and are now getting quite acclimated to
life in the tropics.

DAVID LAY

HOME ADDRESS: 120 Clark Hill Rd., Milford, Conn.

BORN: May 27, 1910, Stratford, Conn. parents: Charles Downing Lay,
Laura Gill.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory Country Day School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

MarrRieD: Ann Elizabeth Brown, June 25, 1938, New Haven, Conn, CHILDREN:
David, Jr., Oct. 4, 1939; Patricia Ann, Aug. 14, 1941.

occuPATION: Methods Engineer.

[ 707 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

ROGER CHAMBERLAIN LEE

HOME appREss: Route 3, Liberty, Mo.

oFFice Appress: Clay County Lumber Co. Inc, 115 S. Main St., Liberty, Mo.

BORN: Feb, 22, 1910, Minneapolis, Minn. parents: Roger Isham Lee, Caro
Chamberlain.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

marrieD: Louisita Moffett, Sept. 5, 1933, Kansas City, Kans. CHILDREN:
Thomas Moffett, Feb. 7, 1938; William Francis, July 10, 1940; Frances
Candace, Nov. 5, 1943.

occupation: President, Clay County Lumber Company, Inc.; Cattle feeder
and farmer.

OFFICES HELD: County Committeeman, Republican Party, 1951-52; Club
Leader, Clay County 4-H Club, 1952-54; vice-president, 1953-54, presi-
dent, 1955-56, Clay County Soils and Crops Conference; director, Clay
County Farm Bureau, 1955-56.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Tool Engineers.

NEW YEAR'S Resolution No. 1 — Don’t put off that biography
any longer —so on January 30th, here goes.

First job out of college working wheat harvest in Kansas for
future in-laws. $1.00 per day and room and board. Sold wheat
for 2814 cents per bushel. Then to work in the home office of
Northwestern National Life Insurance Company in Minneapolis
at $100.00 per month. Decided enough to get married on, Com-
pany gave me a ten percent cut in pay two weeks before wedding.
Got married anyway and have never regretted it. And so with
that start we rocked along the thirties working and playing hard
without much money in our pockets, Skung in the winter; fish-
ing, swimming and traveling in the summer. Hobby, model rail-
roads.

Came the war. Got a job making precision gage blocks. The
company I worked for had never seen a gage block until the war
and neither had I, but if someone else could make them so could
we and by golly we did, Went thru the war as boss of sixty
women. Women in industry! Temperaments all over the place,
but they sure put out beautiful work.

After V-J Day went into sales promotion to try to sell what I
had been making for four years. Everything went along fine with
plans for a new home developing when the blow came. Minne-
apolis sales office transferred to Des Plaines, Illinois, We moved

[ 708 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with an open mind, but after a year a family meeting was held
and we unanimously voted to get away from Chicagoland.

At the same time we decided to go to work for ourselves and
of all things chose farming. There were many reasons for this
choice, but the most important was that in farming we felt that
we could work and play as a family. This has proved true. In
spite of floods, drought, bugs, wind, heat and cold we’ve had nine
years of a good life. Last June, my brother-in-law, Tom Moffett,
’31 (Business School, ’33) and I bought the local lumber yard.
It looks as though it will turn out well for us.

I’ve still got my hair, though more salt than pepper. Have
gained fifteen pounds and wear bifocals. Our children are our life
and trying to keep up with them has kept us in pretty good
shape. Our oldest, Tom, is a freshman at Missouri School of
Mines. Bill is a junior at Shattuck School and just may end up
at Harvard. Candy, our teen-age daughter, will be in high school
next year and already we've had a hint of what that means.

What with farming and a lumber business and the boys just
home from school it looks on this cold, bleak day in January, as
though I won't be in Cambridge next June. I hope I can make it,
but if not, greetings to my friends in 1932.

RICHARD BERTHELOT LEMANN

BORN: Nov. 5, 1911, New Orleans, La, Parents: Isaac Ivan Lemann, Stella
Hirsch.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

pirp: Aug. 13, 1933, Montgomery, Ala.

AFTER graduation Lemann entered Harvard Business School and
completed the first year. He was killed in an automobile accident.

++ ROBERT PRITCHARD LETT

BORN: May 11, 1912, Brookline, Mass, parents: Isadore Lett, Hilda Sommer.
PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass,
YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B, 1932(42); S.M., 1933(42).

[ 709 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

marrteD: Dorothy Davidson (died 1945); Louise Margolis, Feb. 4, 1956,
CHILD: Barbara, 1953.
pizp: Feb. 21, 1956, Svracuse, N.Y.
wwow: Mrs. Robert P. Lett, 753 James St. Apt. 421, Syracuse 3, N.Y,
ROBERT LETT was an associate professor of electrical engineer-
ing at Syracuse University, During the war he had taught pre-
radar and electronics at Cruft Lab at Harvard to officers of the
Army, Navy and Marines. At the end of the war he took a posi-
tion as electronics engineer with the Naval Research Laboratory
in Washington, D.C. While in Washington, he was working
toward a doctorate at the University of Maryland. His hobby
was magic and tournament bridge, and he was a member of the
Society of American Magicians. He was survived by his second
wife and his daughter, Barbara.

ARTHUR PAUL LEVACK

HOME appreEss: 219 Bronx River Rd., Yonkers, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fordham University, New York 58, N.Y.

Born: Dec. 16, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Arthur Joseph Levack, Marie
Agnes St. Onge.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 19323 A.M,
1934} PHD. 1941.

marriep: Helen Gertrude O’Brien, Aug. 28, 1939, New Haven, Conn.
CHILDREN: Ann Marie, Sept. 11, 1940; Brian Paul, April 6, 1943.

occupation: Associate professor and chairman, Department of History, Ford-
ham University.

OFFICES HELD: President, American Catholic Historical Association, 1951,
US, Catholic Historical Society, 1953-54; institutional representative,
Troop 102, Bronx Council, Boy Scouts of America.

MEMBER oF: American Historical Association.

pusLications: Burke’s Politics, co-editor, New York, 1949; A History of the
United States, co-author, New York, 1951; occasional articles and book
reviews.

IN 1936, towards the close of a one-year assignment as a teaching
fellow at Amherst College, I was invited to join the faculty of
Fordham University. It is one invitation I have never regretted
accepting. The quiet, dignified air of this metropolitan institu-
tion, its atmosphere of academic freedom, and the pleasant as-

[710]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sociation with faculty colleagues (several of whom were trained
at Harvard) have provided me with an enjoyable professional
career. While administrative duties have consumed too many
of my hours to permit an impressive record of publications, I feel
that teaching graduate students and especially undergraduates has
been my most rewarding experience. However greatly a student’s
record in advanced specialized studies may influence his subse-
quent career, it is his undergraduate years, it seems to me, which
contribute most to his life as a human being.

Another invitation which I shall always cherish accepting was
to a Yale (!) party where I met the girl I married. Other than
during quadrennial national campaigns when she manifests an
unrestrained Democratic enthusiasm, our family life has been
placid and happy. By way of explanation, I must add that after
having voted twice for Franklin Roosevelt I saw the error of my
ways and ever since my conversion have been a staunch Republi-
can. Our daughter, Ann, is now a junior in high school, where
her principal activities are dramatics and Glee Club. Brian, in the
eighth grade of our parish school, also has talents which cannot
have been inherited from his father; he is an excellent tennis
player, a superb swimmer, and a Star — well on the way to be-
coming a Life— Scout. Though scouting is no preventative of
grey hairs, I, as every father for whom it has been a joint father-
son enterprise, have found it a wonderful prescription for keeping
a youthful perspective combined with grand fellowship and real
enjoyment. It will probably be a sad day when I feel that our
children have so grown up that I can avail myself of that long
postponed sabbatical year for study in Europe or even the pros-
pect of travel after so many pleasant summers along the Con-
necticut shore.

ABRAHAM SIDNEY LEVENSON
SEE Appendix.

[grr]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

ROBERT RAPHAEL LEVIN

HOME appress: 146 Montclair Drive, West Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 249 Sisson Ave. Hartford, Conn.

BoRN: Dec. 30, 1910, Springfield, Mass. parents: Samuel Mendel Levin,
May Seltzer.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; M.D., 1936.

MARRIED: Virginia Helen Smith, Sept. 29, 1940, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Douglas Michael, Feb. 9, 1944; Joan Smith, July 23, 1949.

occuPATION: Physician, specializing m internal medicine. .

OFFICES HELD: Delegate from Connecticut State Medical Society to Connect-
icut Nutrition Council; president, Connecticut V.A. Medical Society,
1956, member of staff, Mount Sinai Hospital, Hartford.

MEMBER OF: Hartford Medical Society; Harvard Club of Connecticut.

GRADUATED from Harvard Medical School in 1936. Was an
intern and then resident at Beth Israel, Sydenham and New York
Postgraduate Hospitals in New York City. After a short period
of private practice in New York, I entered the U.S. Army and
served from 1942 to 1946. I took part in the invasion of Kiska, in
the northern Pacific; then our hospital unit was moved to the
ETO for sixteen months. During this time I collected four battle
stars and the Belgian Croix de Guerre,

After leaving the Army we decided to move out of the big city
of New York, and back to New England, where we settled in
West Hartford. My office is just a few miles away in Hartford,
where I specialize in internal medicine. Boating and fishing with
the family, and gardening in West Hartford’s red clay are my
main hobbies. My special interest is in the field of human nutri-
tion.

+ FREDRIC LEWIS

Born: Nov. 19, 1909, New York, N.Y. parents: Louis Samson Lewis,
Martha Altman.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932; M.D. (Long Island Medical

Coll.), 1936.
marriep: Florence Black, July 25, 1940, New York, N.Y. curio: Caroline.

DieD: Oct. 3, 1945, New York, N.Y,

[712]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER receiving his M.D. degree and spending five years in vari-
ous hospitals, Lewis was called to active service in the Medical
Corps with the rank of captain. He served as flight surgeon with
the Army Air Forces and was stationed in Panama. In 1944 he
retired from the Army and opened his office in Stamford, Con-
necticut, where he was an associate on the staffs of the Stamford
and St. Joseph’s Hospitals. He was survived by his wife and
daughter.

GEOFFREY WHITNEY LEWIS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: American Embassy, Karachi, Pakistan.

BORN: May 20, 1910, Brookline, Mass. Parents: Geoffrey Whitney Lewis,
’05, Edith Louise Lincoln.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, West Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1932.

MarrieD: Elizabeth Merrill Locke, Dec. 21, 1936, Northampton, Mass.
CHILDREN: Margaret Griswold, June 4, 1939, Geoffrey Whimey, Jr,

Aug. 13, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Whitney Lewis, ’35.

OccUPATION: Foreign Service Officer, Class 2; Counselor for Political Affairs,
American Embassy, Karachi, Pakistan.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Roxbury Latin School, 1937-41; chairman, board of
trustees, Burgundy Farm Country Day School, Alexandria, Va., 1948;
colonel, U.S. Army Reserve.

MEMBER OF: Military Government Association; Karachi Gymkhana.

OUTSIDE the Karachi sun is blazing down, boosting the ther-
mometer to ninety-five although it is late October. In the distance
I can hear the rhythmic tinkle of bells on the legs of camels who
are pulling, with an air of disdain, heavily-laden carts through
the streets of the town. My wife is writing the weekly letter
home, my daughter is listening to the record player and Corky,
our cocker spaniel, is protecting us from the Karachi cats. How
in the world did we get here?

It really started back in 1934 when, in a fit of military ardor, I
joined Battery A, rorst Field Artillery, Massachusetts National
Guard, as a private. That was the year after I had come back to
Cambridge, from a very pleasant year in Trinity College, Cam-
bridge, England, whither a kindly Harvard Administration had
sent me as Charles Henry Fiske Scholar. All through the follow-

[713]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Governor Dummer Academy, after a couple of years at Sidwell
Friends School in Washington.

Sometimes we have wondered what our life would have been
like if I had never joined Battery A or if we had gone back to the
quiet academic life after the war. We have usually done this after
a frustrating bout with the inevitable government red tape. Dur-
ing the days when Senator Joe McCarthy was engaged in his evil
campaign to destroy the confidence of the American people in
their government we even thought seriously of leaving the State
Department. But we have always concluded that the opportunity
to participate, even in a small way, in the evolution of United
States foreign policy, the chance to work directly for the welfare
of the country certainly makes up in full measure for the frustra-
tions, the uprootings and the modest pay of government service.
We've had a full life so far and we expect to have one that is even
more stimulating as the powers that run the Foreign Service shift
us about the globe.

NOAH LEWIS

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Salisbury Rd., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Glamourette Fashion Mills, Inc., Quebradillas, Puerto Rico.

BORN: Jan. 22, 1911, Boston, Mass. PARENTs: Samuel Hyman Lewis, Jennie
Allen.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Frances Spiegel, March 12, 1937, New York, N.Y. cuttpren: Ellen
Ann, Dec. 4, 1941; Stephen Henry, March 26, 1944; Jennifer Jane, May
14, 1951.

occupation: General manager, Glamourette Fashion Mills, Inc., manufac-
turers of full-fashioned sweaters.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Austin Manufacturing Company, 1935, Ipswich,
Inc., 1946-48; partner, Jolibar Hosiery Company, 1936-52; president,
New England Wholesale Dry Goods Association, 1944~50, Gremlins,
Inc., 1949-56.

SUMMING up my life since leaving Harvard, I would say that,
on the whole, the years have been good ones. In the course of
marriage, raising a family, and a career in the business world, one
ought to gain in maturity, develop a better sense of values and

[716]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

find much to enjoy in associations with family and friends. This,
I like to think, has happened to me during these years,

My family life has been richly rewarding, although at times
quite hectic and baffling. Friendships made at Harvard have worn
well through the years, and much of the humor and by-play of
those days still persists like a hardy perennial.

Until recently I spent most of my time in the New England
area, my business activities being mainly in the wholesaling and
manufacturing fields. At present I am engaged in work which
keeps me in Puerto Rico a good part of the time. I find it a very
pleasant experience. These are a fine people, making a brave and
mighty effort to raise their economic level —and it surely did
need raising — in a project aptly described by the Puerto Rican
government as “operation bootstrap.” This brings me up to the
present and looking forward to our Reunion with much pleasure.

SHERMAN LELAND LEWIS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 42 Stanton Rd., Darien, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Haskins & Sells, 67 Broad St., New York 4, N.Y.

BORN: Oct. 3, 1910, Methuen, Mass. Parents: Sherman Leland Lewis, 'o5,
Helen W. McAllister.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S8.B. cum laude, 1932; c.P.A. (Ohio),
1938. ,

MARRIED: Dorothy Booth, May 18, 1935, Cleveland, Ohio (divorced 1946);
Betty Fransburg, 1947. CHILDREN: Sherman Leland Lewis, 3d, Jan. 5,
1940; Carolyn B., April 9, 1943; Michael L., Oct. 27, 1947; Mary S.,
Nov. 24, 1949.

occuPATION: Manager, Management Advisory Services, Eastern Region,
Haskins & Sells, certified public accountants.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Canaan, Conn.; Darien Golf Club.

NOT finding a compelling professional “call” or a particular
liking for “trade,” I have, through an evolution of job experience,
successfully (?) straddled the dilemma horns in my present job —
i.e. directing the management consulting work for the clients of
a large professional firm of public accountants (by virtue of my
variegated experience and temperamental make-up). The con-
stant challenge and change is stimulating and the opportunity to

[7:7]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

“do good” is rewarding. The attendant inevitable frustrations are
presumably good for the soul.

Fortunately, the time demands of this work permit a fair amount
of time for a large and boisterous family, sicuated on a Connecti-
cut hill near the ocean, The four children now attend four differ-
ent schools, affording us ample community contacts and a wide
variety of child friends—ages seven to seventeen. (College is
approaching apace.) Remaining time goes to Grandma, kitty,
commuting, New York City life, exurban pursuits, limited travel,
vacationing and sports, with occasional reading, TV-ing and socia-
bility among the liberal spirits not caught in the web of “executive
life,” or “social success,” or anachronistic political views.

DONALD W. LIGHT

HOME appRESS: Groton, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESss: Pepperell Braiding Co., Inc. East Pepperell, Mass.

porn: Nov. 17, 1911, Norton, Kans. parents: Lee Roy Light, Grace Kell.

PREPARED AT: Beaverhead High School, Dillon, Mont.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: 8.B., 1932; A.M. (Stanford Univ.),
1933; DR. ING, (Technician Hochschule, Dresden, Germany), 1934
marriep: Helen Downes, April 9, 1938, Upper Montclair, N.J. CHILDREN:
Beryl Downes, June 26, 1940; Donald W., Jr., Jan. 21, 1942; Nancy

Elizabeth and Marilyn Grace (twins), May 18, 1945.

occupation: President, Pepperell Braiding Company, Inc., and The Mc-
Graw Manufacturing Company; consultant.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Xi; Alpha Chi Sigma; Rotary International, American
Chemical Society; American Ordnance Association, Boy Scouts of
America; Groton Republican Club; Groton Outing Club.

PuBLICATIONS: Articles in various scientific publications and trade journals;
thirteen U.S. Patents plus several British and Canadian patents.

TIME has two dimensions when well filled. Today is very short
but yesterday was long ago, That this should be a Twenty-fifth
Anniversary Report seems incredible, By 1932 chemistry did
not prove to be the entree to a business career that I had visualized.
Opportunities to continue schooling looked better and by 1935
1 was a bonafide research man. I had had a rewarding year at
Stanford University as a laboratory instructor and nearly two
years as an Exchange Fellow in Germany, during a most interest-
ing period in history. The laboratory and development work that

[718]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

followed was interesting and evolved into a specialization in paper
and textile technology. Much of my work was in technical sales
service and culminated in my being technical director for a paper
company. The prospect of having my own business had always
haunted me and four years ago I took the plunge. I am at the
helm of a small textile braiding mill and find the independence,
diversity and challenge I counted on are all there. I still do some
technical consulting and flirt with the rdéle of entrepreneur.

Family-wise, we felt we had a very compact unit when we had
four youngsters under five. We still feel the same, but not in a
physical sense, for only the twins are now home. Beryl, finishing
her junior year at Northfield, is an attractive and competent
young lady, whom we admire, Donald, at Exeter now, is fasci-
nated by all the world around him and we find him an entertain-
ing and lively young fellow. Marilyn and Nancy are just broach-
ing the teen age and leave us with never a dull moment.

We have gravitated to country living, enjoying both winter
and summer outdoor sports. It is good fun having youngsters old
enough for family tennis, skiing jaunts that start from our own
back door, and the like. Then there is the usual array of town
activities that go along with small community life: Boy Scouts,
Rotary, P.T.A., Republican Club, etc. We attend the Congre-
gational Church — rather irregularly, I must confess.

I have not kept track of many of the Class and am looking
forward to June with keen anticipation.

JAMES EDWARD LIGHTLE, JR.

HOME ApprEss: 606 E. Market St., Searcy, Ark.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 208%; N. Spring St., Searcy, Ark.

BORN: June 19, 1911, Searcy, Ark. parents: James Edward Lightle, Margaret
McKinney.

PREPARED AT: Searcy High School, Searcy, Ark.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREE: S.B4 1932.

MARRIED: Marion Foster, Sept. 27, 1941, Little Rock, Ark. cnn: Alice
Foster, April 11, 1954.

occupation: Attorney, individual general practice.

OFFICES HELD: City Attorney, Searcy, Ark., 1938-42; Assistant U.S. District
Attorney, Little Rock, 1939-42; captain, Intelligence Service, U.S. Air

C719 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932
Force, 1942-45; State Representative, 1947-48; director, various local

corporations.
MEMBER OF: Searcy Country Club; Kiwanis Club.

SPENT four years after graduation in 1932, as tax auditor with
Rock Island Railroad, with time out for some travel abroad, prin-
cipally the Orient. Attended University of Arkansas Law School
from 1936 to 1938, after passing Arkansas Bar examination in Jan-
uary, 1936. Began active practice of law at Searcy, Arkansas, in
1938, and have continued to date. Actively engaged in farming
and other business interests. Principal hobbies: horses, bird-shoot-
ing and fishing. Spent three years (1942-45) in U.S, Air Force
Intelligence Service; fourteen months overseas with 8th Air Force,
in England; rank of captain.

ALEXANDER LINCOLN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Meredith, N.H.

BORN: May 25, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Alexander Lincoln, ’95, Eleanor
Ames.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; A.M., 1938.

marrieD: Elizabeth Kitchel, May 17, 1937, Englewood, N.J. CHILDREN: Elea-
nor Ames, April 2, 1941; Alexander, 3d, Dec. 1, 1943; Robert Kitchel,
Feb. 27, 1946; Margaret Kitchel, July 19, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Ames Lincoln, °35.

OccUPATION: Tree farmer; writer.

PUBLICATIONS: Comments and brief articles in various magazines, bulletins,
and scientific journals, formerly, chiefly concerning natural history,
biology and conservation, and lately, on the scientific viewpoint, espe-
cially in the area of conflict between modern science and traditional

religion.
BECAUSE of the interest I had long had in natural history,
biology, conservation and the outdoors, the prospect of passing
most of my life in or near the city lacked appeal for me in 1932.
So with an assist from the depression, which made it easier to
major for a while in spending less rather than in earning more, I
settled temporarily in New Hampshire. During 1937-38 I did
graduate work at Harvard and during 1939-40 studied agriculture
at the University of New Hampshire. 1 then acquired a farm in
that state and embarked on a venture that became chiefly dairy

[720 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

farming. When a decade of the struggles of dairying proved to
be about enough, I retired from active agriculture and found
more time for tree farming, a far less demanding exercise in applied
biology that I seldom allow to interfere with other pursuits.

During 1952-53 I dabbled some in psychology at Boston Uni-
versity. This subject I regarded as a part of biology that included
the study of reasons why individual organisms, such as people,
have the thoughts and reactions that they do. By then I had
decided there is a certain futility in men’s efforts to deal with the
end results of their differences in outlook; clashes between those
whose happiness as they experience it requires them to concentrate
on one aspect of a situation — sometimes to the apparently total
exclusion of all other aspects — and those who are occupied with
a different aspect cannot, often, be satisfactorily settled. It might
be more effective to get at the underlying causes. One possible
cause, largely of cultural rather than of biological origin and
therefore relatively easy to correct, perhaps, seemed especially
interesting. “hat was the lack of rapport even in institutions of
liberal education between the principles and implications of the
modern science taught there and the more philosophical beliefs
and dilemmas forced, with varying degrees of rigidity and harsh-
ness, upon the attention of the student.

To an extent that is appalling even at Harvard — where science
is not only taught but made — this chasm gapes; at Harvard, at-
tempts to harmonize modern science with theological and other
philosophical preferences seem to have been submerged, these
past few years, by the thunderings of essentially traditional
theology. In the days of the early Greeks, philosophy was hardly
distinguishable from the science of the times. Both were virtually
a single effort to understand the universe. But educators strive
now to impose philosophical notions that trace back to ancient
cosmological principles and concepts, even though in general the
foundations of these in the science of thousands of years ago have
since been utterly discarded; and a hostile climate awaits any
philosophical sprout from the modern science now favored. In-
stead of a unity of philosophy and science, we have in some re-
spects a “bodyless” philosophy and a separate and “soulless”
science. Under these conditions, religious convictions often seem

[721]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

to spring not so much from a familiarity with some branch of
science as from an ignorance in one or more branches.
Man's knowledge, imperfect though it often is, penetrates ever
farther into the mysteries of the atomic nucleus, into the com-
plexities of the human brain, and out across the galaxies. Though
he does not attempt to conceal this knowledge from his children,
his educational institutions shower down upon them — my chil-
dren included — theological nonsense whose inconsistency with
this knowledge is astounding. The objective seems to be to pre-
serve belief in a system of traditional absolutes (“good,” “evil,”
“truth,” etc.), no matter how incongruous it may be with a world
gone largely relative in which differences of outlook reflect a wide
diversity of background. A good intellectual umbrella continues
to be indispensable for the student.

I have lately been principally occupied with an effort to prepare
for publication, unlikely though this may prove for a non-special-
ist, a partial synthesis based on up-to-date biological inf ormation.
For hobbies I still maintain various outdoor interests, including
tree farming. A new hobby might be my attending of scientific
conferences, where experts (not I) in a single field of basic re-
search try to reach an understanding as to some aspect of the uni-
verse —and do not resort to a theological explain-all — or where
specialists from different fields of science tangle with religionists
as a means of generating light — and sometimes conclude that a
principal cause of disagreement is the different usages of the word
employed. As for travel, by now I seldom find it convenient or

necessary to leave New England or to journey much farther than
to the Harvard libraries.

THOMAS LINDER, JR.
SEE Appendix.

ROBERT WHITNEY LITTLE

HOME apprEss: 68 School St., Weston 93, Mass.

orrice appress: New England Matual Life Insurance Co., 501 Boylston St,
Boston, Mass.

[722]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

porN: Dec. 7, 1908, Brookline, Mass, PARENTS: Theodore Walworth Little,
’or, Catherine Whitney.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

mMarrigED: Elizabeth T. Emery, March 31, 1939, Sewickley, Pa. crrpren:
John Whitney, Dec. 22, 1942; Robert Emery, Sept. 19, 1945.

occupaTION: Assistant manager, Settlement-Option Department, New Eng-
land Mutual Life Insurance Company.

MEMBER OF: Weston Golf Club.

FOLLOWING graduation there was a short period of unemploy-
ment, followed by six months with Fire Companies Adjustment
Bureau, terminated in the fall of 1933 as fires were no longer
profitable. I went to Texas and worked for Humble Oil and
Refining Company in the oil fields of West Texas and eastern
New Mexico for eighteen months and then returned to Boston.
I went to work for New England Mutual Life Insurance Company
on a temporary job and am still there as assistant manager of
Settlement-Option Department in the home office. In March,
1939, I married Elizabeth T. Emery and we moved to Weston
where we still live. Two wonderful boys, fourteen and eleven,
complete our family.

During the war I organized the Auxiliary Fire Department in
Weston and subsequently went into the Coast Guard Temporary
Reserve when Uncle Sam would not have me otherwise. I re-
tired as ensign, U.S.C.G.R.T., but am still active in the Coast
Guard Auxiliary as courtesy motor boat examiner. When Korea
came up, the town fathers asked me to head up Communications
in Civil Defense. As a result I became a ham radio operator and
have a Jot of fun with it. I am still in Civilian Defense. I am glad
to be living the suburban life in a nice town with a good family
and hope to travel some when the boys get older.

PHILIP GARNER LIVERMORE

BORN: Dec. 17, 1909, New York, N.Y. PARENTS: Philip Walton Livermore,
’o3, Fanny Iselin.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

PHILIP GARNER LIVERMORE has been ill for many years.
[ 723 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

ROBERT LIVERMORE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Beaver Pond, Beverly, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 19 Congress St. Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 16, 1909, Boston, Mass. parENTS: Robert Livermore, ’oo, Gwen-
dolen Marion Young.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark's School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

marrigepD: Barbara C. Belmont, Nov. 5, 1938, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Gwendolen Belmont, April 7, 1941; Robert, 34, July 23, 1944; Thomas
Harvey, Jan. 31, 1948; David Belmont, Sept. 30, 1950.

occupation: Vice-president, secretary and director, Hunneman & Com-
pany, Inc., real estate.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Children’s Hospital and Medical Center, since 1946;
president, Wildlife Conservation Inc. 1950-56, vice-president and di-
rector, Boston Real Estate Board, 1956; member, Board of Natural Re-

sources, Mass., since 1956, Eastern Division chairman, 1938-42, trustee,
National Ski Patrol System.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club, Boston; Manchester Yacht Club; Ski Club
Hochgebirge.

I] HAVE never discovered whether my rather vague ideas of a
career, even at graduation from college, were helped or hindered
by the prevailing economic situation at the time. Having aimed
generally, however, in the direction of mining engineering after
the example of my father, I found myself as a geologist’s assistant
in 1933 mucking, mining and sampling prospective mines from
California to British Columbia. Such a roving outdoor life was
most appealing, but I soon discovered that the future in that field
depended greatly on graduate schooling.

As a temporary solution, on returning Fast, I listened dubiously
to Ed Wendell’s conservative tales of the real estate business and
soon found myself renting $35-apartments for Douglass & Hunne-
man in Boston, After a promising first year of real estate, in
which I remember reporting a total income of $432 to the Internal
Revenue Department, I was so drugged by my prospects that I
_have remained there temporarily for twenty-three years! During
that time an extraordinary series of varied interests seems to have
conspired to make the distant pastures less and less inviting.
These, combined with the vicissitudes of “growing-up” with a
young firm, and the compatibility of the four of us who are now
its proprietors, kept me “in the groove” at Icast fi guratively.

[724]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Ever since one December day in 1930 when Brad Trafford
and Bob Balch, ’31, lured me off skiing and produced a German
copy of Wunder des Schneeshus, that sport assumed slightly
more than an extra-curricular activity status. It eventually resulted
in a chance to represent the U.S.A. at the winter Olympics with
A. Hitler as host in 1936, Tempted frequently afterward to make
a career in some form of the ski business, I am happy that I did not,
for I feel that I am still able to pursue the sport with the verve and
uncomplicated enjoyment of an amateur. My intense interest,
however, caused me to help Minot Dole in the formation of the
National Ski Patrol System from its beginning in 1938. Naturally,
while skiing, I met the girl who was to be my wife and have
fortunately been able to keep one “christie” ahead of her since —
but I am about to give up to our two eldest children!

In 1942, having previously enticed many of my friends into the
87th Mountain Infantry Regiment through the National Ski Patrol
System, I could hardly head for Quonset or the Air Force, so off
to basic training in Texas, Fort Benning, a trip to Kiska, and
eventually Italy with the roth Mountain Division. V-E Day
found us on Lake Garda with two captured German Army ware-
houses — one filled with ski equipment, the second with cham-
pagne and brandy!

Since the war, I have returned happily to the “humdrum”
pursuits of real estate, skiing, upland bird shooting, and being
educated by our four children! As one whose primary business
duty is listening to and guiding the salesmen of the firm on more
or less steady courses, I find only too little time left to give to
civic work in the field of conservation and the many new family
interests that six of us continue to acquire.

EDWIN ALLEN LOCKE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 855 Rosemary Rd., Lake Forest, Il.

OFFICE appress: Union Tank Car Co., 228 N. LaSalle St., Chicago 1, Ill.

BORN: June 8, roro, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Edwin Allen Locke, M.D., ‘ot,
Elizabeth Gilmor Ferguson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932, DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1932.

mMarRieED: Dorothy Q. Clark, June 16, 1934, New Canaan, Conn. (divorced

[725]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

1952); Karin Marsh, April 18, 1952, Washington, D.C. cHmpren: Eliza-
beth Eliane, April 11, 1935; Edwin Allen, 3d, May 15, 1938; Benjamin
Clark, June 21, 1942.

HARVARD SON: Edwin Allen Locke, 3d, ‘60.
HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Ferguson Locke, °35.

occupation: President, Union Tank Car Company, owning and leasing of
tank cars.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, China Medical Board of New York, Inc., since 1947;
director, since 1953, president, since 1955, Union Tank Car Company,
director, Refiners Transport & Terminal Corporation, since 1954, Fed-
eral Home Loan Bank of Chicago, since 1954, Harris Trust & Savings
Bank, since 1955; chairman, Citizens’ Committee, University of Chicago
Campaign, 1955-56; director, trustee of Chicago Chapter, National Mul-

tiple Sclerosis Society; vice-president and director, Executives’ Club of
Chicago.

MEMBER OF: Glen View Club, Ill.; Metropolitan Club, Washington; Chicago
Club; Harvard Clubs of New York and Chicago; Council of Foreign

Relations, Inc., N.Y.; Racquet & Tennis Club, N.Y.; Economic Club of
Chicago.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional speeches on war production and the Middle East
situation.

TO have to be suddenly autobiographical about the last twenty-
five years is not an easy job, for me, at least. At this distance the
details fade and, in any event, I much prefer looking ahead.

In 1932, the low point of the depression, the Chase National
Bank looked good to me. I had a strong desire to work in Europe
for two or three years, no matter what the circumstances, so as to
learn from that side all that I could about things international,
especially in the banking and commercial fields. Would the Chase
agree to let me join the staff of their Paris office on a dollar-a-year
basis?

When they said yes, I was delighted. Although I had no means
of support, visible or invisible, there was only myself to maintain
and I was sure, with I suppose the confidence born of youth and
Harvard, that somehow I could make out. But, and I say this
almost regretfully, I never had to prove it. Two days before I
was due to sail, the Chase proposed my joining a special class
which they had just decided to establish for training people for
their foreign branches, And of course I accepted.

After some eight months of training in New York, I was at
last on my way toa job in Europe. My first post was Paris. Many

[726 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

things were to be had there for the learning, but perhaps the most
instructive was a recurring series of runs on the French franc
with all they revealed of foreign exchange operations and vagaries
of money.

An assignment in London followed. I was now beginning to
realize that the world was getting rapidly smaller and that less and
less could large affairs be determined in the light of conditions
within a single nation, no matter how large and powerful that
nation might be. This great international trade center offered
almost unique opportunities in those days to witness the financing
of foreign commerce in all its phases. But a friend of mine — from
Yale, it needs hardly to be said — considered that there was quite
another reason behind my transfer. “After your two years in
Paris,” he said, “and four in Cambridge, obviously the bank is
sending you to London to learn English.”

Back in New York with the Chase in 1936, I settled down to a
somewhat prosaic existence, spending several years in credit
analysis work and a short time in the new Petroleum Department.
The experience was solid and useful. But my principal memory
of those years is of hot debates with friends over the European
scene. It concerned me that they were not more alert to the in-
exorable approach of war.

When the war came, I had a rude awakening, not because of
the war, certainly, but because the Naval Air Force, where 1
hoped to see the earliest action, found me an old man at twenty-
nine or thirty, not worth training as a pilot. While I was still
brooding over that one, an offer came in the fall of 1940 to go to
Washington to help develop a priorities system for scarce tools
and materials. ‘This was to be for ninety days, I was told. It was
six years and ninety days before I got back to private business
again.

These were intense and fascinating times. I worked for the
series of government agencies that culminated in the War Pro-
duction Board, where I was an assistant to its chairman, Donald
Nelson. It was my privilege to see close up the amazing achieve-
ments of American production, which were felt the world round,
and I shall always feel profound respect for the thousands of
businessmen in Washington and all over the nation who so whole-

[727]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

GEORGE EDWARD LODGEN

HOME appRESS: 198 Maple St., Malden, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Sherin & Lodgen, 80 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 10, 1910, Malden, Mass. parents: Elick Lodgen, Bertha Feuer,

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; LL.B., 1935.

Mmarrigp: Pearl Kotzen, Nov. 4, 1934, Malden, Mass. cHItpreN: Susanne

Jane, Sept. 21, 1940; Emily Louise, April 21, 1946.

occupation: Lawyer; partner in firm of Sherin & Lodgen.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1936-§2, director, since 1952, International Institute
of Boston, Inc.; director, Boston Family Society, 1943-52, James Jack-
son Pumam Children’s Center, 1946-52, Jewish Vocational Service,
1946-51, Mystic Valley Civic Music Association, since 1955; president,
Massachusetts Bay Lodge, B’nai B'rith, 1943; instructor, Law and Social
Work, Smith College School for Social Work, since 1943; chairman,
Group IV Budget Committee, United Community Services, Boston,

since 1952; counsel, member executive committee and advisory com-
mittee, Civil Liberties Union of Massachusetts; member, Malden School

Committee, since 1952; member, Legislative Committee, Massachusetts
Association of School Committees, 1953-54.

MEMBER OF: Boston Bar Association; Massachusetts Law Society; American
Judicature Society; National Probation and Parole Association, United
Prison Association of Massachusetts; Masons; Massachusetts Conference

of Social Work; Temple Tifereth Israel, Malden; Kernwood Country
Club.

pusLications: “The Delinquent Child in Pennsylvania Courts,” Mental
Hygiene, 1936; “Survey of Juvenile Probation in 65; Counties of Penn-
sylvania,” Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, 1935 (co-author).

THE autobiographical mood is not easily come by. The need to
reminisce must be stronger than the fear of self-examination, and
all this must coincide with the time to write. Having waited too
long and to no avail for the Muse to seize time by the forelock, a
sense of duty, if not of inspiration (plus numerous Goad cards),
impels this tardy look backwards.

Harvard Law School followed college. We were married in
my third year at the Law School, and 1935 saw me admitted to
the Bar of Massachusetts, These were not the rosy days for law-
yers, for the Great Depression was not only reflected but magni-
fied in the law, and jobs were scarce and unpaid. An exciting
course in criminology with Sheldon Glueck in my senior year at
college and assorted summers of work in the ficld of penology
gave me a start in a related direction. I accepted a position as

[730 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

director of a research project in juvenile delinquency. But the
uncertainty of continuing funds for the project led me after a
year to look to the law as a profession, and I went to work as staff
attorney for the Boston Legal Aid Society in its domestic rela-
tions section. Two years of almost daily court appearances and
hundreds of domestic relations clients convinced me of the futility
of treating social and emotional problems by the application of a
poultice of legal logic, a subject on which I am willing to hold
forth at the drop of a hat, as well as to drop the hat. During
the period of solo law practice which followed, I accepted mem-
bership on the boards of several social agencies and in 1943 started
to teach two courses in law and social work at the Smith College
School for Social Work. This I continued to do for two days a
week for five weeks each summer. The product of this effort has
been some convictions on the inadequacy of the law and the
teaching of the law in the personal and domestic relations areas,
and a plethora of manuscript which I promise myself I shall one
day complete, footnote and publish.

In 1945 I formed a law partnership in which my contributions
have been mainly in the trial, tax and domestic relations fields.
I season my work with a sometimes too liberal sprinkling of activ-
ity in community projects including election to our school com-
mittee. As to the latter, I find some of my greatest satisfactions
have come from some small contributions I have been able to
make to the educational system, such as the institution of a pro-
gram for gifted children.

Like most of us, I work too hard, don’t save enough, spend
too little time with my family, listen with mingled horror and
amusement to my good wife’s stories about our bright teen-age
daughter and her teen-age problems, and watch her ten-year-old
pixie sister growing up. Not enough reading, some mediocre golf
and too rare wetting of a line take up whatever time is left.

_As I read this back, the last twenty-five years sound dull and
pedestrian. I haven’t taken a twenty-foot yawl across the Pacific.

I have slain very few dragons. I haven’t even moved out of the
city where I was born. And yet I have the feeling of growth and
continuing challenge. For the spirit of persistent inquiry and
quiet rebellion which is Harvard’s unique gift to her sons does
not need this atmosphere in which to survive. It is a hardy and

[731]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

tenacious growth and throws its roots wherever Harvard men
may be, into the most ordinary and apparently barren crevasses
of this earth, as well as in exotic soils and high places. It is the
ingredient which, so long as we treasure and nurture it, makes al]
living exciting and even “fruitful.

+ MAURICE FRED LOEWENSTEIN

porN: Noy. 5, 1910, Manila, P.I. parents: Maurice Frank Loewenstein, Ann
Sutro.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. magna cumt laude, 1932.
pieD: Jan. 31, 1933, Boston, Mass.

AFTER graduation from college Loewenstein was engaged in
special literary work with Professor Carl J. Friedrich of Harvard.

EDWARD JOHN LONDON

HOME ADDRESS: 115 Central Park W., New York. N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Toni Edwards, Inc., 1400 Broadway, New York, N.Y.

BoRN: May 3, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Louis Greenberg, Esther Levine.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932; AMy
1933; Certificat (L’institut du Panthéon, Paris, France).

marriep: Annette Schwartz, Dec. 3, 1939, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN: Bar-
bara Gail, April 29, 1942; Joanne Lynn, Aug. 18, 1947.

occupation: Apparel manufacturing and real estate operator.

OFFicEs HELD: Vice-president, Dartford Debs, Inc., 1940-52; president, Toni
Edwards, Inc., 1952-57; officer, various real estate corporations.

MEMBER OF: New York City Republican Club; Berkeley Club of New York;
Anti-Defamation League, Lone Star Boat Club; New York Reunion

Committee for the Class of 1932; Metropolitan Museum of Art of New
York.

RIGHT now, staring at this nice white paper, I feel like a retail
merchant about to trim his first window —all this space, how
can IJ fill it attractively? While at college I felt that I would like
a career as a college professor and aimed in that direction — an
A.M. and work towards a Ph.D. However, the Depression dimin-
ished the prospects of a job and I decided to go into the business

[732 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

world. As it turned out, because of my purely academic train-
ing, I was poorly equipped to cope with the catch-as-catch-can
of materialism, so I spent three valuable years at Northeastern
University Law School. This gave me the combination of real-
ism and idealism needed to lead a happy, if conventional and some-
what mediocre, life.

It was while at law school (1938) that I met the young lady for
whom I'd felt I better make some dough if I ever wanted to get
married. I left law school, migrated to New York and tried my
hand briefly at the moving picture business. A second Marcus
Loew I wasn’t going to be, so fortuitously I got into the apparel
manufacturing business in 1940. I’ve been grateful to this indus-
try, although I haven’t met many of my old friends in it, for it
has given me the excitement of constant change and also the
“dinero” for my rather expensive tastes and habits. I’ve been in
the business ever since, branching out into real estate investments.

In the back of my mind there must still be a little of the peda-
gogical urge which I have been able to satisfy by becoming an eve-
ning instructor in retailing, merchandising and fashion at City
College School of Business Administration. This is a hobby with
me, as is traveling, and my wife and I have been all through the
United States, the Caribbean Islands and Europe. The peripatetic
urge has not yet been satisfied and my wife and I are planning
our next trip.

In politics, I lean towards Republicanism but do feel independ-
ent enough to vote for the man rather than the party. As for my
religious beliefs, I hope I do not disappoint anyone by reaffirming
my life-long agnosticism.

Life is going by very quickly and my elder daughter is now a
teen-ager. To me she seems to be living in a world of her own,
or maybe I’m just getting to be an old fogy. Were we like this in
our teens? I think not, because the world is changing. . .

In summation, no great accomplishment, a more or less com-
promise with youthful ambition, a happy married life, a hope for
greater deeds to record for the Fiftieth.

[ 733]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

NORTON ENNEKING LONG

HOME ADDRESS: 1025 Cresenwood, East Lansing, Mich.

BORN: Nov. 29, 1910, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Perry W. Long, Florence
Enneking.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: AB. magna cum laude, 1932; am,
1933; PHD. 1937.

occupation: Education.

LAURENCE HODGDON LOUGEE

HOME ADDRESS: 44 Spring St., Shrewsbury, Mass. .

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mirick, O'Connell, DeMallie & Lougee, Worcester, Mass.

BoRN: April 25, 1909, Somerville, Mass. parents: Louis Lord Lougee, Susan
Ethel Hodgdon.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 19325 LL.B. 1935.

MARRIED: Erma Virginia MacAllister, Sept. 15, 1933, Glens Falls, N.Y.
CHILDREN: Barbara-Jane, Aug. 17, 1936; David Louis, March 20, 1949.

occupation: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: First president, 1943, president, 1946, Shrewsbury Lions Club,
town counsel, 1950, town moderator, 1950-56, Shrewsbury; chairman,
Shrewsbury Chapter, American Red Cross, 1939, 1940; member, Town
of Shrewsbury Retirement Board, 1953-56; executive and member fi-
nance committee, Worcester Legal Aid Society, 1955-56; member exec-
utive committee, 1956, 1957, delegate, 1956, 1957, Massachusetts Bar
Association; member board of directors, Community Chest of Worces-
ter, 1956, 1957; chairman, Worcester County Bar Association Heritage
Program, 1956, Worcester-American Bar Association Membership Cam-
paign; member executive committee, Worcester County Bar Associa-
tion, 1950, 1951; lieutenant, U.S.N.R., 1944-53; corporator, director and
member executive committee, Worcester Children’s Friend Society,
1952-57; corporator, Worcester Five Cents Savings Bank, 1956; moder-
ator, First Congregational Church of Shrewsbury, 1955, 1956; member
executive committee, 1955-57, second vice-president, 1956, 1957, Worces-
ter Economic Club. .

MEMBER OF: Worcester Club; Lions Club of Shrewsbury, Worcester Eco-
nomic Club; Matthew John Whittall Lodge, AF. & A.M.; Worcester
County, Massachusetts and American Bar Associations; Harvard Club
of Worcester; Ray Stone Post, American Legion; Aleppo Temple, Mas-
sachusetts Consistory; Men’s League, First Congregational Church,
Shrewsbury.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY? Guess I “auto,” it’s almost press time.
[734]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The next three years after graduation were historic for me.
They saw me secretly married for two years to my high school
sweetheart and graduated from Harvard Law School. In
September, 1935, I went to work in the law office of the late
William C. Mellish in Worcester, Massachusetts, commuting every
day from Arlington, where Erma and I were living with my
mother, and where Erma was working as secretary to the Board
of Selectmen of the Town. As an apprentice in a law office for
about three years, I found I could make more money during the
summer by following up my interest in camping as an associate
director of Camp Black Point on Lake George, New York. In
1936 it was my wife’s turn to commute from Shrewsbury, until
Barbara, our firstborn, joined our team in August.

The next few years went like wild fire. We started to make
over an old house ourselves and, in 1940, David filled out our team
of four. Summer vacations and weekends we enjoyed ourselves
in South Sutton, New Hampshire, and we’d even spend weekends
there in the winter, When Christmas time rolled around the whole
family went into the woods to help cut and bundle several hundred
Christmas trees for Erma’s father’s Christmas trade. These were
years of strenuous activities in addition to the practice of law, but
activities that as a family we enjoyed together.

My family is growing up but we’ve been able the last two or
three years to be together for a vacation, camping out on some of
the islands in Lake George. Barbara is now a junior at Lake Erie
College in Painesville, Ohio, majoring in elementary education,
engaged to be married, and about to spend the winter term abroad
in Switzerland. She’s athletically inclined and excels in field
hockey and basketball. Dave is now a junior in Shrewsbury High
School, about 6’ 4”, weighs 220, co-captain of the football team
and is leaning towards one of our Ivy League rivals.

During the war I served on board the U.S.S. Soley, DD 707,
as a C.I.C. officer. I -was in the service from 1944 to 1946 and
came out a lieutenant in the Reserves.

A year ago I formed a new law partnership in Worcester,
Massachusetts — Mirick, O’Connell, DeMallie & Lougee, joining
forces with an old established law firm. My law practice has
prospered, but has become a twelve-hour-a-day proposition, seven
days a week, with little time for recreation or for my family.

[735]

___—_____— _——

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Somehow I've sandwiched in time for community activities and
service. We're still living in our old house (wouldn’t part with
it) in Shrewsbury.

Thus ends the twenty-five-year saga of Larry Lougee. May we
all enjoy our families, friends and good health for years to come.

+: JOHN MOULTON LOVEJOY

porN: Feb. 5, 1909, Brookline, Mass, parents: Joseph Lovejoy, ’99, Natalie
Holden.

PREPARED AT: High School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929, 1930-1931.

marriep: Olive K. Lovejoy. campren: Hugh M.; John Moulton, Jr.,; Lynn
M.; Samuel H.

pieD: May 26, 1951, Camden, S.C.

wipow: Mrs. John M. Lovejoy, 1131 Laurens St., Aiken, S.C,

JOHN MOULTON LOVEJOY, major in the U.S. Army, died
as a result of injuries sustained in an automobile accident near
Camden, South Carolina. His permanent station was Camp Gor-
don, Georgia, and he was on temporary duty at Fort Bragg at the
time of his death. He had been assigned to the supply section
of Maneuver Director Headquarters in connection with exercise
Southern Pine, a joint Army-Air Force training exercise to be
held in the area from August 13 to September 2, 1951. He had
previously served overseas in Japan for three years.

In a letter of condolence to Major Lovejoy’s widow, Brigadier
General Robert N. Young, Chief of Staff at Maneuver Director
Headquarters, declared:

“Major Lovejoy had been on duty here for the past several
weeks and we had grown to admire and respect him greatly. We
feel deeply the loss of a true friend and a fine officer.”

Lovejoy was survived by his wife, their four children, and his
father, Joseph Lovejoy of New York City.

[736]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANCIS CABOT LOWELL

HOME ADDRESS: Garfield Road, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: Evans Memorial Hospital, 65 E. Newton 5St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 6, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Frederick Eldridge Lowell, ‘95,
Isabel Shaw.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929, 1930-1932. DEGREES: S.B., 1932; M.D. 1936.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Homer Shurcliff, October, 1938, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Francis Cabot, Jr., 1939; Charles Russell, 1942; Thomas Homer, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Physician, medical research, teaching and practice.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Evans Memorial Hospital, since 1944; associate pro-
fessor of medicine, Boston University School of Medicine, since 1945;
secretary, American Academy of Allergy, since 1954; editor, Journal
of Allergy, 1957.

MEMBER OF: Society of Clinical Investigation, 1945, New York Academy of
Sciences, 1952; American College of Physicians, 1956.

PUBLICATIONS: Eight articles on various aspects of infectious diseases, chemo-
therapy and antibiotics, immunology, allergy (especially asthma) and
pulmonary function.

BUT for a small amount of time divided between teaching medical
students and seeing patients, My Day is mainly spent recluse-like
in the laboratory. My major concern in recent years has been a
study of obstructive pulmonary disease, the most familiar example
of which is asthma.

A subject of recent intense interest to me has been the rdle of
smoking in the production of one serious form of obstructive
lung disease quite distinct from cancer and probably much more
common, This interest has the unfortunate result that, when I
talk shop, I cannot resist exhorting my smoking friends to forsake
the weed. The resentment this often gives rise to quite naturally
leads to the assumption (mistaken, let me hastily add) that I
delight in seeing my contemporaries deprived of little pleasures, —
that, indeed, I have never outgrown the effects of unremitting
exposure to New England Puritanism.

Preoccupation with ways and means of bringing on mild attacks
of asthma in the laboratory is something I also have to admit to,
placing, I suppose, not only my motives but also my reason in
question. However, many interesting and even useful points
about asthma have emerged from such studies, They need not
give the patient more than a trivial degree of discomfort, which
can be promptly relieved. My interest in asthma was preceded

[737]

|
ceseenireietin tI AON tcaeaistaeme seh

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

by work on various aspects of immunology including a study of
insulin resistance, preceded in turn by two very interesting years
observing the first of the “sulfa” drugs to be effective in the
treatment of pneumococcal pneumonia, a very serious disease in
bygone days. Drugs which are dramatically effective in the
treatment of infections are commonplace today, but in 1939 and
1940 the excitement was at quite a pitch.

My spare time is largely spent or, perhaps I should say, lavished
on a small orchard to which I have been adding such new
varieties of fruit trees as seem likely to prosper. This has the one
serious drawback that repeated spraying is an absolute necessity.
This operation appeals to the very young whose proffered “help”
should be accepted only with the understanding that the Program
for the Control of Insect Pests will suffer directly in proportion
as the “helper” views the noisy and cumbersome equipment as the
ultimate in hydraulic firearms.

I have yet to pledge allegiance to any religious organization
and my views on religious matters stand very much as they did
twenty-five years ago—they are still in the “formative” stage.
Politically, I have aligned myself consistently with the Democratic
party in the presidential elections without, however, being a

good Democrat. I was greatly disappointed by Stevenson's
second showing, am worried by the degree to which pure popu-
larity seems to have carried the day, do not see the welfare of
General Motors and that of the country as identical and feel that
our recent foreign policy has been uncommonly virtuous, to be
sure, but also deplorably stupid. By this last, I don’t wish to be
understood to imply that virtue and intelligence in politics are
mutually exclusive!

JOHN ARTHUR LOWENBERG

HOME abpress: R.F.D. 5, Oak Knoll, Otcumwa, Iowa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lowenberg Bakery, Inc., 334 W. Second St., Ottumwa, Iowa,

BoRN: Nov. 25, 1910, Ottumwa, lowa. parents: Christopher Carl Lowen-
berg, Vera Armstrong,

PREPARED AT: Ottumwa High School, Ottumwa, Iowa,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932, M.B.Ax 1934,

Magriep; Betty Ann Bunch, July 24, 1937, San Gabriel, Calif. CHILDREN:

[738]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Christopher Lee, July 29, 1939; John David, May 22, 1942; Elizabeth
‘ Ann, Sept. 11, 1949; Mary Lee, April 16, 1951.

occupation: Vice-president, sales manager, Lowenberg Bakery, Inc., whole-
sale bakery, selling to grocery stores and jobbers.

OFFICES HELD: Member, treasurer, 1948-55, president, 1955-56, Center School
District Board of Directors; member executive board, Southern Iowa
Council, Boy Scouts of America, since 1948; chairman, Wapello County
Republican Party, 1940; director, Y.M.C.A., 1948-51; chairman, Whole-
sale Division, Chamber of Commerce, 1954.

| MEMBER OF: Masons; Kiwanis Club, 1935-42.

IOWA seems like a long way from Massachusetts and Harvard,
but actually I have visited and revisited Cambridge many times
since 1932. I have a sister (wife of W. G. McNett, ’34) living in
Braintree, and up to a few years ago my other sister (wife of
W. R. Harper, ’30) lived in Hingham and Norwell, Massachu-
setts, so we have had many reasons for visiting old New England.
There is a little town just west of the Wellesley area that I’ve
had my. eye on for years, as the place for settling down when
retirement age creeps up on me.

_ Like many others in the Class of 1932, I went to the Harvard
Business School during 1933 and 1934. Tough years for business
right then — with bank holidays, the Democrats and New Dealers
slipping in, etc. My field was sales management and after my
degree, I went to work for an arch-enemy, Continental Baking
Company (the largest bakery combine in the country) at their
Dorchester plant, where I drove a truck, built displays in stores,
and worked relief sales jobs for a little over a year. I then re-
turned to Ottumwa to work in our family business, a wholesale
bakery, which had been a part of this community of 35,000 people
since 1875. On my first vacation I took a solo trip to California.
There I met Betty Ann Bunch of Pasadena, married her the
following summer, and brought her back to Iowa. Our family
consists of two prewar and two postwar children; the two latest
being born late enough in our lives to keep us young and active
for many years to come.

In spite of my having two children in 1942, the draft board
breathed down my neck, so I applied for a U.S.N.R. commission,
got it, went to Hollywood, Florida, for indoctrination and then,
as they did in many cases, they shipped me directly to the Seventh
Fleet “wherever he might be.” Tough luck for me, the com-

[739]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

mander happened to be in Brisbane, Australia, so there I went, was
assigned to NATS, worked at that for six months, then island-
hopped to Hollandia, Samar, Manila, and Manus before I was dis-
charged. In Brisbane I saw something of Stu Cook and knew of
his marriage to an Australian girl; in Manila I saw Dick Scott,
who always seemed to be going to India or over the hump to see
Chiang Kai-shek. Wouldn’t have missed the war.

Back in civilian life again, we had a reorganization job to do on
our business here, and against large chain bakers we had to
strengthen ourselves to outlast a great many bakeries that fell by
the wayside against such competition. It’s still our major problem.

I probably have worked too hard to develop one or more good
hobbies. My yard, in our twenty-seven-acre home, receives the
bulk of my time on weekends and during the summer. With four
children, who needs hobbies? Two wonderful trips to Mexico
by car —deep Mexico — have been outstanding in recent years.
Betty is president of the Iowa State P.E.O., and this requires a
lot of moving around the state, and I am either with her, or busy
tending the brood while she is gone. It makes time go fast and I
find it difficult to believe it’s late enough for us to be celebrating
twenty-five years away from college life! My elder son, Chris,
will go to Harvard, but will probably enroll at Principia College
in St. Louis as a starter.

We are all looking forward to the Commencement in 1957.
It will be the tour de force and the most looked-for thing in our
recent lives, So far, I think the men responsible for getting the
Class ready for the return have done a grand job and I know it’s
going to be tremendous for us all.

ROBERT MORRIS LOWMAN

HOME appress: Marlborough Rd. at Homewood Ave., North Haven, Conn.

orFice appress: Dept. of Radiology, Memorial Unit, Grace-New Haven
Community Hospital, New Haven, Conn.

BoRN: Dec, 31, 1912, Baltimore, Md. parents: David Hyman Lowman, Fan-
nie Wolfson.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Baltimore City College, Baltimore, Md.,; Johns Hopkins
University, Baltimore, Md.

[ 740 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREE: Mw. (Univ. of Maryland School of
Medicine), 1936.

MarRiED: Olga Soroka, June 27, 1937, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Gail Stephanie,
March 20, 1942; George Sumner, Nov. 16, 1944.

occuPATIoN: Director, Dept. of Radiology, Radiologist-in-Chief, Memorial
Division, Grace-New Haven Community Hospital; associate professor,
Yale University School of Medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary and treasurer, Section on Radiology, Connecticut
State Medical Society; member executive committee, and chairman,
Scientific Program, New Haven Medical Society; member executive
board and program chairman, Grace-New Haven Community Hospital;
member, education committee, Connecticut State Medical Society; dele-
gate, Radiological Society of Connecticut and North America, con-
sultant in radiology, Selective Service Commission; member board of
governors, New Haven Medical Society.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association (fellow); Connecticut State
Medical Society; New Haven Medical Society; American College of
‘Radiology, New England Roentgen Ray Society; Radiological Society
of North America; Society of Sigma Xi; The Cabinet; Yale Associates;
Harvard Club of New Haven; New England Johns Hopkins Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Contributions to American Journal of Roentgenology and
Radiology; monographs and papers to medical and surgical journals;
sections on radiology in textbooks.

ON reading the sample forms posed as examples for the Class
Lives, one is reminded of clinical histories. Some of these recount
the glories, the triumphs, and in others some of the frustrations
and conflicts are also evident. Concerning myself, to begin with,
there is no “then” of the then and now pictures, because at the
time I had no money. After medical school and an internship in
Baltimore, I returned to Boston for a fellowship in radiology at
the Boston University School of Medicine from 1936 to 1940.
Thereafter, I had my first job at the University of Pennsylvania
Graduate School of Medicine, as an associate director of the De-
partment of Radiology. Those were wonderful years.

In 1941 I passed my American Boards (in medicine you are for-
ever taking exams either to get in or to get out). In 1942 I came
to New Haven to start my job as director of an X-ray Department
and here I have stayed. My government service was limited to the
Selective Service and luckily I remained in New Haven. Thus
far, my life has consisted of patients, students, research projects,
papers, hospital problems, residents and fellows in training, and
fancy apparatus. Gradually my life has changed from being a

[741 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

radiologist to an administrator. It’s fun living in New Haven in
that I get to see Harvard play in the Bowl, on occasions. Often
this entire existence is enlivened by a trip to parts of the world
beyond New England. In 1951, in the midst of moving from one
hospital to another, we had designed and completed a new build-
ing and a fancy new department. Then we built a new house,
contemporary colonial in design. I put down stone walks, built
stone fences and even planted trees.

About the family, I make up one of the group that marries the
Radcliffe girl. To see her I kept commuting from Baltimore to
Boston all through medical school years. My only regret, I often
tell her, is that I couldn’t get to marry her four years before I did.
Gail, our first-born, is a charming young lady, now standing on
the stairs admonishing me to tell the world about her, and I really
should. George Sumner, our boy, plays goalie for the school
soccer team and hopes to get to that large college situated in New
Haven. On rare occasions, he and I come to Boston for the
monthly meetings of various societies and after dinner we go
rambling through Harvard Square, the museums and the Yard.

Our vacations, thus far, have been limited to the mainland of
North America. The longest one that we made was a forage into
northwestern Canada. I paint and, on rare occasions, manage
to sell a picture. The maximum time that I have for really living
begins on Saturday afternoon when the Department in the hospital
quiets down.

JOSE MARIA LUJAN

LAST KNOWN apprEss: Camelia 57, Mexico PF. Mexico.

BORN: Oct. 19, 1908, Mexico City, Mexico. PARENTS: Jose M. Lujan, Con-
cepcion Asunsojo.

TRANSFERRED FROM: National University of Mexico, Mexico City, Mexico.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

[742 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JUST LUNNING

HOME ADpRESS: 24 Gramercy Pk., New York 3, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Georg Jensen, Inc., 667 Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y.

BORN: May 14, 1910, Odense, Denmark. parents: Frederik Lunning, Hede-
wig Just.

PREPARED AT: Herlufsholm, Herlufsholm, Denmark.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1932; LLB., 1937.

marRRIED: Winifred Wittman, Sept. 20, 1941, New York, N.Y. cHILpREN:
Frederick, Feb. 27, 1946; Elisabeth, Feb. 23, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and general manager, Georg Jensen, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Visiting Committee of Germanic Languages and
Literatures and The Busch- “Reisinger Museum,

AT the time I graduated from law school, my plans for a career
were still uncertain, although I had a strong inclination for public
service of some sort, and my first job at the then recently re-
established Minimum Wage Division in the New York State
Labor Department seemed to fill my requirements. I spent the
next couple of years working on cost of living estimates in New
York State as a basis for the issuance of minimum wage orders for
‘women in various industries.

A short stay in the family business was interrupted by the war,
and during 1942-43, I worked for various wartime agencies in
Washington on international economic matters.

In September, 1941, I married Winifred Wittman, whose
brother was in the Class of ”34. Since then two children have been
added to the family — Frederick, born February, 1946, and Elisa-
beth, born in February, 1948.

As an officer in the U.S. Navy during 1944 and 1945, I spent
most of my time in Europe, mainly in England and Germany. I
only set foot on a ship twice — first when I visited the Brooklyn
Navy Yard as part of my indoctrination course and second, when
I crossed the Rhine. My work in Europe was on the continuation
of the work I had done in Washington and was mostly concerned
with economic matters and preparation for controls and other
problems on the European continent in the immediate postwar
period.

Upon my return to Washington late in 1945, I was assigned to
the Department of State. For a year and a half, I devoted all my
time to an administrative study of this department and its relation-

[ 743 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

ship to other government departments. I found this work interest-
ing but frustrating, although I was pleased to see that some of the
work, at least in a minor way, influenced later studies that became
the basis for reorganization of the State Department and the
Foreign Service.

In the spring of 1947, the requirements of the family business
brought me back to New York. Since then, my time has been
fully occupied with operating a business which is essentially two
businesses — an importing and wholesale business in silver, glass,
china, stainless steel and furniture, and a retail business — Georg
Jensen, Inc., New York.

My time is unequally divided between the business in New
York, trips to Europe and my family. I find little time for outside
activities, although I work actively with exhibitions and educa-
tional work related to my business activities. Since last year, I
have also served as a member of the Visiting Committee of
Germanic Languages and Literatures and The Busch-Reisinger
Museum.

ALBERT JOEL LUPIEN

HOME ADDRESS: 240 Westford St., Chelmsford, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lupien Farms Inc., Chelmsford, Mass.

BORN: July 24, 1910, Chelmsford, Mass. parents: Ulysses John Lupien, ’o6,
Eugenie M. Gosselin.

PREPARED AT: Manchester High School, Manchester, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B, IN MECH. ENG., 1932.

MarrieD: Evelyn L. Flemings, July 26, 1935, Lowell, Mass. curpren: Albert
Joel, Jr, Sept. 15, 1936 (m. Maria Zimmer); Lois E., June 6, 1938;
Linda C, Jan. 20, 1942; Richard H., Dec. 5, 1948. GRANDCHILD: Leon
Lupien, Sept. 20, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Theodore Arthur Lupien, ’34,; Ulysses John Lupien, Jr.,
"39.

occupation: Farming, includes commercial production of poultry and fruit.

OFFIcEs HELD: Member, Chelmsford School Committee, 1945-48; member,
School Building Committees for Elementary Schools, Chelmsford.

AFTER graduation I was employed as a safety engineer for
Liberty Mutual Insurance Company in Nashville, Tennessee, and
in Boston, Prior to World War II, 1 became part owner and
operator of Lupien Farms Inc., and operated this continuously

[744 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

until the present time. During the war I was frozen on the farm
as an essential food producer. Would have preferred otherwise
than being under the controls (government) at the time. Due to
lack of male teaching personnel during the war, I took a fling at
coaching high school football in home town for war period and
thoroughly enjoyed getting back into sports. Had a brief taste
of local politics on an unpaid basis and decided to let school mat-
ters remain on scholastic rather than practical basis.

Have used part of engineering background in brief house con-
struction endeavor. At present, I am confining this to selling of
land for development purposes. Have been one of many New
England farmers who have been practically forced out of business
due to federal government and its manipulation of grain prices
in favor of western interests. Apparently they have consigned
and designated New England as a recreational and seasonal area.
Hence my political convictions are not too enthusiastic for either
party.

Family — met my wife while she was a student at Bouvé-Boston
school. Have four fine children. Eldest boy is now serving as
enlisted member of Army in Germany. I became a grandfather
in 1956— a grandson born in Germany.

Hobbies still include a very active interest in sports. Spend
considerable amount of weekends each fall officiating at football
games both at the high school, prep school and small college levels.
Organized local Little League program and still manage a team in
same,

WILLIAM FRANKLIN LUTON

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Rancho San Juan, Los Alamos, Calif.

BORN: Sept. 20, 1909, Los Alamos, Calif. parents: George Roscoe Luton,
Caroline Bell.

PREPARED AT: Santa Barbara School, Santa Barbara, Calif,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B. 1932.

MaRRiED: Nancy Dickinson, Dec. 30, 1936, Santa Barbara, Calif. cHrpren:
Nancy D., Aug. 9, 1938; Caroline D., Nov. 14, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Farming.

[745 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

GEORGE LUTZ

HOME ADDRESS: 10 Adams St, Floral Park, Long Island, N.Y.

porN: May 21, 1910, Berlin, N.H. parents: George Franklin Lutz, Jessie
Walker.

PREPARED AT: Glen-Park High School, Brownville, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.
occupaTIon: Engineering.

WILLARD FREDERICK LUTZE

HOME ADDRESS: 110 Circuit Rd, Winthrop, Mass.

BORN: June §, 1911, East Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Frederick Lutze, Louise
Rausch.

PREPARED AT: East Boston High School, East Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1932; LLB. 19353
LL.M. 1947.

ALBERT JOHNSON LYND

HOME apprEss: 9 E. Tenth St., New York 3, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: c/o Lynn Baker, Inc., 720 Fifth Ave., New York 19, N.Y.

BORN: Feb. 19, 1903, San Francisco, Calif. parents: Albert Peter Lynd, Cath-
erine Slattery.

PREPARED AT: Potter School, San Francisco, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1030, 1932-34. DEGREES: A.B. wtagna cum laude, 1932
(34); A.M., 1936.

MARRIED: Lorraine Boucher, Sept. 13, 1933, Oakland, Calif. cit~preNn: Rich-
ard Boucher, Feb. 7, 1936; Mary Ann, Sept. 17, 1937.

HARVARD SON: Richard Boucher Lynd, ’57.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and copy director, Lynn Baker, Inc., advertis-
ing firm.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman School Committee, Sharon, Mass., 1950; member
examination committee, American Association of Advertising Agencies,
1951-52; traveling fellow, Univ. of Louvain, Belgium, 1938-39.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Phi Beta Kappa; Lovania North
America (alumni of Louvain University).

PUBLICATIONS: Quackery in the Public Schools, Atlantic-Little Brown, 1953;
“Quackery in the Public Schools,” Atlantic Monthly, 1950, “Business
Replies to DeVoto,” Fortune, June, 1950.

IN our Class Report of ten years ago I reported — perhaps too
abjectly —that I had given up a teaching career in order to

[746]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

make a better (materially better, that is) living for my family.
I went into advertising as a copywriter with the firm with a funny
name — Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn, Inc.—and was
happily employed by them for ten years, for half of which I was
copy chief of the Boston office. In 1953 I left this firm to become
what is known in this neologistic occupation as creative director
of Lynn Baker, Inc., in New York, where I now rank as one of
the innumerable vice-presidents in this absorbing business. None
of you can have read the major national magazines, or have seen
even a modest amount of television, without having been exposed
to some of my creative activities. Of which, enough. See Webster
for tolerant meanings of “‘creative.”.

In private life I lived long enough in the thriving town of
Sharon, Massachusetts, to get caught up in the net of local politics.
I ran for, and was twice elected to, the School Committee, a
Massachusetts localism for what is elsewhere known as the Board
of Education. During this experience I was impressed by the de-
votion of our school teachers and administrators, and depressed by
the Deweyan philosophy of education under which it was pro-
fessionally fashionable for them to operate. So I wrote a little
piece called, “Quackery in the Public Schools,” for the AZlantic
Monthly. It brought in so much mail that I was asked to run it up
into a book. Nothing seemed easier — as any fool of a beginning
author knows — but after a long struggle I produced the book,
to the satisfaction of the publisher (Atlantic-Little Brown) and
the 10,000-odd persons who, astonishingly enough, bought it.
That was in 1953. Now it is being brought out in a paper binding,
and | find myself on the book racks alongside busty heroines on
paper-bound “‘historical” novels. It was fun — but I have a word
of advice for part-time authors. The amount of time I put into
writing the book, plus the number of hours I have spent on radio
and television shows and on P.T.A. platforms defending it, di-
vided by the monetary return from it, would indicate a wage
about equal to that earned by coolie labor. I am glad that I have
the advertising business to fall back on in the support of my family.

I should gladly write another book exposing something else
besides Deweyan education, except for the fact that I do not
know anything else except the advertising business. Clearly, I
cannot afford to write an exposé of this business until I have

[ 747 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

saved enough to retire — which is not yet, since I have two
youngsters in college, including one at Harvard. You may have
heard about the recent increase in tuition at Harvard.

Seriously, I like the advertising business and it has been good to
me. However, I have a half-surreptitious hope that the present
drastic shortage of teachers will continue for a while. (Not long
enough to do any more damage than has already been done to the
youth of this country, but hear me out.) If and when I retire
from this business, I should like to teach for a few years — as I
did happily as an assistant to Frisky Merriman in those Great Old
Days. It could be Latin or history or French, in school or college.
It could be anything except advertising.

Meantime, I am living on East Tenth Street in New York City,
within fifty yards of the Fifth Avenue bus which carries me to
work daily. I travel frequently on business to Boston (happily)
and to Chicago (philosophically). Before I retire, I should like to
serve an advertising account in Belgium — where I lived pleasantly
with my family for a year in the thirties.

WILLIAM EDWARD McCARRON

HOME apprEss: 125 Orchardview St., West Springfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 130 Maple St., Springfield, Mass.

BORN: June 22, 1910, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: Michael David McCarron,
Margaret E, Macone,

PREPARED AT: Lexington High School, Lexington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Frances Emma Edwards, Dec. 2, 1939, Lexington, Mass. CHILDREN:
William Edwards, May 2, 1942; Thomas David, Feb. 19, 1946; Eliza-
beth, June 3, 1953.

occupation: Assistant manager, Springfield Branch Office, General Accident
Fire & Life Assurance Corporation, Ltd.

OFFicEs HELD: Chairman, West Springfield Red Cross Blood Drive, 1948, West
Springfield Advisory Insurance Committee, 1953-56; treasurer, Cub
Pack 83, West Springfield, 1953-54; secretary, West Massachusetts Field
Club, 1953-54; district captain, Providence Hospital Drive, 1956.

MEMBER OF: West Springfield Club; Western Massachusetts Field Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Few articles in trade papers.

PROMPTED by expedience I strayed into the insurance field in
1933 and there I have remained. The first eight years were with

[748 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the Employers’ Group of Boston, My first sally from the home
office’s protective wing nearly ended in tragedy. While roaming
the width and breadth of Kansas and Missouri in the mid-thirties
I contracted a “strep” throat. When the infection finally entered
the blood stream the medical authorities, with my permission,
used me as one of the “guinea pigs” for an early type of sulfa
drug. An extended convalescence followed. When I finally re-
turned to making a livelihood, it was in New England. But in
1941, in an effort to bolster the family income (because now there
were two of us), I joined the General Accident Group.

Early in 1943 we moved to West Springfield. Uncle Sam was
breathing down my neck and I wanted to get my family bedded
down. But whatever happened I still do not know, because I
rode out the war daily expecting “greetings” which never did
arrive. So here we have stayed. There are now five of us. “Bill”
is a sophomore in high school. “Tom” is in the sixth grade. “Liz,”
at three years, is still at home. We own our home (with a little
assistance from the bank), spend most of our time directly or in-
directly trying to satisfy the demands of the youngsters and
lead, on the whole, a quiet and peaceful existence. We have had
our share of disappointments and heartaches and have thus far
recovered from each episode with a new strength.

God has been good to us. May He continue to do so for
another twenty-five years.

CLARENCE ALVIN McCARTHY, JR.

HOME ApprEss: 217 Wetherill Rd., Garden City, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bache & Co., 724 Fifth Ave. New York 19, N.Y.

BORN: May 31, 1909, Chicago, Il], parents: Clarence Alvin McCarthy, ’o2,
Anna Delano Pool.

PREPARED AT: Harvard School for Boys, Chicago, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1932.

MargiEeD: Beverly Jean McClure, May 12, 1945, Baltimore, Md. CHILDREN:
Diana, May 9, 1947; Clare, Oct. 11, 1950.

occuPATION: Investments; executive, Bache & Company.

THERE have been the thirties, the war years and the years since
the war. Each of these periods has its own story, and yet the
present product is the sum of all these years.

[ 749 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

+ PATRICK HENRY McCARTHY

BORN: June 25, 1911, Charlestown, Mass. Parents: Patrick McCarthy, Jose-
phine Breen.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-193}. DEGREES: A.B. 1932 (33); M.B.A.. 1935 (36).

piED: Jan. 14, 1936, Charlestown, Mass.

WHILE at Harvard, McCarthy was a member of the crew and

boxing squads,

HUGH LAWSON McCLUNG, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 4443 Westway, Dallas, Texas.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1526 Medical Arts Bldg., Dallas, Texas.

porN: April 18, 1911, Terrell, Texas. PARENTS: Hugh Lawson McClung, Sue
Breeden.

PREPARED AT: North Dallas High School, Dallas, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: AB. Cum laude, 1932; M-D., 1936.

marrieD: Laura Louise White, July 5, 1947, Dallas, Texas. cumpren: Laura
Bronson, April 11, 1949, Hugh Lawson, Jr., Jan. 7, 1952.

occupation: Cardiologist.

OFFICES HELD: Attending physician, Baylor Hospital; clinical assistant pro-
fessor of internal medicine, Southwestern Medical School; assistant
physician, Southwestern Bell Telephone Company, 1939-56; member,
building committee, Preston Road Church of Christ, 1950.

MeMger OF: Dallas Internists’ Club, Dallas Academy of Internal Medicine;
Dallas Harvard Club (president, 1949).

IN Harvard College I occasionally did a little studying; in Har-
vard Medical School I never ceased. Even though they didn’t
consider me very bright, they finally allowed me to graduate
from the Medical School. Following this I interned at Roosevelt
Hospital in New York City and then served a residency in internal
medicine. In November, 1939, I started private practice and
proceeded to starve for two years until the Army rescued me in
1941. I was in an evacuation hospital for four years and enjoyed
a tour of nearly every square foot of North Africa and of Italy,
from Salerno to Udinas, For the first time in my life I really
became enthused about Italian portrait painting, architecture,
antiques, etc., and I was fortunate enough to acquire some rather
good reproductions of Veronese, Lusca and others. During a

[752]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

six months’ voyage to Japan I studied in the mornings for board
exams and then played chess all afternoon. The war ended two
days west of Panama Canal for me and I was never so relieved
to get out of that A.P.A. In 1946 I reentered private practice and
have kept body and soul together since then, thanks to astute real
estate and stock market advice.

I have been profoundly interested in the work of the Church
of Christ since childhood and the regional prosperity has made
it possible for us to support many preachers not only in this coun-
try but also in Italy, Germany, France, Ireland and Canada. This
church is largely unknown in the North and East but is rapidly
becoming so; its plea is for a return to New Testament Christuan-
ity and for the verbal inspiration of the Bible. It is thus opposed
to “explaining away” the miracles of Jesus, Spinoza et al. not-
withstanding.

My children seem to have grown up overnight, they both
turned up their noses recently at the State Fair when I suggested
they might like to ride the vehicles in “Kiddie-Land.”

DEXTER REYNOLDS MacDONALD

HOME ADDRESS: 42 Union St., Greenfield, Mass. (permanent); 9 Riverview
Drive, Brunswick, Maine (present).

OFFICE appREsS: U.S. Naval Air Station, Brunswick, Maine.

BorN: April 15, 1911, Greenfield, Mass. PARENTS: Hector Murdoch MacDon-
ald, Margaret Dexter.

PREPARED AT: Greenfield High School, Greenfield, Mass.; Deerfield Academy,
Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; D.M.D., 1936.

MarRiED: Ruth L, Starbird, July 1, 1936, Medford, Mass. cup: Laurie Alli-
son, May 29, 1946.

occupation: Captain, Dental Corps, U.S. Navy.

MEMBER oF; American Dental Association; Massachusetts Dental Society;
Republican Lodge, AF. & A.M., Greenfield; Bath (Maine) Golf Club.

IN September, 1932, I entered the Harvard Dental School where,
after four years of assiduous application, I again sat in the Sever
Quadrangle and received my D.M.D. degree.

After marrying Ruth L, Starbird of Binghamton, New York,
in Medford, Massachusetts, in 1936, I became associated with my
father, Hector M. MacDonald, in the general practice of dentistry

[753]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

in Greenfield, Massachusetts. As my practice grew, life was a
busy and contented one, with duties of membership and minor
offices in various fraternal and civic organizations and also pro-
fessional societies on a local and state level.

Then along came World War II and in August, 1942, I was
commissioned a lieutenant, j.g., in the Dental Corps, U.S. Naval
Reserve. One year of duty at Newport, Rhode Island, was fol-
lowed by two years as dental officer for the V-12 and Naval Re-
serve Officer Training Corps units at Brown University. In
August, 1945, orders arrived for duty at Camp Terry Thompson
near San Francisco, preparatory to transfer to the Pacific Theatre
of Operations. However, it was my good fortune that hostilities
ceased and my westward travel halted at this point.

Returning to Greenfield late in 1945, I resumed the association
with my father and again settled down to a community life. The
arrival of our daughter, Laurie, in 1946 was the high spot of that
year, and it has been one of life’s greatest pleasures to watch her
grow and develop during the past ten years.

In March, 1951, I was voluntarily recalled to active duty with
the Navy as leutenant commander. For the next three years my
duties carried me to Portsmouth, New Hampshire, Newfound-
land, French Morocco and Cuba. Arriving at the U.S. Naval Air
Station, Brunswick, Maine, early in 1954, I have been senior
dental officer at that activity until the present time (September,
1956). In November, 1954, I was promoted to commander and
in December, 1955, to the rank of captain.

Deciding to remain with the Navy, I was sworn in as a mem-
ber of the regular Dental Corps on September 21, 1956, and ex-
pect to finish my career in whatever assignments higher authority
may have in mind for me.

JAMES GROSVENOR MACEY

HOME apprEss: 23 Maple Ave., Kentfield, Marin County, Calif.

OFFICE AppRESS: Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Co. 1924 Broadway, Oak-
land 12, Calif.

BoRN: March 29, 1910, Denver, Colo. parents: James Thomas Macey,
Gwendolyn Grosvenor Sanderson.

PREPARED AT: East Denver High School, Denver, Colo,

[754]

__—

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; M.B-A. 193}.

marrieD: Marion Louise Bridgman, June 24, 1937, San Francisco, Calif.
CHILDREN: James Grosvenor, Jr., Feb. 1, 1941; Anne Mailliard, Aug. 26,
1942; Mary Edginton, May 19, 1945; John Bridgman, March 1, 1949.

occupaTION: Technical and new production development for Chemical
Division, Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Company (economics and
chemical engineering studies),

JOHN CLUNE McGIRR

HOME ADDRESS: 17 Adams St., Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1436 Cambridge St., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 16, 1910, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Felix Francis McGirr, ’95,
Anne Clune.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932; M.D. 1936.

MarRieD: Marguerite Kennah Myles, June 26, 1941, Cambridge, Mass. cuit-
DREN: John Myles, May 12, 1943; Anne Clune, Aug. 24, 1947; Ellen
Kennah, June 8, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon,

OFFICES HELD: Senior surgeon, Cambridge City Hospital, Lirle Company of
Mary Hospital; junior surgeon, Mount Auburn Hospital; former asso-
ciate surgeon, Waltham Hospital; surgeon, courtesy staff, Sancta Maria
Hospital, St. Elizabeth’s Hospital; assistant medical director, Cambridge
Civil Defense; member, Massachusetts Medical Society Advisory Com-
mittee to Selective Service, 1953-55; member, Massachusetts Medical
Committee on Civilian Defense and Professional Relations, 1953-54.

MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons (fellow); American Medical
Association (fellow); Cambridge Medical Improvement Association;
Massachusetts Medical Society; Massachusetts Society of Examining
Physicians; Club of Four Seasons; Charitable Irish Society of Boston.

FOLLOWING graduation I spent four more years as an under-
graduate at Harvard Medical School, becoming an A{.D. in 1936
with other ’32ers, Ulfelder, Hayes, Segal, Niles, Lowell, et al.
Then for about three months I was a doctor for sand hogs on the
North Metropolitan Sewer which was being built under air pres-
sure through Medford. This was a down-to-earth, or even below-
earth experience with Foreign Legion-type characters, This was
followed by my surgical internship at the Boston City Hospital
until March, 1939. As a fledgling I started practice in Belmont
in May, 1939, and made my best step on June 26, 1941, when I

(755 ]

Oe  enmmammmmanen pms aenen aeee |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Also, though the chances are remote, I hope to see an unde-
feated Harvard football team, which our Class almost had, save
for Albie Booth — Remember that bitter day?

THOMAS JEFFERSON McKAY, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1089 Shady Ave., Pittsburgh 32, Pa.
OFFICE ADpREss: 1005 Liberty Ave., Pittsburgh 22, Pa.

gorN: Oct. 17, 1909, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Thomas Jefferson McKay, ’o2,
Martha Chambers.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.
UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Chambers McKay, ’31.

occuPATION: Manufacturer of tire chains, industrial chains, mild and stainless
arc welding electrodes.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, The McKay Company, since 1947.
MEMBER OF: Rolling Rock Club and Rolling Rock Hunt, Ligonier, Pa.; Fox
Chapel Golf Club and Duquesne Club, Pittsburgh.

SINCE my graduation from Harvard in June, 1932, my life has
been spent with a family-owned concern —The McKay Com-
pany. However, for three and a half years during World War
II, I was in the United States Navy. While, I am sure, this will
not be as diversified or glamorous a life story as compared to
some others, the following is a brief history of the road I traveled
these last twenty-five years.

I started work with the McKay Company in the summer of
1932. My first job was prospecting for gold up in the northern
peninsula of Michigan —a false venture in which it was part of
my job to investigate. Before going further, The McKay Com-
pany manufactures industrial chains, automobile tire chains and
arc-welding electrodes. The gold venture was a diversification.
Thereafter, for the next two years I was a salesman on the road,
covering New England for a year and a half and New York for .
a year, These and the following years were real depression years
but not having experienced what good business was, I did not
feel the real impact of those years.

Next, I went to work in our plant which is located in York,
Pennsylvania, our executive offices and a smaller plant being lo-

[758 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

cated in Pittsburgh. I worked here from the fall of 1934 until
the fall of 1942, when I went into the United States Navy. My
career in York covered working as a laborer and going up
through the plant and finally purchasing agent and plant man-
ager. Thereafter, the war came and in December, 1942, I em-
barked for Quonset Point, Rhode Island, for indoctrination. This
lasted a couple of months and I came out as one of the “ninety-
day wonders,” a junior grade lieutenant. From thence I spent a
year and a half in Pearl Harbor on the staff of Commander
Air Force Pacific Fleet (Admiral Towers) in the Materiel Depart-
ment. My classification was AVS — Aviation Volunteer Special.
After Pearl Harbor I was sent back to the Bureau of Aeronautics
in Washington for the remainder of the war and received my
discharge in 1946 as a lieutenant commander.

After the war I came back to our home office in Pittsburgh,
was made a vice-president of The McKay Company and have
since concerned myself with all general phases of our business
—sales, production and praying for snow (tire chains). For-
tunately, our company has been doing well and I hope ir will
continue to do so and that others will do so also.

My hobbies include golfing in the summer and fox hunting
in the fall. So far I have never married but who knows, by the
time my classmates read this— well, stranger things have hap-
pened,

JOHN JOSEPH MACKIN

HOME ApprEss: Blue Hill, Maine.

BORN: Nov. 11, 1907, Newark, N.J. parents: Edward Mackin, Antoinette
Bagnulo.

PREPARED AT: Barringer High School, Newark, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932 (33).

MaRRIED: Cornelia C. Sage (Walcott), April 2, 1946, New York, N.Y. cHit-
DREN: Michael John, July 25, 1948; Lelie, March 28, 1951; Suzanne Wal-
cott, Nov. 4, 1938; H. Sage Walcott, July 4, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Painter.

MEMBER OF: Art Students League; Tucson Art Association,

AFTER college, for some obscure reason, I studied at the Law
School for a year but this potential career was nipped in the bud

[759]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

by a rather serious automobile accident which laid me up for sev-
eral months; law was a career which, on advice of my physician,
I did not continue to pursue. From 1934 to 1937, I worked for
the City of New York as a social worker. I found this an instruc-
tive, if somewhat gloomy job. The intervening years, until the
outbreak of the war, I spent on my parents’ farm in New Jersey
at general farming and game bird breeding.

In September, 1942, 1 was drafted into the Army, assigned to
the 845 Aviation Engineer Battalion, serving overseas in the
African and Italian campaigns as a surveyor laying out airfields.
I received my discharge on November 11, 1944—-a welcome
birthday present.

From 1945 to 1947, I studied painting at the Art Students
League in New York City, under the G.I. Bill. During this time
a most fortunate thing happened to me. I met and married my
wife, Nela, also a painter, and thereby acquired a family, Suzy
and Sage Walcott, who have, unbelievably grown up to tower
over me! Mike Mackin arrived in our family in ’48, and Leslie
in ’51. Our oldest, Sue, graduates from the Cambridge School
this June and plans to study design. Sage is a sophomore and
we hope he makes Harvard ’62. At this writing (from Tucson,
Arizona), Mike and Leslie are attending the Treehaven School
here, an excellent one.

Travel, We have managed to get around quite a bit. We drove
to Mexico on our honeymoon for six weeks and found the variety
of the country intensely stimulating. I particularly loved Aca-
pulco which we shall always remember for an exciting day sail-
fishing. For the first six months of 1954 we lived at St. Jean
Cap-Ferrat in France. I took up fencing again at the Salle Rusca
in Nice, for the first time since college and learned that I wasn’t
quite as good as I used to be! We toured France, Spain and Italy
later with the younger children. As a result they love museums.
Leslie loves the eating scenes from Hieronymus Bosch — or any
eating scenes. Mike is an expert on San Sebastian— and the
arrows. At present we are wintering in Tucson which we first
visited two years ago. The sun shines continuously and the kids
love it as a change from Maine winters and so do we.

Hobbies. Have always been hunting and fishing, Atlantic sal-
mon on our few remaining Maine runs in the spring. Partridge

[ 760 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and woodcock in the fall, plus an occasional deer. Also do a bit
of sailing in the summer. Politics. 1 have always been a liberal
Republican but become more conservative as I grow older. I
have never been back to a Reunion. As a result I am looking for-
ward to this one with a good deal of anticipation. Cheerio!

HENRY RIDGWAY MACY

HOME ADpREsS: Huntington Road, Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lockheed Aircraft Service International, New York Inter-
national Airport, Idlewild, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 22, 1909, Orange, N.J. parents: Thomas Ridgway Macy, Mary
Louise Pugh.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: AB., 1932; LLB. (Univ. of Virginia),

1936.

MARRIED: Katharine Louise Hartman, Jan. 30, 1943, Mansfield, Ohio. cH-
DREN: Victoria R., Jan. 25, 1944; Florence F., July 27, 1946; Christina
H. and Mary D. (twins), Feb. 18, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Ridgway Macy, Jr., "40.

OCCUPATION: Contract administrator, Lockheed Aircraft Service Interna-
tional.

SINCE graduation I have spent three years in the University of
Virginia, 1933-36, acquiring a legal education, together with
various former school and college mates. Got an LL.B. and
passed the New York Bar exams in 1937. I did not, however,
want to become a lawyer and, for want of sense of direction,
spent a couple of years with the Guaranty Trust Company of
New York in the Corporate Trust Division. Dissatisfied with the
banking career, I then studied for the Foreign Service in George-
town, after a trip across the continent to California and back.
This brings me to 1940.

Unfortunately or, as I now feel, better in the long run, I did
not pass the Foreign Service examinations and after a few months
in Sandusky, Ohio, doing personnel work for Badger & Company,
which was constructing a TNT plant in that area, I returned to
New York and in January, 1942, I enlisted in the U.S. Army.

My military career from January, 1942, until August, 1945,
was one of the most interesting periods of my life. After a more
or less normal career through enlisted service in the Infantry, and

{ 761 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

hanih Othicers Training into the Fngincer Corps, I was trans-
tornd to the Intelligence Service, and in 1943 flew to England
ant envaged in various projects of a joint Anglo-French-Ameri-
vant nature, was attached to General Montgomery's 21st Army
Group Hy, and terminated my career in Copenhagen shortly
atcor V-F Day.

After the war, I finally discovered a career which appealed to
me Maney, aviation, Although my previous education did not
fe me in any particular way for this field of endeavor, I have
fai a great deal of pleasure and satisfaction in this dynamic
avd exciting business, fist in the transportation end and now in
rhe maintenance end of aviation. Perhaps I shall even one day
eaover what causes these enormous machines of metal to rise
mre the air and carry massive loads of men and materials through
waace flar thousands of miles. Lockheed Aircraft Service Inter-
tarotal bp an affiliate (w holly owned subsidiary ) of Lockheed

coratt Corporanion and is engaged in the maintenance, over-
beet and modifcanon of all qypes of aircraft at New York Inter-
mara Aiport

tts m CoN Spring Harbor is a pleasant one but, like some
ectesy [have a constant sense of frustration in the inability to
Ba Dah more, not only for my immediate family but for the
ot “oN in which I live and for the country to which I owe
x er ace, The pressure and tension of life, at least in this part
ti INE Qoem ery, seems to constrict at least the lives of people with
2 ReoT amount of physical and mental ener

So peragnal interests are in travel and foreign cars, although
ms ms wal knowledge of the latter is very limited. Whenever
. cat INE aren pportunity to take my vacation abroad, I do so,
ne ave Secawe | enjoy seeing strange things but also because
~ tare Tso sxers living, one in England and one in Switzerland.
Tan. Te chken are too young to take abroad, but I feel that
org Ts penal when the world és shrinking so rapidly through
tar Caran of the air space, the more contact we all have with
mar Teta anes our borden, the better will we be able to

< & 84.04 to international problems,

jt

[742]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+- GEORGE AMORY MADDOX, JR.

BorN: April 7, 1912, Washington, D.C. parents: George Amory Maddox,
Emily McNamara.

PREPARED AT: Sidwell’s Friends School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932.

DIED: June 15, 1932, Cambridge, Mass.

WHILE in college Maddox played on his class football team in
1930 and on the Leverett House football team in 1931. He was
a member of the Instrumental Club and the Kex Club.

_ JOHN LOUIS MAGRO

HOME ADDRESS: Perin Road, Montgomery, Ohio.

OFFICE AppREss: Ruthrauff & Ryan, Inc., Carew Tower, Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

BORN: Sept. 15, 1907, Rochester, N.Y. Parents: Louis Magro, Epifania
Nasca.

PREPARED AT: West High School, Rochester, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

MARRIED: Nancy Langhorne Post, Jan. 30, 1943, New York, N.Y. campren:
Susan, Feb. 28, 1945; Jonathan, Feb. 5, 1947; Nancy, Jan. 22, 1949; Vic-
toria, Oct. 30, 1950; Benjamin, Feb. 27, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president-manager, Ruthrauff & Ryan, Inc.; president,
Candle-lite, Inc., and Wayside Candle Company. _

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, since 1944, Chairman, executive committee, since 1956,
Cincinnati Summer Opera Association; stockholder, Cincinnau College
of Music, 1945-55; director, since 1948, vice-president, since 1952,
Cincinnati Better Housing League; director, since 1949, vice-president,
since 1954, Child Guidance Home, Cincinnati; chairman, Urban Re-
development Committee, Queen City Association, since 1949, Citizens’
Committee on Urban Renewal, since 1957; member board of trustees,
1949-55, president, 1955, Cincinnati College of Pharmacy; member,
Dean’s Advisory Committee, University of Cincinnati, since 1955;
trustee and member executive committee, College-Conservatory of
Music, since 1956; president, American Opera Auditions, Inc. since
1956; governing trustee, Ballet Theatre, New York, since 1953; director,
Metropolitan Housing Authority, Cincinnati, since 1950, Citizens’ De-
velopment Committee, since 1953, National Council of Christians and
Jews, since 1954, Mayor's Friendly Relations Committee, since 1955.

PuBLICATIONS: “Madrigal Singing,” Afusical Courier, September 15, 1940;
“The Cincinnati Market,” Markets of Amrerica, 1954.

IT has been an eventful quarter century since 1932 and, for me,

[ 763 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

JAMES BERNARD MAHONEY

HOME ADDRESS: 1909 55th St. LaGrange, III.

OFFICE appress: Wright Machinery Co., 72 S. LaGrange Rd., LaGrange, I.

BORN: Aug. 1, 1910, Philadelphia, Pa, PARENTS: James Joseph Mahoney, Lucy
Gertrude Fitzpatrick.

PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES A.B., 1932; M.B.A. 1934.

MARRIED: Larabel Sisk, Nov. 28, 1936, Reading, Pa. curtpreN: James Joseph,
June 24, 1943; Lawrence John, Feb. 20, 1945, Laurel Ann, July 17, 1955.

occupation: Midwest district sales manager, Wright Machinery Company,
subsidiary of Sperry-Rand Corporation, manufacturers of packaging
machinery.

oFFices HELD: Director, LaGrange Highlands Little League, LaGrange Pony
League; committeeman, West Suburban Council, Boy Scouts of Amer-
ica,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Varsity Club; LaGrange Highlands Security Council.

SHORTLY after graduating I learned that I had shown a definite

lack of foresight by completing my college education in the year

1932. So, after a summer’s work in a resort hotel, I registered at

Harvard Business School. In 1934, armed with my M.B.A,, I

went to work in the advertising department of the Berkshire

Knitting Mills in Reading, Pennsylvania. Iwo years later I left

Reading, but not before marrying Larabel Sisk, by all odds the

smartest move I made before or since. We returned to New Eng-

land where I represented the Quaker Lace Company of Phila-

delphia, until Pearl Harbor brought forcibly to mind the fact

that I had taken an ensign’s commission in the Naval Reserve

along with my A.B. in 1932.

I served two years with the Seabees in the Pacific and returned
to be stationed for the balance of the war at the Naval Air Sta-
tion in Key West, Florida. Both of my sons, Jim and Larry,
were born during these war years which proves something con-
clusively, but I do not know what. Suffice to say, they are nor-
mal, healthy boys and Larabel and I find them completely satis-
factory in all respects,

In 1946 I was released to inactive duty, went back to selling tex-
tiles in New England, and was recalled to active duty again in
1949, but for less than a year this time. Once again eluding the
boys in blue, I renewed what I trust is a permanent civilian status,
and signed on with Wright Machinery Company of Durham (a

[ 766 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

subsidiary of the Sperry-Rand Corporation), as New England
and Canadian representative. In 1953 I opened the midwest terri-
tory for Wright with my office and my home located in La-
Grange. Since then by far the most significant development in
our family circle was the arrival, in July, 1955, of our so very
welcome and wonderful daughter, Laurie.

As much as my traveling permits, I keep active in community
affairs, preferring to devote my spare time to working with boys,
my own included, in Scouting, Little League and Pony League.

My politics may be summed up in three words: “T like Ike.”

RUSSELL MALONEY

BORN: June 26, 1910, Brookline, Mass. parents: Vincent Paul Maloney,
Alta Brooks.

PREPARED aT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MarriED: Miriam Battista. comp: Amelia, Jan. 13, 1945.

piED: Sept. 3, 1948, New York, N.Y.

wipow: Mrs. Lloyd Rosamund, Rockwell Road, Ridgefield, Conn.

sisTeR: Miss Alta Maloney, Boston Herald-Traveler, Boston, Mass.

RUSSELL MALONEY, writer of humor and a radio book critic,
was associated with the New Yorker magazine from 1934 to 1945.
He had also written for other magazines, notably Good House-
keeping, the Atlantic Monthly, Life, Colliers and Holiday. He
was the author of It’s Still Maloney, a collection of his writings
that had appeared in the New Yorker, and was co-author with
Eugene Kinkhead of Our Own Baedeker.

He conducted his own radio program, “Of Men and Books,”
on WCBS, New York, and served as a frequent guest on forum
and panel discussion programs. With his wife, the former Miriam
Battista, actress and writer, he appeared on many of the early
television programs in New York. With her he wrote the book
- and lyrics for the musical show, “Sleepy Hollow.” He also wrote
book reviews for the New York Times.

Besides his wife, who has since remarried, he was survived by
a daughter, Amelia, his mother and a sister, Alta Maloney, a writer
for the Boston Herald-Traveler.

[ 767 ]

|, dashed elated iinet ieites temas ates aaten nanan dalam iiasinimnatenneniaan ieee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

EDWARD CHANDLER MANNING

HOME appress: Atlantic Avenue, North Hampton, N.H.
OFFICE apprEss: School Supervisory Union No, 21, Hampton, N.H.

BORN: July 8, 1911, Wilmington, Mass. parents: Abiel Chandler Manning,
Roseanna Teresa Kelley.

PREPARED AT: Wilmington High School, Wilmington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; ED.M. (Boston
Univ.), 1942; Ep.D. (Harvard Univ.), 1956.

MARRIED: Marion Nunn Macdonald, Oct. 15, 1943, Wilmington, Mass. cum-
pREN: William Chandler, March 27, 1945; Rosemary Macdonald, May
13, 1948.

occupaTion: Education; superintendent of schools.

OFFICES HELD: Member, School Committee, 1933-36, Planning Board, 1934-36,
(member and chairman, 1946-53), chairman, High School Building Com-
mittee, 1949-50, Wilmington, Mass.; founder, president, 1943, Merri-
mack Valley Guidance Association, Andover, Mass.; secretary-treasurer,

Boston University Chapter, American Association of University Pro-
fessors, 1947-48.

MEMBER OF: National Education Association; American Association of School
Administrators; Grange, Kiwanis.

THE profession of teaching has principally engaged my atten-
tion since graduation. There was a period of varied experience
between 1932 and 1935 in legal study, construction work and
journalism before I settled on teaching as a field of work. In
1936, I began as teacher of English in a small high school in
Tewksbury, Massachusetts. I have been peripatetic, in the
modern sense, with a good part of New England as the environ-
ment for my movements, In transferring from one position to
another, I have been fortunate in locating in places regarded as
desirable for living. From Tewksbury I went to Hyannis on
Cape Cod for two years as a teacher. My next move was to
Andover, Massachusetts, where the public schools feel a stimulus
from their neighbor, Phillips Academy.

While in Hyannis, I became interested in the field of guidance
work as an area of specialization within teaching. I had a for-
tunate opportunity in Andover to initiate a guidance program
within the public school system and on the community level.
With some associates I was able to extend the development of
guidance and personnel activities in the Merrimack Valley region
by formation of a regional guidance association. During this

[ 768 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

period, I completed a Master’s degree at Boston University in the
field of guidance,

At this time, military service entered the picture. Inevitably
I was assigned to classification duty in the Army. When I
reached Alaska, however, I was transferred to the Information-
Education Division and given the job of developing a magazine
for the Alaskan Department.

After discharge, I was offered an opportunity to join the Bos-
ton University faculty. There, in a short span of time, I managed
to serve on the faculty of the College of Business Administration,
work two summers as assistant to the director of summer terms
and participate in the establishment of the new General College.
I also became an active member and officer of the American
Association of University Professors and gained an intensive ex-
perience of the internal operation of a typical American uni-
versity.

Meanwhile, I had begun doctorate studies at Harvard in the
Graduate School of Education. Public education seemed at this
time to be the field in which I could accomplish the most. I
returned to it and spent the next five years establishing and
developing a guidance program for the Woburn (Mass.) public
schools. The field of administration became my major interest
for the future and my doctoral studies were directed that way.

In 1954, I went to Livermore, Maine, as a superintendent of
schools in a supervisory union of four rural towns. Here, in one
of the great deer-hunting and sporting regions of the world, my
family was able to grow up with plenty of space and freedom.
The schools in the union needed a revitalizing. We succeeded
sufficiently in making some improvements so that the Graduate
School of Education felt that the award of a doctorate was justi-
fied after an analysis of my field work.

Participation in the new Harvard Career Program in Adminis-
tration has been a stimulating experience. I believe that, once
again, in this program Harvard has demonstrated its capacity to
develop new approaches in a professional field based on sound
philosophical premises. The work of Al Simpson, Cy Sargent
and Dean Keppel in establishing this program can be regarded
as one of the major contributions to education in this century.
I received the Doctorate in March, 1956, and I mention the fact

[ 769 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

because it probably entitles me to one dubious distinction, I
doubt that many members of 1932 have taken an earned degree
twenty-four years after graduation. Had the Graduate School

not become impatient, I might have deferred the event until the
Twenty-fifth Reunion.

At present, I am superintendent of schools for Supervisory
Union No. 21 with offices located in Hampton, New Hampshire.
Here we have seven school districts to handle in a rapidly grow-
ing area. New pupils arrive every day and it is a race against
time to provide new buildings and facilities for them. Despite
the pressure of work, it is pleasant to live in such an attractive
environment as the New Hampshire seacoast.

My sojourn in Andover led to matrimony. Marion Macdonald
of Gloucester taught in Punchard Academy. One thing led to
another and we now have William, aged eleven, and Rosemary,
aged eight. Both show promise, due no doubt to their mother’s
influence, of being better adjusted individuals than their father.
In 1950, we acquired a farmhouse on the shores of Stanley Pond
in Porter, Maine. This has been a summer haven and promises
to be a good place to stay if we ever decide to stop teaching.

At various times, I have been concerned with town office.
During much of my earlier teaching I retained residence in my
home town of Wilmington, Massachusetts. This was a small
rural town in my boyhood. By my youth, it had become a semi-
urban slum. Today, having grown from a population of 3500
in 1946 to 12,000 today, it is becoming a model of what can be
done by means of town planning. My father and I, as a conse-
quence of almost continuous service on the Planning Board for
twenty-five years, contributed to the early development of the
planning process. In 1950, I helped to sponsor a town manager
plan which has produced beneficial and controlled growth. The
experience of participation in public affairs in a small New Eng-
land town is, I believe, the most valuable civic training a man can
have in America. In such a microscosm, a variety of experience
can be found which will fit one for responsibilities on a larger
scale, A clearer understanding of the need for integrity in civic
duties can be obtained through Town Meeting government than
in larger political bodies.

It does seem to me that public education is the focal point of

[770 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

our society today. For many obvious reasons it should receive
the attention of all of us. Professional training of teachers has
been raised to a higher level than ever; it is essential that require-
ments be elevated still further. Better inducements to attract
young people, particularly young men of real intellectual power,
into teaching are necessary. Better salaries for beginning teachers
are required, but more important inducements can be provided
through recognition of teaching as a worthy profession.

Graduates of schools like Harvard College are needed in public
education perhaps more than in private schools. Older graduates
in other fields would do well to consider means by which the
undergraduate of the future can be brought to see in public edu-
cation a career that will be worth his interest.

WALTER ROE MANSFIELD

HOME ADDRESS: 19 Dan’s Highway, New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Donovan, Leisure, Newton & Irvine, 2 Wall St.,. New York
5, N.Y.

BORN: July 1, 1911, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Frederick W. Mansfield,
Helena E. Roe.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, West Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; LL.B., 1935.

marrieD: Dorothy Howlett, Sept. 11, 1936, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1946);
Gertrude Rient, Jan. 1, 1947, New York, N.Y. cuitpren: Matthew F.,
Jan. 22, 1940; Trina P., Jan. 25, 1949; Peter F. Rient, March 17, 1938
(stepson).

HARVARD SON: Peter F. Rient, ’60.

occupaTION: Lawyer, partner in law firm.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant to Attorney General, New York State, 1936; Assist-
ant U.S. Attorney, Criminal Division, Southern District of New York,
1938-41; president, board of trustees, New Canaan Country School,
1953-56; secretary, 1948-55, vice-president, 1956-57, Harvard Law
School Association of New York; member, New Canaan Zoning Com-
mission, 1955-57; member, New Canaan Chapter Revision Commission,
1954-55; chairman, Speakers Committee, New York State Citizens for
Eisenhower-Nixon, 1956; member of various New York professional
committees, Salvation Army, Community Service Fund, The Light-
house; member board of governors, New York Young Republican
Club; 1946-47, member various committees, Bar Association of City
of New York, 1938-57.

MEMBER OF: American, New York State and Federal Bar Associations; Har-

C771 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

yard Club of New York; Down Town Association; New Canaan

Country Club; Veterans of Strategic Services; various professional
associations listed abdve.

PUBLICATIONS: “Mihailovich, Hero or Traitor,” American Mercury, May

1946; “A Marine with the Guerrillas,” series in U.S. Marine Corp,
Gazette, 1946-47.

AFTER three years in the Law School (Harvard, of course), |
migrated to New York City where association with a large law
firm gave me a healthy respect for competitive forces in the
professional world. In those mid-depression days, a young law-
yer was lucky to have an opportunity to work days, nights, Sat-
urdays and Sundays. I quickly became a slave to demanding
clients and even two breaks for public service, (one as Assistant
Attorney General on the Drukman Murder case, and the other as
Assistant U.S. Attorney prosecuting criminal cases), failed to
get me out of the rut.

Pearl Harbor provided a disruption that, in retrospect, was
beneficial. There followed three years on active duty with the
Marine Corps, mostly on temporary assignment with that strange
mystery known as O.S.S. Parachute training led to six months
with the Yugoslav guerrillas, plus an even longer period behind
Jap lines, all of which served to change my outlook on life con-
siderably. I left the military service determined to give more
of my life and time to non-professional interests. The war had
demonstrated how quickly one’s private professional activities can
be dwarfed to insignificance.

Upon return to civilian life, my wife and I established our
home in the Connecticut countryside (New Canaan), where we
revel in the wooded hinterland and devote most of our time to
nature — or, more accurately, to the never-ending task of cutting
grass, pruning trees, building stone walls, growing flowers, etc.
etc, A charming little blonde addition — Trina — now just eight
years, has us standing on our heads most of the time. My step
son, Peter Rient, after graduating with high honors from Exeter,
is a Harvard freshman and a member of its hockey team. Har-
vard literature (college and law school), plus requests for finan-
cial aid (including all the needs of a freshman) overwhelm me!

Since World War II, I have been actively engaged again in
practising law in New York City. I am a commuter — possibly

[772]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

an exurbanite. The process of maintaining an office in New York
City and a home fifry miles away in Connecticut presents many
challenges, but, on the whole, the rural home life, with its com-
plete change of atmosphere from the city, makes it worth while.
Ie has also enabled us to send our children to an excellent school,
The New Canaan Country School. As a member of this school’s
beard for many years, I have gained a close insight into the prob-
lems of the independent school today, as well as an intimate
know ledve of what goes into our children’s formal schooling.

I retain the basic philosophy impressed upon me by World
War If, chae we and our children will avoid sudden destruction
and continue to enjoy prosperity only if presumably educated
citizens like ourselves are willing to give a gencrous portion of
our time and energy towards study, action and leadership in pub-
he affairs. With this in mind, I have accepted various assignments
from time to time at the local level, and I have closely followed
the activities of our state and federal representatives,

All of this has not left too much spare time, but my wife, chil-
dren and I still enjoy skiing, tennis and nature study. To sum
things up, life is a full and satisfying experience, with many of
the sceds just beginning to bloom!

JOHN STANLEY MARSH

Wome aponess: 13 Hillcrest Rd., Canton, Mass.

orice aporess: Norfolk County Trust Co., 1319 Beacon St., Brookline, Mass.

poan: Afay 12, rg10, Arlington, Mass. parents: Hiram Stanley Marsh, '97,
Fdith Fettretch,

perparro at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES A.B. cum laude, 1932; LL.B. 1935.

maariep: Kathleen Johnston, Nov. 20, 1943, Accra, Gold Coast, B.W.A.
cHitpreN: Kathleen Anne, Jan. 29, 1945; Linda Ruth, May 23, 1947; Ian
J. May 13, 1949.

ooccpation: Vice-president, Norfolk County Trust Company.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Bar Association; Milton-Hoosic Club.

MILITARY Service — 1942 to 1946— 45 months overseas duty
— 2d Jicutenant to lieutenant colonel,
Graduate of Rutgers University Graduate School of Banking.

[773]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

EDWARD LAWRENCE MARTIN

HOME ADDRESS: 11 Narragansett Ave., Newport, R.I.
OFFICE ADDRESS: District Court of First Judicial District, Newport County
Court House, Newport, R. I.

BORN: Sept. 25, 1909, Newport, R.I. parents John Joseph Michael Martin,
Abbie A. Mahoney.

PREPARED AT: Rogers High School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

UNMARRIED,

occupation: Clerk of the District Court of the First Judicial District, State
of Rhode Island.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Newport Discussion Club.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Rhode Island; Newport Post No. 7, Ameri-
can Legion; Newport Council No. 256, Knights of Columbus; Newport
Discussion Club, Newport Men's Democratic Club; Rhode Island Dis-
trict Court Conference; Rhode Island State Employees’ Association.

AFTER graduation I worked in various positions until June 21,
1935, when I was appointed clerk of the District Court of the
First Judicial District, State of Rhode Island, a position I have
held continuously since that time except for a period of military
service during World War II. I soon learned that this is a time-
consuming position as regular sessions of this court are held daily
throughout the year and the Justice and Clerk must also be avail-
able for special sessions of Court. In the absence of the Justice,
I act as Justice of the Court and in such capacity I have the same
powers as the Justice, As Clerk I have the authority to perform
marriage ceremonies and have had the opportunity to make al-
most one thousand couples happy, but not even one of my class-
mates has taken advantage of my services. As an additional duty,
I act as a bail commissioner with the authority to release from
confinement those who furnish the proper bonds for later ap-
pearances before Court.

I find this position as Clerk most interesting as it gives me an
opportunity to meet people from all walks of life and to become
acquainted with the problems that beset them. I have had no
legal training for this position but in the last twenty-one years
I have acquired a considerable knowledge of the law. I realize
that I should have attended Harvard Law School after graduation
from the College as I would enjoy a legal career. The only class-
mate whom I have met officially is Larry Channing who came

[774]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

down from Boston to try a civil matter in court, back in 1938.

On November 3, 1942, after being granted military leave of
absence from my position, I reported for active duty in the Army
at Fort Devens, Massachusetts. I was successively stationed in
New Jersey, Colorado, New Jersey, Georgia, Michigan, Utah
and California before starting overseas in November, 1944. The
trip Overseas Was a very interesting one and would have been a
pleasant one if taken in peacetime. The itinerary included stops
at Noumea, New Caledonia and Brisbane, Australia. I finally
reached my destination, Hollandia, Dutch New Guinea, about
the middle of December. My service overseas was in Hollandia
and Manila with the 718th Army Air Forces Base Unit (Army
Airways Communications System). I now realize that I saw a
part of the world that I perhaps never would have seen if I had
not been in military service, I am entitled to wear the Good
Conduct Medal, the American Theatre Campaign Ribbon, the
Asiatic-Pacific ‘Theatre Campaign Ribbon with battle stars for
the New Guinea Campaign and the Luzon Campaign, the Philip-
pine Liberation Ribbon and the Victory Medal. I returned to the
United States on October 20, 1945, and was discharged from the
Army on November 5, 1945. Thereafter, I resumed my position
as Clerk of Court. . |

The past eleven years have been very busy ones for me. I
have taken extension courses in real estate and insurance at the
University of Rhode Island and that has necessitated traveling
to and from Providence at night for several semesters. I am now
licensed both as insurance agent and as an insurance broker. The
business of the Court never seems to decrease and it requires a
great deal of attention. I do not have much time for recreation
but do follow sports, especially Harvard athletics, with great
interest. I usually attend one or two football games at Cam-
bridge each year. I look forward with great pleasure to Class
Reunions and have thoroughly enjoyed every one that I have
been able to attend. The next big Harvard event for me will be
the Twenty-fifth Reunion and I shall certainly make every effort
to be present at it.

[775]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932 _

FRANCIS ALDEN MARTIN

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Tucker Hill Lodge, Waitsfield, Vt.

BORN: Sept. 5, 1909, Keene, N.H. PARENTS: Kenneth MeGeogh Martin, ’oo,
Frances Mary Morse.

prepareD AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931.

marriep: Ann Felton, 1931, West Newton, Mass. cHTLDREN: Anna West,
June 24, 1932 (7. Hawley Slayton, Aug. 26, 1950 [divorced 1954];
Daniel J. Leary, May 18, 1955), Peter McGeogh, May 1, 1935 (a. Har-
ley Monck, June 24, 1953); Thomas Felton, May 6, 1937; Francis Alden
(Sandy), Nov. 17, 1940. GRANDCHILDREN: Sallie Slayton, April 16, 1952;
Elizabeth Ann Leary, June 7, 1956, Susan Victoria Martin, Sept. 8, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Kenneth McGeogh Martin, Jr., 34; Roger Harper Martin,
34.

occupation: Lodge owner and operator.

IT may seem strange that a hockey player should be found
operating a lodge in the ski country, but children often help to
mold our ways. Mine are all skiers; this fact coupled with a desire
to live in the country led us to Waitsfield, where the Mad River
Glen Chair-Lift was installed in 1948. We built our lodge from
scratch, on a knoll overlooking our narrow valley which winds
up to the main range of the Green Mountains, three miles to the
chair lift on General Stark Mountain. My wife was the architect
and I worked as a carpenter. We started with the area, suffered
through two poor winters, and now have managed to get our
heads above water. Our children are all good skiers, Son Tommy
is captain of the Proctor Academy ski team this year, and Sandy,
first year at Proctor, should make the team.

Before we made our big change, we lived in Weston, Massa-
chusetts, from 1933 to 1948. I worked for Felton & Son, Inc., in
Boston, during this time. When the war came, I tried enlisting
in the Navy, but was turned down due to a diabetic condition.
This condition left me at home during the war and my only
official duty was acting as an air raid warden. All our children
were born in the Boston area and received their first schooling
there.

We have never regretted making the move to Vermont and
the ski business. All our children love it here, and one of the
best things to look forward to after a busy winter is a visit from

[776]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

our grandchildren. My daughter’s children will return in the
spring from Ernest Harman Air Force Base in Newfoundland,
and Peter who is learning the printing trade lives in Tom’s River,
New Jersey. The lodge is open all year and our welcome mat
is always out for any Class member who happens this way.

. GEORGE KEITH MARTIN

HOME ADDRESS: 42 Front St., Binghamton, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Roberson Memorial Center, 30 Front St., Binghamton, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 22, 1910, Perth Amboy, N.J. parents: Oliver Curtis Martin,
Elinor Harmon. .

PREPARED AT: Park Lodge School, Pau, France.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932,

MARRIED: Jeanne Madden, June 3, 1938, Scranton, Pa, (divorced 1954);
Laura Bishop, July 15, 1955, New York, N.Y. cumpren: George Keith,
Jr., Nov. 1, 1946; Harry Payne, April 19, 1949; Robert Madden, Jan.
6, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Harmon Curtis Martin, 234 M.A. '25; Kenneth Payne
Martin, M.B.A., °26.

OCCUPATION: Educational director, especially in field of museum and pro-
fessional art; consultant; professional portrait painter.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Kansas City Art Institute and School of Design,
1939-43, Roberson Memorial Center, Dept. of Arts & Sciences, Inter-

- national Business Machines Corp., 1945-53; technical assistant to Re-

gional Director of Defense, Seventh Defense Area, 1943.

MEMBER OF: American Association. of Museums; American Federation of

_ Arts.

GRADUATION found me going to work in the manner of my
dreams — manicuring lawns, building stone walls, cutting wood,
and washing cars, with an eight-year-old boy thrown in to tutor
as a means of keeping up with the intellectual life. Currency being
short, the compensation was serving as an apprentice to the por-
trait painter, Wayman Adams. Other people wanted to study
with Mr. Adams and a school soon developed, I served as janitor,
handyman, secretary and general assistant for a period of about
three years.

Beginning in the fall of 1934, I acquired my own studio on
57th Street in New York City and began to teach. Among my
first commissions, the earliest and one of the most interesting,
was to live part-time on the campus of Swarthmore College and

[777]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

paint portraits of about a dozen senior faculty members for the
Benjamin West Society; some of these works, I hope, are still on
the walls. The old Grace Horne Gallery in Boston presented my
first one-man exhibition in 1935. Late that spring I held an exhibi-
tion in El Paso, Texas, painted a few portraits and moved on to
Hollywood, Three years were spent on the West Coast between
Hollywood and Santa Barbara.

The directorship of the Kansas City Art Institute was offered
me at the end of 1939. During my stay in Kansas City, we inau-
gurated the Department of Industrial Design, and my interest
developed more into educational and institutional fields than in
the line of professional painting. In 1940 we established the first
civilian industrial camouflage research and training center in rec-
ognition of the gathering war clouds. -

When the Civil Defense was set up, I was handed the job of
technical assistant to the Regional Director and had charge of plant
protection, black-out and camouflage for the Seventh Defense
Area, The Army acquired my services as a buck private in com-
bat engineering in 1943. I rose rapidly to corporal and was shunted
into camouflage training in the Aviation Engineers and spent sev-
eral months designing, building and operating training centers.
When the 20th Bomber Command came into being, I joined a
target model-making group in the Intelligence Section. By the
time overseas duty came along, four of us in the section had been

assigned the problem of developing a ground training and brief-
ing device for radar navigation and bombardment. Together we
invented and built three versions, one in this country and the
others in the field at Kharagapur, India. The months in India
were devoted to this technical work and in briefing combat crews.
While on furlough on home ground on the way to Okinawa,
the whistle blew and I fell out. By separation time in September,
1945, | found that I had been elevated to sergeant — the U. 5.
still owes me three months’ difference in back pay.

In October, 1945, 1 joined International Business Machines
Corporation, in charge of the Department of Arts and Sciences.
During eight years with IBM, I developed exhibitions, designed
museums, and entered into a considerable amount of general
institutional public relations work directly with the late T, J.
Watson, Often farmed out, my duties included assistance to the

[778]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Metropolitan Museum of Art in raising money — founding the
Art Department and teaching as full professor in the branch of
Syracuse University which has since become the Liberal Arts
College of the State University of New York. As part of this
chore I was called upon to do the first functional designs and
make the preliminary engineering estimates for the new college.

In mid-summer of 1953 I took on the work one usually dreams
about — planning and building of an educational institution from
the very beginning! I’m still at it, in the third year of operation
of Roberson Memorial Center in Binghamton, New York. This
is a general museum and cultural activity center — fills the bill
for everybody else’s leisure!

Politics? As a high school civics teacher once said, “Lincoln
agrees with me —!” President Fisenhower rather well expresses
my general sentiments. I’m content with the world, if not satis-
fied — happy at work, and if my good health goes along as well
as it has, I'll be there in June. Hoping to see you all.

PAUL CLARK MARTIN

HOME ADDRESS: 9 Westover Gardens, Richmond 25, Va.

BorN: Feb, 13, 1911, Somerville, Mass. PARENTS: George Ezra Marun, Winni-
fred Clark.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932; S.1B. (Episcopal Theo-
logical School).

marrieD: Martha Brandt Smith, June 14, 193 5, Boston, Mass. cHILD: ‘Thomas
_ Clark (adopted), Nov. 3, 1945.

occuPATION: Retired clergyman.

ARTHUR LIVINGSTON MASON

BORN: Aug. 29, 1911, Newport, R.I. parents: Earl Potter Mason, Mary
Walsh.

PREPARED AT: Rogers High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932, DEGREES: S.B., 1932; M.B.A., 1934.

piep: March 20, 1950, Dayton, Ohio.

MotHeER: Mrs. Mary Mason Quinn, 17 Cedar Lane, Douglaston, N.Y.

ARTHUR MASON was a lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Air
[779]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Corps, stationed with the Air Materiel Command at Wright
Field in Dayton, Ohio. He had served three years in the Pacific
Area, where he received the Purple Heart, the Air Medal and
the Army Commendation Ribbon. Also he had a Unit Citation
and sundry theater ribbons and foreign awards of what he called
“little importance.”

He was survived by his mother, two brothers, Lieutenant Earl
G. and Richard, and two sisters, Lieutenant Carol L. and Diane.

CHARLES NOBLE MASON, JR.

HOME AppRESS: P.O. Box 6, Brookline 46, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: P.O. Box 108, Washington, D.C.

BORN: Jan. 20, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Charles Noble Mason, Emily
Elizabeth Reed.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: S.B. magna cum laude, 1932; SM 19335

AM. 1934.
UNMARRIED,

OccUPATION: Government Personnel Administration.

MY government career started in 1938 when I entered the field
of personnel administration in which I have continued up to the
present time, except for a three-year period during World War
II when I was on leave from my regular position to return to
Harvard as an instructor in electronics.

Recently my extra-curricular activities have been mostly in the
intergroup relations field. I am on the executive committee of
the District of Columbia Branch of the N.A.A.C.P.; vice-presi-
dent of the Washington Fellowship; on the executive committee
of the Washington Chapter of the Unitarian Laymen’s League;
a member of the National Association of Intergroup Relations
Officials, the Civil Service Assembly of the United States and
Canada, and the Society for Personnel Administration,

I have kept in touch with Harvard through my membership
on the Schools and Scholarship Committee of the Harvard Club
of Washington. It is a great satisfaction to see the high quality
of the students who have been going to Harvard in recent years
and to have had a small part in selecting some of them.

[ 780 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HENRY LOWELL MASON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 79 Marlborough St., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 294 Washington St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Feb, 17, 1910, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Henry Lowell Mason, ’88, Es-
telle H. Kimball.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; LL.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Fanny Crowninshield Homans, Aug. 15, 1939, Boston, Mass. cHt-
DREN: Henry Lowell, 3d, Feb. 10, 1941; Abigail Adams, Dec. 17, 1943;
John Homans, Oct. 24, 1945.

occuPATION: Lawyer; parmer, Herrick, Smith, Donald, Farley & Ketchum.

OFFICES HELD: Member of corporation, North Bennet Street Industrial School,
trustee, New England Conservatory of Music.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Bar Association; Boston Bar Association; Harvard
Club of Boston; Tennis & Racquet Club; Somerset Club; Myopia Hunt
Club.

FOLLOWING my graduation from the Harvard Law School
with the Class of 1935, I spent one year as personal secretary to
the Honorable Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr., this covering the period
of his first campaign for the U.S. Senate from Massachusetts to
which he was elected in November, 1936, one of the youngest
senators ever to be elected. This was a highly entertaining and
interesting experience.

In March, 1937, I became associated with my present law firm,
Herrick, Smith, Donald, Farley & Ketchum in Boston, in which
firm I became a partner in 1946. I have always enjoyed, and still
do, the practice of the law.

My principal hobby is contract bridge which I play at every
opportunity. I hope some day to achieve some inkling of what
that fascinating game is all about.

I am a Republican, believing that in that party lies the principal
hope for the preservation of the free enterprise system, in which
I most firmly do believe.

CLIFFORD CHARLES MATLOCK

HOME apprEss: Grand Hotel, Darbard, Iran.

OFFIcE apprEss: American Embassy, Teheran, Iran.

BoRN: Nov. 6, 1909, Whittier, Calif. parents: William Holland Matlock,
Clara Wallace.

[781 ]

ha nts a in ANON ONO AAO AEA EE SCA ELAN NAT NNN tats

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

PREPARED AT: Pasadena High School, Pasadena, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929, DEGREES: A.B. (Stanford Univ.), 1932; AM.
(Harvard Univ.), 1940.

MARRIED; Nina Ivanovna Stolypin, Nov. 6, 1934, Pasadena, Calif.

occupation: US. foreign service officer; special assistant to the Ambassador,
American Embassy, Teheran.

MEMBER OF: Metropolitan Club, Washington.

IN October, 1929, I entered Stanford University as a sophomore.
I completed my college work and received my A.B. as a member
of the Stanford Class of 1932. Subsequently, I studied in the
Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (Economics),
1936-38, and the Graduate School of Public Administration
(Littauer Fellow), 1939-40. Since graduation from Stanford Uni-
versity, with the exception of the periods of graduate study at
Harvard, I have been in the civil and, more recently, foreign
service of the U.S. Government. In the civil service, I served
in several departments and agencies in Washington. My State
Department service to date includes tours of duty in London,
Paris and Teheran.

DUDLEY McCUTCHEON MATTHEWS

HOME ADDRESS: 702 Ogden Lane, San Antonio, Texas.

OFFICE appress: Dewar, Robertson & Pancoast, National Bank of Commerce
Bldg., San Antonio, Texas. .
BORN: Jan. 12, 1911, Cincinnati, Ohio. parents: Robert Orville Matthews,

Isabel McCutcheon.

PREPARED AT: Ohio Military Institute, College Hill, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932. .

MARRIED: Jessamine Meyer, Nov. 14, 1934, St. Louis, Mo.; Margaret Sher-
wood Hodges, Nov. 10, 1941, New York, N.Y. cnmpren: Robert Or-
ville, May 25, 1936; Sherwood, Jan. 9, 1946.

occupation: Stockbroker with investment banking firm of Dewar, Robertson
& Pancoast.

MEMBER OF: Tuxedo Club, New York (former member); American Yacht
Club, Rye, N.Y. (former member); Harvard Club of New York
(former member); The Argyl Club, San Antonio, Texas.

AFTER graduation I spent one year at Harvard Law School and
one year with W. L. Adams & Company, New York City. The
next six years I was with Joseph B. Thomas Associates, private

[ 782 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

bankers, New York City. From 1940 to 1946 I was in the Mili-
tary Intelligence Service, Counter Intelligence Corps, War De-
partment, Washington. I then spent four years with Martin-
Parry Corporation in New York City and since 1950 have been
associated with Dewar, Robertson & Pancoast, investment bank-
ers, in San Antonio, Texas.

~ LAWRENCE ROBERTSON MAXWELL

HOME apprEss: 44 W. 12th St. New York 11, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: P.O. Box 91, Station D, New York 3, N.Y.

BORN: Oct. 20, 1909, New York, N.Y. parents: Lawrence Brickman Cohen,
Lucile Robertson. |

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

OCCUPATION: Retail bookseller.

j

LEON MAYERS

HOME ADDRESS: 16 Loring Rd., Winthrop, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 94 Jefferson St., Winthrop, Mass.

BORN: March 23, 1911, Revere, Mass. PARENTS: Samuel Mayers, Mollie Massik.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932; 0.D. (Massachusetts Coll. of

Optometry), 1943.

MarRiED: Evelyn Schair, Dec. 25, 1951, Winthrop, Mass. cuitp: Glenn Scot,
Feb. 15, 1955.

occuPATION: Optometrist in private practice.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Red Feather Campaign, Winthrop, 1952; chairman
of publicity, Salvation Army Campaign, 1952; vice-president, Winthrop
Chamber of Commerce, 1954; finance officer, Winthrop Post Amvets,
1954, 1955.

AFTER matriculating at our dear old Alma Mater, I somehow
got sidetracked from my original goal, namely medical school.
can’t truthfully say whether or not I regret the detour, but you
will have to admit upon further reading that I have had a rather
checquered career. I must have acquired some invaluable ex-
perience along the way, or at Icast I hope so, In any case, most
of it was great fun and extremely enlightening.

As we all know, 1932 was a depression year. Hlowever, right

[ 783 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932.

into the teeth of that fact I sailed into the life insurance business
as an agent for the Equitable of New York. (Jobs were then
scarcer than a Bikini suit in Alaska.) The sad fact of the matter
was that the older folks had their own agents while the younger
people had none of the folding stuff. To sum up, it was pretty
rough, and two years were all I could take of that.

It suddenly dawned on me that I had a ready-made weapon,

my saxophone, which had more than paid for all of my material
needs in college, and which I was still using as a sideline (did I
say sideline? ). So, I set up an office and set out to conquer the
musical world with my newly-formed orchestras. At the time,
I was driving a 1923 Packard touring car (remember those?)
donated by my uncle Lou, inasmuch as I had inadvertently de-
molished my own by taking an abbreviated nap at the wheel en
route from a musical engagement on Cape Cod. Shortly there-
after I purchased a new Plymouth and sold the old Packard for
the magnificent sum of five dollars, battery, tools and all. I did
quite well in my musical enterprises, and in 1936 I even got to
the West Indies via a band aboard the S.S. Lafayette; however,
I got the yearning eventually to have an occasional evening to
myself so that, in 1940, I enrolled at the Massachusetts College of
Optometry, while playing my saxophone professionally a couple
of evenings a week. |

On the strength of my pre-medical studies at Harvard, I was
allowed to complete the course in two years instead of the usual
four. (Note: the present course comprises five years and yields
an S.B. degree as well as an O.D.) . |

Shortly before graduation Uncle Sam was breathing heavily
on my neck so I enlisted in the Coast Guard where I served com-
pletely without notoriety and without any national recognition
for three years.

Upon discharge from the service, I successfully passed the
Optometric State Boards and started a practice on Tremont
Street in Beantown, where I was located for five years, and where
I was not particularly happy. 7

Preferring to be a big frog in a small pond rather than vice-
versa (if you'll pardon the expression), 1 moved my headquarters
to Winthrop, Massachusetts (population approximately 20,000),
where I am presently ensconced and where I have finally found

[ 784]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my proper niche, as it were, ‘and where I am a respected member
of the community. |

That was October, 1951. Two months Jater I married the girl
of my dreams, Evelyn — Christmas Day, to be exact. On Feb-
ruary 15, 1955, we were blessed with a son, Glenn Scott, and
what a blessing! Would I be too doting to say he’s adorable?
Well, he is |

Aside from the usual humdrum everyday activities, that about
brings my tale up-to-date, give or take a little. I sincerely hope
that the years to come will prove to be as eventful and as interest-
ing as those past. Oh, yes, I completely discarded my secret
weapon, the sax, three years ago so that society might spend its
future years in peace.

 

%* EDMUND AUSTIN MAYS, JR.

BORN: Aug. 26, 1909, New York, N.Y. parents: Edmund Austin Mays,
Mary Garland.

PREPARED AT: Taft School, Watertown, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: S.B., 1932; M.B.A., 1934.

MARRIED: Janet Angle. cxiLp: Janet Van Kranken.

piep: April 29, 1950, near New Canaan, Conn.

EDMUND AUSTIN MAYS was killed in a three-car collision
on the Merritt Parkway near New Canaan, Connecticut. His
wife, Janet Angle Mays, was killed in the same accident.

On October 2, 1934, he joined the staff of The New York
Trust Company and, after service in various departments having
to do with credit, statistical research and investment supervision,
he was assigned to new business development work. On October
4, 1940, he entered the United States Army.

He enlisted as a private in the 25oth Coast Artillery in training
at Camp McQuaide. He was sent to Officers Candidate School
and received a commission as second lieutenant in October, 1941.
He was assigned to the 62d Coast Artillery (Anti-aircraft) Regi-
ment on Long Island, New York. Later he was transferred to
the Army Air Corps as Termination Contracting Officer and was
stationed in the Western District (Los Angeles) of the Air Tech-
nical Service Command for two and one-half years, terminating

[ 785 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

contracts of Consolidated Vultee Aircraft Corporation, Hughes
Aircraft and Bendix Aviation. He was discharged with the rank
of major in May, 1946.

He returned to The New York Trust Company on June 4,
1946, as an assistant treasurer. On June 17, 1947, he was appointed
an assistant vice-president and held that position at the time of
his death. .

He was survived by his parents and a daughter, Janet.

ALDEN FRICK MEGREW

HOME ADDRESS: 505 Baseline Rd., Boulder, Colo.

OFFicE abpress: Fine Arts Dept., Theatre 201, University of Colorado, Boul-
der, Colo.

BorN: Aug. 30, 1908, Plainfield, N.J. parents: George Megrew, Louise
Goudy.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: S.B., 1932; A.M., 1939.

Maraigp: Rue Elizabeth French, June 22, 1935, Beverly Farms, Mass. CHILD:
Anne Elizabeth, Oct. 7, 1938.

occupation: Professor and head of Art Department, University of Colorado.

OFFICES HELD: State supervisor, lowa Art Project, 1941; assistant editor, Par-
nassus Magazine, 1941-42, secretary, vice-president, president, Mid-
western College Art Conference; chairman, Southwestern College Art
Conference; member executive council, Colorado Educational Associa-
tion, State Art Association, director, 1952~56, chairman, committee for
student oil painting exhibitions sent to Europe, the Near East, Asia and

Latin America under the auspices of U.S. Information Agency, College
Art Association.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Denver; St. Regis Yacht Club, Upper St.
Regis, N.Y., American Alpine Club; Harvard Travelers Club, Rocky
Mountain Harvard Club (vice-president and trustee).

PusLications: Outline Medieval Art History; Outline Northern Renaissance

Art History; various magazine articles and publications in College Art
Journal.

SINCE the Decennial Report, my family and I have moved to
Boulder, Colorado, where we have lived for the past nine years,
the longest time we have ever lived in any one place. In fact,
we haven’t found any other place quite so attractive, so we are
still here. Having built our own house and found everything
about the Department of Fine Arts of the University of Colorado

[ 786 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

all we had hoped it might be, we have simply stayed put and
thoroughly enjoyed it. Boulder being situated right at the edge
of the Rockies also gives us a chance to keep up our favorite
avocations of skiing, camping and mountain climbing.

During the past ten years as professor and head of the Art De-
partment, I have been fortunate enough to have many connec-
tions in the Midwest and East which have kept me running back
and forth so that I feel in closer touch with what is going on in
other parts of the country than I did when we lived in Jowa. I
have enjoyed close connections with the College Art Association
of America, for which I served six years as director, as an officer
of the Midwest College Art Conference, the Southwest College
Art Conference and the Colorado Education Association, During
the past year, I served as chairman of a committee set up by the
College Art Association arranging an exhibition of student paint-
ings from all over the United States to be sent to Europe, Asia
and the Near East by the U.S. Information Agency. I believe
that this is the first exhibition of student work from our colleges
and universities to be exhibited in these foreign parts. Perhaps I
should mention, too, that I have kept up my active interest in
Harvard and served as both an officer and director of the Rocky
Mountain Harvard Club. In the meantime, J have done a bit of
writing on the side. |

Fortunately, both my wife, Rue, and my daughter, Anne, love
the outdoors and we have spent many happy vacations in the
high mountains, when we are not working like dogs in our rather
ambitious garden, which has its moments of grandeur to repay
us. Rue and I have both been active in the Episcopal Church,
as has Anne who is now a freshman at Connecticut College in
New London. |

This past summer we all went abroad and covered a tremen-
dous amount of Europe in a small rented Citroen. While in
Chamonix we made an ascent of Mont Blanc, which was Anne’s
first major peak and now she wants to go back for another sum-
mer of climbing in the near future, and we hope to be with her.
Every possible vacation we head for the wilds on camping trips,
sometimes Canada, sometimes the Wind Rivers, or even more
frequently in the Southwest. We still scem to be indefatigable
travelers. We also spend much time in Annisquam at Rue's old

[ 787 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

family place on Squam Rock Road, so all in all, life is full and
extremely interesting for all of us. Needless to say, we shall al-

ways be happy to see our Harvard friends at home at 505 Base-
line Road in Boulder.

WILLIAM WALLACE MEIN, JR. -

HOME ADDRESS: 1308 Canada Rd., Woodside, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 315 Montgomery St. San Francisco, Calif.

Born: Aug. 21, 1910, London, England. parents: William Wallace Mein,
Frances Locke Williams.

PREPARED AT: Potter School, San Francisco, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933. DEGREE: A.B. 1932 (33).

MARRIED: Sally Miller Nickel, Jan. 5, 1935, Stanford, Calif. cumpren: Wil-
liam Wallace, 3d, Feb. 20, 1936; Thomas Tucker, Nov. 10, 1937; Robert
Nickel, Sept. 3, 1942; Sarah Ernestine, Nov. 11, 1948.

occupation: President of cement manufacturing and oil producing com-
panies.

orrices HELD: Director, Calaveras Cement Company, since 1937, Bishop Oil
Company, since 1938, Commonwealth Investment Company, since 1952,
Clear Lake Water Company, since 1938, and various partly owned sub-
sidiaries of Calaveras Cement Company; vice-president and director,
American Institute of Mining, Metallurgical and Petroleum Engineers,

1955-58; member and secretary, Governor Warren's California State
Mining Board, 1944-54.

MEMBER OF: Burlingame Country Club; Engineers Club, San Francisco; Pa-
cific Union Club, San Francisco; American Institute of Mining, Metal-
lurgical and Petroleum Engineers; American Concrete Institute; Ameri-

can Petroleum Institute; American Society for Testing Materials, Min-
ing and Metallurgical Society of America.

HAVING worked summers in the plant engineering office of
the Calaveras Cement Company, after graduation I returned to
this job. After gold increased in price, I left Calaveras to examine
mines and run a portable assay office, and then went to the mid-
continent to work as an oil scout for the Bishop Oil Company.
Thanks to my engineering science courses at Harvard, I had the
basic training necessary to learn and perform these and sub-
sequent tasks,

On January 5, 1935, Sally Miller Nickel and I were married
in the Stanford Chapel. We spent our honeymoon driving to
the oil boom town of Ada, Oklahoma. On our return to San

[ 788 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Francisco we found an apartment with a fireplace and a view.
When we moved out three years later we had two fine sons,
two pups, a cat and some of the machine tools of marriage such
. as stove, living room furniture, etc. The next house had a room
for each son and one spare which we soon filled with a third son.

In 1943 we moved “temporarily” to Woodside in the country,
where our daughter, Tina, was born. We have been there ever
since and have taken part in school, church, Harvard and other
activities. My wife became president of the P.T.A. and I served
for eight years on the school board. Civic jobs included secre-
tary and member of Governor Warren’s State Mining Board for
ten years. My Scotch grandfather’s oldest son’s middle name was
Lincoln; although first a registered Democrat, I later returned to
the fold and became a Republican.

In 1951, after I had become president of the Calaveras Cement
Company and an officer of the Bishop Oil Company, we finally
built a house of our own in Woodside. Here we have lots of fun
with our family, enjoying hobbies such as gardening, swimming
and riding. Since 1943 we have been summering at Lake Tahoe.

Not having been in the Armed Services, I determined to find
some way to travel. I became active in the American Institute
of Mining, Metallurgical and Petroleum Engineers and am cur-
rently vice-president and director. My wife is a director of the
Garden Club of America and we attend directors’ meetings in -
New York twice a year. In 1947, Sally and I took a trip via Eur-
ope to South Africa, where we visited my gold and diamond
mining cousins. In 1956, we spent a month in the Orient.

Although my jobs are as much fun as duck hunting, with the
added advantage of no closed season, I plan some day to retire.
Sally and I are the fond parents of three fine sons, Billy, twenty-
one, Tommy, nineteen and Nicky, fourteen, and our daughter
Tina, eight.

DAVID MENDELSOHN

HOME appress: 410 E. 57th St., New York 22, N.Y.
OFFICE appress: Delma Manufacturing Co, Inc. 100 Manton Ave, Provi-~
dence, R.I.

[ 789 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932 -

BORN: Feb. 21, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Harris Mendelsohn, Minnie
Shapiro.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B.. 1932; M.B.A. 1936.

UN MARRIED,

occuPATION: Treasurer, Delma Manufacturing Company, Inc., costume
jewelry manufacturing.

MEMBER OF: United Jewish Appeal; Harvard Club of Rhode Island; Har-
vard Business School Association; Manufacturing Jewelers Association;
American Technion Society.

AFTER graduation I decided to look for a position befitting a
man who had just been admitted to the society of educated men:
ie, a job that paid money. After about a year and a half of
looking, I went back to school— Harvard Business School.
Upon receiving my M.B.A., I found myself right back where I
started: looking for a job. After an assortment of ricochet
experiences, I landed up as a manufacturer of costume jewelry.
This is a soul-searing business that keeps you one step ahead of
the St. Vitus Dance. This is an industry built on that famous
sentence: “What’s new?” And frankly, if you don’t know what's
new, you're through. In spite of all the moaning and gnashing of
teeth, each year we pull through and add a little to the size of
the factory.

As for hobbies, I play bridge on occasion, and always enjoy a
good game of poker. To keep in shape (?), I play a little tennis,
swim, and push myself away from the table. And, alas, since I
have remained a bachelor, I fear my other hobbies would be of
little interest or use to my classmates.

If it pleases the Lord to keep me among those who will answer
the call for our Fiftieth Anniversary, I hope that the next twenty-
five years will be as kind as the last twenty-five.

SILVIO LINCOLN MEROLA

HOME appRESS: Eastern Point, Gloucester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Merola Galleries, Eastern Point, Gloucester, Mass.

BoRN: Feb. 12, 1909, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Rudolf Filiberto Merola,
Severina Uberti.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

occupation: Art dealer.

[ 790 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HUBERT C. MERRICK

HOME ADDRESS; 901 Greenwood Ave., Wilmette, Ill.
oFFIcE appress: Klohr & Merrick, 105 S. LaSalle St., Chicago 3, Ill.
BoRN: Dec. 20, 1910, Chicago, Ill. PARENTS: Roy Cleasby Merrick, Edna May

Pouley.
PREPARED AT: James H. Bowen High School, Chicago, Tl,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREES: A.B. (Univ. of Chicago), 1932; Jo.

~ Gbid.), 1934.

marrigpD: Louise S. Bolsinger, Aug. 18, 1935, Chicago, Ill. cumpren: Carole
Lynn, Dec. 3, 1939; Stephen McLane, Nov. 3, 1941; Priscilla Anne, Feb.
14, 1944; Marcia Claire, April 19, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Humphrey Merrick, ’30, LL.B., ’33.

occuPATION: Lawyer; partner, Klohr & Merrick.

OFFICES HELD; Treasurer, 1953-55, vice-president, 1955-56, president, 1956-57,
Workmen’s Compensation Lawyers Association; vice-chairman, 1953-55,
chairman, 1955-57, Committee on Industrial Commission, Chicago Bar
Association.

MEMBER OF: American, Illinois and Chicago Bar Associations; Chicago Law
Institute; Workmen’s Compensation Lawyer’s Association.

MY work requires a never-ending stream of correspondence and
_ trial reports, and I am supposed to have some flair for writing
briefs. It’s odd that I am nevertheless so poor a personal corre-
spondent, and so late with this report. Perhaps it’s because, as
some lawyers say, you can’t make a living at the law unless you
have too much to do. .

Looking back, I think that finding enough or too much to do
has almost never been a problem, even though the financial re-
turns were sometimes inadequate. After transferring from Har-
vard to the University of Chicago, I combined the last year of
college with the first year of law school, and so had both degrees
by 1934. Actually, by going to summer school, I had finished
still earlier, and had been working six months when my law
degree was issued in absentia.

In eight years of general civil practice I acquired varied and
valuable experience, with its value being more educational than
financial. Since then I have been in a small firm specializing in
defense of workman’s compensation cases. This field has been
intensely interesting and enjoyable. There is that human element
which it seems to me is often lacking i in, say the tax or corporate
fields. I have been very fortunate in my associates.

[791]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

The children have all the health, strength, intelligence and
good looks that anyone could reasonably ask. Carole, a top stu-
dent, will enter college next fall in the department of music.
Steve is a good student and athlete, and in the next year or two,
will have to consider college and military demands. Priscilla and
Marcia are progressing in junior high and grammar school, and
will be with us a few years yet.

The old ballad says that twenty-one years, boys, is an awful
long time. Twenty-five years is even longer. I used to be an-—
noyed because I locked so young, and lacked that professional
appearance and dignity. Now I have all the grey hair I need to
pose as a man of distinction, and am beginning to think there
can be too much of a good thing. And how’s your weight prob-
lem lately? .

FREDERICK LEIGHTON MESERVE

HOME appress: Long Beach Road, St. James, Long Island, N.Y.

Born: March 18, 1908, New York, N.Y. parents: Frederick Hill Meserve,
Edith Turner.

PREPARED AT: Taft School, Watertown, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

OccUPATION: Finance.

BERNARD CONSTANT MEYER

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 240 E. 62d St. New York 21, N.Y.

BORN: June 26, 1910, White Plains, N.Y. parents: Max Meyer, Eugenia G.
Goodkind. .

PREPARED AT: Scarsdale High School, Scarsdale, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: AB. 1932(33): M.D. (Cornell Univ.),
1936. ;

Maraiep: Elly Kassman, June 27, 1936, White Plains, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Nicholas, Dec. 24, 1945; Constance, Sept. 27, 1952.

oocupaTion: Physician; psychoanalysis and psychiatry.

OFFIces HELD: Associate attending psychiatrist, Mount Sinai Hospital, N-Y.

mempeR or: New York Psychoanalytic Society, American Psychoanalytic
Association; International Psychoanalytic Association; American Psy-

[792 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

chosomatic Society; American Psychiatric Association; American Medi-
cal Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles on neurology, psychiatry and psycho-
analysis.

IN view of the more inevitable bias which creeps into auto-
biography, I am turning the task over to the more objective view-
point of our Siamese cat, Ananda, who at eighteen years of age
is still a handsome creature, despite the fact that after a single
venture into paternity was thereupon cut out to be a bachelor.

“Meow: Of my master’s medical school days I can report only
hearsay. I did not appear upon the scene until after his gradua-
tion and marriage when he was interning at the Montefiore Hos-
pital in the Bronx. There my master and mistress acquired my
sainted mother (and one-time libidinal object) who has since
passed on. My mother, named Gabrielle Dorziat Katt, was
maturing more rapidly than the doctor — absorbed as he was at
the time in neurology —and his wife, an accomplished concert
pianist named Elly Kassman, the daughter of a violinist who
played in the Boston Symphony Orchestra under Koussevitzky
for twenty-five years, realized. (I can’t account for the German
sentence structure: I am pure Siamese.) Anyway, mother got
libidinally communicative and this was something of a problem,
due to the shortage of my type of cat in the United States at
that time. The doctor was prodded by his fellow interns to mate
my mother with a furnace habitue at the hospital, but my mis-
tress, a Bostonian, would hear none of it. Driven by her threats
and my mother’s vocal indecencies, the doctor managed in some
Mephistophelian manner to borrow a male Siamese which had
been presented by the King of Siam to Mr. Kermit Roosevelt.
Iam told that Jungalee and my sainted mother had a roaring good
time for a few days in the Borough of Universities, which re-
sulted in four half-brothers whom I never met. Mother was a
fun loving soul, however, and some time later met my father, a
gentleman of the old school. I was the product of this liaison
and have been with the doctor and his wife ever since.

“By and by we finished both our internship and a residency in
neurology at Montefiore and moved on to the Rockland State
Hospital. Mother and I were crazy about the place. Moreover,
realizing the doctor’s interest in psychoanalysis we proceeded to

[ 793 ]

mn A NA PNR EES ARES SS

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

act out one of Freud’s fundamental concepts, which caused

plenty of excited State hospital talk and three kittens. We stayed

on for two years. Aly mistress, meanwhile, gave a number of

concerts: one with her father in Jordan Hall, Boston, and later a

Town Hall debut in New York. In 1941 we all moved to New

York where we opened an office for the practice of neurology,

psychiatry and couch scratching. As time went on, the doctor’s
practice became virtually entirely psychoanalytic, which my
mother and I could have predicted. In 1945 a son, Nicholas, was
born to the doctor’s wife, whereupon my mother, well versed in
psychoanalytic theory, promptly regressed, forgot many of the
nice manners she had taught me and was forthwith invited to
leave. From that time on I have been the only member of my kind —
in the family but there has been a succession of huge dogs: a
Doberman who, having nipped a few guests who dropped in
without phoning, was sent off, and a Collie, who is with us now
and is a veritable nuisance with her long nose.

“My mistress appeared as soloist in an all-Stravinsky program
under the composer’s direction and was very well received. (1
have this on hearsay; they never take me to concerts. However,
I sit on the piano when she practises, and rehearsals certainly go
well.) In 1952 we had a daughter, Connie, who was a welcomed
addition. I did not regress at all when she appeared which ts a
wonder since she pulls my tail and is very annoying, but what
can you do with the children of today?

“Now we go to Provincetown in the summers and live in a
brownstone home and office combined in the winter. I have
pretty much the run of the place but I stay out of the office — at
my age there are some things you'd rather not hear. I have a
nice green chaise-longue to sit in and if something inreresting
happens I look up with one eye; then if it’s really interesting, I
might open the other. The children are exceedingly noisy but
amiable. Everyone is terribly fond of me which is as it should
be. At eighteen cat years, I have infinite wisdom and tolerance
and even took Stevenson’s defeat with equanimity.”

[794]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANK PAUL MICELI

HOME ADDRESS: 570 Congress Ave., New Haven, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Connecticut State Employment Service, New Haven, Conn.

BoRN: March 26, 1908, Tusa, Sicily. PaRENTSs: Joseph Miceli, Mary Di Marco.

PREPARED AT: Chapman Technical High School, New London, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Rosina Ramadei, Oct. 22, 1936, New Haven, Conn. cHILDREN:
Marianne, Dec. 6, 1937; Carolynne, Feb. 7, 1940; Barbara and Catherine
(twins), Sept. 6, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Employment interviewer, counselor and Veterans’ representa-
tive, Connecticut State Employment Service.

PUBLICATIONS: Where Democracy Triumphs; Meditations; Pride of Sicily.

ARTHUR SIEGFRIED MILINOWSKI, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 323 Ferris St., Peekskill, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Perkin-Elmer Corp., Norwalk, Conn.

BORN: Feb. 13, 1910, Buffalo, N.Y. parents: Arthur Siegfried Milinowski,
’o4, Harriet Sill.

PREPARED AT: Stillwater High School, Stillwater, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B. 1932.

MARRIED: Alice Elizabeth Wade, Nov. 19, 1938, Poughkeepsie, N.Y. cH-
pREN: Alan Arthur, Sept. §, 1939; Curtis Carlton, Aug. 2, 1944; Roger
Ransom, Feb, 12, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Carlton Ramson Milinowski, °35.

OCCUPATION: Senior optical engineer in company manufacturing scientific
instruments.

MEMBER OF: Optical Society of America; Institute of Radio Engineers.

MELVILLE BEATTIE MILLAR

HOME ADDRESS: 205 Paseo de las Delicias, Redondo Beach, Calif.

OFFICE ApprEss: U.S. Steel Corp., Torrance, Calif.

BORN: Jan. 12, 1912, Bridgeport, Conn. parents: Morgan Millar, ’97, Harriet
Agnes Hogg.

PREPARED AT: Warsaw High School, Warsaw, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933. DEGREE: S.B. IN MECH, ENG., 1933.

MARRIED: Esther Miller, June 3, 1939, Youngstown, Ohio. cut_pren: Douglas
Bruce, July 15, 1944; Stuart Price, Sept. 28, 1945. ,

HARVARD BROTHER: Branford Price Millar, '35, pH.p., '46.

occupaTION: Division industrial engineer, U.S. Steel Corporation; registered
professional mechanical engineer, State of California.

[795 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

orricrs HELD: Member of vestry and senior warden, St. Andrew’s Episcopal
Church, Torrance, Calif. 1950-33; chairman, Cub Scout Pack, 1954-55:
secretary, Troop 718 Committee, South Bay District, Boy Scouts of
Amenca, 1956-57, precinct chairman, Republican Party, 1952-56.

MEMBER OF: Protestant Episcopal Church, American Institute of Industrial
Engineers; California Republican Assembly.

AT the time of the last Class Report, on our Fifteenth Anniver-
sary, I had just moved to California. We have spent our vacations
for the past ten years either in touring the West or staying at
various places, as far east as New Mexico and north to Montana.
This past summer we took a little gooo-mile survey trip and lined
up some spots to which we hope to return for longer stays, in
Oregon and Wyoming. About every other year we usually camp

for a week in Yosemite Valley early in June, which is the ume
the falls are at their best.

JOHN BLOUNT MILLER

HOME aboreEss: 69 Chatham St., Chatham, N.J.

OFFICE appress: America Fore Insurance Group, 80 Maiden Lane, New
York 38, N.Y.

Boas: Dec. 9, 1908, Washington, D.C, parents: John Blount Miller, Augusta
Emma Durand.

PREPARED aT: Canandaigua Academy, Canandaigua, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. cunt laude, 1932.
UNMARRIED,

OCCUPATION: Securities analyst.

orrices HELD: Director, Talisman Corporation, New York Society of Security
Analysts, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa.

MUSING over the past twenty-five years, in the search for bio-
graphical commentary which may possibly be of interest to my
classmates, I am acutely aware that, in terms of the calendar, I
am becoming an antique. Yet, I do not feel ancient. In pausing
for a moment in the middle of my busy daily routine to take this
Jook behind, I find, surprisingly enough but with a feeling of
humble thankfulness, that I must have had my share of happiness
all this time. For the most part, I have enjoyed good mental and
physical health, I have been employed continuously and, in
peace-time, all-absorbed in a mentally stimulating and financ}

lally
(796 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

remunerative vocation. I have had the wonderful good fortune
to escape serious physical injury in World War Il. In addition,
somehow, I have managed to resist successfully most of the in-
sidious encroachments which my associates have attempted on
the precious, hard-earned hours of my leisure. All this sums up
to the conclusion that I have been able, for a quarter-century,
to lead a relatively carefree, calm and collected existence.

Unlike some of my restless, Depression-spawned compatriots
I have never felt the urge to be a crusader with or without a
worthy cause. Nor have I been fired, by a sense of unfulfillment,
to strive mightily to excel others in the social, athletic or political
spheres. Rather, since the theoretical years of college, I have
closely restricted my interests to the practicalities of coping with
the hard realities and intricacies of the bloodless stock market.
In this way I have been fortunate enough to earn my bread by
matching my judgment against others the world over. Yet, my
conscience is clear and comfortable in the knowledge that when-
ever I was right, the gain was not at the expense of anyone in
particular. Moreover, an intimate association with an expanding
number of nieces and nephews (with their youthful willingness
to break with the past, their untainted ideals and their wondrous
enthusiasms) perhaps has served to minimize the prejudices which
have grown perniciously from disillusioning encounters with my
own and older generations.

Memories of the best years of the past come most easily and
would be the most pleasant to relate, but a chronology must be
both complete and factual to be wholly perspective. To begin
with, there was my first job in the Auditing Department of the
Bankers Trust Company in New York, This experience served
to turn me forever against the career for which I had prepared.
After 1934, I capitalized on a developing extra-curricular interest
in the securities markets to hold positions, at various times, as an
analyst for two investment trusts, i.e. Administrative & Research
Corporation and Tri-Continental Corporation in New York.
Opportunities to advance and to utilize better my expanding ex-
perience and thorough grounding in this field resulted in subse-
quent association with some leading New York Stock Exchange
firms. Included were Fenner & Beane (now Merrill Lynch,
Pierce, Fenner & Beane), Edward B. Smith & Company (which

[797 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

merged while I was with it into the present Smith, Barney &

Company), and Reynolds & Company.

In mid-1942, I was commissioned at Philadephia as a lieutenant
(j-g-) in the U.S. Naval Reserve and later was indoctrinated with
the first class instructed in the Harvard Yard. By October, I had
command of L.C.1.(L), Number 12 (Landing Craft Infantry-
Large) and sailed in this ship to the Mediterranean as part of
Flotilla II in a mid-winter crossing of the first amphibious force

convoy to transit the Atlantic. As division commander, I partic-
ipated in assault landings on the beaches at Licata, Sicily, and
Salerno, Italy, and prepared for Anzio, In these operations I very
luckily escaped unscathed from approximately forty enemy
direct aerial bombings. Upon return to the United States, 1 was
assigned operations officer in the first L.S.M. (Landing Ship
Medium) Flotilla (Number XI) to be formed. The end of the
fighting found me in Hawaii en route to take part in the sched-
uled final assault on Japan. My separation from the Navy with
the permanent rank of lieutenant commander occurred Thanks-
giving Day, 1945. In more than three years in the Navy, I had
spent two-and-a-half of them on sea duty afloat.

Postwar, I have been exclusively engaged in investment counsel
activities. Successively, I have been associated with the excellent
firms of Naess & Cummings and of Lionel D. Edie & Company
in New York. For more than the past four years I have been
senior securities analyst with the America Fore Insurance Group
working with the investment portfolios of four companies valued
at about one billion dollars. |

In the past decade, the rise in the prices of securities has done
much to popularize and gain recognition for my chosen pro-
fession. Therefore, I cannot help but feel that the knowledge
and judgment which I have acquired in this quarter-century of
studying and dispassionately analyzing the interplay of market
forces, now comprises a business asset not likely to diminish in
value with the years.

Now, in middle life, 1 am looking forward to this opportunity
to return again to the Yard and, for the first time since our Twen-

tieth Reunion, see how many of my classmates and friends have
been treated by the passing years,

[798]

Re sae aL

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN PERRY MILLER

HOME ADDRESS: 73 Fernwood Rd., Hamden, Conn.

OFFICE appreEss: Dept. of Economics, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.

Born: March 26, 1911, Lynn, Mass. parents: Fred Miller, Hilda Martha
Wagner.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: AB. magna cum laude, 1932; A.M.

19343 PH.D. 1937.

MARRIED: Dorothy Marie Willard, May 30, 1942, Washington, D.C. cutpren:
Perry Lowell Miller, April 17, 1944; Ann Willard, Oct. 1, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederick Wagner Miller, ’25, M.B.a., 27.

occuPaTION: Professor of economics, director of Graduate Studies in Eco-
nomics; teaching, research, administration, consultant to various State
and federal agencies.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Social Science Research Council, since 1951; chair-
man, Research and Publications Committee, American Economic As-
sociation, since 1951; Guggenheim Fellow, 1948-49.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Economic Association; Royal Eco-
nomic Society; Econometric Society; Graduates Club of New Haven;
Harvard Club of New Haven; Yale Club of New Haven; Yale Club of
New York.

puBLications: Unfair Competition, Harvard University Press, 1941; Pricing
of Military Procurements, Yale University Press, 1949.

DURING my four years at Harvard I developed a love for the
University environment and economics. These, together with
my family, have dominated my life during the intervening quar-
ter-century, Upon graduation I returned to Harvard for my
Ph.D. in economics and had the pleasure of serving as assistant
to Professor Frank Taussig, one of Harvard’s grand old men,
during his last year of teaching. Subsequently, I taught eco-
nomics for two years at Princeton, returned to Harvard as in-
structor and tutor for another two years, and then came to Yale,
where I have remained ever since. Although I have become less
sanguine in recent years as to what we know about economics,
my enthusiasm for the subject, born at Harvard during the de-
pression, is still undimmed. And Yale has proven an extremely
congenial environment for a Harvard man.

The war years provided a fruitful break in my university
career. The war afforded me my first occasion for professional
work in a government agency. Two years in the OPA and two
more in the Navy working on procurement problems were a

[799]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

grand education and, I hope, of some small value to the war ef-
fort. Since the war I have served frequently as a consultant to
various government agencies. One other interesting activity has
been as consultant to various groups interested in the economic
problems of New England and Connecticut. This has given me
much insight into the economics of the communities in which
Harvard and Yale are located.

Early in 1942 I married Dorothy Willard, whom I had first
met during my college days on a blind date at Wellesley. Our
two children give us much pleasure and comfort although, like
many parents, we never fail to marvel at the complexities of
growing children.

Some of my college friends will recall my yen to travel. This
desire was frustrated for many years. However, during the last
five years our family has been on the move. We spent one sum-
mer touring the western part of the United States. In 1954-55
we spent a year in England and Europe. As I write these lines
I am preparing to leave for two months in India as consultant on
India’s Five-Year Plan. A university teacher may have his frus-
trations, but certainly his can be a life with much variety.

VICTOR EDWARD MILLER

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 1525 Hoffman St., Cleveland, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 8, 1910, North Syracuse, N.Y. parents: Raymond Victor Miller,
Grace Schwendner.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

VICTOR MILLER has been carried as a “lost”? man on our
records since 1952.

WILLIAM ARTHUR CAMERON MILLER, III

HOME ADDRESS: 1617 Sheridan Rd., South Euclid 21, Ohio.

BorN: Nov, 22, 1909, Detroit, Mich. PARENTS: William Arthur Cameron
Miller, Jr, Ruby Cady Boyer.

pRepARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.; Institute Carnal, Rolle,
Switzerland.

YEARS IN OOLLEGE: 1928-1932, DEGREE: 8.3. cum laude, 1932.

[ 800 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MaRRIED: Beatrice Agnes Olsen (Van Wart), July 15, 1939, Alexandria, Va.
cuiLp: Claire Josephine Boyer, Dec. 20, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Boyer Miller, 736 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Writer.

OFFICES HELD: President and chairman of board, Artisan Metal Works Com-
pany, Cleveland, 1946-56, treasurer, member executive committee,
Children’s Aid Society, Cleveland, since 1950; trustee, Cleveland Sym-
phony Orchestra, since 1950; Cleveland Institute of Music, since 1952;
member, National Executive Council, United World Federalists, 1948-
50; member, budget committee, Children’s Council, Cleveland Welfare
Federation, since 1951; member executive committee, Cleveland Council
of World Affairs, since 1955.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Union Club, Mayfield Club, Kirt-
land Country Club, Cleveland, University Club and The Casino,
Chicago.

TO the great majority of my classmates who are doubtless reach-
ing their greatest period of achievement and productivity (they
say the first twenty-five years are the hardest), the fact that I
am now embarking on a new and hitherto untried career may
come as something of a shock, or perhaps, someone will say, this
is quite in character. The fact remains, however, that about the
time this autobiography hits the streets, I shall be finishing, I
hope, my first novel. It doesn’t yet have a name, or the tempta-
tion to promote its sale via this medium would be overpowering.

To go back twenty-five years. I vividly recall sitting in the
Carlton Tearoom in the Briennerstrasse, Munich, watching the
late Adolf Schickelgruber slop up his tea. Had I but had the
courage of my convictions (I was sitting beside him), the late
war might have been avoided. The fact that I could not have
survived to write these lines is unimportant,

In 1939 I married Beatrice Olsen Van Wart, a barrister in the
Province of Ontario, a lady of superior gifts who was born in
Alaska. On our wedding trip we met John Briggs and his bride
(they too were honeymooning) in Rio de Janeiro. I have skipped
over the years immediately preceding our marriage since they
were extremely unproductive except for another marriage which
had ended in divorce.

You will recall a certain Sunday in early December, 1941. Bea
and I were in New York at Hampshire House awaiting the birth
of our daughter, Claire, now at Madeira School. In those days
we lived in Ridgefield in an old farmhouse which an architect

[ 801 ]

— |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

friend of mine was adding to and restoring. We added all right.
We were forced to do it. To accommodate Claire, but more im-
portant: six huskies, two standard poodles and five dachshunds.
The news from Pearl Harbor was not cheerful. Your biographer,
disturbed by domestic concerns (becoming a father for the first
time) hastened to 90 Church Street. But to no avail. A heart
murmur, which had never harmed a flea, intervened. Not even

the Selective Service system could be induced to take such a
horrid specimen. °

What to do? And thereby hangs a tale. I became a business-
man. I started at the bottom and I mean the bottom. I worked
as a laborer on the pouring floor of Alcoa’s cylinderhead plant
in Bridgeport, the three-to-eleven shift. Later a promotion, |
became a technical assistant. This lasted much too long. In 1944
I became interested in manufacturing. I got myself a job in Chi-
cago (the Manpower Commission had something to say about
that) producing Diesel pumps and screw-machine products for
the armed forces. I made.money at this. Quite a lot of people
did, so it wasn’t so surprising. In 1946 I sold out my interest in
the firm. I recall the day I took the check to the Continental
Illinois Bank and Trust Company. The teller choked when he
saw it. I had done my choking when they gave it to me. It was
quite pleasurable. an ae

In Chicago we lived at 1500 Lake Shore Drive. We met lots
of people. We became fond of Chicago and our membership in
the Casino Club dates from that era. |

Now the idea of building things, things you touch and feel and
see, was in my blood. It must have been a throwback to my
maternal grandfather who had fooled with mechanical gadgets:
and ended up founding Burroughs Corporation. I was not long
idle. In September, 1946, we moved to Cleveland, where I be-
came president of Artisan Metal Works Company, a firm which
fabricated sheet metal for cabs, enclosures for electronic assem-
blies and the like. From day laborer to president and latterly
chairman of the board in five years! Don’t tell me opportunity

in America is dead! The fact that all this was mot with ‘Alcoa
is a detail, a mere detail,

In Cleveland, Bea and I became interested in the life of the
community. I took on the usual jobs: Community Chest, Sym-

[ 802 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

phony Board, Welfare Federation Committee, Council on World
Affairs executive and the like. Bea, more ambitious, took on
presidencies: Garden Club and the Day Nursery Association. It
was and is a full life. We became political. Who has forgotten
Harold Stassen and the campaign of °48? Or, for that matter,
Ike and the 1952 election? We did not make friends and influence
people out here in Taftdom, but it was fun and thoroughly
worthwhile. Stassen is still a friend of ours, and I’m hoping for
better things in the future. |

But the itch to write has never really left me. Two years ago
I decided that, though I was happy with my family, my business
and my civic and charitable activities, I was missing something.
After months of thought and labor, I sat down to write what I
call my first novel because it’s the first one I’m going to publish,

My hair may be white (it is, damn it all!), but I feel as young
today as I did twenty-five years ago. I’ve got a new career ahead.
I’ve got to write those thirty or forty novels in twenty-five years
instead of fifty, that’s all.

WILLIS MILLINGTON

HOME ADDRESS: 129 Hawthorne St., Malden 48, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Y.M.C.A., 83 Pleasant St., Malden, Mass.

Born: Aug. 20, 1906, Springfield, Mass. PARENTS; James EF. Millington, Helen
Welch.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929, 1930-1932.

MarrieD: Lulu Isabelle Chapman, Oct. 12, 1944, Malden, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Social Service.

JAMES GORDON MILLS

HOME ADDRESS: 1911 Sacramento St., San Francisco, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Robert M. Kasper, 704 Sansome St., San Francisco, Calif.

BorN: March 26, 1908, Rock Springs, Wyo. ParENTs: James Edley Mills,
Mabel Alice Jones.

PREPARED AT: Cove High School, Cove, Oregon.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

UNMARRIED,

OccuPATION: Interior designer.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Decorators.

[ 803 ]

____— —_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

FROM 1932 to 1933, | was with the Stendah] Art Galleries in
Los Angeles and from 1933 to 1935, I was director of the Print
Room for the Ilsley Galleries at the Ambassador Hotel in Los
Angeles. A non-profitable period when no one was buying art.
In 1935 I emigrated to San Francisco, where I have lived since.
] joined the staff of G. T. Marsh & Company, very famous west
coast Oriental importers, and after helping establish a department
of interior design, I remained with the firm until 1940, when I
opened my own small business in Berkeley, called the Suburban
Sho

The war and the draft brought that venture to an untimely
close and September, 1942, found me a private with a Signal
Corps unit in Miami Beach. In August, 1943, I graduated from
O.CS. in Miami Beach and, after being stationed in Louisiana
for a few months, joined the 391st Bomb Group and left with
them in January for England, France, Belgium and Germany
until August, 1945, when I returned to the States a first lieutenant
and was discharged.

In January, 1946, I joined the interior design department of
Gumps as senior decorator and remained there until June, 1955,
when I joined the firm of Robert M. Kasper. In the past eleven
years I have decorated homes and offices up and down the coast,
as far east as Omaha and have successfully invaded Texas on
several occasions, Last year one of my houses was selected by
House Beautiful as their Pace-Setter House and appeared in their
July, 1956 issue.

At various times I have served on the faculty of the City Col-
lege of San Francisco and for several years (and currently) have
served on the board of governors of North California District
Chapter of the American Institute of Decorators.

I have a penchant for freighter travel and in 1950 went to
Panama and in 1953 took a few months to the South Pacific,
visiting Tahiti, Samoa, Fiji and New Caledonia. Next, I hope
the Caribbean, then possibly the Orient. In the meantime, work.

[ 804 ]

AACA APE IOVEE 1° SSOP = ORCL

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALEXANDER INNES MITCHELL, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: East Parsonfield, Maine; West Barnstable, Mass.

BorN: Feb. 23, 1910, Somerville, Mass. parents: Alexander Innes Mitchell,
Caroline B. Bradbury.

PREPARED AT: Wilmington High School, Wilmington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932 (33).

MARRIED; Eleanor Jacobs, Dec. 27, 1941, West Baldwin, Maine. cHILDREN:
Ralph Allan, July 14, 1946; Sara Phoebe, Feb. 9, 1948; Elizabeth Jane,
April 20, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Forester; geologist.

AFTER graduation I drifted into government employment. In

Washington I met a forester and became converted to intensive

forestry and determined to go back to my grandfather’s farm

in Maine to farm the pine trees. I did not have the fortitude to
break away from the paternal uncle until the Draft Board did it

for me in March, 1941.

When I returned from the E.T.O. in September, 1945, I re-
paired to Maine, having married a girl with similar Maine ideas.
For the last ten years I have been reconditioning my reflexes
from dependence on Uncle Sam. I have been able to contend
with austerity and physical hardship, but couldn’t make ends
meet. We have repaired to the kindlier climate of Cape Cod for
an interlude, where I am working for a retail lumber company
hoping to get an idea on how to finance the growing of trees
out of the high price paid down here for a pine board.

After the disastrous forest fires of 1947, I decided to look for
minerals to pay the cost of rehabilitating burned-over land. I
dusted off the geology and mineralogy textbooks and went prob-
ing among the tangle of blackened trees. The State of Maine wis
officially cold to the possibilities, but since I have returned to
Massachusetts there has been a flurry of press releases. The new
Harvard-man State Geologist has proclaimed that area, “the
hottest spot in Maine,” atomically speaking.

One of my forestry innovations was pruning pines on skis.
After working in the woods, I used to poise at the top of an open
slope and look off at a panorama of the White Mountains, then ski
down to my house. My ten-year-old boy accompanied me on
skiing trips and helped with the forestry work. We have a sap
camp below the house and a nature trail going down to a private

[ 805 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

pond, which we intend to widen into a ski trail. It is a life ful
of intangible rewards and we hope to return to Maine and work
out some tangible rewards as well.

DAVID EATON MITCHELL, JR.
HOME aporEss: 1 Plainview Rd. Colorado Springs, Colo.
OFFIcE ADoREss: Absaroka Mining Co., Denver, Colo.

Born: July 20, 1909, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: David Eaton Mitchell, ’97,
Grace Whiting.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Eveline Hall, Oct. 3, 1936, Carrizozo, N. Mex. CHILDREN: David,
3d, Nov. 20, 1937; George Hall, Oct. 24, 1939; Grace Whiting, June
9 1942.

occuparion: Oil, mining, real estate; vice-president, Absaroka Mining
Company. . .

MEMBER OF: Broadmoor Golf Club; Garden of the Gods Club, Colorado
Springs; Rocky Mountain Harvard Club, Denver.

THE fall of 1932 found me enrolled in petroleum engineering
and seismology at the University of Pittsburgh. This endeavor
led to jobs with the Lone Star Gas Company and Humble Oil
& Refining Company in Texas until 1935 when I unsuccessfully
attempted placer mining in New Mexico. This venture did, how-
ever, lead to marriage and subsequently to a family of three and
a home in Houston, Texas, where oil was my interest.

The climate in Houston didn’t agree with some members of
my family so, in 1944, after the Army turned me down for poor
digestion and vision, we shifted operations to North Texas where
there was less mildew but more dust.

The year 1948 found us on the road again with brief stopovers
in Arizona, California and Oregon, until August, when road-
weary and disheartened we stopped in Colorado Springs to visit
friends. Morning brought sighs of relief and lungs filled with

unpolluted and unpollenated mountain air which we have en-
joyed for eight years,

[ 806 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT GEORGE MITCHELL

HOME ADDRESS: 96 Parkwood Drive, Atherton, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hare, Brewer & Kelley, 525 University Ave. Palo Alto,
Calif.

BoRN: May 29, 1910, Helena, Mont. parents: Robert George Mitchell,
Blanche MacMurchy.

PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville Academy, Lawrenceville, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: S.B., 1932; LL.B., 1936(37).

marriep: Alice McNair Tenney, April 20, 1940, Crystal Bay, Minn. cuipren:
Ann Shevlin, Feb. 15, 1941; Robert George, Jr. Aug. 10, 1943; Sarah
Sargent, June 3, 1946.

occuPATION: Real Estate; sales and investments.

MEMBER OF: Minneapolis Club; Woodhill Country Club, Wayzata, Minn.

AFTER graduation from the Law School, I entered the practice
of law with the firm of Fowler, Younquist, Furber, Taney &
Johnson, in the Northwestern Bank Building, Minneapolis. In
those few prewar years, I gradually acquired some knowledge
of tax, trust and estate work. In 1940, events began to move more
_ rapidly with my wedding in April and an invitation from the
Navy in October. Along with many other members of the Class
and sometimes meeting some of them at various odd spots, the
next five years were spent moving from one place to another. A
daughter was born in Boston in 1941, and a son, in New York,
in 1943. The last two years of the war found us in Washington
in the office of the Chief of Naval Operations with the rank of
lieutenant commander.

Upon discharge, I returned to my Jaw firm in Minneapolis and
lived outside the city at Lake Minnetonka, where our last child
was born in 1946. I remained in Minneapolis until 1952, when
we moved to California, where I am associated with a real estate
firm in Palo Alto, and live in nearby Atherton. We have a home
at Lake Minnetonka and return there each year during the sum-
mer.

During these years, we have done some traveling and were
fortunate enough to have flown through the Middle East and the
Orient in the past year, when the difficulties in that troubled
area were brewing, but under control.

In spite of residence in the Middle West and Far West, my
children seem to look towards New England for their education,

[ 807 ]

a |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

with the first one departing in September, 1957, and the others
following in two-year intervals. It is my hope that my son shall
enter Harvard i in the fall of ’61.

EDMUND LEON MODEL

HOME AppRESS: 126 Amory St., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Park Clothing Co., Inc., 1270 River St., Hyde Park, Mass.

BORN: July 9, 1911, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Max Model, Rose Rebecca
Marcus.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

marrieD: Ruth Elaine Levin, Jan. 2, 1938, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: Joyce
Ann, July 9, 1946; Rona Dianne, March 11, 1951.

occupaTION: Manager, Park Clothing Company, Inc.

OFFIcEs HELD: President and director, Park Clothing Company, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Cavendish Club of Boston; Boston Club; Shawmut Lodge, AF.
& A.M. Federated Order of Eagles.

AFTER graduation I had several jobs, none of which I found

to my liking. Finally, in 1935, I joined my father in the men’s

clothing business, where I still am today. My business career

consists of merchandising men’s wear, and I now operate two
stores, one as listed and the other is Modell’s at Shopper’s World
in Framingham. On January 2, 1938, I was married and now
have two daughters, the first of whom was born on my thirty-
fifth birthday, and the second one almost five years later. During
the war, I was unanimously rejected by all three services for
medical reasons. In 1952, my doctor discovered a heart condi-
tion, and since then I am an observer in all active sports and a
participant in all indoor sports, principally bridge.

KAI KI MOH -

LAST KNOWN Appress: 730 Lay Rd., Shanghai, China.
BORN: sus §, 1907, Shanghai, China. parents: Hsiang Yueh Moh, Ya Chin
King.
TRANSFERRED FROM: Nanyang University, Shanghai, China.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932, DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MOH has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since 1948.

[ 808 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SPARTACO VINDICE MONELLO

HOME ADpREss: Byram Brook Place, Armonk Village, N.Y.

OFFICE ADprEss: 246 Alta Vista Drive, Yonkers, N.Y. (until February, 1957),
BORN: June 20, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Angelo Monello, Rosa Vacirca,
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930, 1931-1933. DEGREES: AB. 1932(34); A.M., 1935.
mMargieD: Lillian Band, 1937, New York, N.Y. cuitp: Lenore Fidelia, March

15, 1938.

occuPATION: Composer.

MEMBER OF: American Association of University Professors; National
Association for American Composers and Conductors.

PUBLICATIONS: “Symphonies Nos. 1, 2, and 3,” for orchestra; “Sicilian Suite”;
“Concerto for Orchestra”; “Country Dance for Orchestra”; “Concerto
Grosso for Piano and Strings”; “String Quartets Nos, 1, 2, 3, and 4”;
“Piano Trios Nos. 1 and 2”; “String Trio”; “Woodwind Quintet”;
“Violin Suite”; “Violin Sonata”; etc., choral works, etc.

ACTUALLY I did not graduate in 1932. Because of a year spent
in Europe, I did not get my A.B. until 1933. To be more ac-
curate, I did not receive it until February, 1934, due to my in-
ability to pay the last one hundred dollars’ tuition bill. Those
were depression days. With the help of substitute teaching of
mathematics in the Boston schools, I was able to continue part-
time work for a Master’s degree in musical composition, which
I received in 1935. As a composer I made a very reluctant teacher
of mathematics, but there was no other work to be had. In 1937
I was married to Lillian Band, Radcliffe ’34, and a year later we
were blessed with the arrival of Lenore Fidelia. This new role
of father weighed heavily upon me, and I quit my teaching job
for a more lucrative income in the tile business.

During all this time my career in music was limping along with
the completion of my first “String Quartet,” after four long
years. This would not do. My urge to compose was causing me
great unhappiness; so, in 1941, I gave up business to return to
Harvard for another year of graduate study in music, with the
aim of getting into college teaching. This was cut short by the
war and again I was diverted from my creative activity. I spent
a year training G.I.’s in the Air Force. Finally in 1943 I got a
lucky break and was appointed assistant professor of music at the
College of William and Mary for one year. During that winter
I wrote my second String Quartet within three months. After

[ 809 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932
this year of teaching I resolved not to be diverted from my
chosen field, whatever the cost.

I felt the need for additional study, so during 1944-45, I com-
muted from my home in Boston to New York City to study with
Roger Sessions. This was a very fruitful period. In the summer
of 1945, I received a scholarship in musical composition at the
Music Institute in Kenyon College, Ohio. Up to this time I had
written “Passacaglia,” “Sinfonia,” and “Overture” — “Songs of
Freedom” for orchestra, as well as my “First and Second String
Quartets” and “Piano Trio No. 1.” I had as yet not heard one
single work of mine performed except for a student performance
of the last movement from my “Second Quartet,” during the
summer of 1945 in Ohio. That fall Mr. Sessions asked me to
come out to Berkeley, California, to continue studying with him
under a scholarship plus an assistantship in music at the Univer-
sity of California. I accepted this, and after the first year was
appointed instructor in the University Extension. In 1946 1 com-
pleted my “First Symphony” and “Sonata for Violin and Piano,”
and my “Second String Quartet” was performed at a concert at

the University of California Composers Forum, which I along
with four other composers organized. The following year |
wrote my “Second Symphony for Strings” and had my “Sonata
for Violin and Piano” premiered in Berkeley at a Composers
Forum concert. |

At this time, I looked around for some type of work which
would not take too much time and so would not interfere with
my composition. Since my brother was a builder of homes, I
decided to try this work part time. In 1948 I returned East,
settling near New York City. The succeeding three years were
very productive. I wrote “Piano Trio No. 2,” “Suite for Viola
and Piano,” “String Trio,” “Concerto Grosso for Piano and
String Orchestra,” “String for Violin and Piano,” “Quintet for
Woodwinds,” and “Country Dance” for orchestra. I had several
performances of my works in New York City, at McMillin
Theatre (New York City Composers Forum), Times Hall (Na-
tional Association for American Composers and Conductors),
WNYC American Music Festival and American Composers
Series, and the most important, the “Second Symphony for

[ 810 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Strings” by the Little Orchestra Society at Town Hall, New
York City.

In 1951 we reached another crisis which brought us back to
California for another stint of four years, very unwilling years
because I had got a taste of New York and I could not get myself
to settle for Los Angeles’ glitter, glamor, smog and provincialism.
My daughter insisted, however, that we stay there until she could
complete high school. Because of her insistence and my wife’s
having a nice position as supervisor of Child Welfare and At-
tendance with the Los Angeles County Schools, I submitted. I
therefore proceeded to building tones and homes. I completed
my “Third String Quartet,” “Symphony No. 3,” and “Sicilian
Suite for Orchestra.” In 1953 and 1955 I received two Hunting-
ton Hartford Fellowships in Musical Composition, under which
I composed my “Fourth String Quartet” and “Concerto for
Orchestra.” During this period I aiso wrote two choral works:
“Lo Victress on the Peaks” (Walt Whitman), and “If ic Had
Not Been for These Things” (B. Vanzetti).

Finally, during the summer of 1955, I came home to West-
chester County and New York City. I am continuing my two-
fold creative activity of “tones and homes.” I am now building,
with my own hands, our own home on an acre of land in Armonk
among the lakes of Westchester. I have also begun a campaign to
get some of my orchestral works performed. This needs a great
deal of pull, push, “knowing the right people,” and lots of luck.
My daughter, Lenore, entered Radcliffe in 1955 and is now en-
joying her sophomore year in Cabot Hall. My wife has begun
a new job as Guidance Counselor in the Westchester Schools.

This brings us up to date. I hope to see you all at Reunion
next June.

CHARLES FRANKLIN MONTGOMERY

HOME appress: Winterthur, Del.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Henry Francis duPont Winterthur Museum, Winterthur,

Del.

BoRN: April 14, 1910, Austin Township, Ill. parents: William Norton Mont-
gomery, Grace Louisa Albert.

PREPARED AT: Kenney Community High School, Kenney, Ill.

[811]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B, 1932(56); a.M. (Hoon.) (Univ. of
Delaware), 1954.

MARRIED: Evelyn Brown Reed, Nov. 25, 1933, New York, N.Y. (divorced
1946); Florence Elizabeth Mellowes, Oct. 5, 1946, New York, N.Y.
cutpreN: Charles Franklin, Jr. Nov. 22, 1937; William Phelps, Aug. 22,
1948; Agnes Nisbet, Jan. 7, 1950 (deceased).

HARVARD Son: Charles Franklin Montgomery, Jr., ’59.

occuPaTION: Museum director.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Furnishing Committee, Independence Hall, Wash-
ington’s Headquarters, Chaddsford, Pa.; member board of governors,
Pewter Club of America; member advisory board, Art Quarterly;

member board of consultants, University of Georgia-Carnegia Ameri-
can Arts Project.

MEMBER OF: American Association of Museums; American Museum Directors
Association; College Art Association; British Museums Association,
Pewter Collectors Club of America; Walpole Society.

PuBLications: Articles in Antiques magazines, Museum, Walpole Society
Yearbook; currently engaged in completion of American Furniture —
Classical Style in the Federal Period, 1783-1840.

DURING my first week in Cambridge, while taking the Sep-
tember entrance exams for Harvard in 1928, I met a competitor
just back from Europe; he expounded on the glories of the Old
World, then asked when I was there last. Fresh from a corn
farm, Illinois was my world; I inquired when he was last in ~
Chicago — capital and glory of the midwest. Shamefaced, he
admitted he had never been there; I did not confess I had not
been, either. As I look back on that episode, it seems to have
been the beginning of a passionate curiosity and interest in the
wonder that is America.

In September, 1933, while 1 was working on the road with the
New York Herald-Tribune, I bought my first antique — an
American-made pewter plate, for six dollars. That was the be-
ginning of “antiqueitis” and my collecting. From pewter my
interest spread to silver; first, spoons; then a porringer; and on
deeper and deeper: old pottery, hardware and furniture. In 1937
I sold my pewter collection to make a down payment on the
thing that I wanted most: a colonial house in the rolling blue
hills of Wallingford, Connecticut. In my eyes, the house was a
beautiful thing, built in 1760, in weathered, untouched and very
run-down condition. With it came a 150-acre farm on which
there were apple and peach orchards, It looked like an easy mat-

[ 812 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ter to have the trees pruned and sprayed, and then collect cash
for the fruit. It turned out otherwise. My first crop was ruined
by Connecticut’s first hurricane —I was on the verge of bank-
ruptcy. I gave up my job with the Herald-Tribune and went to
work in earnest buying and selling antiques, rebuilding the old
orchard and planting new ones. Despite frosts, aphids, red
spiders, and scab, my fruit was better each year. In 1944 my
young trees bore a magnificent crop; this time we could not
fail. All our losses were to be recouped; but the day we started
our harvest came Connecticut’s second hurricane. ‘Twenty
thousand bushels of apples and five thousand baskets of peaches
went into the mud. That ended my career as a farmer; I sold
the orchards the next year and devoted all my time to the study
and buying and selling of antiques.

In January, 1949, I came with the late Joseph Downs, for many
years curator of the American Wing in the Metropolitan Museum
of Art, to catalogue the collection of American antiques of
Henry Francis du Pont, in Winterthur, Delaware. Two years
later, Mr. du Pont decided to move from his family house, in
which he had been installing early-American interiors as back-
grounds for his collections, and open it as a public museum. I
was named executive secretary, in charge of the museum’s ad-
ministration; and so began a new career, in helping transform this
enormous private collection into a public institution, with all the
changes necessary to accommodate the public.

These last eight years have been wonderful years. My wife,
trained at the Fogg, with later positions at the Rhode Island
School of Design and at the American Wing of the Metropolitan
Museum of Art, and I have worked closely and happily together
as a team on a breath-taking project in which we both believe
deeply. We have seen my elder son, Charles, Jr., enter Harvard.
We have known the happiness of our two young children. They
have been hard years, with the heartaches of our little girl’s death
two years ago in an accident.

As I look back on these last years, however, they seem deeply
rewarding ones. At Winterthur (in connection with the mu-
seum) we have developed an active research and teaching pro-
gram using the Museum as a laboratory for the study of Ameri-
can arts, life and living during the early and formative years of

[ 813 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

our country. As this analysis continues toward a more discerning

view of the American and his culture, it becomes increasingly

evident to me that art belongs not to the periphery, but to the

center of life and is a key expression of life. I now see art not

as a self-indulgence of wealthy patrons, or as a dispensable di-

version, not as an end in itself, but as a necessary language for

the human spirit. The consequence is increasingly clear, we can

fully know a people only if we know its art, for art reveals the

very spirit of a people. So, while John Dewey has written that

to understand completely any work of art, one must understand
the history of the times which produced it, I believe the converse .
to be true; namely, an understanding of our arts is essential to a
comprehension of our history.

RAYMOND BRAISLIN MONTGOMERY

HOME ADDRESS: 5722 Cross Country Blvd., Baltimore 9, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore 18, Md.

BORN: May 5, 1910, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Thomas Harrison Mont-
gomery, Jr. Anna Priscilla Braislin.

PREPARED AT: Episcopal Academy, Overbrook, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; 8.M. (Mass.
Inst. of Technology), 1934; s.p. (ibid.), 1938.

margieD: Mary Eleanor Perkins, April 22, 1944, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Kate, March 21, 1945; Mary Toy, Oct. 12, 1947; Eleanor, Jan. 30, 19495
Sarah, May 24, 1951 (died Dec. 21, 1955).

HARVARD BROTHER: Hugh Montgomery, M.D., ’30.

occupation: Research and teaching; associate professor of oceanography.

MEMBER oF: American Meteorological Society; Royal Meteorological Society,
London; American Association of University Professors. /

PUBLICATIONS: Forty-six scientific papers in oceanographic and meteorologi-

cal journals.
BEFORE graduation I had a summer trans-Atlantic cruise on
the maiden voyage of Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution's
research vessel, Atlantis, Captain Columbus Iselin, Harvard 26.
After graduation both Harry Wexler and I studied meteorology
under C.-G. Rossby at M.LT. Finishing there, I spent the year
1938-39, in Berlin and Helsingfors on a National Research Coun-
cil fellowship. During World War II, I first taught meteorology

[ 814 ]

ORME SOE SE Et Cal

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

at New York University and later worked on the meteorology
of radio propagation at M.I.T.’s Radiation Laboratory.

My association with Woods Hole has continued to date, with
numerous spells of residence there-— where my mother lived
until her death in 1956. I had two brief terms in Civil Service
and have taught at Scripps Institution of Oceanography in Cali- |
fornia, at Brown University and, since 1954, at Johns Hopkins.
Martin Larrabee had joined the Hopkins faculty five years pre-
viously; Barbara and he helped Polly and me find a house and
otherwise welcomed us to Baltimore. In the Department of
Oceanography, I am associated with Martin Pollak, Harvard °38,
and with D. E. Carritt, Ph.D. Harvard ’48.

My recent chief interest concerns the descriptive oceanogra-
phy of the tropical Pacific and has involved a pleasant collabora-
tion with the Honolulu station of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service. On a cruise of their vessel, Hugh M. Smith, in 1952, the
group of us on board tried out a somewhat novel method of
measuring currents and had the good fortune to discover an
eastward current at the equator below the surface current; we
have chosen the name Equatorial Undercurrent. There are many
interesting, often bafflingly complicated, problems about the
ocean to be studied, but progress is held up because the number
of investigators is inadequate. Why don’t more of you encourage
your sons to obtain a broad undergraduate education in basic
science and then to enter one of the earth sciences like oceanog-
raphy?

_ Military service: none. Church affiliations: none. Political
heroes: F. D. Roosevelt, Truman, Stevenson.

My lack of participation in Class activities coexists with sincere
loyalty to Harvard and persistent appreciation of the opportu-
nities we enjoyed as undergraduates.

HAROLD PREDMORE MOON

HOME apprEss: Pound Ridge, N.Y.

OFFICE appREss: 60 W, 55th St.. New York 19, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 23, 1909, Jenkintown, Pa. Parents: Harold Predmore Moon,
Attaresta Barclay DeSilver.

[815 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.,; Gunnery School, Washing-
ton, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

MarrigeD: Norah Goldsmith, December, 1933 (divorced); June Blossom
Blacque, August, 1941 (divorced); Mary Fleming Gibson, July 24, 1948.
CHILDREN: Lilias Antoinette, Feb. 13, 1936; Melinda Messmore, Dec. 31,
1946; Anthony Herrick Gibson, Feb. 14, 1947.

oocupaTion: President and director, Mineral Production Corporation; di-
rector, Aviation Equipment Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and chief pilot, Maine Air Transport Corpora-
tion, 1933-36; check pilot, Airline Feeder System, 1937-38; general
manager, Summit Aeronautical Corporation, 1938-40; test pilot, Curtiss
Wright Corporation, 1940-41; flight engineer, N-C.C.A., 1942-43; chief
test pilot, Allied Aviation Corporation, 1944-46; cockpit design engineer,
OS.R.D., National Research Council, 1945-48.

MEMBER OF: Waccabuc Club; Bar Harbor Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Development of a Plastic Molded Airplane,” Aviation,
January, 1941; various classified reports on the behaviour of aircraft
under conditions of extreme turbulence; various reports on stability
and control of aircraft in towed flight, analyses of physiological prob-
lems affecting helicopter pilotage.

«

AFTER twenty years as test pilot in the aviation business, during
which time I spent approximately one year in the air at the
controls of various aircraft, I deviated about as far as one can
go and found myself in the oil drilling business in the year 1950
—and here I still am.

About my family (maybe I have a class record, I don’t know):
I have been married three times and have four children ranging
from twenty-two years down to ten years. We live in Pound
Ridge, New York, in a lovely, old farm house, and I sincerely
hope that the many friends 1 have at Harvard, when they come
to the New York area, will give us a call and drop by, as the
fullest part of our lives stems from the dear friends and associa-
tions we have made in the past.

[ 816 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CLARENCE MOORE

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 130 East End Ave., New York, N.Y.
BoRN: Feb. 20, 1910, Washington, D.C. parents: Clarence Moore, Mabelle

Swift.
PREPARED AT: Eton College, Windsor, England.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

MOORE has been carried as a “lost”? man on our records since
1935-

ALFRED BLANCHARD MOORHOUSE

HOME appRESS: Maple Street, Center Sandwich, N.H.; 29 Coolidge Hill Rd,
Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Blanchard Printing Co., 27 Beach St., Boston 11, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 2, 1909, Brookline, Mass. parents: Alfred Hampden Moorhouse,
Alice Maude Blanchard.

PREPARED AT: Rivers Country Day School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933.

MarriED: Kathryn Elizabeth Pollok, April 8, 1940, Temple, Texas. cup:
Lewis Alfred, Oct. 17, 1943.

occuPATION: President, Blanchard Printing Company.

SINCE the publication of the Quindecennial Report, I have
progressed from vice-president to president of my company. My
time is quite evenly divided between Sandwich, New Hampshire,
and Cambridge, Massachusetts. My winter avocation is still skiing
and for the summers I have recently taken up the art of trout
fishing.

THOMAS IRWIN MORAN

HOME ADDRESS: 2903 W. 71st Terr., Kansas City, Mo.

BORN: Sept. 5, 1911, South Boston, Mass. parents: Thomas Michael, Moran,
Sarah Long.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

marRiED: Beth Marion Ringer, May 25, 1935, Tufts College, Mass. cHtpreN:
Marcia Newall, May 12, 1938; Thomas Irwin, Jr., April 23, 1940; Alison

Loring, March 9, 1944.
OCCUPATION: Eastern sales representative, Lussky, White & Coolidge, Inc.,

decorative textiles.

[ 817]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

EDWARD CARROLL MORGAN

HOME ADDRESS: 1734 Huntington Turnpike, Trumbull, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: St. Paul’s Episcopal Church, 55 Beach St., Bridgeport, Conn

BoRN: Feb. 1, 1909, Warner, N.H. Parents: Edward Miles Morgan, Minnie
Louise Jaynes.

PREPARED AT: Northfield High School, Northfield, Mass.; Mount Hermon
School, Mount Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: AB. 1932.

MarRIED: Marcia Hazelton Childs, Oct. 20, 1936, Forest Hills Long Island,
N.Y. cempren: Marcia Hazelton, Nov. 29, 1937; Edward Childs, Sept.
13, 1939; Kingsley David, Oct. 7, 1940; Sarah Thurlo, Feb. 12, 1942;
Margaret Chapin, May 20, 1945.

occupation: Clergyman; rector, St. Paul’s Episcopal Church, Bridgeport,
Trinity Episcopal Church, Nichols, Conn.

MEMBER OF: Fairfield County Clerical Association, Bridgeport Clericus;
Kiwanis International, National Association of Clock and Watch Col-

lectors, Boy Scout Council; Pi Alpha Fraternity; Pinewood Lake As-
sociation; Harvard Club of Connecticut.

EVERYONE knows what a clergyman’s life should be like.
There are patterns that should be followed because a minister is
a kind of fixture in American society. Anything I do, or write,
is judged against a background of tradition. Were this for publi-
cation in a book that depended on the dramatic for popular ap-
peal, such things could easily be found. In my work I travel. the
road of both joy and sorrow. I walk daily with bankers and
beggars, drunks and dowagers. Were this to take the form of
a biography to expound my accomplishments and abilities, there
are many statistics that could be given. But, believe me, I have
nothing to sell my classmates except the fact that I have found
a very happy, useful, satisfying Christian way of life.

My “call” to the ministry came, oddly enough, in front of the
old Law School in a decision that took me away from the study
of justice under law to the promotion of justice under God. A
good job as monitor with the H.A.A. and a scholarship provided
the means, so in 1932 it was on to the Harvard Divinity School.

After two years at the Divinity School, I acquired the main
tools of my profession, but not the religion that is so necessary
for a “man of God.” I knew that the real truth was in God, in
His Word, and in the teachings of Jesus Christ, but the school
did not give me a way of life that was great enough to share with

{818 ]

OTE EOE FE MOT OT TTT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

people. A transfer to the Episcopal Theological School with the
probability of missing a degree in theology was the next step.
Here I learned the doctrine and worship of the Episcopal Church,
and also that a clergyman must always be a gentleman. It was
not until later, through the regular use of the Communion Service
with the intimate relationship which it sets up between the wor-
shipper and Jesus Christ, that I came to find the source of power
which has made my ministry so helpful and useful to people.

Three months before graduation from E.T.S., I became a can-

didate for Holy Orders and, although the outlook for a job was
not too good, I was ordained to the Diaconate on June 12, 1935,
by the Rt. Reverend Henry Knox Sherrill. On December 12,
1935, | was priested by the Rt. Reverend Frank William Sterrett,
Bishop of Bethlehem.
_ The first summer was spent doing case work for Uncle Sam
to determine who was eligible to work on some project for fifteen
dollars a week. Then came a real opportunity at the Pro-
Cathedral Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania.
My work must have been satisfactory because after a year and
a half my boss, the Rt. Reverend Walter H. Gray, present Bishop
of Connecticut, was elected Dean of the Cathedral in Hartford
and he took me along to the Insurance City.

Just before leaving Bethlehem I was married to Marcia Hazel-
ton Childs. Born in Brooklyn, orphaned at the age of eight,
educated at private schools, graduated from St. John’s School of
Nursing and later the Moravian College for Women, she was
about to start a career in journalism when she became a minister’s
wife.

After another year and a half in which I tried to solve all the
problems of the world and its people, some single-celled creatures
took possession of my blood. I had to stay in bed during the
busiest month of the church year when things that “demanded”
my personal attention were resolved by other means. This taught
me a great deal about the real work of a clergyman. This month
in bed, adding to the burden and confinement of a young mother
bred and educated to a life well beyond the confines of a kitchen,
enabled me to gain new insight into the problems of others who
would be coming to me for help.

My health, now long since restored to the point that I might

[ 819 ]

——— L

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

hope to follow my parents into the nineties, was a contributing

factor in my decision to accept a call to two small churches near

Bridgeport. That was before the “rush to the suburbs.” My

prospects were very limited in number. I had to sell my product

to people who had listened long and often to others, but the
results were very satisfying.

The war brought problems and opportunities. St. Paul’s
Church, Bridgeport, needed a rector, but it could not afford to
extend a “call.” The church was thought to be in the wrong
location. Episcopalians had moved away, but there were people,
lots of them, living around the church. For a year I drove
seventy-five miles a day on empty highways (remember the gas
rationing), ministering to three parishes — urban, suburban and
rural.

When things tried to return to normal I gave up the rural
parish in Huntington, moved to Nichols, the nicest community
in the world, and for the past twelve years have enjoyed the
dual life of an urban and suburban minister. I work among the
factories and public housing developments of Bridgeport and feel
that kind of satisfaction which comes from such a ministry. I
also work and live among those who have moved out of the city
only to find new and different problems.

My family grew quickly to seven as three girls and two boys
came by way of the nursery to sit around our dining table.
Thanks to the successful law practice of my wife’s father, to-
gether with her exceptional ability in nursing, home management
and journalism, we have enjoyed many things which ministers
can not normally afford, including a summer retreat (always open
to guests) where we all become browned to a turn.

Even though our house is a bit small for seveft people, we have
always shared it with animals, dachshunds, cats, birds, fish,
turtles, etc. The barn provides ample room for chickens, ducks,
rabbits, guinea pigs and an occasional sheep. These things have
kept our children busy and happy. Marcia, nineteen, is earning
high honors in biology at Moravian College; Edward, seventeen,
hopes to become a veterinarian; Kingsley, sixteen, Sallie, fourteen,
and Margaret, eleven, are still in that wonderful wondering age.

We are a family of collectors. You name it, we have it —
stamps, coins, autographs, pins, ribbons, badges, sports cards,

[ 820 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

dolls, miniatures, picture postcards, first editions, antique banks
and toys. My hobby of collecting and restoring early American
antiques in general has recently gravitated towards clocks with
some two hundred scattered all over the place 1 in various states
of repair.

In retrospect, I have no regrets. I am the kind who has walked
near the middle of the road. I can get to any point in New Eng-
land by car, and New York is only a couple of hours away.
Sometimes I think I am too satisfied, but anyone who has five
children knows that my future is both unlimited and unpre-
dictable.

ELTING ELMORE MORISON

HOME ADpRESS: Upland Farm, Peterborough, N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge 39, Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 14, 1909, Milwaukee, Wis. parents: George Abbot Morison, ’oo,
Amelia Huntley Elmore.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1032; A.M., 1938.

MaRRIED: Anne Hitchcock Sims, June 26, 1935, Newport, R. I. cHtupren:
Mary, May 3, 1941, Nicholas, May 4, 19435 Sarah, June, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Robert Swain Morison, ’30, M.D., 34; John Hopkins
Morison, ’35.

OCCUPATION: Historian.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant dean, Harvard College, 1935-37; director, Peter-
borough Hospital, 1935-38, MacDowell Association, since 1956; fence
viewer, Town of Peterborough, since 1948; professor, Mass. Inst. of
Technology, since 1952.

MEMBER OF: American Historical Association, Academy of Arts and
Sciences; St. Botolph Club, Boston.

PuBLicaTions: Admiral Sims and the Modern American Navy, 1942; Case
Study of Innovation, 1950; editor, Letters of Theodore Roosevelt, 8
vols. (1951-54); Cowboys and Kings, 1954.

MOST of my time since 1932 has been spent in educational in-
‘stitutions. I spent two years teaching in preparatory schools;
two years as assistant dean of freshmen at Harvard while doing
graduate work in history and the past ten years I have been a
member of the faculty of the Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology. From 1938 to 1942, my wife and I lived on the outskirts

[ 821 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

of a small New Hampshire town while I wrote a book. Both

personally and professionally, this time in the country was one

of the most rewarding periods of my life.
From 1942 to 1946, I was in the Navy, first on the staff of the

commander, Eastern Sea Frontier and then on the staff of the
Vice-chief of Naval Operations in Washington. After the war
I acted for some years as a consultant for the Research and De-
velopment Board of the Department of Defense and as an occa-
sional member of study groups set up to advise various govern-
ment agencies. These experiences were not so much useful to
the government as to me personally. They provided information,
invaluable for an American historian, on how the government
actually works.

Since joining the faculty of M.I.T., I have become increasingly
interested in two things — first, in what Elton Mayo called the.
social problems of an industrial society and second, in investi-
gating the nature of these problems with men from industry who
have returned to M.LT. for a year of study. Also, while at M.LT.,
I have been one of a group of eight people engaged in editing the
letters of Theodore Roosevelt. This has been the most thor-
oughly satisfying, intellectual, cooperative venture of which I
have ever been a part.

In the last twenty years, save within this country, I have traveled
little. Vacations are spent with the family in New Hampshire.
I am a lifelong Republican who in three of the last five presi-
dential elections voted for the Democratic nominee.

FERDINAND GORDON MORRILL

HOME AppRESS: 43 Costa San Giorgio, Florence, Italy.

BORN: May 23, 1910, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Gordon Niles Morrill, ‘or,
Jeannette Cox.

PREPARED AT: University School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932(33); M.ARCH., 1937; Cer- -
tificate as Naval Architect (New York Univ.), 1941.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Hunter, May 17, 1932, Atlanta, Ga. cyto: Ellen Arria,

June 17, 1935 (a. Stanley Paul Burg, Sept. 25, 1954). GRANDCHILD:
Jeannette Burg, Nov. 4, 1955.
occupaTion: Architect and painter.

[ 822 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Secretary of the Vestry, St. James Episcopal Church, Florence.

MEMBER OF: Manchester Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Various minor articles on aspects of naval architecture in
’ English and American journals during the war years.

TO be succinct but not staccato, to give full outline without
wordiness — this is the tightrope of an autobiographical sketch.

I graduated from college already married —a rare thing in
1932 — and after four winters in architectural school, packed my
family to Florence for a winter’s study, and quite simply have
never been able to get away, except for the years 1940-46. Re-
turning to America in June, 1940, convinced we would have to
enter the war and finding no one in authority of that turn of
_mind, and that land-going architects were a drug on the govern-
ment market, I finally took a course in naval architecture, spent
most of 1941 in a shipyard and in January, 1942, moved to the
Contract Design Department of the Bureau of Ships at Wash-
ington. The latter part of the war found me working in the
Special Devices Section of the Bureau of Aeronautics as an aero-
nautical engineer. In 1946 I returned to Florence where painting
and architecture keep me more than busy.

HENRY LEIGHTON MORRILL

HOME ADDRESS: 917 S. Warson Rd., Clayton 24, Mo.

OFFICE apprEss: Monsanto Chemical Co., 1700 S. Second St., St. Louis 4, Mo.

BORN: May 12, 1911, St. Louis, Mo. Parents: Charles Henry Morrill, ‘oo,
Lenita Collins.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; M.BA, 1934.

MARRIED: Irene Randolph, May 23, 1951, St. Louis, Mo, cHimpreN: Lenita
Collins, Feb. 11, 1952; Ann Randolph, Nov. 25, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Culvin Ford Morrill, 34.

occupation: Group leader, St. Louis Research Department, Organic Chemi-
cals Division, Monsanto Chemical Company.

MEMBER oF: American Chemical Society; St. Louis Country Club; Uni-
versity Club of St. Louis; Harvard Club of St. Louis.

PUBLICATIONS: Two papers in Analytical Chemistry, 1948, 19553 one paper in
Industrial and Engineering Chemistry, 1937; one paper in Journal of
Organic Chemistry, 1947; fourteen U.S. patents.

[ 823]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

MY first move after graduation was to bounce back to the Busi-
ness School. I went there the full two years, graduating in 1934
with an A{.B.A., and believe that I am perhaps the only M.B.A.
in captivity who is a practising organic research chemist (and
vice versa),

In January, 1935, I joined Monsanto Chemical Company, as
an analytical chemist and after six months transferred to the re-
search department. I have been there ever since, largely in appli-
cation research, which translates to “finding new uses for old
products, finding uses for new products, learning how to use
old and new products.” This all boils down to my present job
as group leader in the St. Louis Research Department of the
Organic Division of Monsanto, in charge of formulation of agri-
cultural chemicals, ie, how to mix up DDT, 2, 4-D, or what

have you, so that the farmer or homeowner can dilute and use
them.

I was married in 1951, which I am sure is much later than the
Class average. We have two little girls, aged two and five as of
Reunion, who couldn’t be more fun. Lani, the eldest, is swim-
ming; I can’t wait to get them on skis.

Skiing —I acquired the itch in 1934 while in my last year at
the Business School. I didn’t get back to it until 1939, but have
missed a winter skiing vacation only once since then. My wife is
not too sure she likes it, after three years of trying it, but she
enjoys the life while I hit the slopes. Two years ago, we added
a summer vacation in Nantucket to the standard ski two weeks.
During August, I now live dangerously by commuting from
St. Louis to Nantucket on weekends. This can be rugged when
(as often) Nantucket socks in.

Political-wise, I am a staunch Republican. I almost slipped in
1932, but (fortunately) could not vote that year because Missouri
didn’t then have an absentee ballot. It only took the famous one-
hundred days to convince me that I had been spared from making
the most horrible mistake of my life. Since then, I have not
deviated from the Republican side. It was a long dry stretch until
1952 made things right again. The year 1956 didn’t hurt either,

except for my home state, which has been aptly described as the
“sore thumb” state.

[ 824 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

As for other hobbies, sports, etc., let’s list golf, bridge and
photography, as well as a strong inclination towards home-tinker-
ing and repair jobs, particularly of the electrical variety.

CHARLES HYNDMAN MORRIS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 3 Myrtle Pl., Tuckahoe, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lever Bros., 390 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.

BORN: Dec. 5, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Charles Hyndman Morris, ’99,
Elizabeth Hanna.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933. DEGREE: A.B. 1932 (33).

MARRIED: Dorothy Grace Rivera, June 17, 1935, Portsmouth, N.H. cumpren:
Jeanne Edith, Sept. 30, 1936; Carole Judith, April 4, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Hanna Morris, ’29; William Morris, ’34; Richard
Irving Morris, °44.

OCCUPATION: Eastern sales manager, Lever Bros., soap manufacturers.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Orienta Beach Club, Mamaroneck,

N.Y.

AFTER graduating from college I was employed as a salesman
for the Boston Ice Company, Esso-Beacon Oil Company and Mills
Novelty Company. Since 1936 I have been associated with Lever
Brothers Company, starting as a sales clerk and messenger. I was
sales supervisor of the home office from 1940 to 1943 when Lever
Brothers moved to New York where I was assistant sales super-
vision manager until 1950. During the following year I was as-
sistant field sales manager and from 1951 to 1953, brand merchan-
dising manager of Lever House. The following year I was New-
ark District Sales manager and successfully introduced Swan
Toilet Soap, Lux Liquid Detergent and Rinso Blue. From 1954
to 1955 I was chain account sales manager of Metropolitan New
York and since that time have been eastern regional sales manager.

After twenty years in the soap business, all I can say is that
we've led a comparatively clean life. I do get a little traveling
done . . . each different position sends me to various parts of

the country.

[ 825 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

JOHN BARTON MORRIS

HOME appress: 5 E. 67th St. New York 21, N.Y.

OFFIcE appress: Norman, Craig & Kummel, Inc., 488 Madison Ave., New
York 21, N.Y.

BoRN: May 7, 1910, New York, N.Y. parents: Samuel C. Morris, Irma C.
Coshland.

PREPARED AT: Ethical Culture School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. sumzma cum laude, 1932.
UNMARRIED.

occupation: Vice-president in charge of marketing and media, Norman,
Craig & Kummel, Inc., advertising agency.
MEMBER OF: Sales Executives Club of New York; Merchandising Executives

Club of New York.

TWENTY-FIVE years! It seems more like twenty-five months.
That means, I guess, that I’ve enjoyed it.

A good part of it has been spent in work. It’s all been in the
field of marketing—from junior sales executive, to salesman,
to assistant sales manager, to sales manager of two companies
in widely different industries, to director of marketing of an
advertising agency —all leading up to my current job as part
owner of the thirtieth largest U.S. advertising agency — Nor-
man, Craig & Kummel, Inc.— where, with the title of vice-
president in charge of marketing and media, I supervise three
departments — marketing, research and media — and act as man-
agement account supervisor for the Kaiser automotive interests
account (which means currently the “Jeep” commercial vehicle
line of Willys Motors, Inc.). Pm a member of the Agency
Executive Committee and its Plans Board.

It’s a job which almost daily comes up with new, challenging
and stimulating problems. Should we advise Colgate to try to
sell its Veto deodorant to both men and women, in spite of the
fact that research has established that both sexes think men need
a stronger deodorant than women? How can advertising or
merchandising convince thousands of truck owners that the extra
cost of a four-wheel drive commercial vehicle will be repaid
many times over in a work year? Should a new Warner-Lambert
product be introduced in test markets, a whole region, or, be-
cause it’s in an industry where competition traditionally copies
a good new idea before the trade sell-in is finished, should it be

[ 826 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

introduced nationally? Should Ronson be advised to market the
completely new product under consideration, or is the potential
too small and the competitive consumer franchise too well estab-
lished? Should Hudson napkin advertising feature the low-end
volume seller or the higher-priced top-of-the-line item? What
new products can a client, who shall be nameless, add to spread
selling costs over a wider base? Should that extra development
budget for Client A be spent in areas where he’s strong and can
most easily capitalize on the consumer interest, or in areas where
he’s weak and needs to build position? And what does motiva-
tional research tell us about women’s attitude towards a gift of
a ladies’ electric shaver from a man?

It’s often called an “ulcer” business, but I’ve always believed
that the people who find it that way would feel the same about
any other job. Sure, everyone is an expert on marketing and
advertising! Sure, the same business executive who wouldn’t
think of second-guessing his lawyer or accountant will tell his
advertising agency why the headline his wife suggested over
cocktails last Sunday is just what his company needs in its ad-
vertising! But what line of work doesn’t have its problems, its
frustrations, its drawbacks? And where else can you find a job
which continually presents so wide a variety or more interesting
and challenging problems?

If, from the above, my classmates get the impression that I like
my work, they’re right. Too much so, perhaps.

But a wide group of other interests helps to create the necessary
variety. Maybe it’s because I’m still a bachelor, that I seem to
have time for them all. Leading boys’ clubs at settlement houses,
teaching advertising and marketing courses at Columbia, serving
on the board of directors of four machine tool companies, play-
ing bridge, raising a house plant garden in a New York apart-
ment (to the point where there soon won’t be room for both the
plants and me), investing in Broadway shows (I’ve been lucky
enough to include “Can-Can,” “Pajama Game,” “Silk Stockings,”
“Damn Yankees” and “Happy Hunting,” along with a few
“dogs”), playing a lot of tennis and a lesser amount of squash,
swimming and golf, playing around at beating the stock market,
seeing lots of baseball, football, basketball and hockey games and
indoor track meets, and a fair amount of reading, seem to fill

[ 827 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

the days with just about twice as much to do as I really have

time for.

Chronologically speaking, I spent a year doing graduate work
at Columbia Business School, followed by nearly ten years at
the Eagle Pencil Company, where I moved from junior sales
executive to salesman to assistant to the sales manager, assistant
sales manager and then headed up the sales organization for
several years before the interruption of World War II.

Four years in the Air Force as a ground officer in the Flying
Training Command, ending up with a year and a half as a major
in contract termination work in Detroit and Chicago, didn’t help
the bankroll any, but did broaden a few horizons. It also helped
me to realize how little greatness many of the “great American
businessmen” have — as I watched fancy-titled executives who
drew big pay in civilian life, serving as contract termination
officers, struggle to make two and two equal four, without the
help of assistants and secretaries who'd apparently done their
thinking for them for years.

I returned to civilian life as general sales manager of a Swiss
watch brand, but after four years decided that the president of
the company really would prefer to sell a few million dollars a
year less and have every detail flow through his egomaniacal
finger-tips. When the advertising agency of which Id been a
client heard I was going to move on to another job, they told
me (for the first time) that they'd been hoping for some time
that some day I would join their organization. We both left
the egomaniac to make his own mud-pies and, in 1950, I became
director of marketing of my present agency.

Seven years in the advertising agency business have further
enlarged my horizons. I can honestly say that I learn far more
every year now than I ever did in any of the pleasant and fruit-
ful years at Harvard —and I certainly feel that I learned a lot
in every one of them, The fact that I still enjoy lcarning is one
reason why I'm told [ look thirty-five (well anyway thirty-nine),
still have all my hair and nearly 20-20 vision. Like many of my
classmates, though, I've added lots of bulging pounds in those
twenty-five years— most of them in the wrong places.

I’m sure of one thing. I don’t feel one bit like the guy whom
I pictured twenty-five years ago returning to his middle-aged

{ 828 J

__—

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Twenty-fifth Anniversary. If the youngsters in the Class of ’57
learn as much in ’58 as I expect to—and enjoy themselves as
much — Harvard College will be doing a good job. These
twenty-five years have, I think, added materially to the capacity
Harvard helped to develop, of learning and growing and “en-

joying.”

WALTER HARRISON MORSE

HOME ADDRESS: North Weare, N.H.

BORN: Oct. 2, 1910, Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. Parents: Walter Levi Morse, Mary
Harrison.

PREPARED AT: Scarborough School, Scarborough, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932, DEGREE: S.B. IN E.E., 1932.

MARRIED: Katherine Haskell, June 23, 1933, Wakefield, Mass. cHILDREN:
Katherine Andre, May 5, 1936; John Haskell, May 22, 1938, Walter
Harrison, Jr., Nov. 21, 1943.

HENRY ADAMS MORSS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 10 Otis Pl., Boston 8, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: Simplex Wire & Cable Co. 79 Sidney St. Cambridge 39,
Mass.

BORN: Feb. 1, 1911, Boston, Mass. PaReENTs: Henry Adams Morss, Edith
Sherman.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R_I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1932; PHD.
(Mass. Inst. of Technology), 1937.

MarRieD: Elisabeth W. Mixter, Jan. 21, 1950, Brookline, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Sherman Morss, 33, M.ARCH., 937; Wells Morss, ’38.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president in charge of manufacturing and technical ac-
tivities, Simplex Wire & Cable Company, manufacturers of electrically
insulated wire and cable.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Simplex Wire & Cable Company, since 1940;
director, Cambridge Electric Light Company, since 1950, Cambridge
Gas Company, since 1950; member Corporation Visiting Committee to
Dept. of Physics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1955, 1956.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Society of Sigma X1, Harvard Club of Boston;
Eastern Yacht Club; New York Yacht Club; Royal Ocean Racing Club,
London; Cruising Club of America.

[ 829 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

AFTER twenty-five years, I still live in Boston, still work for
the same company with which I started and still have the same
main interests — science, music and sailing.

From Harvard, with emphasis on mathematics, I went to
M.LT. for over three years, broken by a year at Trinity College,
Cambridge, England, and studied physics with some of the
world’s best physicists. My Ph.D. thesis was in the field of
physics on “The Structure of Stretched Rubber.”

Late in 1936 I joined Simplex Wire and Cable Company. Early
assignments were in the laboratories, and today I am still close
to the technical activities of the company. The project which
has attracted the most attention recently has been development
work followed by production of a new and vastly improved type
of submarine cable, used primarily by the Bell System. The
culmination of this effort has been the new transatlantic telephone

cable system and the similar connection to Alaska. Simplex pro-
duced only a small part of the cable for the former, all of the
cable for the latter.

This has kept me very busy but not without some recreation.
Sailing and long-distance racing have gradually changed to sail-
ing and leisurely cruising in a variety of sailboats. Sailing to Eng-
land, one Fastnet Race and several Bermuda races were highlights
of the thirties. Happily, my wife likes sailing and cruising as
much as I do, so you can figure out our favorite summer vaca-
tions. We have also enjoyed combining business trips with brief
vacations here and in Europe and some day hope to repeat a
motor trip in Portugal and a voyage on a coastal steamer in Nor-
way. A particular winter interest is attending the concerts of
the Boston Symphony Orchestra. We don’t find much time for
movies and radio and don’t have a TV set. We are getting much
pleasure, too, from associate membership in the Woods Hole
Oceanographic Institution.

With peace, the next twenty-five years should be even better.

[ 830 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN EDMUND MOSELEY

HOME AppbRESS: 555 Edgecombe Ave. New York, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 222 W. 138th St., New York, N.Y.

' BORN: July 24, 1909, New York, N.Y. parents: ‘Thomas William Moseley,
Hildred Lenora Palmer.

PREPARED AT: Stuyvesant High School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1029-1932. DEGREES: 8.B. cum laude, 1932; M.D. (Univ. of
Chicago), 1936.

marriED: Mary Louise Foster, April 1, 1937, Chicago, Ill. cup: Jane Louise,
March 4, 1938.

occupation: Physician; director, Department of Radiology, Sydenham
Hospital; assistant radiologist, Mount Sinai Hospital.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of directors, Northside Center for Child De-
velopment, since 1947, New York City Cancer Committee, since 1950,
National Urban League, 1950-54; member, New York State Tuberculosis
Committee, 1947-50; member, Joint Legislative Commission on Narcotic
Control, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: New York Roentgen Society; American College of Radiology
(fellow); Radiological Society of North America; Medical Society of
County of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles on radiological subjects in specialty journals.

SINCE leaving Cambridge I have devoted myself primarily to
my family and to the practice and study of medicine — more
specifically, radiology. Within this field I have been most inter-
ested in the radiology of children and of certain blood diseases.
Recently I had the good fortune to be elected to fellowship in
the American College of Radiology for “outstanding service”
to that specialty. Despite the rugged discipline of medicine I
have given some part of my time to a variety of community
services dealing mostly with health, health education and social
services for Negroes.

These years have been punctuated with frequent trips from
these shores. Since 1947 I have spent some small part of every
winter in the Caribbean. Very early I succumbed to the charms
of the north coast of Jamaica and now consider that island in the
sun a necessary oasis in the journey through the bleak months .
between the winter solstice and the vernal equinox. In 1951 I
traveled with my wife and daughter through England and the
Continent. They went back for a second look in 1954, when
my daughter was a little older. Together we have explored the

[ 831 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Bahamas, Haid and Mexico and this year Jane is attending Mexico
City College on the road to Toluca, after some summer classes
at the University of Mexico.

I am not politically motivated but would consider myself an |
independent liberal who can be roused to a real fight when the
freedom and dignity of the individual are threatened. Otherwise,
my main pursuits are the happiness and well-being of my family,
the analysis of disease processes by the roentgen rays and the
quiet beaches of the Caribbean.

GILBERT EDWARD MOTTLA

ADDRESS: 798 N. Pleasant St. Amherst, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 30, 1911, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Anthony Louis Mottla,
Louisa Ricci.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932.

VAHAN MOUSHEGIAN

HOME ADDRESS: 814 N. Overlook Drive, Alexandria, Va.

oFFice appress: Dept. of Labor, Washington, D.C.

BorN: Dec. 25, 1908, Lowell, Mass. parents: Nazar Moushegian, Rose
Magarian.

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 19323 LL.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Catherine Jane Wolf, Sept. 28, 1939, Luray, Va. CHILDREN: Vahan,
Jr, Dec. 19, 1942; James, Aug. 28, 1944; Donald, Oct. 28, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Garabed Nazar Moushegian, ’21.

occupation: Attomey, Solicitor’s Office, U.S. Department of Labor.

UPON graduating from college I decided to further my training
by attending Law School, thus postponing my entry into the
competitive world for another three years. Being souped up in
this fashion I had high hopes of winning a speedy success, but
my hopes were quickly dashed. I even ventured as far as Texas
thinking the wide open spaces might enable me at least to make
a take-off but was obliged, like many of my classmates, to wend
my way to Washington where I have remained ever since.

[ 832 ]

nae L980 A POE TIO

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Although the fortune I sought in my youth has eluded me, I
have been notably successful otherwise — a lovely wife and three
normal and healthy boys. Add to this a fairly interesting job
and general contentment, my cup, though not filled to over-
flowing, is reasonably full.

GEORGE WEST MOVIUS

HOME ADDRESS: 12 Evergreen Lane, Asheville, N.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Fred Seely Associates, 107 Parkway Office Bldg., Asheville,
N.C.

BORN: July 1, 1909, Millis, Mass. parents: Hallam Leonard Movius, ’o2z, Alice
Lee West.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MarRIED: Dearborn Colette Hanham, July 27, 1945, Atlantic City, NJ.
CHILDREN: Lee West, March 18, 1947; Rosemary Colette, Nov. 30, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Hallam Leonard Movius, Jr., 30.

OCCUPATION: Treasurer, Fred Seely Associates, residential, commercial and
industrial real estate.

OFFICES HELD: Member of vestry, junior warden, All Souls’ Episcopal
Church, Biltmore, N.C.; director, Civitan Club of Asheville; treasurer,
director and past president, Asheville Art Museum; director and treas-
urer, Civic Art Center of Asheville; treasurer, Asheville’s Chamber Mu-
sic Series.

MEMBER OF: Biltmore Forest Country Club; Mountain City Club; Zeb Vance
Debating Society.

HAVING concentrated in anthropology, after graduation I
wanted to continue with it. Having an older brother who had
decided already to make it his career, my family felt that one
of us, at least, “should try to make some money.” With that
background I entered the Harvard Business School in the fall of
1932. After the first year I was offered a summer job as a messen-
ger in my uncle’s brokerage house in downtown Boston. This
turned into a permanent position where I remained until 1938.
At that time I decided to change fields and joined the sales de-
partment of American Airlines. The atmosphere in this young
and growing business was nothing short of electrifying which
imbued everyone connected with it — quite in contrast to the
laissez-faire attitude of State Street — with great enthusiasm.

[ 833 ]

| | =

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Early 1942 found me acting sales manager for the company at
Hartford, Connecticut. However, other duties called and |
entered the first class at Quonset Point, Rhode Island, for naval
indoctrination in February of that year. I was assigned to
Charleston, South Carolina, for anti-submarine warfare along
the Atlantic Coast where I remained until May, 1945, fighting
the “Battle of the Cockroaches.” Germany having surrendered,
I was then assigned as administrative officer with Fighting Squad-
ron 3 which was reforming at Atlantic City after a successful stint
in the Pacific. We were scheduled to go out on the then new
aircraft carrier, Princeton, that fall, but Hiroshima changed
everything. Having married that summer, I got out of the service
in September, 1945.

Returning to American Airlines, things seemed different. The
prewar spirit was gone, old employees were grumbling, it had
become a production line. After two years, my wife and I de-
cided to move elsewhere. The winter of 1947-48 found us in
Fort Lauderdale, Florida. But I soon learned that the only busi-
ness there was catering to the tourist, and that not only took a
great deal of capital but was a “dog eat dog” affair as well.

We came to Asheville for the summer of 1948. It is my wife’s
home town and is blessed with a wonderful climate. Here I
became associated with a small mica processing plant. Fate was
good to us and we grew rapidly. All went well the next six
years. But the handwriting was on the wall in that plastics were
beginning to take the place of mica. So, in 1955, I sold my interest
and soon thereafter joined with a friend of mine in real estate.

As mentioned above I was married in July of 1945. I was then
an old man of thirty-six and it came as a complete surprise to
my family, who had long since given up hope. My wife, Dear-
born, is a graduate of Bryn Mawr. She was a Wave officer during
the war. We were both stationed at the Naval Air Station at
Atlantic City, New Jersey, at the time of our marriage. We have
been blessed with two wonderful children of whom we have
high hopes. In 1950 we bought a rather large older house to
which, as some of you may know, something always has to be
done. I have become, therefore, somewhat of a do-it-yourself
artist, which I actually find very interesting and a lot of fun.
Although people today still underguess my age, and although I

[ 834 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

still feel young and gay, yet I have put several inches around my
waist and find my endurance shortening a bit each year. But then
I remember as a child how old my father looked to me on his
Twenty-fifth Reunion —a veritable old man. Guess I look that
way to my son right now.

JOSEPH WILLIAM MULLANEY

HOME ADDRESS: 53 Beaver St., Worcester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mullaney Insurance Agency, 634 Slater Bldg., Worcester,
Mass.

BORN: Dec. 18, 1908, Worcester, Mass. PARENTS: Patrick Joseph Mullaney,
Katherine G. McGarrell.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

marnieD: Irene L. Launier, July 11, 1936, Worcester, Mass. CHILDREN:
Jeanne P., Oct. 11, 1941; William P., March 15, 1946.

OccUPATION: Insurance agent and broker.

MEMBER OF: Worcester Chapter, S.P.E.B.S.Q.S.A. (charter member); Lions
Club; Harvard Club of Worcester; Knights of Columbus.

PUBLICATIONS: Edited American Steel & Wire News, 1936-38.

1932 Drove truck.

1933-44 USS. Steel, scale clerk to assistant paymaster to methods
and procedures analyst to cost analyst.

1944-47 Reconstruction Finance Corporation, supervisor, Ac-
quisition Section.

1947-50 Agent, New York Life.

1950-53 Supervisor of Worcester Branch, Union Central Life
Company.

1953 Started my own agency in life and general lines.

ERHART RUDOLF MULLER

HOME ApprEss: Shaker Village, Harvard, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 13, 1909, New York, N.Y. parents: Robert Otto Muller,
Gertrude Erbsloh.

PREPARED AT: The Gunnery School, Washington, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

MarriED: Ruth Atwood, June 27, 1947, Nantucket, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Otto Muller, °34.

[ 835 ]

— _—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

AFTER graduation from college I took a year completing pre-
med requirements and then spent three years in the Medical
School itself. The war years were spent at the Polaroid Corpo-
ration, mainly doing quality control work. I now live in a small
town about thirty miles from Cambridge, devote myself to too
many interests, and spent as much time as possible gardening.
For the past nine or ten years we have spent a part of every
August on Nantucket, where I take pleasure in some amateurish
surf casting and relaxation from the somewhat hectic life that
seems inevitable in a small town. I have also done a very modest
bit of traveling in Europe.

ROBERT MURPHY

HOME ADDRESS: 330 Reservoir Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

Born: July 11, 1910, Dorchester, Mass. parents: Albert Stephen Murphy,
Gertrude Lyons,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

FREDERIC RICHARDSON MURRAY

HOME ADDRESS: 540 Mohawk Drive, Erie, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cathedral of St. Paul, 134 W. Seventh St., Erie, Pa.

BORN: Sept. 15, 1910, Belmont, Mass. PARENTS: Frederic Lincoln Murray,
Amanda Richardson.

PREPARED AT: Needham High School, Needham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; B.D. (Yale Univ.), 1936.

-MARRIED: Margaret Lambert Ostrander, Dec. 11, 1937, New Haven, Conn.
CHILDREN: Frances Richardson, July 21, 1941; Frederic Ostrander, March
1, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Clergyman; dean, Cathedral of St. Paul, Erie, Pa.

OFFICES HELD: Quinnipiac Council, Boy Scouts of America, New Haven,
1944-46; director, 1949-55, president, 1955, Philadelphia Council of
Churches, director, Montgomery County Family Service Society,
Jenkintown, Pa., 1950-55, Erie Social Hygiene Association, since 1955,
Erie County Tuberculosis Association, since 1956; member executive
council, Diocese of Pennsylvania, 1948-54, member standing committee,
Diocese of Erie, since 1956; fellow, College of Preachers, Washington,
D.C., since 1954.

[ 836 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Rotary International, Branford, Conn. (president, 1944-45),
Jenkintown, Pa.

MY manner of life from my youth up is known to you all. . .”
well, hardly! As a matter of fact, as I try to count up, there are
very few of you in the Class of ’32 that I do know. However,
that is pretty much my fault. As I look back, I was not a particu-
larly friendly guy during my college sojourn, but enough of this
lament for the past and on to the years ’twixt then and now.

Sorry, boys, I left Cambridge for New Haven and matriculated
at Yale Divinity School in the fall of 1932. It had the best theo-
logical faculty in sight in those days, still does, methinks, but it
is just possible that had then been now I might well have stayed
in Cambridge. At the end of my first year I took a “sabbatical.”
It was partly economics and partly uncertainty as to vocation
that caused the break. I spent the year cooking jam for Joseph
Middleby, Jr., Inc., Summer Street Extension, South Boston. It
was a year I would not swap for anything. Economic matters
more or less in hand and the year’s work in the factory making it
quite clear that business was not for me, I returned to Yale in
the fall of ’34 and finished in June, 1936, thereby adding a Yale
B.D. to my Harvard A.B.

In the meantime, it had become clear that my dissatisfactions
and uncertainties in the matter of vocation were not centered in
the ministry in general but in the ministry of the church wherein
I was nurtured in particular, so, as has happened before at Yale,
I found for Episcopacy and approached the Bishop of Connect-
icut in regard to ordination, He “recommended” that I spend
a year in an Episcopal Seminary, so the fall of 1936 found me in
New York as a graduate student at the General Theological
Seminary. I had hoped to go back to Cambridge to the Episcopal
Theological School on Brattle Street, but the Bishop said, “Mur-
ray, you have too much Boston in your blood now; a year in
New York will do you good,” and so it did.

Well, at this rate, I could go on for pages. Let it suffice to say
that I was ordained deacon in the Episcopal Church in June,
1937, and priest, the following December. Both services were in
Christ Church Cathedral, Hartford. I served two charges in
Connecticut, The first was a triple threat — Christ Church,

* [837]

— _

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Unionville, Trinity Church, Collinsville, St. John’s Church, Pine
Meadow, these from 1937 to 1940. The second was Trinity
Church, Branford, from 1940 to 1946. In the fall of 1946, I ven-
tured out of New England, not very far to be sure geograph-
ically, and much less far culturally, and became rector of St.
Paul’s Church, Elkins Park, Philadelphia. There I stayed for nine
years. In September, 1955, I resigned to accept election to my
present post, dean of Cathedral of St. Paul, Erie, Pennsylvania
(it’s quite west of the Hudson). |
My special interests during these years have been centered
largely in the youth work and Christian education fields of the
church. I have served on the Youth Commissions and Education
Departments of all my diocese and at present am chairman of the
Department of Christian Education of the Diocese of Erie. I
served a half term as Dean of Convocation in the Diocese of
Pennsylvania, but gave it up to go back into youth work. |

Military service I saw none. My physical condition, family
conditions and ecclesiastical pressures all conspired to keep me
out. I did my best to take up the slack in civilian affairs, civilian
defense, Red Cross, Boy Scouts, etc., etc. The only wartime
decoration I have is a Silver Beaver from the Boy Scouts.

Now for my most important achievement — my family. Dur-
ing my New Haven sojourn I wooed and won Margaret Lambert
Ostrander, a young lady of the parish in which I served as student
assistant. Her family had, and still does have; strong Yale pre-
dilections. Her father, on retirement a few years back, was bursar
and assistant treasurer of that university. Poor girl, three things
she was never going to do—1) Go with a Harvard man; 2)
Marry a minister; 3) Have a babe in the summer. Ha! Ha! She
married me in December, 1937. Our first bairn, Frances Richard-
son, was born in July, 1941. Margaret, incidentally, was Mount
Holyoke, ’32. We have had one other child, Frederic Ostrander,
born in March, 1945. Frances is at present a sophomore at Strong
Vincent High School, Erie, and Freddie is in the sixth grade.
What happens to him in 1962 depends on a number of things.

Erie, I find, is not good Harvard territory. 1 have unearthed
only two other Harvard College graduates, one of whom has gone
back to the Business School for graduate work. I eat lunch regu-
larly with the other once a month for we both serve on the board

[838]

inns remanent |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of the Erie Social Hygiene Association. Law school grads there
are aplenty and some alumni from other graduate schools. Yale
and Princeton alumni abound. The Yale boys are very good to
me and I get in on many of their doings, but I still can’t, for the
love of me, wave my hanky on “For God, for country and for
Yale,” not that any of the three have my disapproval, so I guess
I have not completely fallen.

Hobbies? Let’s see. I play with ecclesiastical heraldry and
have the satisfaction of seeing several of my designs for seals ac-
cepted and put to use by various institutions. Such other leisure
time as I have comes during vacation in the summer. It is de-
voted to a farm in Jefferson, Maine. We bought it some seven
years ago and are slowly rebuilding a lovely old house into re-
tirement. It gives the four of us a lot of fun and the tremendous
satisfaction of enjoying a very pleasant portion of the Lord’s
green earth, blue sky and blue lake.

HENRY MYER MYERSON

HOME ADDRESS: 26 Rice St., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Northeastern Electric Co., 250 Broadway, Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 31, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Myerson, Rose Wald-
stein.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MarRigD: Harriette C. Gould, July 2, 1948, Boston, Mass. cumpren: Alix
G., May 12, 1949; John G., April 18, 1952; Matthew G., May 10, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Morton Myerson, ’42, LL.B., '48.

occuPaTiON: Manufacturers’ representative; electrical equipment.

OFF and on for weeks, I have been trying to think about my life
during the past twenty-five years and what to write in my class
biography. Looking back and reviewing, I find that there isn’t
much to write and I don’t know why it should interest anyone
else, but Reunion tradition requires and who am I to fly in the
face of tradition. Therefore, here I go.

After graduation I went to the Business School for one year
and then obtained a job in a factory manufacturing artificial teeth
(when I first arrived there I called them false teeth but was
speedily set on the right track). After four years on this job, I

[ 839 ]

_—_—. Lo

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

left to take a position with Loew’s, Inc., ‘a moving picture dis-
tributor among other things. This kept me traveling throughout
New England most of the time, with side trips to Upper New
York State and Wisconsin to vary the scenery. The job was very
interesting the first four years, but the constant traveling began
to wear me down the fifth year, and as a result I enlisted in the
Ammy shortly after Pearl Harbor.

That move cost me four years of my life and extended my
travels quite a bit. I enlisted because I had been told that enlistees
could pick their branch of service, whereas draftees could not.
After one week at the induction center, I was shipped to an
Armored Division in Louisiana, which was nothing like what I
had in mind. After five months of training I was sent to the Ar-
mored Force O.CS. at Fort Knox, Kentucky, After completing
the course, I was sent back to Louisiana and from there to Texas.
While in Texas, the armored regiments were reorganized and I
suddenly found myself aboard a ship bound for Australia. After
two weeks, I went to New Guinea and traveled around there for
nearly a year before going to Leyte and Luzon. Right after the
Japs quit, I shipped out to Japan where I spent a very pleasant
six weeks before coming home. During the above four years, my
most enjoyable time was a twenty-five-day leave in Sydney, New
South Wales, Australia, Sydney was quite a town especially after
seven or eight months in New Guinea. My biggest disappoint-
ment was the bender I missed when the Japs surrendered. It was
something I had been looking forward to for a few years and
when the event happened I was in a field hospital recuperating
from an appendectomy.

After the war I went into the electrical equipment business on
my own and am still at it. Life went on in a steady even rut
from 1946 to 1948, when I met someone who was crazy enough
to marry an old bachelor like me. Now we have three children
and life is anything but dull.

Politically, I consider myself a Liberal and an Independent,
although I have voted for more Democrats than Republicans. I
would never vote for a graduate of a “Trade School” and nothing
I have seen the past four years has made me change my mind.

[ 840 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

« BORIS VASIL NAGASHEV

BorN: May 21, 1903, Simbirsk, Russia. parents: Vasil T. Nagashev, Lopatin
E. G. Nagashev.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

pieD: Sept. 26, 1936, West Townshend, Vt.

NAGASHEYV began his inventive career in Bulgaria. After com-
ing to this country he specialized in electric welding and motor
patents.

+k GEORGE HENRY NAWN

BoRN: March 12, 1909, Boston, Mass. paRENTs: John Joseph Nawn, Mary
Curley.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: AB., 1932 (33).

MARRIED: Louise Bryant, April 14, 1934, Boston, Mass. (died Oct. 7, 1938);
Evelyn C. Bryant, July 4, 1941, Washington, D.C. cxtrpren: George
H., Feb. 1, 1936; Ernest T., Dec. 18, 1942; Stephen E., Jan. 14, 1944.

pieD: Dec. 7, 1944, at sea.

NAWN was an investigator for the U.S. Department of Agricul-
ture before joining the U.S. Navy in 1943. He was commissioned
a lieutenant and served as communications officer, Armed Guard,
aboard the S.S. Peter Minuit, a troop transport. He died and was
buried at sea, December 7, 1944. He was survived by his wife
and three sons.

STEWART NEILL

HOME ADDRESS: 3952 Cleveland Ave., San Diego, Calif.

OFFICE appRrEss: Bay Park Department Store, 4136 Napier St. San Diego,
Calif.

BORN: Jan. 8, 1912, Greeley, Colo. parents: Lloyd Binford Neill, Alta
Stewart.

PREPARED aT: Greeley High School, Greeley, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932; A.M. (Univ. of California),
1934. :

MarRiED: Emily Francis Casper, Aug. 16, 1936, San Diego, Calif. ciLpREN:
Stewart Hamilton, Nov. 23, 1942; Philip Lawrence, April 22, 1944.

[ 84r ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

occuPATION: Owner-manager, Bay Park Department Store; secretary-
treasurer, Southwest Coast Wholesale, Inc,

OFFICES HELD: Member board of directors, Southwest Coast Wholesale, Inc.,
Mission Bay Business Associates.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of San Diego; Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity;
San Diego Opera Guild; Mission Valley Town & Country Club.

IT worked — you sent my wife “Goad No. 4” and the result is
this autobiographical sketch. All you sentimental readers who
can take it, follow me cautiously for a distance of two paragraphs
and then you can get on with the happy story of John Raymond
Nelson of Squantum, who if all is well will follow me in the
Anniversary Report,

In 1932 it was easy to avoid the many business opportunities
offered me to pursue a doctorate at the University of California.
I was still pursuing in 1934 with an A.M. as a crutch but gave
up the chase when Ph.D.’s were eking out an existence correcting
papers. Something more lucrative had to be found. I found it in
learning the “Five and Ten” business from the bottom — about
three stories below street level, in fact, in the freight department.
There was only one way to go and that was up — first floor,
merchandise manager; second floor, office manager, etc. We
were just getting our name on the door marked “STORE MAN- |
AGER” when you-know-who said “Let’s GO!” — four years
later we find our “hero” well decorated with ribbons and stars
(see Fifteenth Anniversary Report for gory details), poor health,
and career at a standstill, A year of recuperation in the desert
found me with enough strength to plunge once more into the
competitive field of retail business. The end result has been the
purchase of my own store with all its trials and tribulations —
but growing albeit painfully with the city of San Diego.

Business is continually interfering with my hobbies. They are
in order: MY FAMILY which consists of one devoted, lovely
wife who has withstood twenty years of Harvard indifference
with extreme good grace and charm; two boys who are “‘teen-
age” geniuses and who probably won't go to Harvard if the
can help it; one dog, genuine “air-schnauzer” who runs the whole
house, ONE HI-FI SYSTEM that never stops growing in a
never-ending search for perfection, plus a collection of records
that defies description and so far has restricted all attempts at

(842 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

cataloging, COLLECTION OF NEW AND OLD MAGA-
ZINES which I hoard hoping to find the time to read them, my
most time-consuming and pleasurable hobby is just being with
the militant few who are gleefully against whatever the majority
is for. Frankly, I’m worried —just can’t seem to believe that
bigger government (with bigger budgets), bigger labor unions,
bigger businesses, faster speed, and psychiatry is the answer to
our problems. Voted Republican (yes, even for Alf Landon!)
for twenty years and now that Ike’s in I see no difference in
Washington or change in sight — except morally. So far it’s the
same story of bigger taxes, bigger budgets, more federal aid for
schools, federal aid for highways, etc. They are making the
Democrats look like pikers. Until we shake off this one worldism,
statism trend and get back —clear back to the home and family
as the basic unit and live with the Ten Commandments — only
then will we be able to solve our problems at the correct level
and face our enemies with equanimity. AMEN.

P.S. You'd better print this in small type, but frankly what
the United States needs is just a darn good depression to shake us

up!

JOHN RAYMOND NELSON

HOME AppREss: William Street, Riverside, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: General Electric Credit Corp. 570 Lexington Ave, New
York, N.Y.

BoRN: Aug. 16, 1906, Worcester, Mass. PARENTS: Einer Marius Nelson,
Martha C. Kindberg.

PREPARED AT: Mount Herman School, Mount Hermon, Mass.; Dean Acad-
emy, Franklin, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MaRRiED: Kathleen Ure, 1935, Portsmouth, N.H. cxupren: Christopher
Bryant, June 16, 1936; John Raymond, Jr., Sept. 4, 1937; Peter Marius,
Dec. 29, 1941; Mark Rowland, March 14, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Sales finance; specialist in marketing, General Electric Credit
Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee and treasurer, Summer Hill Land Trust; skipper, Sea
Scout Unit; commanding officer, U.S.N.R., Mobilization Team, Liver-
pool, N.Y.

[ 843 ] '

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932
MEMBER oF: Elfun Society, General Electric Company; Harvard Club of

Syracuse; Reserve Officers Association.
PUBLICATIONS: “Working Capital for the Appliance Dealer,” New England
Appliance and Radio News, September, 1947; various trade articles.
A THEORY that I once read held that there was a great deal
of benefit to be derived from sitting down and writing an analyt-
ical account of your life. I am sure, however, that nothing short
of the inescapable proddings of a class secretary could accomplish
that result with me, even as brief an effort as this one.
During my college years my principal source of income was
selling Ford cars at Harvard Automobile Company. As in so
many things, the path that is first trod by chance becomes a fixed
one. In this case, it led me into the field of sales finance, where
now, twenty-five years later, I find myself. The depression era,
prewar, was with a bank in Boston. They were meager years
financially, but rich in the fact that during this period I was
happily married and the first three of our sons were born. We
experienced the thrill of building our first house on a pleasant
shore, of sailing in Massachusetts Bay, and it seemed that the pat-
terns of life were becoming clear. I had not reckoned with
World War II. Somewhere in that gray era during 1941, it began
to emerge that we were not going to escape from the effects of
that war. It entered our considerations in those husband and
wife conversations that take place in the evening, after the chil-
dren have been put to bed.

When the war came, my interest in a civilian occupation
ceased. Like so many Harvard men that I subsequently met at
odd places from Newport to Okinawa, I volunteered for duty
in the U.S. Navy and was duly commissioned a lieutenant junior
grade. How could anyone conceive of the directions that the
currents of World War would carry one? I found myself com-
manding officer of a Navy Escort in the Bering Sea; subsequently
I was engaged in teaching intense crews of Russians how to run
an anti-submarine vessel and finally as exec. of an Attack Trans-
port roaming the reaches of the far Pacific. How implausible
this all seems when projected against the backpground of that
warm June morning in 1932, when President Lowell welcomed
us “into the society of educated men.” This invitation took me a
little by surprise at the time and I was not completely convinced

[ 844 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

that I was qualified for this distinction. Yet, the possession of
that degree led to many things, including the commission in the
U.S. Naval Reserve.

After the war came a new job with the General Electric Com-

any, and eventually an assignment as specialist in marketing in
the Credit Corporation. We now live on the bank of a salt water
creek in Riverside, Connecticut, Daily I join that hardy band
that catches the eight o’clock train at Old Greenwich for the
commute to the city.

Our fourth son was born in 1949—a pleasant afterthought
and presently my good companion, who helps to fill the gap left
by one son’s attendance at M.LT., and the second’s at Hamilton
College.

My Boston background may help explain a long association
with the Republican party and more recent attachment for the
Congregational Church. My politics may have been shaped even
before Harvard, however, by a remarkable history teacher at
Mount Hermon School (a Harvard man himself), who dwelt
long and lucidly on the vital part that States’ rights played in our
democracy, and the dangers inherent in a centralized govern-
ment, and all this some years before Mr. Roosevelt’s arrival in
Washington.

From my vantage point of twenty-five years, I feel a warmth
and affection for my foster mother who was patient with my
shortcomings for four years and so generous of her accumulated
wisdom. |

WALLACE FRASER NELSON

HOME ADDRESS: 3005 Stony Creek Rd., Penn Square Village, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Standard Pressed Steel Co., Jenkintown, Pa.

BORN: July 13, 1910, Framingham, Mass. parents: William Livingston Nelson,
Lena Gertrude Wallace.

PREPARED AT: Framingham High School, Framingham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931.

MaRRIED: Edna May Allen, Feb. 20, 1937, Framingham, Mass. CHILDREN:
Neal Allen, Jan. 27, 1939; Glenn Wallace, July 14, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Quality Control, Scandard Pressed Steel Company; super-
vise gaging techniques, blueprint interpretation, general quality of
Hollow Set Screw production.

[ 845 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

SINCE my college days my life has been far from dull. After
completing my education with a course in business administra-
tion and special courses at Boston University, I went out into the
business world and, after a somewhat varied and interesting
round of experiences, in 1950 associated myself with Standard
Pressed Steel, the largest metals fabricator of its type in the world,
and one of the most progressive and forward-looking in the
country, where I have since been associated with the quality
contro] department of engineering.

In 1937 I married Edna May Allen, and our union has been
blessed with two very wonderful boys, the elder of whom is
starting his own college career this fall at Pennsylvania State
University.

Politically, we have voted straight Republican for twenty years
and probably will continue to do so for the next twenty.

On the religious side of the picture, our entire family is very
active in the affairs of our local Anglican parish of St. John’s in
Norristown. We live a full life, family centered, and in my
family and friends I count myself one of the richest of men.

WALTER G. NELSON, JR.

HOME Appress: Towne Hill Road, Montpelier, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Life Insurance Co., Montpelier, Vt.

BorN: March 13, 1910, New York, N.Y. parents: Walter Gustav Nelson,
Virginia Shutt Osburn.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREES: A.B. cust laude, 1932 (31); LLB., 1934.

MargigD: Dorothy Benton Doty, April 22, 1939, Yonkers, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Virginia Osburn, June 7, 1941; Elizabeth Ann, June 4, 1943; Christine
Doty, Jan. 20, 1949.

occupation: General counsel, National Life Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Montpelier Board of School Commissioners, trustee,
Washington County Grammar School, Montpelier Home for the Aged,
Inc.; vestryman and secretary of vestry, Christ Church, Montpelier.

MEMBER OF: Vermont and American Bar Associations; Association of Life
Insurance Counsel; Legal Section of American Life Convention.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles for insurance trade journals.

AFTER receiving my degree in absentia, while working at the
Paris branch of a New York City bank, I returned in the fall of

[ 846 ]

es pe OTT ORE EA TCI TT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1931 to enter Harvard Law School, from which I emerged in
June, 1934, with an LL.B. degree and a job with a large New York
City law firm. I continued to commute from Bronxville to down-
town New York for almost two years after my marriage in April,
1939. My wife was a little surprised when I suggested to her in
December, 1940, the possibility of going to Vermont. We had
come up to the lower part of the state several times on weekends
to ski, but this was different. She took it courageously, however,
and up we came to the capital of Vermont in January, 1941. Our
first daughter was born in June of that year.

I couldn’t see well enough (I still can’t) to get a commission
or even get drafted in World War II, and I struggled through
that catastrophe running Red Cross and Community Chest drives
and serving on our local War Price and Rationing Board. Our
second daughter was born in June, 1943. Apparently, daughters
were a commodity (?) which was not rationed. After World War
II, we bought another home on a large hill on the outskirts of this
outskirt of civilization. We have had the pleasure of seeing
there a few (all too few) of the balding members of Harvard
1932. In June, 1949, our third daughter was born and I guess that
will complete the complement. Dot was quite ill for a rather long
time after Christine was born and I guess we shall wait for grand-
children (if any) to carry on at Harvard.

In 1950 I was elected general counsel of the company by which
I had been employed on legal work since 1941. It has been a
gratifying and satisfying work. As this is written (December,
1956), I am under instructions to get two, at least, and preferably
three, new lawyers to join our staff here at National Life in
Montpelier. My starting point shall be the placement service of
the Harvard Law School.

EGBERT STARR NEWBURY, JR.
SEE Appendix.

[ 847 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

FRANCIS WARE NEWBURY

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 293 Grove St., Wellesley 82, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 30, 1909, Taunton, Mass. PARENTS: Nathan Newbury, ’89,
Katharine Dexter Ware.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark's School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1979.

MARRIED: Priscilla Howard Page, April 7, 1934, Andover, Mass. (divorced
1952); Elisabeth Mitchell Stanwood, Dec. 31, 1954, Wellesley, Mass.
CHILDREN: Katharine Dexter, April 30, 1935 (7. Francis L. Bacon, ’56,
Sept. 12, 1954); Francis Ware, Jr, Feb. 13, 1938. GRANDCHILD: Avril
Conant Bacon, April 11, 1955. .

HARVARD SON: Francis Ware Newbury, Jr., ’6o.

HARVARD BROTHER: Nathan Newbury, Jr. '27 (deceased).

occuPaTION: Paint and allied products distributor.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston, Dedham Country & Polo Club; Dux-
bury Yacht Club.

I WAS forced to leave college at the end of my freshman year
because of a leg injury suffered in the West that summer, which
turned into osteomyelitis. The next three years I spent off and
on in the hospital, undergoing a series of operations. After finally
recovering, although with a permanently stiff knee, I went to
work for Pepperell Manufacturing Company, where I remained
for nineteen years. In 1953 I resigned and went with the New
York package design firm of Alan Berni & Associates, as vice-
president in charge of their New England office. In 1955 I
started a small paint and allied products distributorship.

Because of my physical disability, no service would accept me
in World War II. On leave from Pepperell, I was a dollar-a-year
man in the War Bond Division of the Treasury Department as
deputy administrator. .

Asa result of my second marriage, I have a stepdaughter, Susan
Stanwood, a junior at Vassar, and a stepson, Thomas R. Stanwood,
a senior at Rivers Country Day School.

I follow big league baseball and especially the fortunes of the
Milwaukee Braves quite closely. If the Boston Braves of 1948
could win the National League pennant, then I’m sure some day
Milwaukee will succeed also.

[ 848 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WALLACE DAMON NEWCOMB

HOME ADDRESS: 313 Hamilton Rd., Merion, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Paul & Paul, 1815 Land Title Bldg., Philadelphia, Pa.

BORN: April 11, 1910, Alameda, Calif. parents: Guy Houghton Newcomb,
Ruth Damon.

PREPARED AT: Newark High School, Newark, Del.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: S.B., 1932; LL.B. (Univ. of Pennsyl-
vania), 1935.

MmarRigD: Priscilla Cary, Feb. 21, 1941, Boston, Mass, CHILDREN: Wallace
Damon, Jr., June 28, 1943; Peter Cary, Sept. 9, 1947.

occupation: Attorney; partner, Paul & Paul.

MEMBER OF: Union League of Philadelphia, Harvard Club of Philadelphia;
Society of Mayflower Descendants; Colonial Society; American Bar
Association; American Chemical Society; Franklin Chess Club; Quiet
Birdmen.

AFTER graduation I entered the law school of the University of
Pennsylvania, where I was told that the case system had trans-
formed the law into the equivalent of a laboratory science and
that “The Known Certainty of the Law is the Safety of All.”
On graduation three years later, both of these propositions re-
mained unproven, Some twenty odd years have passed and the
law seems even less a science and less certain than it did then.
Following law school there came a short period of a few years
when there was time to practise law and also learn to fly air-
planes. By the time World War II came along, the acquired
abilities in the latter field suddenly became more important than
those in the former. At least that is what the military people said,
and the next thing we knew we were flying over large stretches of
Atlantic Ocean with nothing but white-caps and German sub-
marines down below. This continued for about a year and a half
during which we learned a great deal more about the Atlantic
Ocean, airplanes and bad weather flying than we will ever have
any real use for again. When the submarines finally went off
somewhere else, the Navy suddenly found that they had more
pilots than lawyers and we reported to the Office of the Secretary
of the Navy. This suited Priscilla Cary Newcomb, who by this
time had heard that airplanes sometimes don’t return to make
routine landings, Somewhere along the line the Air Force con-
ceived the idca of awarding us its Air Medal which we have care-

[ 849 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

fully saved in order to prove to the boys that you don’t have to
be much of a hero to be decorated. The Navy had more legal
problems than lawyers, and this seemed to get worse instead of
better as time went on, when suddenly the Japs gave up and most
of the problems disappeared into the files. We, along with most
everybody else, proceeded home as soon as possible and, I suppose,
the files must still be there.

During the tour of duty as a pilot, son number one (Wallace
Damon Newcomb, Jr.) was born. Son number two (Peter Cary
Newcomb) was born several months after the return home.
These two war babies are now preparing for college (preference,
Harvard) at the Episcopal Academy, Overbrook, Pennsylvania.

We are now busily engaged in the practice of the law as a
partner in the same law firm which, in spite of the fact that most
of the partners went off to fight a war, kept going with the
vitality that seems to characterize institutions which have been
long established in the city of Philadelphia.

JEROME SIDNEY NEWLAND

HOME AppRESS: 955 Fifth Ave, New York, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 575 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.
BorN: April 9, 1911, New York, N.Y. Parents: Barnet Newland, Rebecca

Gebhart. .
PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1932.
occupation: Petroleum products.

TWENTY-FIVE years? Already? Hell, no comment.

+ HENRY JAMES NICHOLS

BoRN: Nov. 5, 1911, Washington, D.C. parents: Henry James Nichols, Grace
Gundry.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932,

piep; Aug. 3, 1942, Washington, D.C.

sister: Mrs. V. N. D. Flory, Hubbell Cottage, R.F.D. 1, Bennington, Vt.

[ 850]

seer ERISA LTS
anne tie eR

—

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HERBERT BISHOP NICHOLS

HOME ADDRESS: 2900 Terrace Drive, Chevy Chase 15, Md.

OFFICE apprEss: U.S. Geological Survey, Washington 25, D.C.

BORN: Oct. 21, 1907, South Norwalk, Conn. parents: Chester Encell Nichols,
Ethel Beatrice Bishop.

PREPARED AT: Suffield School, Suffield, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

MaRRIED: Ruth Christie, Aug. 20, 1932, South Berwick, Maine (divorced
1950); Jessie Wharton, Oct. 12, 1950, Washington, D.C. cHILpRen:
Chester Encell, 2d, Dec. 28, 1935; Nancy Evelyn, Oct. 16, 1937.

OCCUPATION: Science writer; information officer, US. Geological Survey.

OFFICES HELD: Science editor, Christian Science Monitor, 1932-49; informa-
tion officer, U.S. Geological Survey, since 1949; manager of public in-
formation, General Electric Research Laboratory, 1954-55; co-winner,
George Westinghouse Award for distinguished service to science in
field of journalism from A.A.A.S., 1945; member, Weddell Sea Group,
Operation Deepfreeze II, U.S. Antarctic Program (IGY), 1956-57.

MEMBER OF: Explorers Club of New York; Anteaters Club of Washington;
Bond Astronomical Club of Harvard (president 1946); Masons, Ver-
mont Botanical Club; Josselyn Botanical Club of Maine; Massachu-
setts Horticultural Society, American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science (fellow and member of council); National Association
of Science Writers (president, 1947); Academy of National Sciences of -
Philadelphia; Geological Society of Washington.

PUBLICATIONS: Harvey correspondent in college, daily coverage and feature
stories of science in Christian Science Monitor, 1930-49, occasional
contributions thereafter; numerous articles in national magazines and
periodicals.

TWO days to go until sailing time for six months in the Antarctic
as Admiral Byrd’s representative with the Weddell Sea Group,
Operation Deepfreeze II and your reminder arrives saying, “Go
have your picture taken and write a life history.” Presumably it
will be in print by the time I get back and there will only be time
to dress, repack and head for the Reunion party at Cambridge.
I could sum things up by just saying, “Deadlines — always
deadlines.”

I love them of course. Never had to suffer through English A,
but deadlines began looming up as early as my junior year when
funds ran low — remember 1930? That was the year I tried out
for the Crimson, wrote two feature articles (non-sports) during
the Christmas holidays that brought such cryptic remarks from
the editor as, “No nose for news whatever;” revised them as

[85r]

arent Aah Ria EET tt ARENA REN SRNR

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

As I write this, the Geological Survey has been granted a few
million dollars to build a new headquarters building in the District
of Columbia. We had been hoping to do as the Bureau of
Standards is doing — move to a less crowded area outside Wash-
ington and consolidate our scattered offices. But the city cried
when we wanted to go and Congress says we stay. Perhaps the
legislators will relent while I’m in the Antarctic. Hope so. We are
just quiet country people at heart. Wouldn’t ever go near a city
if we didn’t have to. Terrible places. I’m afraid the automobile is
here to stay, however, even though assessed valuations make space
enough to park one in too costly for the purpose. Maybe the
C-bomb will have a deflating influence.

So here’s to our getting out of the ice pack in time, locating a
space to park short of Central Square, and taking off a few
pounds before I get to Cambridge so some of you can recognize -
me.

OSGOOD MARSH NICHOLS

HOME aporess: Belden Hill Lane, Wilton, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Nichols & Peters, 1 W. 57th St. New York 19, N.Y.

Born: May 31, 1911, New York, N.Y. PARENTS: James Osgood Nichols, Lis.,
’93, Gertrude Gouverneur Meredith.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

MarRIED: Eleanor Lyman Patterson, Nov. 5, 1938, Washington, D.C. cum:
Peter Osgood, Feb. 12, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Meredith Nichols, ’32.

OCCUPATION: Partner, Nichols & Peters, public relations counsel.

OFFICES HELD: Executive associate, Twentieth Century Fund, 1946-48; mem-
ber, Democratic Town Committee, Wilton, Conn. 1947-52; member
board of trustees, Wilton Library Association, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; American Management Associa-
tion; Public Relations Society of America; Colonial Lords of Manors.
PusLicaTions: “Work Camps for America,” John Day, 1933; Partners in

Production, Twentieth Century Fund, 1949.

I HAVE spent the past twenty-five years trying to make the
middle of the road. I am still not clear why. Every time I reach
it, I get the feeling of being crowded, so I take right off to find
out what’s going on in the underbrush on either side. This is

[ 854]

RE nam A ERT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

where I have grown up and where I have found those occasional
moments of triumph and disaster that quicken the pulse and stir
the inner man. So let’s prowl around the underbrush, where
nothing goes according to plan, even in retrospect. In the
interests of my reputation for modesty, I shall concentrate here
on the moments of disaster and leave the triumphs, as well as
the middle road, to the experts.

My career as a radical was clearly Disaster No. 1. I had many
advantages — a Harvard degree, a broken-down world in which
to peddle it, a noble drive to stitch up the wounds of mankind,
enough parental sustenance so that I could devote full time to
observing the ravages of unemployment instead of being forced
to do something about my own, and enough parental scorn for
my wild ideas to make them seem quite attractive. I exposed
myself extravagantly to infection. I even went to live in a Ken-
tucky coal camp where it was easier than in New York to see
who was doing what, with what and to whom. But I never
made the grade, as J. Edgar has been forced to certify on a num-
ber of occasions. I guess I was suspicious of all panaceas unless
I had invented them myself. I never could think of one that was
good enough.

My brilliant career in unemployment was interrupted just as
it was beginning to fulfill its promise. A young lady forced me
to choose between her and it. I chose her. She chose somebody
else, All three of us probably gained by that exchange.

During this game of musical chairs, I sat down at the Herald-
Tribune, having discovered, via Lincoln Steffens, that one could
_be a journalist and a crusader simultaneously. Three years later
found me on the night shift of the Washington Post, where I
had long since forgotten crusades and was apparently trying to
irritate the managing editor into changing my career. First I had
challenged him on a point of grammar and had won. This got
me all the way to third base. With an eye on home plate, I
stretched out my vacation, ignoring a colleague’s wire, which
read, “Ogre questioning. Better return. ” That did it.

For my next career, I chose the New Deal, after having been
frightened out of the only proffered alternative — public rela-
tions director of Vassar College. For four years I promoted
public housing, public forums, minimum wages and, as a member

[855]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

of Senator La Follette’s investigating staff, probed into industry’s
imaginative campaign to do-in the labor movement. I lived a
gay bachelor existence with six other revolutionaries in a George-
town mansion that was equipped with two maids whose uniforms
matched the living room curtains. Just as I was getting used to
this luxury, I gained a wife and lost the two maids. The New
Deal came to an end when Hitler rode into France, increasing
my opportunities as well as his own. I became Public Relations
Director of the National Defense Mediation Board and its Pearl
Harbor successor, the War Labor Board. The job was to keep
the country from clobbering the Board so that it could continue
to clobber labor and management whenever they started clobber-
ing each other. This was done with mirrors and occasional
smoke-screens of patriotism. Once we had to tell U.S. Steel that
this was no time for a test of relative sovereignty between itself
and the United States of America. What we told John L. Lewis
was less effective.

After three years or so at this game, I became so nervous
that I would miss the real fight that I voluntarily walked into my
next disaster —my military career. The Army and Navy re-
jected different parts of my body (a most humiliating experi-
ence), so I disguised it in the uniform of an assimilated colonel ©
(there really was such a thing), joined O.S.S, and embarked for
France to wage psychological warfare. Patton spread the news
of my imminent arrival and the Germans fled to the Siegfried
Line. I followed and started to fire my propaganda. The Ger-
mans read it and attacked. I retired to prepared positions in Paris,
then London, then home. This is the episode that started Eisen-
hower towards the White House. I shall be glad to explain the
connection to anyone who cares to send me a self-addressed,
stamped envelope.

Since the war, I have tried four different careers. First, I was
a writer. After a year on Fortune, the managing editor advised
me that there were other fields of endeavor. Next, I was an
author. The Twentieth Century Fund published my book on
labor, Partners in Production, which sold better than 10,000
copies, This turned out to be another disaster. It persuaded me
that my ideas were good enough to peddle. I became a manage-
ment consultant, first for the C & O, then as vice-president of

[ 856 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

another consulting firm, then the proud owner of my own. The

rocedure was simple. I would do an attitude survey of em-
ployees, the local community, or both. People would tell me
what was wrong with the client. I would tell the client, sug-
gesting subtly that I could help repair the situation. I would
then sit back and wait for a call. It came so seldom, I decided
once more to change careers.

It is too early yet to predict whether my latest career, on
which I re-embarked five years ago, will be a disaster. At the
moment I am comfortably ensconced atop the Tailored Woman
(Chanel is in between us), equipped with partner, clients in the
Scotch whisky, atomic energy, skyscraper, motion picture, cash-
mere, oil, genetic research and assorted endeavors, and, at long
last, some modest income tax problems. We have, of course,
made our quota of mistakes. We publicized one company so
adequately that its president’s option stock rose two million
dollars on the market and he became embarrassed. We created
so much more demand than there was supply of a rather good
bourbon that its owner could not take care of his friends, who
turned out to be more important than the whiskey. And, at one
point, both of us left the country simultaneously — my partner
to handle Haile Selassie’s jubilee, myself to tell Israel how to
build up its tourist traffic. The jubilee worked out all right but
the only tourists I have been able to scare up with a 436-page
program have been members of the British, French and U.N.
armed forces and Israelis visiting Sinai and the Gaza Strip. Lest
anyone be tempted to ask what public relations is, I shall answer
the question here. I don’t know.

WILLIAM MEREDITH NICHOLS

HOME appress: 15 Avenue Beaucour, Paris 8e, France.

BORN: March 26, 1910, New York, N.Y. PARENtTs: James Osgood Nichols,
LL.B., 93, Gertrude Meredith.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

[ 857 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

ERNEST CARLETON NICKERSON, II

HOME ADDRESS: Hinds Head Road, Katonah, N.Y.

OFFICE Appress: New York Central Railroad, 466 Lexington Ave., New
York, 17, N.Y.

BorN: Aug. 4, 1909, Chatham, Mass. parents: Oscar Clinton Nickerson,
Eglantine Frances Young.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: S.B., 1932; M.B.A.. 1934.

MakRIED: Priscilla Hamilton Place, Sept. 24, 1932, Chatham, Mass. (divorced
(1943); Shirley Tiffaney Swaim, August, 1944, New Haven, Conn.
CHILDREN: Wendy Anne, May 28, 1938, William Brewster, March 17,
1942; Susannah Prence, Dec, 16, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Joshua Atkins Nickerson, ’22.

OccUPATION: Vice-president, New York Central Railroad.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Pittsburgh & Lake Erie Railroad; director,
St. Lawrence & Adirondack Railway Company, Detroit River Tunnel
Company, Canada Southern Railroad, Boston Terminal Company, Cin-
cinnati Union Terminal Company, Cleveland Union Terminal Com-
pany, Railway Express Company, Niagara River Bridge Company,
Joliet & Northern Indiana Railroad Company; chairman of board,
Nickerson Lumber Company; special assistant to vice-president, 1937-38,
assistant manager of sales and service, 1941-43, mamager traffic research
and development, 1943-44, general director, Traffic Committee, As-
sociation of American Railroads Study of Transportation, 1944-45,
assistant general traffic manager, 1945-47, general traffic manager,
1947-48, vice-president, 1948-49, vice-president and assistant to presi-
dent, 1949-50, New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad; general
traffic manager, Chicago & Northwestern Railway, Chicago, St. Paul,
Minneapolis & Omaha Railway Company, 1950-52; director, Michigan
Central Railroad, Cleveland, Chicago, Cincinnati & St. Louis Railroad,
New York & Harlem Railroad, 1953-55, Providence Produce Ware-
house Company, 1948-50.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Traffic & Transportation (founding
member); Boston Marine Society (honorary member); Harvard Clubs
of Boston and New York; New York Traffic Club; New England
Traffic Club; Chicago Athletic Club; Waccabuc Golf Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in transportation magazines.

THE accident of my birth caused me to have a heritage of people
who had “gone to sea,” so without benefit of psychological testing
to determine whether I was emotionally, intellectually, culturally
or otherwise suited, ] moved from Harvard Business School to the
steamship and then to the railroad business. Before long, I found
myself faced with making a fundamental decision, — to follow

[858 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

railroading to make a living or railroading as a way of life; I chose
the latter.

It has been fascinating, but increasingly frustrating. In our
rapidly changing economy, the railroads are beset by hampering
federal and state regulations, mostly conceived for conditions of
“horse and buggy” days. My awareness of this has been doubly
heightened by a close association with a successful lumber and
building supply business which operates with ordinary business
freedom. I dare say that many of our successful industries, if
subject to the same type of archaic government regulation,
would be bankrupt. I am hopeful that increasing public awareness
of the deplorable situation will eventually force revision of the
laws to meet present day conditions.

My family, which was augmented by four children in one step
by my second marriage, has come to play an increasingly im-
portant part in my life. Although the raising of children may be
fundamentally the process of educating them, I am not sure
whether the children or I have learned the more in the process.
In any event, it has been most rewarding.

For a time I took up golf with deep intensity, and with.no

benefit to my disposition. Fortunately, my good wife took up the
sport subsequently and I have found that it can be a most enjoy-
able game with the objective of getting exercise and relaxation
being realized. However, I find myself turning more to my first
love — small boat sailing — which is at least a more contemplative
sport.
By the at times difficult process of experience, I am learning
better the fundamentals of living as a man, — being what is within
you more than what the world says you should. be. I find this
quite satisfying, in spite of the contentions about our shift from
being inner-directed people to being other-directed (perhaps that
is because these findings were highlighted in a Yale University-
sponsored research project, and I have been suspicious of anything
from Yale since the days that Albie Booth romped all over the
Stadium).

[ 859 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

JOHN OLIVER NILES

HOME aporess: Little Island, Osterville, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wianno Avenue, Osterville, Mass.

BorN: Oct. 23, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: John Gilchrist Niles, D.M.D.,
’o5, Olive Claire Greene.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.D., 1936.

MarRIED: Margaret Leona Maguire, June 20, 1936, Somerville, Mass. cHILDREN:
John Oliver, Jr, April 23, 1937; Peter Joseph, May 8, 1938; Mark
Nicholas, April 14, 1940; Margaret Susan, Jan. 29, 1942; James
Christopher, July 22, 1945 (died Oct. 6, 1946); Jane, Oct. 4, 1948.

HaRvaRD son: John Oliver Niles, Jr. 60

occuPaTIoN: Physician in general practice with special interest in cardiology;
cardiologist, Cape Cod Hospital, Hyannis, Mass.

OFFICES HELD: Welfare Physician, Barnstable, Mass., 1938-41; secretary,
Barnstable Board of Health, since 1941; member, Joint Conference Com-
mittee, 1941-§2, Building Committee, 1947-50, chief of staff, 1950-1951,
Cape Cod Hospital; president, since 1951, director, since 1952, Barnstable
County Chapter, Massachusetts Heart Association; Regional Medical
Director (Reg. 7), Selective Service Member, Barnstable County, World
War IL.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society, American Medical Society,
American Heart Association; Rotary International, Cape Cod Harvard
Club.

PuBLications: “Treatment of Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever with para-
aminobenzoic Acid,” in New England Journal of Medicine.

IF my own habits are any criterion, then this essay will help fill a
tome read ofttimes in the single-seated, porcelain-pedestaled
library. This may be a custom of doctors only, since these Ivory
Towers contain no telephones. At any rate, I feel such self-
conscious literature should be light and airy.

From college to Harvard Medical School to hospital work to
Civilian Conservation Corps (for capital) to Cape Cod to start the
general practice of medicine. Thence to raise a family and deliver
enough of other men’s babies to feed my brood at home. I married
a beautiful girl —the daughter of a Harvard Medical graduate —
and she had more wit than myself. She quickly lined up our five
intelligent children and I’ve been on the defensive ever since. The
three boys and two girls, ranging from age nineteen to age eight,
have been a great joy. I taught the boys how to handle a shotgun
and now have the great pleasure of seeing them hit ducks. This

[ 860 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

is a vicarious pleasure, for I can’t do it myself. My shells all seem
to have short loads.

The oldest boy, John, Jr., is presently in the Harvard Class of
1960. This is the result of a boy’s natural curiosity. He is in-
terested in seeing if Harvard can really educate a man. Peter,
number two son, long since gave up such a notion and is enrolled
in the business course at Fordham University. I am trying, be-
latedly, to act intelligent and save the reputation of the Ivy League
in the eyes of my number three son who is in Barnstable High
School. Susan and Jane have so far been non-committal.

General practice, with emphasis on heart disease, is interesting.
It’s particularly interesting if you are not too bright to be frus-
trated and don’t care for fun, family, health or much money.
You must be able to read Time, The Ladies Home Journal,
Reader’s Digest, etc., so that you can attach ponderous words to
simple diseases and appear a little smarter than your patients.

I am a Roman Catholic but have a tendency to use the excuse
of a busy practice to avoid swapping a soft bed for a hard seat
on Sunday morning. I do feel, however, that the Roman Catholic
Church will be a strong rallying point in the struggle against
Communism.

My political beliefs are Republican but I feel that there is a
strong trend to Socialism in both parties. I fear that educated
people will bear the brunt of the work and pay a disproportionate
part of the taxes in this scheme of things. I admire Eisenhower
and both Senators Kennedy and Saltonstall. I was an ardent Taft
man. I feel that we do not look at our vice-presidents with the
same discernment we view our presidents. I abhor Communism
but feel that McCarthy methods foster rather than oppose it.

My real hobbies are: 1) The Cape Cod Hospital which I,
together with many, many more people, have had a small part
in expanding and running; 2) The Barnstable County Chapter of
the Massachusetts Heart Association which I helped form and of
which I am now president; 3) The newly-formed Rheumatic
Fever Clinic at the Cape Cod Hospital which is sponsored by the
local Heart Association. I dabble in photography and, when the
boys were young enough to give me an excuse, I was an expert
Lionel Train man.

Finally, I am grateful to Harvard for a well-rounded, if not

[ 861 ]

_ —

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

fully-absorbed education. Since I lived at home during the de-
pression years, Harvard was not a social experience to me but
rather an opportunity to hear and learn from many great men.

ROBERT LEWIS NITKIN

HOME apprEss: 81-10 Chevy Chase St., Jamaica 32, Long Island, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: go-10 149th St., Jamaica 35, N.Y.

BORN: Aug. 18, 1909, Torrington, Conn. parents: Abraham Nitkin, Bertha
Danziger.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury School, Cheshire, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932, DEGREES: S.B., 1932; M.D. (Long Island Coll. of
Medicine), 1936; American Coll. of Radiology, 1941.

marrigp: Lilyan Wolf, May 10, 1936, Brooklyn, N.Y. cHitpren: Barry
Paul, April 15, 1941; Karen Gail, Jan. 9, 1945.

occuPATION: Physician, specializing in radiology.

OFFICES HELD: Attending radiologist, Jamaica Hospital; director of radiology,
Queens Hospital, Jamaica; clinical professor of radiology, New York
Medical School, Flower & Fifth Avenue Hospitals, 1946-49; president,
Queens Roentgen Ray Society, 1948-50; director of radiology, Greed-
moor Hospital, Queens, 1950-52; associated with committees, Queens
Medical Society, U.J.A. Philanthropies of Jewish Federation.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Long Island; F. & A.M.; American College of
Radiology; American Board of Radiology; American Medical Associa-
tion; New York State Medical Society; Queens County Medical
Society; S.A.M. Fraternity, American Roentgen Ray Society.

PuBLicaTions; Medical articles published in American Roentgen Ray Journal,
American Medical Association Journal, New York State Medical
Journal; “Intestinal Obstruction from Gallstones,” 1945; “Acrodermati-
tis Chronica Atrophicans,” 1943; “Gastric Ulcer in Infants,” 1954.

SURROUNDED by books, reprints, charts, announcements and
family requests, I am now asked to try to recap these past twenty-
five years. I find it difficult to remember what happened this past
year without recalling the past twenty-five. I believe it would
have been more interesting to have written about the coming
twenty-five years when we were seniors in 1932.

COLLEGE: In retrospect, my college days were something
that I would not change for the world. I had wished many times
that I could go back again as a student. (Isn’t this a thought of
many?) Although the football teams aren’t the old “All
Americans” they used to be, the games are still imbued with the

[ 862 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

grand spirit and they are good excuses to get back for reunions
and roam about the Yard and buildings. That nostalgia hasn’t left.
I have walked through some of my previous classrooms and lecture
halls with a feeling of awe and peacefulness. After concentrating
in astronomy, physics and math., I finally took my ever desired
step into the field of medicine. The following four years of
graduate work were spent at the Long Island College of Medicine.
I would never have believed there were so many bugs, parasites,
insects, symptoms, signs and diseases. My summers were spent in
hospitals and clinics, Finally, 1 got my M.D. and took my intern-
ship and residency at the Jewish Hospital of Brooklyn. I had
prepared myself as a radiologist (one dealing with Xrays and
radium). The great misfortune in all our lives was World War
II. No doubt we all did our bit. My small part was in the U.S.
Public Health Service.

FAMILY: I was married in 1936 and the big question arose as
to where I should hang the shingle with the net. My wife was
from Jamaica and I, from Torrington, Connecticut. Yes! we
opened in Jamaica. I was to give it a six months’ try. If no good,
away we go to Torrington. Well, here I am still in Jamaica. Our
lives here have been rather interesting. I have been appointed
director of radiology in several hospitals and enjoy my work.
Yes, we have a rather diversified group. My wife is as charming
today as in our courtship days. She sees more of me now than
in those days when I could only come home about every third
day during my residencies. Two children, a son, Barry, sixteen
years and a daughter, Karen, twelve years, two dogs, fish, a bird
and who knows what next. I keep getting razzed from Barry,
“What is this old college feeling you’ve got?” I know he keeps
saying to himself, “When is he going to grow up?” He’s a fine
swimmer and my daughter is quite a girl. She is sweet, lovely and
an athlete, too, Lil and I both enjoy our children and try to take
our vacations together. We have had many nice trips west, south
and north with them. I hope it has helped their education.

My spare time is taken up with golf, skiing, painting and some
philanthropic organizations. Right now I am planning a ski trip
to Switzerland and Austria for this winter. I am going to take it
now before it gets too late.

After twenty-five years we are all anxiously waiting our return.

[ 863 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

JOHN WELLS NORCROSS

HOME AbpRESS: 2 Monadnock Rd. Wellesley Hills, Mass.
OFFICE apprEss: Lahey Clinic, 605 Commonwealth Ave. Boston, Mass,

BoRN: Oct. 23, 1909, Chicago, Ill. parents: Charles Merrill Norcross, Ella
Louise Wells.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREES: S.B. 1932 (31); M.D. 1935.

marrieD: Evelyn Farquharson McCaffrey, Feb. 3, 1937, Braintree, Mass.
CHILDREN: Janet Mary, June 17, 1939; Marcia Farquharson, Oct. 8, 1942;
John Charles, June 17, 1944; Richard Day, Aug. 6, 1949.

occuPATION: Physician; member, Department of Internal Medicine, Lahey
Clinic; sub-specialty, hematology.

OFFICES HELD: Past member board of trustees, Boston Medical Library;
member board of trustees, Lahey Clinic; physician, New England
Deaconess Hospital, New England Baptist Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Alpha Omega Alpha; Massachusetts Medical Society; Aescu-
lapian Club; American Medical Association; American Board of In-
ternal Medicine (diplomate); American College of Physicians (fellow);
American Federation for Clinical Research; International Society of
Hematology (fellow).

PuBLicaTions: Over thirty papers on medical subjects, including: “Occult
Lymphoblastoma;” “Intravenous Use of Q-methyl-1, Napthaquimone in
Hypoprothrombinemia;” “Peripheral Neuritis as a Complication of Per-
nicious Anemia and Combined System Disease;” “Indications for Splen-
ectomy;” “Japanese B Encephalitis,” “Bis Deficiency.”

HARVARD Medical School admitted me to its classrooms in the
fall of 1931, and after four years of struggling with cadavers
in the anatomy room, dogs in the physiology laboratory, distil-
lates of many kinds in the chemistry laboratory —to say nothing
of the numerous and varied patients in sundry Boston hospitals
—at last in June of 1935, I received my M.D. degree. During
these years 1 had the good fortune to work at the Huntington
Memorial Hospital under Dr. Joseph C. Aub—an experience
that influenced me greatly, not only because of the great medical
stimulus that this association afforded, but also because it was
here that I met my future wife, Eighteen months of internship
at the Massachusetts General Hospital followed and gave me
further basic training in the ficld of internal medicine. In 1937
I became associated with the Lahey Clinic, first as a fellow and
later as a member of the department of internal medicine. In
this capacity I have continued my medical work since that time

[ 864 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with the exception of the years served in the Armed Forces.
Although my medical interests vary considerably within the
general field of internal medicine, my particular interests are in
the subspecialties of hematology and diseases of the liver.

I married in 1937 and we are happily blessed with four active,
lovable children ranging in age from seven to seventeen and in
temperament from reserved to exuberant. We are constantly
engaged in the pleasures and tribulations that must be part of the
growing pains of any normal family. In the late, great war I
served as lieutenant and later as lieutenant commander in the
medical corps of our Navy. Like most others, I was cursed with
some misfortunes but singularly blessed with good luck in the
contacts made among my comrades, many of the experiences both
medical and otherwise, and last but by no means least I was
returned safely to my family.

One of my problems— at least so my wife says— is that I
have too many hobbies, both in my medical work and in other
lines. Perhaps I should mention photography and let it go at
that. I am a Protestant —a Congregationalist — and more active
in church affairs than I ever would have guessed possible in my
younger days. I have grown to realize that religion is a must in
this crazy, confused world of ours. Politically, I know I am an
Independent but a definitely conservative one— meaning, of
course, that I usually vote the Republican ticket. And so it has
gone, these twenty-five years since graduation from college. I
wonder what the next twenty-five will bring? May it please
the good Lord that they will be as happy and wonderful as the
first quarter-century.

ELIOT FETTE NOYES

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Country Club Rd, New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE AppREss: Eliot Noyes & Associates, roy Main St. New Canaan, Conn.

BORN: Aug. 12, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Atherton Noyes, Margaret
Davenport Fette.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. Ct? laude, 1932; M.ARCH., 1938.

MaRRIED: Mary Duncan Weed, Dec. 10, 1938, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:

[ 865 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Mary Duncan, Sept. 29, 1940; Eliot Fette, Jr, Oct. 18, 1942; Frederick
Noyes, June 4, 1944; Margaret Davenport, July 7, 1952.
HARVARD BROTHER: Atherton Noyes, Jr., 26.
occupation: Architect and industrial designer; head of own office, Eliot
Noyes & Associates.
OFFIcEs HELD: Director, Deparument of Industrial Design, Museum of Mod-
ern Art, New York City, 1940-42, 1945-46; design director, Norman
Bel Geddes & Company, 1946-47; visiting critic in architectural de-
sign, Yale University, 1948-51.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; American Institute of Architects;
American Society of Industrial Designers; Country Club of New
Canaan, Conn.

PUBLICATIONS: “Organic Design in Home Furnishings,” 1941; “The Shape
of Things,” a series of articles on design in Consumer Reports, miscel-
laneous articles on art and architecture.

FOR those who missed the exciting first instalment, let me not
repeat but refer to that best-selling paper-back, “Harvard Class
of 1932, Decennial Report” for which I see that I got my material
in by press time. A synopsis would show that the main topics
explored by our subject were architecture, archaeology, industrial
design, and the Museum of Modern Art.

In 1942, like most people, I got into uniform. I had been on
that archaeological expedition in Persia in the mid-thirties, with an
airplane along. Its pilot, Lewin Baringer, was well known as a
pilot of sailplanes and gliders, and after the expedition was over,
he taught me glider flying as a sport. (It’s marvelous!) When
General Arnold summoned him to organize and head up the Air
Force Glider Program, he in turn asked me to come along to
help. As a result, I spent the war largely in Washington, con-
sidering myself very lucky at being assigned to something in
which I was interested.

When I came back to the Museum of Modern Art in New
York, I was restless to get back into the practice of architecture
and design, and soon moved into the office of Norman Bel Geddes
as a design director.

Fairly soon it became possible to open my own office (both
architecture and industrial design), and also to operate with my
office in New Canaan, Connecticut, instead of New York. My
first architectural jobs were houses, including one for myself.
With my industrial design hat on, I was also designing such things

[ 866 ]

|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

as the IBM Typewriter, and for three years I taught architectural
design at Yale on the side.

Things haven’t changed much except in size and scope during
the past five years. I have an office (still in New Canaan) which
now ranges in size from twenty to twenty-five or so, and practises
over a wide range of subjects. We have, for example, designed
concrete “bubble” houses, an elementary school, optical instru-
ments, circuit breakers, a laboratory, vending machines, an experi-
mental plastic house, a computing center, and a large technical
education building for IBM. My most complex current assign-
ment is to help IBM find a consistent and advanced design ex-
pression in all its products, architecture, show windows, graphic
work, and so forth. I have also built many houses ranging in cost
from $15,000 to over $200,000, including a new one of my own
which was published in the December issue of Progressive Archi-
tecture. It hardly seems necessary to say that of course these
are all modern houses. Architecture is a lively and exciting art
these days. The urge to find and use and enjoy an appropriate
expression for our own day in all the arts has given me my main
direction in life, I believe.

All the time family life gets richer and more wonderful. We
built a summer house on the Vineyard last year and will occupy
it as a complete family this year before the kids get old enough to
drift off to summer jobs.

DANIEL FRANCIS NUGENT, JR.

OFFICE AppREss: Compania Shell de Venezuela, Caracas, Venezuela.

BORN: Feb. 26, 1909, Lawrence, Mass. parents: Daniel Francis Nugent,
Henrietta G. Bingham.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1032; M.B.A., 1934.

MARRIED: Marion E. Andrews, Oct. 20, 1938, Boston, Mass. cHitpreN: Daniel
Andrews, June 24, 1941; Richard Francis, Aug. 28, 1942.

occupation: Director, organization planning, Compania Shell de Venezuela.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; American Geographical Society,
New York City; Globetrotters Club, London; Norwegian Skiing Asso-
ciation, Oslo.

SINCE taking my first permanent job in 1934, I have spent about
[ 867 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

ten years with various manufacturing concerns in the sales and
personnel departments —all in the New York City or Boston
areas. Such work provided the background for an additional
twelve years devoted to the field of management consulting. In
the past I was employed by various firms, whereas I am cur-
rently working on a free-lance basis, handling varied, interesting
assignments in overall marketing, organization, and executive
recruitment matters. Just to complicate the issue, 1 am a rela-
tively inactive partner in a firm which provides construction and
engineering services in the development of modern industrial
centers. Eventually, I suspect I shall settle down in my ad-
vancing old age to a more prosaic form of industrial life, but
as yet I manage to participate in and enjoy the professional rat
race.

In all this my wife and sons have been helpful and under-
standing. From their standpoint the vocational difficulties have
been compounded by my countless and extended absences from
home. While two healthy boys are learning the secondary school
problems the hard way, their mother has too often had to take
over the paternal duties also. In spite of it all, they seem to be
reasonably normal, and we hope that they will obtain the proper
education to fit them for the military and occupational responsi-
bilities ahead.

My consulting work has involved considerable travel which
has made it doubly interesting to me. Assignments with foreign
governments, manufacturers, and consulting firms started in 1949
and still take a large share of my time. While in college I took
as many courses as possible in geography which gave me a fuller
understanding during these past few years when I have been
involved in guiding the operations of businesses conducted under
conditions and attitudes so different from those in America. For-
tunately, my greatest hobby is travel. At the latest count I have
seen all states in the United States, all but two provinces in
Canada, and about forty-five countries outside of the continental
United States, touching every continent except Australia. My
family has been able to join me on some of these trips, but they
have ideas of their own. For example, last year when I was in
the Far East, Marion was on a cruise to South America, Dan
went to the Scouts’ National Camp in New Mexico, and Dick

[ 868 ]

| =

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

enjoyed his wild life talents in Vermont. Other hobbies include
skiing which I picked up in Norway where emphasis is given
to leisure and full appreciation of Nature’s offerings. Subse-

uently, I found the American’s pace at Stowe and am now
headed for California’s Sierras but shall soon return to incom-
parable Norway. Hiking in the mountains, beachcombing, and
gardening are the kinds of relaxation I like to find in other
seasons.

My friends find it hard to put me in either of the two dominant
political parties (and it is always an opportunity for argument),
but I consider myself a conservative independent— one who
believes in the need for our taking a firm position and having
both the ability and courage to execute desired programs. I
am particularly irked by government’s capitulation to the de-
mands of minority groups which result in confounding and
alienating our foreign allies whose assistance is so sorely needed
today. Perhaps I have been overly influenced by attitudes, dis-
ciplines, and achievements of PREVIOUS generations!

P.S. I have just accepted an assignment in Venezuela, to last
one or two years.

ALBERT MOORE NUTTER

HOME ADDRESS: 1134 Pleasant St., Brockton, Mass.

OFFICE appress: E. L. LeBaron Foundry Co., Brockton, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 5, 1909, Brockton, Mass. PARENTS: Richard Winslow Nutter, ’91,
Alice Gertrude Moore.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.B.A. 1934.

MarRieD: Elizabeth Abendroth Bogart, Sept. 20, 1941, Brockton, Mass.
CHILDREN: John Bogart, April 5, 1946, Nancy Moore, Jan. 27, 1950.
OCCUPATION: Treasurer and general manager, E. L. LeBaron Foundry Com-

any.
orrices "ye: Incorporator, East Bridgewater Savings Bank, since 1940;
director, since 1952, president, 1956, New England Foundrymen's As-
sociation; director, Brockton Chamber of Commerce, 1952~55; director,
since 1954, vice-president, 1956-57, Gray Iron Founders Society; chair-
man, executive board, Thayerlands School, 1953-55.

MY clearest memory of graduate exercises in 1932 is Lofty
Becker’s prediction in the Ivy oration: that the majority of the

[ 869 ] °

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Class would bounce back into graduate school in the fall marked

“No Jobs.” My particular bounce landed me in the Business
School, along with many of my 1932 classmates. My graduation
from Business School resulted in a series of minor bounces
culminating in a job with the Continental Baking Company,
selling bread in Boston. The best that can be said of that job is
that it fostered a physical development which I had been unable
to achieve during my school and college years. From the bread
business to the theatre business, managing a series of movie
theatres throughout Maine and New York. In 1939 I returned
to the Brockton area to become president of the Old Colony
Foundry Company, a business which had been in the family for
many years. During the years 1939-43, I gained foundry ex-
perience and a wife, both of which have been of inestimable value —
to me in the ensuing years.

In 1943 I entered the Army and although I find that my ex-
perience of studying Japanese for two years and then being dis-
charged to go to Germany is almost more typical than unique, I
believe it permits me to lay claim to the lowest military rank for
any member of the class, serving two years: Private First Class.
My discharge from the Army was followed by a year with the
United Nations working in displaced persons camps in Germany,
an experience which I found both interesting and rewarding. In
1946 I returned to Brockton and began my present association
with the E, L. LeBaron Foundry Company.

My family consists of my son, John, who seems certain to be
the third generation to embark upon a Harvard career via Exeter,
a daughter, Nancy, who will assuredly uphold the family honors
equally as well, and my wife, Betty, kingpin of the whole opera-
tion. I find my life, at present, thoroughly and delightfully com-
plete, between my family, my work and its associations, and my
church. In recent years I have been active in liberal religion in
Brockton which has manifested its growth by the building of a
church structure architecturally unique east of the Mississippi
River. This building is the new home of the Universalist-Unitarian
Church of Brockton.

All in all, a very satisfactory, and as with all members of the
Class, a very varied twenty-five years.

[ 870]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FREDERICK CHAPIN OBER

HOME ADDRESS: Sunny Hill Road, Lunenburg, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fitchburg Savings Bank, Fitchburg, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 30, rgro, Springfield, Mass. PARENTs: Ralph Beverly Ober, M.D.,
’o1, Eleanor Chapin.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1832. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1932.

MARRIED: Dorothy S. Fenner, March 28, 1936, Longmeadow, Mass. CHILDREN:
Peter Chapin, April 28, 1939; Pamela Fenner, Oct. 15, 1940; Faith,
Dec. 29, 1946.

OccUPATIONS President, Fitchburg Savings Bank.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Fitchburg Chamber of Commerce, 1950-54; Mental
Health Association of North Central Massachusetts, since 1954; chair-
man, Insurance Committee, Savings Banks Association of Massachusetts,
since 1953, Finance Committee, Town of Lunenburg, 1954-56, Fitchburg
Chapter, American Red Cross, since 1955; junior warden, Christ Church
(Episcopal), Fitchburg, since 1952; director, Lunenburg Taxpayers As-
sociation, 1950-56, Fitchburg Visiting Nurse Association, 1953-55; mem-
ber Fitchburg Advisory Board, Worcester County Trust Company,
since 1950; president, Massachusetts Association of Savings Bank Audi-
tors, 1954-55; Committee member, National Association of Mutual
Savings Banks, since 1953, Savings & Mortgage Division, American
Bankers Association, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Fay Club, Fitchburg; Savings Bank Officers Club; Fitchburg
Rotary Club; Society of Residential Appraisers.

ATTEMPTING to measure the more than generous amount of
satisfaction I continue to obtain from being in the banking busi-
ness, from working in a small city, from living on our own hilltop
in an old farmhouse with a view that stretches fifty miles, from
having a considerate wife and a healthy, intelligent family that
keeps me hopping, even from having too much community work
to do, I look back with some amazement at the last twenty-five
years and wonder at my luck in having everything happen to
turn out this way. No omniscient vocational guidance, no care-
ful long-range career planning; just plain good fortune saw to it
that I happened into a business life that, to me, has turned out
to be satisfying, stimulating, and challenging and yet, at the
same time, allows a pleasant family life in rural surroundings.
Majoring in Fine Arts and a yen to be a museum director or
architect was my background for a banking career. When those
dreams appeared impractical in 1932, I landed a trainee job in a

[ 871 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

large life insurance company home office where I lasted three
years. Dissatisfied with one $2.00 raise, the only one in the three
years, due no doubt to my rather carefree attitude towards in-
surance detail, I quit to go into the savings bank business. Shortly
thereafter I made another employe of the insurance company
quit by marrying her. The duties and responsibilities of married
life soon ended my carefree attitude which was all to the good
since Dorothy helped me replace it with a much more worth
while type of happiness. I entered the savings bank business by
its back door —a wide and busy door in the depression days of
1935 — the foreclosed real estate management division. This was
in the Springfield Five Cents Savings Bank. From that day to
this, as a rent collector, real estate manager, assistant treasurer,
a six-year student at the Graduate School of Banking in Rutgers,
then, in a jump to the Fitchburg Savings Bank, as executive vice-
president, and in 1953, president, from that very day to this I
have been in love with the savings bank business. I would not
want to be in any other. The promotion and servicing of personal
thrift through a mutual, basically non-profit banking system has
a terrific appeal to those who make it their career. The industry
cuts across all economic class lines; reaches into all types of homes
in numerous ways; touches, finances, or competes with all kinds
of businesses; yet at the same time is a localized, personal, com-
munity-bound business. Its units compete hard with other types
of banking and with each other; yet have a close and friendly
relationship, hard to match in other lines. Those in management
positions in the industry and located in small communities like
the Fitchburg area find themselves forced into local activities and
relationships that also turn out to be, like the business itself,
absorbing and satisfying. Most of all we are aware and proud
of our place in the banking system. Savings banking performs a
fundamental economic function vital to the success of the Ameri-
can economy by providing one of the major sources of capital
flow so compellingly necessary to the prosperity of our capital-
istic society. Back in the Thirties and early Forties, thrift was
scorned by the bright-eyed followers of John Maynard Keynes
and others as a dying phase of a changing economic system.
Now in the Fifties, with the system still changing, thrift has
come back into its own, recognized for what it is — the only

[ 872 ]

pcan terme ha A SU AR NET

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BLAKE O’CONNOR

HOME ADDRESS: 1651 Wisconsin Ave., Washington, D.C.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Senate Office Bldg., Washington, D.C.

BORN: Oct. 4, 1909, New York, N.Y. PARENTS: James Joseph O’Connor, Mary
Elizabeth Driscoll.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Garden City, Long Island, N. Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Dagmar Carlson Leggett, May 2, 1938, Cornwall-on-Hudson, N.Y.
CHILDREN: Eugene S. Leggett, (stepson), Aug. 28, 1925 (m. Clarissa Bennett,
1952.) GRANDCHILDREN: Clarissa Leggett, 1954; Katharine Leggett, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Professional Staff Member, Select Committee on Small Business, U.S.
Senate.

SINCE 1950, I have been on the staff of the Select Committee on Small
Business, United States Senate. In many ways this has been a stimu-
lating and gratifying experience for it has afforded an opportunity to
observe closely and, at times, be of some help to the smaller and weaker
units of our national economy in their increasingly unequal contest
with Big Business, Big Labor and Big Government. The erosion of
our free enterprise system, it must cheerlessly be noted, proceeds apace
with the drift towards statism of one form or another unimpeded im
recent years by national policy.

Speaking of small business, ten years ago my wife fluttered the re-
tailing dove-cote in Georgetown by opening, pretty much as a lark,
The Swap Shop. Before half-a-dozen imitators sprang up, this unique
enterprise encouraged the preservation of the ancient institution of
bartering. It still does. Nothing sold, just swapped. There is a twenty
percent commission involved. It is a source of satisfaction to have a
suecessful small businesswoman in the family. It also helps answer
the question: ‘‘What do you know about small business?’’

From 1940 through 1950 I became acquainted first with the rudiments
and then with the more advanced techniques of bureaueracy in the U. 8.
Department of Agriculture, the War Production Board, the Smaller
War Plants Corporation and the U. 8S. Department of Commerce.

In 1933, after a series of city editors in New York let it be known
with courteous cireumlocution that they were under the necessity of
having to fire better newspapermen than J, in all probability, would
ever be, I went to work on the editorial side of Newsweek. There |
stayed until 1939 under that wise and kind editor, Samuel T. William.
son, Harvard 716. During 1936, 1987 and 1938 I was Newstweek’s
representative in Washington and customarily identified myself to
strangers as the Bureau Chief—-to which designation I felt the require-
ments of veracity did not compel the elaboration that in those lean days
the Bureau consisted of one chief and not a single, solitary Indian.

[1]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

If a hobby is a diversion pursued with diligence and system, I have
none. When I retire—a time whieh [ view with rapturous anticipation—
it will probably be dogs. That I have never become a member of any
organization dedicated to improvement is to me a small point of pride.
Should that seem somewhat negative, let it be known by way of extenu-
ation that my name is on the roster of no organization or group
consecrated to illegal or ignoble ends.

My wife and I are impatient for the return from London, after two
years, of her son, Eugene 8. Leggett, his lovely wife, Clarissa, and their
two quite small daughters, Clarissa and Katharine. Clarissa of the
red hair we knew before they went abroad; Katharine is practically
brand new.

MAXWELL MILTON RABB

HOME ADDRESS: 3101 Albemarle St., N. W., Washington, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The White House, Washington, D.C.

BORN: Sept. 28, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS. Solomon Rabb, Rose Kostick.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.; New Preparatory School,
Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1929-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; LL.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Ruth Cryden, Nov. 2, 1939, Washington, D.C. CHILDREN: Richard Bruce,
Oct. 4, 1941; Sheila and Emily (twins), Sept. 7, 1943; Priscilla, Dec. 4, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Warren Rabb, °35, »1.3.a., °57.
OCCUPATION: Presidential assistant, secretary to the Cabinet.

EMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Massachusetts Republican Club; American and
Federal Bar Associations; American Law Institute; Massachusetts Bar; Federal
Bar; Bar of the Supreme Court of the U.S.; Army and Navy Club; Belmont
Country Club; Woodmont Country Club.

SINCE graduation from the Law Schoul, my career has been divided
into three phases—law, Navy and public service. Even while studying
law, I enrolled as a Republican and took an active part in politics.
This was a rather lonesome move, as this was in the height of the
depression, and I found most of my classmates embracing the New
Deal. Shortly after graduation from Law School, I went to Wash-
ington to serve as administrative assistant to Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr.,
who was then one of just fifteen Republicans out of ninety-six Senators.
For a short time [ acted in the same capacity to Sinelair Weeks, the
prevent Secretary of Commerce, before entering the Navy as a lieu-
tenant in the amphibious forees, After serving as legal consultant. to
Seeretary of the Navy Forrestal at the conelusion of the war, I returned
ty Boston and entered the private practice of law,

During this period of my hfe To omarried and had four ehildren.
As J xy here evaluating the events of the past twenty-five years, I find
it difficult to put into words all that my family has meant to me.
Their patience and understanding have given me the freedom to

{2]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tackle any new undertaking, and their love and companionship have
always been a source of great comfort to me.

As one of the original leaders in the Eisenhower movement, I helped
to organize the first national headquarters. As a matter of fact, when
I entered the campaign as a full-time volunteer, General Eisenhower
had not yet declared himself a Republican, let alone a presidential
eandidate. In 1951 and 1952, during the pre-eonvention campaign
and at the Chicago convention, I served as executive secretary to U. 8.
Senator Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr., the Eisenhower manager, and trav-
eled all over the United States, beating the drums for the General.

After the landslide victory in November, 1952, President Eisenhower
appointed me to his staff as a Presidential Assistant, and I was given
a title that wrapped itself around the White House three times: ‘‘The
Assistant to the Assistant to the President.’’ Then I was brought
into the ranks of the trouble-shooters and given the title of ‘‘ Associate
Counsel to the President.’’ In October of 1953, the President named
me to a new post he had just created, and made me the first Secretary
to the Cabinet in the history of the United States, a position whieh |
still hold.

My present work involves managing the affairs of the Cabinet, pre-
paring the agenda and position papers for the meetings, briefing the
President, holding preliminary meetings of government officials to
ready policy questions for top level consideration, sitting at the
Cabinet table during the meetings, and arranging for implementation
of decisions arrived at at the Cabinet table. Hitherto, meetings have
been held in haphazard fashion, subject to recrimination and econ-
fusion. Today, the changes that have been made, simple though they
are, have brought about vital results such as more effective coordi-
nation, teamwork, perspective and the elimination of some of the
onerous burdens of the Presidency.

It has been exciting and stimulating to participate in decisions
which touch upon the lives and livelihoods of 167 million people, and
which sometimes reach into the four corners of the world. As a
Presidential Assistant since January, 1953, [ have been ealled in on
such major problems as immigration and eivil rights, and was assigned
the task of carrying out the President’s orders to end segregation in
all federal establishments such as the Army, Navy, veterans’ hospitals,
ete., and in the District of Columbia. Remembering President Eisen-
hower’s moving phrase which I have heard him utter many times,
‘“‘We are all immigrants or sons and daughters of immigrants,”* [have
taken a particular pride in helping to bring into existence the Refugee
Act of 1953, and more recently in assisting in the resettlement of the
over 30,000 Ifungarian refugees who braved the wrath of the Com-
munist world. It is extraordinary indeed to see hoew important issues
which hitherto have been regarded as domestic in nature—inimigration
and civil rights—have become in the conduct of our foreign affairs.

(3}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM RUSSELL SWEENEY

HOME ADDRESS: 7609 Exeter Rd., Bethesda 14, Md.
OFFICE ADDRESS: George Washington University, Washington, D.C.
BORN: July 11, 1911, Quaker Hill, Conn. PARENTs: Harry Clinton Sweeney, Florence

Evelyn Riley. .
PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.
MARRIED: Doris Steffens, Aug. 12, 1949, Chevy Chase, Md.
OCCUPATION: Education; coordinator, Air Force Resources Management Program.

MEMBER OF: Air Force Association; American Society for Public Administration.

FROM the biographieal data, this looks as thongh it has to be a short
life. After graduation I went to New York, working on Wall Street
through the bank holiday. Then to the advertising business, leaving
J. Walter Thompson to enlist in the Army Signal Corps when World
War II eame along. The Signal Corps turned out to be the Air
Corps. The Air Corps turned out to be a terrific experience. After
a tour of enlisted service, I was sent to Officer Candidate School at
Miami Beach. Six weeks there, the final six weeks at the Air Corps
School at the Harvard Business School and I was a second heutenant.
My first commissioned assignment was in Army Air Forces Head-
quarters in Washington. It took eighteen months to convinee my
boss that I really wanted to go overseas. He sent me, finally. That
took me to Hawaii (all too briefly), the Marianas and the Philippines,
with side trips to most of the other rocks out that way. Much to every-
body’s surprise, mine more than anybody’s, I came home a lieutenant
colonel.

Back in eivilian life, I went with CLA for a year, then to the Air
Force after the Unification Act as a civilian deputy assistant secretary.
Two years ago (after operating my own business for a couple of years),
the George Washington University signed me on with one of its ad-
vanced management programs. And there I am. |

Happily married and having a wonderful time.

14]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

 

ALBERT ALLEN

[5]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

permanent safe way to finance the maintenance and improvement
of our standard of living. | am glad to have a part in it.

Of course, to pull all of this back together on a personal basis,
I am particularly grateful that my little niche in the banking
business lets me and my family live in a beautiful spot in New
England, which with all its drawbacks of taxes and mercurial
weather still is the most satisfactory place in the world to live.
Peter, a prep school senior and an aspiring mathematician, is only
fifty miles away from us in one direction. (In the fall we hope
he will be ensconced with the Class of ’61 in the Yard.) Pamela,
a junior and a campus wheel at her school, is only thirty-five
miles in another direction, and Faith is about ready for summer
camps that, too, are nearby in the New Hampshire hills. Dorothy
and I, after having safely passed our twentieth anniversary, happy
that our brood can stay for a while at least almost within shouting
distance, stay pretty much on our hilltop usually working harder
and having less leisure time than we'd like and always wishing
we were richer (despite the misleading title of bank president)
but still very glad that we are here.

BLAKE O’CONNOR

HOME ADDRESS: 1651 Wisconsin Ave., Washington 7, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Senate Office Bldg., Washington, D.C.

BORN: Oct. 4, 1909, New York, N.Y. Parents: James J. O’Connor, Mary
Driscoll.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Garden City, Long Island, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: SB., 1932.

OccuPATION: Professional staff member, Select Committee on Small Business,
USS.. Senate.

LUIS AURELIO ODRIOZOLA

HOME Appress: 535 Covington Pl., Pasadena 2, Calif.

BORN: Aug. 20, 1909, Cienfuegos, Cuba. parents: Luis Odriozola, Ada Groso.
PREPARED aT: Irving School, Tarrytown, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: 8.B. magna cum laude, 1932.
OccUPATION: Advertising.

[ 873 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

CHARLTON OGBURN, JR.

HOME aporEss: P.O. Box 23, Route 1, Vienna, Va.

OFFicE appREsS: Dept. of State, Washington 25, D.C.

BORN: March 15, 1911, Atlanta, Ga. PaRENTS: Charlton Ogburn, Harvard
Law School, 1906-07, Dorothy Stevens.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B. cum laude, 1932.

marrieD: Mary Cornelia Aldis, 1946, Lake Forest, Ill. (divorced); Vera M.
Weidman, Feb. 24, 1951, Washington, D.C. cumpren: Charlton, 34,
Jan. 19, 1947; Nyssa, April 17, 1953.

occupation: Chief, Division of Research for the Near East, South Asia
and Africa, Office of Intelligence Research, Department of State.

MEMBER OF: Cosmos Club, Washington, D.C.

pusLications: The White Falcon; The Bridge, The Passing of the Pigeons,
The Meaning of Birds, MerrilP?s Marauders.

THE day I never really believed would come is here — the day
bringing the announcement of the Twenty-fifth Reunion, The
arrival of Mr. Briggs’s letter interrupted a favorite reverie of mine,
the subject of which is: What am I going to be when I grow up?
The letter was a jolt, but worse still was the form accompanying
it which asks for the name and class of any son now or recently
at Harvard and even for the name and dates of birth of my grand-
children! Merciful Heavens! I have not even finished having
children; my wife is expecting in November. True, this offspring
will not be my first (though I think it very likely to be my last),
but my oldest is only nine years old. This has perhaps contributed
to my feeling that I am just beginning to get under way in life.
And now I find that I have to account for a quarter of a century.
Have I achieved any of the ambitions I had upon graduating?
I have indeed achieved the one I felt to be farthest from my grasp,
the one before which I felt the greatest despair. I have stopped
smoking. It took me nineteen years to do it and even then I was
able to go through with it only because my wife stopped at the
same time and was bearing up successfully. For weeks I cursed
the day when, on my way back to Gore Hall from one of Pro-
fessor Merriman’s perorations, I stopped by at a phonograph shop
and Dick Clark, who was working there, held out a pack of
Chesterfields to me and I decided I would see what one was like.
Four months after my wife and I had had our last cigarettes, 1 was

[ 874 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

able to go an hour at a time without thinking of smoking, and

after three years I stopped dreaming about it.

When I look around the house for reminders of how my life
has been occupied other than in achieving that triumph, the
objects that come to light seem disturbingly unrelated.

There are the books put out in 1933 by the Viking Press with
jacket copy that, with an effort, I can remember writing. (Things
like “Pamela had no forewarning the day she raised the heavy
brass knocker of Mowbray Manse, what a strange . . .” and “The
world has long awaited a definitive portrait of the poet-statesman-
lover, the intimate of kings and courtesans who, on his way back
from a duel fatal to his adversary, invented the morning coffee-
break.” )

More impressive is a beribboned document signed by the United
States Consul in Para, Brazil, attesting to the healthful back-
grounds of four parrots I was taking back to New York after
emerging from the Amazon forest which I had invaded on a gold-
mining venture. This proved to be an immensely remunerative
enterprise — not the gold mine, from which I never realized a
cent, but the parrots, two of which I sold in the United States at
a profit of 1700 per cent, having paid $1.00 each for them.

The machine on which I am composing this in compliance
with Mr. Briggs’s reasonable plea, “in typewriting, if possible,”
recalls the time I bought it in 1936, when I had gone to work for
the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. My job there was to assist in an
experimental venture in the production of educational motion
pictures in the field of economics. I brought to this duty all that
I retained from Economics I, consisting mostly of the chapter
headings from our text on the economics of railroads (which were
taken from Alice in Wonderland) and the rather more copious
accumulation of knowledge I acquired at the Harvard Square

Theatre, in which my grounding was so thorough I even remem-
ber today the organist’s name which was flashed on the screen
with every performance until, in our sophomore year, the talkies
replaced her — Elfreda T. Orth.

The unbound books on the shelves in the living-room hark
back to a subsequent period when I wrote reviews for the Sutur-
day Review of Literature and worked as a reader-reviewer for
the Book-of-the-Month Club. I never got over the feeling that

[875]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

it was reprehensible of me to take pay for sitting in my em-
ployer’s office reading by the hour and drinking tea out of a
thermos bottle.
That luxury was cut short only too soon and I found myself
receiving, with no qualms of conscience whatsoever, $21.00 a
month from the United States Army. A collection of photographs
taken on mildewed film attests to the only distinguishing feature
of my military career. This episode resulted from my casually
putting in my name in response to a call for volunteers with
jungle-training for an unspecified assignment. My object was to
avoid spending any more nights on the ground in a cold climate,
and the next thing I knew I was marching all over northern Burma
with an Infantry regiment that became known as Merrill’s
Marauders. That tour led, with a logic that cannot be taken for
granted in the Army, to the Southeast Asia Order of Battle
Section in Military Intelligence in the Pentagon, and that led, with
a logic exceptional in my own life, to the Division of Southeast
Asian Affairs in the Department of State at the end of the war.

Two documents I particularly value date from my early years
in the Department. One is a menu autographed on July 17, 1948,
by the president of an unrecognized republic — Sukarno of In-
donesia — at the Grand Hotel of Sarangan, the other a clipping
from the London Daily Worker naming me as an agent who had
slipped Vice-President Hatta sixty million dollars from the United
States to induce him to provoke the Communists into attacking
his regime. In every life there is an episode that stands at the
zenith, and it is as such that I look back on the time I spent in the
Netherlands Indies with a committee of the Security Council
which was endeavoring to bring peace in the Dutch-Indonesian
conflict, 1 watched a nation of 70 million being born, met a girl
at the United States Consulate General (whom I subsequently
married) who had everything I had ever sought, and heard the
gray drongo’s song at dawn on the slopes of a Javanese volcano.
And I was still enjoying a pack of cigarettes a day.

In time, still wondering what I would do when I grew up, I
became Policy Planning Adviser for the Bureau of Far Eastern
Affairs. I discovered before long the validity of a remark made
by the British Foreign Minister in a novel of Harold Nicolson’s:
“The big problems are insoluble and the small ones take care of

[ 876 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

themselves.” Feeling the need of a change, J had myself trans-
ferred to the intelligence side of the Department of State. Here,
too, I have come to appreciate the force of a quotation that had
stuck in my mind —this one from a novel by Mark Aldanov:
“In life, and especially in politics, practically nothing ever happens
in accordance with our expectations, our apprehensions, or our
desires.”

Life at home has been an exception to this, being all I had
counted on when Vera and I were married by the American
Ambassador to China. Vera plays the piano and paints with the
feeling and finesse that are characteristic of her (she has absolute
pitch and when the Good Humor man rings his bell, she says,
“That’s A sharp”). Together we restore middle-aged country
houses in Virginia (we are just finishing our second and last),
indulge a passion for horticulture (we live in an infant forest of
European and Asiatic hollies) and speculate on how we could
make a living in the mountains of North Carolina or the coastal
marshes of Georgia, between which we divide our vacations.

How it all fits together I hope to sit down, twenty-five years
hence, and try to figure out. Over a cigarette.

HENRY P. OLKEN

HOME ADDRESS: 154 Langley Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Olken’s, Inc., 15 Central St., Wellesley 81, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 11, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Max Olken, Sarah Harris.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

MARRIED: Rosalie Pearl Harris, July 2, 1939, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Grace Paula, Feb. 17, 1942; Joan Amy, Aug. 6, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Samuel Charles Olken, ’22, sp. °23; Harry George
Olken, 734.

OCCUPATION: Owner, president and treasurer, Olken’s, Inc. retail store,
selling boys’ wear, sporting goods, toys and bicycles.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of directors, Kiwanis Club of Wellesley,
1949-51, Little League of Wellesley, 1955, Brotherhood of Temple
Shalom of Newton, Mass.; vice-president, Bicycle Dealers’ Association
of New England, 1950-51; member board of governors, 1931-53.
treasurer, 1954, Vice-president, 1955, president, 1956, Wellesley Board
of Trade; treasurer, Advisory Council of Group 20 Players, Wellesley,
1956.

[877 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

MEMBER OF: Society of Harvard Chemists, Kiwanis Club of Wellesley;
Group 20 Players of Wellesley; United Lodge, AF. & A.M, Brookline,
Mass.; W. ellesley Board of Trade, Inc.

I WAS luckier than some in 1932. I landed a job at Nantasket
Beach, selling hot dogs and hamburgers. I wasn’t properly
qualified, bur through ““eonnections” I landed this highly im-
portant and responsible berth. My take-home salary was fifteen
dollars a week.

By 1934 (after a variety of such high-salaried positions), I was
earning seventeen dollars a week selling the then newly-imported
Raleigh bicycle. In 1936 I moved to New York City to open that
area for the Raleigh people. Gradually I increased my income and
in 1939 I increased my responsibilities by marrying Rosalie. In
1940 the war put a stop to the importing of English bicycles and
a stop to my job and income. We pulled up stakes and moved to
Chicago (Rosalie’s home town), where I worked at several jobs.
In 1944 1 was working for the mail order firm then known as the
Chicago Mail Order Company, now called Alden’s.

Our daughters, Grace Paula and Joan Amy, were born | in
Chicago. By 1946 I had succeeded in selling my wife on the ideas
of; (a) going into business for myself and, (b) returning to New
England. We packed our belongings and made the second part of
the round trip to our own home in Newton and a brand new
business in Wellesley.

I tried to put into practice what I had learned from my
“traveling” days as well as my experiences in the mail-order
business, with the results that “Olken’s” has not only managed to
stay afloat in the hazardous seas of competition and storms of
small business, but gradually we have improved our position.

We are happy in our move back to the Boston area; we are
happy to be in business for ourselves; we are happy that we are
all well; in short, we are a happy family.

RUDOLPH FERDINAND OLSON

HOME ADDRESS: 214 Stuart Drive, Falls Church, Va.
orrice appress: U.S, General Accounting Office, Washington, D.C.

BORN: Sept. 27, 1910, Chicago, Ill. parents: Oscar Alexander Olson, Beatrice
Beranek.

[ 878 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Maine Township High School, Des Plaines, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; LL.B. (Kent Coll. of Law,
Chicago), 1937; c.P.a. (North Carolina), 1948.

MaRRIED: Loretta Rose Wetovick, Aug. 26, 1944, Boca Raton, Fla. cHipren:
Craig Dwight, Aug. 27, 1945; Gail Anne, Jan. 25, 1948, Laurette Terese,
March 4, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Supervisory auditor, U.S. General Accounting Office.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Accountants; Chicago Bar Association.

AFTER graduation I returned to the Midwest, studied law and
accounting, and was admitted to the Illinois Bar in 1937. My
progress in the commercial world was halted when the President
requested my services in 1941 as a private in the Army at twenty-
one dollars a month. I found my course at the Fort Benning
Infantry O.C.S. in 1942 a radical departure from the customary
academic approach and that red clay and ants predominated over
the ivy. However, fate soon caused me to be transferred to the
Air Corps in which service I served as an intelligence officer until
my release from active duty in March, 1946, as a captain.

After the war I continued to work for Uncle Sam, this time as
a civilian for the “Watch dog of the Treasury,” the General Ac-
counting Office at Washington. I refreshed my accounting and
became a certified public accountant in 1948. I enjoy my work
immensely, especially in trying to improve accounting in the
Federal Government and protect the interest of the taxpayer.

Our personal life centers around our family, Scouting, civic
activities and “do-it-yourself” projects around our home. We
find the history and traditions of Virginia and its way of life most
appealing.

EDWARD ORLANDINI

HOME Appress: Eliot, Maine; 147 Carretera Del Centro, Tafira Alta, Gran
Canaria, Spain (overseas).

OFFICE ADDRESS: 23 Calle Albareda, Las Palmas, Gran Canaria, Spain.

BORN: Aug. 8, 1907, Little Boar’s Head, N.H. parents: Vittorio Orlandini,
Mary Frothingham Johnson.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933. DEGREE: SB. 1932 (33).

MarriED: Elizabeth E. Leasure, Feb. 7, 1941, Minneapolis, Minn. (divorced

[ 879]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932
1947); Marian Counsell, 1949, Washington, D.C. cHitpren: Mary Laeti-
tia, Oct. 22, 1942; Teresita Guild, March 4, 1954.

OccUPATION: Foreign Service, American Consular Agent, Canary Islands;

factory representative, Henry Clark, Ltd., London (marine paint manu-
facturing).

OFFICES HELD: Member, Boston Real Estate Exchange, 1935-36.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Spee Club; American Legion
(former member).

THE fellow who said that a rolling stone gathered no moss was
careless. He forgot to say what fun the stone had rolling. No,
- I don’t feel a bit mossy. Reflecting upon the last twenty-five
years since Harvard, I am impressed and grateful for all the
events that I have witnessed and in which I have taken part. It
has all been a wonderful experience.

After leaving Harvard I spent a wonderful summer tutoring
a boy in Bavaria. In spite of this handicap, the lad turned out
to be a fine fellow. I hope he reads this. Returning to Boston
I spent a year at Boston University Law School where I learned
that I was no embryo Blackstone and the Corpus Juris was not
a city in Texas. I spent six years in Boston real estate firms and
visited Europe to witness a crucial period in her history. I sailed
on ships to many so-called exotic ports in Central America and
in the West Indies; and I even worked at the outbreak of war
in a shipyard where I was amazed at man’s ability to construct
and fit together acres of steel plates to within a hair of accuracy.
I was with the U.S. Navy and worked with it in Africa and Italy
during another crucial time of Europe’s history. Although at the
age of thirteen I had sailed my own boat at Nahant, Massachu-
setts, the Navy spared me from being “soaked to the skin” and
at one time even sent me, of all places, to an Army Camp at
Neosho, Missouri. Wonders will never cease. After this I saw
the beauties of Colorado as mortgage manager for a Denver firm
representing a large eastern insurance company. Upon returning
east I worked with the Navy Department on a special assignment
and saw the marvelous but somewhat perplexing spectacle of
Washington at work. I even dared teach at a boys’ school near
Washington and survived a year of it. ] then went to the Balearic
Islands where I organized a small school for American children
at Mallorca. I hope it is still in existence. It ought to be for they

[ 880 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

need one there. I now find myself on the fantastic islands of the
Canaries where, accompanied by my wife, a lovely daughter, two
dachshunds, a parrot and a canary bird, I represent an English
firm and our Government in an official capacity.

I know now that the world is full of wonderful things, and
this knowledge will be a comfort in the years ahead. After all,
perhaps the secret of a happy life is the sincere enthusiastic joy
of living it. -

Speaking of canary birds, I had always supposed that the
Canary Islands were named for these creatures. I am told, how-
ever, that they are named for dogs, the Isles of Dogs, after the
Latin “canes.” May I send, therefore, to the Class of 1932 my
cheerful and sincere “cheep-cheep” or a “bow-wow” for a happy
and joyful Reunion.

ANDREW WILLIAM ORLOWSKI

HOME ADDRESS: 64 Belleview Ave., Torrington, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 19 Mason St., Torrington, Conn.

BORN: June 14, 1907, Rockville, Conn. parents: Frank Orlowski, Agnes
Wolek.

PREPARED AT: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: S.B., 1932; M.D. (Tufts Medical
School), 1936.

MarrieD: Anna May Smith, Feb, 21, 1942, Brewster, N.Y.

occuPaTION: Physician, general practice of medicine.

OFFIcEs HELD: Assistant Health Officer, 1938-42, Health Officer, 1946-56,
Torrington; Physician-in-charge, American Brass Company, Torrington,
since 1946; president, Torrington Medical Society, 1950-51.

MEMBER oF: American Medical Association; Connecticut State Medical
Society; Litchfield County Medical Society; Torrington Medical So-
ciety; American Academy of General Practice; American Industrial
Association; Connecticut Diabetes Association; Connecticut Association
on Trauma; Elks Club; Knights of Columbus.

AFTER graduation I attended Tufts College Medical School for
four years and received my medical degree, keeping one semester
ahead of the sheriff. One year of internship is all the time I could
afford (or so I thought at that time!). But after opening an office
for the general practice of medicine in Torrington, Connecticut,
in August, 1937, I had time to play solitaire and read medical

[ 881 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

literature for about twelve hours a day for about two solid
years! Those are the two years I should have spent in a residency.
If I had, I would not be forced now to be chasing around town
making house calls, day and night. The night calls are brutal, at
this age. But — my life for these past twenty years in medicine
has been gratifying, even though I seem to get progressively more
tired each year. At this stage, life is full of work and, much to my
chagrin, worry, The worry is so useless! ‘he responsibilities that
go with this profession get more burdensome with each passing
year. Oh youth! with its confidence and cockiness!

The fact that Uncle Sam interrupted my medical career for four
and a half years seems so unimportant now. The interruption did
come at an inopportune time, however. But war is inopportune
whenever it occurs. Even the war injury, and the five years of
convalescence before attaining almost complete recovery, are
almost entirely erased from my mind.

Politics and the medical profession do not mix too readily. I
did hold one appointive office — that of health officer of this city
for a period of ten years, resigning January 1, 1956, when I found
that I was becoming increasingly busy in my private practice. The
burden of that office during the flood aftermath of August and
September, 1955, finally made me realize that I was carrying too
heavy a work load. [ still retain my position in industry, after
ten years, as physician-in-charge of the American Brass Company,
here in this city. This is an Anaconda affiliate,

A medical colleague and friend of mine practising in a nearby
town grouses that all of his patients are psychotic, alcoholic or
divorced. Let’s see how that would apply to me — my fellow-
physicians locally are charitable, shall Isay? They refer to me as
“irascible.” I drank and smoked for thirty-three years. Migraine
headaches (and “‘irascibility?”) called a halt; I haven’t had a
drink or smoke for over two years — and don’t miss either. The
lovely girl I married almost fifteen years ago still tolerates me and
is still my wife, fortunately for me. Our marriage has not been
blessed with any offspring.

It has been suggested that we talk about our travels. What
travels? It is not easy to get away from this office. Here it is
October, and I haven’t had my “summer” vacation yet. However,
for the past few years, we did manage to take off for three weeks

[ 882 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in the Poconos every summer, and three weeks in Florida every
winter. That schedule we hope to continue to follow — the good
Lord willing — for as long as I remain professionally active.

PHILIP STANLEY OWEN

HOME ADDRESS: 2318 44th St, N.W., Washington, D.C.

OFFICE ADpREss: Div. of Medical Sciences, National Academy of Sciences,
National Research Council, Washington 25, D.C.

BorN: March 12, 1909, Lausanne, Switzerland. parents: Edward Baldwin
Owen, Marian Hamilton Simmons.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1928, 1929-1931. DEGREE: M.D. (Yale Univ.), 1937.

occUPATION: Medicine.

EDWARD WARREN OXNARD

HOME ADDRESS: 157 Park Pl., Cheshire, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 238 Maple Ave., Cheshire, Conn.

BORN: Nov. 1, 1909, Newton, Mass. PARENTS: Henry Ernest Oxnard, ’86,
Evelyn Stanwood Fletcher.

PREPARED AT: Mount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.D., 1936.

MARRIED: Pauline Nelson, July 26, 1941, Boxboro, Mass. cutLpren: Susan
Nelson, June 27, 1944; Thomas Fletcher, June 18, 1945; Arthur Edward,
March 9, 1948.

occuPATION: Physician in general practice.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant health officer, chief medical officer for Civilian De-

fense and Red Cross, Cheshire.
MEMBER oF: Wallingford Country Club, Copper Valley Club, Cheshire.

THE life of a medical general practitioner is not the dullest one
could lead. There are always moments of suspense when least
expected and sometimes when least wanted. In a small town it is
a life of public service, from which it is difficult to escape.

After graduating from Harvard Medical School, I was fortunate
to land an internship at Hartford Hospital in Connecticut for two
years, there I began to learn what “night life” was like. I
skipped the difficult part of building up a practice, by going into
an office of an older doctor who had much more work than he
should do. He was promptly laid up for three months with an

[ 883 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

eye operation; so I had a very quick course not only in learning
general practice, but also in learning all about my adopted home
town of Cheshire, Connecticut. We have had eighteen very
congenial years together in a partnership, and have now a third
man in the “group.

Because of the economic strain and the years involved i in medi-
cal training, I was unable to consider marriage until I had been in
practice a few years, but I was most fortunate to find one Pauline
Nelson, a laboratory and X-ray technician at Williams College
who did not seem to object too much to living the life of a
doctor’s wife—and believe me it is not the easiest life for a
woman. We have three fine children who are variously in-
terested in Scouts and Little League baseball and camping. The
whole family likes skiing and we take an annual trek to the
Laurentians for a week or two. Golf is taking up more and more
spare time, yielding very little for sailing.

I do a lot of traveling, but like the elevator man, I don’t go
anywhere — nearly 20,000 miles a year about town. Occasionally,
I break away and get as far as Florida, or maybe Myrtle Beach
when the snow isn’t too good. I belong to the Copper Valley
Club, a local swimming and tennis club.

RICHARD MARSHALL PAGE, JR.

HOME AppRESS: 3816 Napoleon Ave., New Orleans, La.
OFFICE apprEss: Hyster Sales & Service, Inc., 327 N. Diamond St., New
Orleans, La.

BORN: Aug. 31, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Richard Marshall Page, 'ro,
Mary Alice Seabolt.

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Cecilia Miller, Dec. 13, 1940, Bronxville, N.Y.

occupation: Sales representative, Hyster Sales & Service, Inc., materials
handling equipment.

MEMBER OF: Sertoma International.

MAIN occupation — sales with following firms:
1935 —Socony Vacuum Oil Company.
1936-38 — Wells & Richardson Division, Sterling Products.
1939-42 — 1946-52 — Colson Corporation.

[ 884 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1952-56 — Industrial Truck & Caster Company.
1957 — Hyster Sales & Service, Inc.
War Record.

1942— Office of Civilian Defense, administrative officer,
Atlanta Regional Office.

1945-46 — U.S. Navy — officer training, Cornell University,
commissioned lieutenant (j.g.), 1943, and assigned to Fifth Am-
phibious Forces. Served in invasions of Gilberts, Marshalls,
Marianas in Central Pacific, returning to civilian life as lieuten-
ant commander, U.S.N.R.

Hobbies: fishing, golf, handcrafts. '

THOMAS FRANCIS PAGE

HOME ADDRESS; 77 Highview St., Westwood, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., 200 Berkeley St.,
Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 21, 1911, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Thomas Francis Page, Bridget

E. Laffey.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931.

MARRIED: Mary Louise Mahoney, April 15, 1939, Boston, Mass.
occupaTION: Life insurance — tax officer, with responsibility for taxes on our
company, including income, premium and personal property levies.
OFFICES HELD: Member, Subcommittee on Annuity Taxation, 1952-57; mem-

ber Joint Premium Tax Committee, Life Insurance Association of

America and American Life Convention, 1954-57.
MEMBER OF: National Tax Association; New England Tax Officials Asso-

ciation,
IF the mark of the true New Englander is that he is never at
home anywhere on earth except on his native heath, then I'd say
I qualify hands down for the title. In trying to review objectively
these twenty-five years, I realize that, geographically, I haven’t
willingly strayed far from the golden State House dome. Vaca-
tion trips have served merely as exercises in comparison to bear
out the axiom that “home's best.” My longest separation from
this hub of the universe was engineered by Hitler and his Storm
Troopers who plucked me from Uncle Sam’s Third Infantry
Division and ensconced me behind barbed wires in several of
their Stalags.

[ 885 ]

_—— |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Upon liberation, I made tracks for the above-mentioned golden
dome, where I settled down again literally beneath its shadow
in my work as auditor for the Department of Corporations and
Taxation of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, under the late
great Commissioner Henry Follansbee Long. Later, as Insurance
Tax Assessor, I did my best to exact every last farthing of taxes
from the insurance companies. That I met with some modicum
of success in this is perhaps evidenced by the fact that I was
eventually offered a position in the Tax Department of the John
Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company. Now, as tax officer
for this company, I’m working on the other side of the street,
striving to save some of those same farthings from the clutches
of the tax collector!

Politically, also, ’'ve been working on both sides. In 1932, I
started with great enthusiasm by helping put F.D.R. into the
White House; the enthusiasm waned as I became increasingly
disenchanted; and for long bleak years I hoped in vain with
Willkie and Dewey. In 1952, with great enthusiasm I helped put
Eisenhower into the White House; now the enthusiasm is wan-
ing . . . Disenchantment? Not yet, but could be.

Today many men are still searching for the answers to the
age-old questions; Who am 1? Why am I here? Where am I
going? For me the answers have always been there in the Faith
of my fathers, — the doctrines of the Catholic Church.

THOMAS MASON PAGE

HOME AND OFFICE aDpREss: Lawrenceville School, 2549 Main St., Lawrence-
ville, N.J.

BorN: April 10, 1909, White Plains, N.Y. parents: Albert William Page,
Rachel Florence Mason.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932 (33).

MarRIED: Jean Price Bradford, June 25, 1938, Providence, R.I. cuitp: Jean
Bradford, Sept. 3, 1946.

occupaTION: Teacher of English.

orrices HELD: Chairman for Lawrenceville Township, Delaware Valley
United Fund, 1952, 1953; chairman of branches and auxiliaries and
member of board, Princeton Chapter, American Red Cross, 1954, 19553
publicity chairman, Amos Fortune Forum, Jaffrey, N.H., 1956.

[ 886 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Village Improvement Society, Jaffrey, N-H.
puBLicaTions: Essentials of Grammar & Composition for the Independent
School.

REMEMBER 1933? The year a suena cum laude from the Class
of ’31 signed on with Time magazine at the impressive figure
of $14.50 per week? That was the year I was selling door-to-door
for household paper products and netting a cool eight to Brinser’s
fourteen. So you can see why I decided not to continue with
medical school. Furthermore, Pomfret School needed a crew
coach — and someone who would teach English, Latin, chemistry,
biology, et al. Those were the brash years, weren’t they? I
stayed on that job till 1938, when a continued postponement of
marriage seemed a cruel and unusual punishment, even for a
teacher.

An invitation to teach in Tucson, Arizona, with my bride, was
sufficient to lure me west of the Hudson. Jean and I were married
forthwith, went west that fall and stayed there in the land of the
lotus-eaters until June, r9g1. When only 150 people would
subscribe to F.D.R.’s fifty-destroyer deal, we said good-by to
cow country and came east.

After a year of hurry-and-wait for a couple of well-known
services, I went overseas with the Red Cross, attached to the gth
Air Force in the Middle East. The job proved to be recreation
director for the Enlisted Men’s Club in Cairo. The Air Force
did a nice job, but I have sympathized recently with Dulles in
his attempts to cope with the Suez business. Then Palestine for
six months in a similar capacity, and out to China in the fall of ’43
to help with the rest camp outside of Kunming. That was good.
The 14th Air Force was a good crowd; and despite all that the
Chinese Nationalists had been through, they could still laugh
at misfortune. I still have hope for a people that could laugh
then. Let’s hope the time comes when they can again.

Home in 1945 in time to start teaching at Lawrenceville, where
I still am, and where I hope to be indefinitely. Anyone who has
had a chance to work at a dynamic shop —I didn’t say flawless;
who would stay where there was nothing to work towards? —
anyone, I repeat, who has worked where people look forward
together will know what I mean.

[ 887 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Summers I live in Jaffrey, New Hampshire, in the house that
Jean and I built at the beginning of the war. We spend a quarter
of the year there and consider it our home. We had to have a
home somewhere. As Robert Frost said,

“It’s restful to arrive at a decision,
And restful just to think about New Hampshire.
At present I am living in. . .” New Jersey.

POTTER PALMER, III

BorN: May 7, 1909, Wheaton, Ill. parents: Potter Palmer, Pauline Kohl-
saat.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932.

MarRIED: Rose Saltonstall Movius, Feb. 6, 1932, Boston, Mass. (divorced
1943); Ruth Kiniery, July. 1944, Detroit, Mich. cHitpren: Rose Sal-

tonstall, March 25, 1933; Potter Palmer, 4th, Aug. 8, 1934.
piep: Oct. 3, 1946, Sarasota, Fla.

AFTER leaving college Palmer was associated with the Palmer
House, a leading Chicago hotel, until he entered the Navy in
1942. He served three years in the Pacific and held the rank of
lieutenant commander when he received his discharge in No-
vember, 1945. He was survived by his wife and children.

GEORGE NICHOLAS PANARTOS

LAST KNOWN ApprEss: 273 Newell St., Pittsfield, Mass.

Born: April 3, 1909, Lowell, Mass. parents: Nicholas George Panartos,
Annie Asiniaco,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

PANARTOS has been carried as a “lost” man on our records
since 1950.

[ 888 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN GRAY PARK

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

BORN: Sept. 15, 1908, Groton, Mass. parents: Lawrence Park, ’96, Maria
Davis Motley.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

occuPaTION: Librarian, Kent School.

OFFICES HELD: Representative of Connecticut Library Association, Connec-
ticut Council on Education; member legislative committee, Connecticut
Library Association; chairman library committee, Secondary Educa-
tion Board; executive secretary and treasurer, Friends of Kent School
Library.

IN April, 1942, I was commissioned a second lieutenant in the
Army Air Forces and was ordered to Harrisburg, Pennsylvania,
to attend the first class of the A.A.F. Air Intelligence School. On
graduation I was assigned to the headquarters of the Second Air
Force, Spokane, Washington Soon afterwards I went to Salt Lake
City to start an Intelligence School for enlisted men of the A.A.F.
First as an instructor and adjutant, and later as head of the school,
I remained in Salt Lake City for eighteen months. This school
was the only one training enlisted men of the A.A.F. for duty
in the combat intelligence sections of bombardment groups. On
the completion of this work I went to headquarters of the Per-
sonnel Distribution Command soon after its activation. As a
captain in June, 1944, | went on a personnel survey for the Air
Transport Command, covering 30,000 miles by air of the South
and Central Pacific. On my return, I resumed work with the Per-
sonnel Distribution Command at its headquarters in Louisville,
Kentucky, was promoted to major and remained with the organ-
ization until being placed on inactive status in February, 1946.
After a brief vacation I returned to take up my work as a member
of the faculty of Kent School (Campaign Ribbons: American
Theatre; Asiatic-Pacific; Victory).

Since then my efforts have been spent in building up a well-
rounded library for the school and in furthering the work being
done to promote better library service throughout the country.
In order to devote full time to this I gave up all classroom teach-
ing five years ago. The library program now in operation in a
new and carefully planned building enters into the activities of

[ 889 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

the entire school community and it requires not only my full
energy but that of a full-time assistant and ten student helpers,
The promotion of a Friends of the Library organization has re-
sulted in a growing number of people becoming actively interested
in the further development of the library’s program.

In spare time my interests center around coaching hockey in
the winter and crew in the spring. Whenever possible, golf and
tennis provide relaxation and exercise, but my real joy is taking
to the water in a single shell usually on the Housatonic but
occasionally on the rougher waters of Mahone Bay, Nova Scotia.

Politically I am a Republican though I voted for Franklin
Roosevelt. As this Report is being prepared, I am spending time
and effort to assure four more years of Dwight Eisenhower.

AUGUSTIN HAMILTON PARKER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Farm Road, Sherborn, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Old Colony Trust Co., 1 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 16, 1910, Charles River, Mass. PARENTS: Augustin Hamilton
Parker, ’97, Caroline Miller Dabney.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: AB. magna cum laude, 1932; LLB.
cum laude, 1935.

marrizp: Esther Grew, July 6, 1932, Dover, Mass. CHILDREN: Augustin
Hamilton, 3d, April 3, 1935; Caroline M., July 24, 1937; George G,
July 4, 1943.

occupATION: President and director, Old Colony Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Northeastern University, Provident Institution for
Savings; director, Wilson Jones Company, Boston Y.M.C.A., Boston
Dispensary, List Industries Corporation; moderator, Town of Sherborn;
president and director, United Community Services; Protestant co-
chairman, New England Region, National Conference of Christians and
Jews.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club; Bourne Cove Yacht Club; Examiner Club;
Commercial-Merchants Club,

 

FROM graduation to today is quite an order. The tempting
course is to fill paragraphs with a detailed history of events which
have no significance to anyone else and very little, now, to me.
Instead, Jet’s concentrate on the three important things: family,
career and extra-curricular.

[ 890 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Of the first, I could write a great deal. With a wonderful girl,
who for some unknown reason was willing to marry me, the years
since graduation have rolled by from law school to law practice,
to a “hitch” in the Navy, and now the decade following V-J Day.
The three children are all wonderful, exasperating and causes of
frantic worry at times, but on the whole measuring up very well
indeed. Tim is at Trinity, which is fast becoming my candidate
for the position of second best college in the country. Caroline,
this year, is a sophomore at Harvard, though technically it must
be still called Radcliffe, while George has several years more of
school ahead of him. They make a fine crew on a cruise. With
both the mate and Caroline ashore for varying reasons, it was a
pleasure last summer to find that the boys could also produce a
bang-up hot meal under way. “Hand, reef and steer” is only
part of it.

The subject of career reminds me of a conversation with my
then boss, a captain, regular Navy, over a most pleasant noggin
after the day’s work was done, on the subject of his experience
in commanding reserve officers. It was his opinion, looking back
at such desperate days as Guadalcanal, Tulagi, etc., that the best
reserve officers had all been lawyers. He added hastily, of course
‘‘present company excepted.” There you have it. Dean Griswold
doesn’t realize the full extent of what he does.

Most lawyers in the services, I suppose, found themselves
doing things they never expected to do; and for me, to be put in
charge for three years of Hull Design at the Boston Navy Yard
was about as long a step away as I could imagine from the fascinat-
ing art of preparation and trial of cases. From this experience,
my admiration turned, at least in part, towards those who design
and build ships, instead of those who “go down to the sea” in them.
The responsibility for adequate stability of vessels built and
altered was certainly the most awesome of those thrust upon the
hull design officer, but also the most fascinating. I shall never
forget the difficulties and the amusements of performing an in-
clining experiment on the first French destroyer to arrive in
Boston for overhaul — metric measurements throughout and a
French vocabulary to learn far removed from that of Moliére.
Also memorable was early dawn of a winter morning on the
bridge of the old Aquitania trying to figure out with her captain

[ 891 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

(for the past twenty-seven years) how to keep her, in his words,

from “reeling like a drunken old biddy” when light of oil and
cargo.

 

After such experiences, it made me feel almost a lawyer again,

when I joined the Old Colony Trust Company as internal as-
sociate counsel, after leaving the Navy. Administrative duties

\

now combine with civic matters to remove me further from
direct legal work. |
Except for the fact that I have not taken up golf, there is little :

to record in the way of sports. Cruising and dinghy racing form i
absorbing summer pastimes while in winter it is exercise enough

to try to keep ahead of the annual growth of several acres of ‘
woodlot. The most absorbing non-job effort has been charitable '
and civic affairs. A large city Community Chest such as Greater
Boston's cuts across, influences, and is influenced by almost every i
kind of change, economic or social, that takes place in the entire ;
area. One of the men I worked for after coming out of law i
school once remarked that it was the clash of personalities that \
made a case interesting. It restores one’s faith in humanity and i
in our country to see the astonishing variety of personalities, \
people from every kind of background and social or economic |
level, who join together at considerable personal sacrifice in a i
voluntary effort to better their community. If, as I did the year :
I was general chairman of Greater Boston’s Campaign, you could '
see the Chest leaders from all over the country gathered at a two- t
day session to discuss common problems, you would be thrilled
by the vast scope and solemn purpose of this great American
movement. As one of my predecessors put it, I wouldn’t have

missed doing it for a million dollars, but I wouldn’t do it again
for two.

CHARLES ALFRED PARMITER, JR.

HOME aporess: Box 154, Apple Valley, Calif.

oFFice aporess: St. Timothy’s Episcopal Church, Apple Valley, Calif,

BorN: Aug. 28, 1911, Genoa City, Wis. parents: Charles Alfred Parmiter,
Alice Margery Hannah,

prepareD AT: Wauwatosa High School, Wauwatosa, Wi

[ 892 ]

_ 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; A.M. (Clark Univ.), 1936;
B.D. (Episcopal Theological School), 1947.

MARRIED: Flora Dean Lendman, Aug. 28, 1930, Mineral Point, Wis. cuitpreN:
Charles Alfred, 3d, June 8, 1933 (7. Terry Alauzet, Jan. 9, 1957); Phyllis
Ethel, Nov. 22, 1937 (m. Jack B. Knight). Granocuip: Laurel Dee
Knight, Oct. 27, 1956.

occuPATION: Rector, St. Timothy's Episcopal Church, Apple Valley, Calif.

OFFICES HELD: President, Interscholastic League, 1952-53, member, Gover-
nor’s Committee for Educational Television, 1952-54, director, Child &
Family Service, 1951-54, chairman, Committee for Educational Scholar- ~
ships of McInerny Fund, 1952-54, Honolulu; secretary and vice-presi-
dent, Harvard Club of Hawaii, 1950-54; committee chairman, Rotary
Club of Honolulu, 1952-54; Department of Parish Day Schools, Calif.;
Department of Public Relations, Calif., member, Committee on Bishop’s
Address; charter president, Apple Valley Rotary Club; member, Gov-
ernor’s Conference on Youth, 1956.

MEMBER OF: Pacific Club, Honolulu; Honolulu Rotary Club, Harvard Club
of Hawaii; Harvard Club of Southern California; Rotary Club of Apple
Valley; Order of St. Luke.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Influence of the Massachusetts Colonial Press of the
American Revolution,” Clark University Publications, 1936.

IT is a challenging thing to ask for a brief synopsis of a quarter
century of life. How can we express the joys and sorrows, the
successes and failures, the heights and depths of life in a few lines?

Between my sophomore and junior years in college, I married a
wonderful girl. She has, somehow, been able to live with me now
for twenty-six years. We have two children — a newspaperman
in Honolulu and a married daughter who has just given us our
first grandchild. After graduation I was a high school teacher in
four Massachusetts communities until 1944. Then I followed my
father’s footsteps into the Episcopal ministry. After four years
as rector of St. Andrew’s Church in Framingham, Massachusetts,
I spent two very enjoyable years as a clerical master at St.
Paul’s School in Concord, New Hampshire.

Then the Hawaiian Islands beckoned and God sent us out to do
a challenging and interesting work as rector and headmaster of the
largest Episcopal boys’ school, Iolani School in Honolulu, educat-
ing mostly boys of Oriental background. From 1950 to 1954, I
ran a many-ring circus: supervising the school, planning the
curriculum and trying to get good teachers to execute it, getting
boys into the best colleges, including Harvard, representing the

[ 893 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

school in Hawaiian affairs, raising $400,000.00 to build a new
school, planning the buildings and acting as temporary head of
vacant parishes. The toll on my strength was more than I could
stand after four years, and I resigned to return to the mainland,
After nearly a year as headmaster of a school in Pacific Palisades,
California, I accepted the call to begin this new work in Apple
Valley. I held the first Episcopal church service here on Easter
Sunday, 1955, and the next day broke ground for our beautiful
new buildings. In January, 1956, we were admitted as a parish,
the most rapid development of any Episcopal Church in Southern

California, in a quarter of a century. While I do not intend to

remain on the desert permanently, we do have a fine congregation

of excellent people who are making our stay here a real Christian

experience. Now we are embarking upon what is proving to bea
most fruitful and wonderful ministry — the ministry of spiritual
healing — which some of you may be surprised to learn that the
Episcopal Church is spearheading. The results of this ministry are
so magnificent and so glorious that we are only sorry that all
cannot as yet experience what we and our people have felt, the
active power of the living God.

We are registered Republicans and, in all ways, perfectly
normal people. We are now content to let God work in us, sure
that He knows better than we do where we are needed in life.
We are happier than we have ever been before, and we pray that

all our classmates may also obtain a vital religious faith, without
which nothing seems worthwhile.

STEPHEN PARRISH, II
HOME ADDRESS: 3340 Percival Ave., Miami 33, Fla.

OFFICE appress: Pan-American World Airways, 36th St., Airport, Miami,
Fla.

BORN: Nov. 14, 1909, Plainficld, N.H. parents: Maxfield Parrish, Lydia
Austin,

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

Margiep: Lynn Canon Forbes, Dec, 17, 1938, Athens, Ga. (divorced 1942);
Edna Lee Kendall, Oct. 12, 1945, Miami, Fla. catttoren; Sandra Gwynn,

[ 894 ]

sem, AAS
OAL ERATS
me ecerenrenegemepge sen ae

aa oes ereee

specipter st COMETS
oot go 8
GOEDEL

eon HEROES
meee TNR EO
gn oe EE EEE Lo

pale ART TE

ol

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Oct. 24, 1946; Jean, Nov. 26, 1935; Bonnie Lee, July 21, 1937; James
Wayne, Dec. 5, 1942 (stepchildren).
occuPATION: Transportation.

WILLIAM SAMUEL PATTEN

apprEss: International Bank for Reconstruction & Development, 67 rue
de Lille, Paris 7e, France.

BORN: Nov. 29, 1909, Natick, Mass. PARENTS: William Samuel Patten, Anna
Thayer.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932.

MARRIED: Susan Mary Jay, Oct. 8, 1939, Westbury, Long Island, N.Y.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

ARTHUR WILLING PATTERSON

HOME ADDRESS: 765 Canestoga Rd., Rosemont, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Friends Service Committee, 20 S. rath St., Phila-
delphia, Pa.

BORN: Nov. 25, 1910, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: George Stuart Patterson,
Eleanora Willing.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: AB. magna cum laude, 1932.

Marriep: Leila Delano, March 5, 1937, New York, N.Y. cHttpren: Leila
Cuyler, Oct. 12, 1938; Eleanora Willing, June 1, 1941; David Delano,
Oct. 4, 1946.

occupation: Director of shipping and purchasing, American Friends Service
Committee.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Ithan Valley Civic Association, Philadelphia Child
Guidance Clinic, World Affairs Council (Philadelphia), Philadelphia
Charity Ball; former secretary, Mexican-American Commission for
Economic Cooperation.

MEMBER OF: Gulph Mills Golf Club; Meadow Club; Mill Dam Club; Phi
Beta Kappa Society; Philadelphia Club; Porcellian Club.

PUBLICATIONS: One non-legal (illegal?) article in Duke University Law Re-
view; two privately printed booklets in memory of two of our class-
mates killed in World War II: Franz Colloredo-Mansfield and Rex
Fincke.

AFTER college, I spent a year at Harvard Business School and
about eight years in banking, mostly with Drexel & Company,
Philadelphia, and including two years in the New York, London

[ 895 ]

— _

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932
violent family competition in bridge, ping pong and pool. We are
looking forward to the Reunion in June.

Reading this requested “biographical sketch” must be very dull
for anyone but me, but fascinating illustrative anecdotes and jokes

are available orally on request if you have time enough to hear
them out.

LAWRENCE MALCOLM PATTERSON

HOME ADpDRESS: 338 Central St, Auburndale, Mass.
OFFICE apprEss: Factory Mutual Engineering Div., Norwood, Mass.

BORN: June 30, 1908, Marlboro, Mass. PARENTS: James George Patterson,
03, Ethel Estella Partridge.

PREPARED AT: Newton Country Day School, Newton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933. DEGREE! S.B., 1932 (33).

marrieD: Eleanor May Richardson, June 16, 1945, Lowell, Mass. cutz:
Nancy Eleanor, Nov. 15, 1950.
OccuPATION: Fire protection engineer.

MEMBER OF: National Fire Protection Association; Appalachian Mountain
Club.

AFTER college I attended Babson Institute, graduating in 1934.
Between then and 1941 my occupations were varied with some of
the time on geophysical surveys (for oil). The year 1941-42 was
spent in the Army as a private, Battery E, gth Coast Artillery.
After that I returned to geophysical surveys.

In 1944 I joined the Factory Mutual Engineering Division (then
Inspection Department) of the Associated Factory Mutual Fire
Insurance Companies. The work in the laboratories of approving
industrial fire prevention and protection equipment has been in-
teresting and varied.

Tennis, boating and skiing are my favorite sports. Of these, I
have found skung particularly rewarding because I met my wife
through a mutual interest in it and the Appalachian Mountain

Club. Our interest has been increased because our daughter,
Nancy, has begun to ski with us.

[ 898 ]

pit

pepe IT

eg OTE!

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT JORDAN PATTERSON

HOME ADDRESS: Jericho Turnpike, Westbury, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDREsS: Hicks Nurseries, Jericho Turnpike, Westbury, N.Y.

BORN: Dec. 21, 1908, Westbury, N.Y. parents: Harold Truesdale Patter-
son, .’03, Emily Hicks.

PREPARED AT: George School, George School, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933. DEGREE: S.B., 1932 (33).

markieD: Eleanor Birdsall, Oct. 20, 1945, Locust Valley, N.Y.

OccUPATION: Nursery salesman and landscape designer; vice-president, Hicks-
Westbury, Inc., fuel oils.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of governors, Hempstead Harbor Club, since
1955; vestry, Church of the Advent, Westbury, N.Y., since 1955;

_ president, Mid-Island Concert Association, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Hempstead Harbour Club, Glen Cove, N.Y.

ALTHOUGH I had no intention of doing so while in college,
I have been in the horticultural field of endeavor ever since I
graduated. My first position was with the seed house of Stumpp
and Walter Company of New York, in their Hempstead branch,
where I was a salesman. The war terminated my services there,
and upon my return I joined and have been with the Hicks
Nurseries, Inc., of Westbury, New York, ever since. For several
years I was in charge of their retail garden department. Now I
am one of their landscape designers and salesmen.

Being a bachelor I was caught in one of the early drafts of
World War II. I had my basic training at Mitchel Field in the
summer of 1941. For me, it was a rather pleasant experience as
I was only a few miles away from home. I had my car and a great
deal of free time. That summer I did more sailing and saw more
New York shows than ever before in my life. By the end of 1942
I was in England with what was to be the Third Air Division.
I was stationed at division headquarters at Elvedon Hall, a little
community or estate near Thetford, Suffolk. In peacetime, before
taxes, Elvedon Hall was the hunting lodge of Lord and Lady
Elvedon. It reminded me of some of the Long Island estates
which are in many cases copied after the English ones. My war-
time experiences were not very exciting, as we remained for two
and a half years at this one safe and beautiful spot. I was the
signal supply sergeant for the base. Now I realize how much of
England I might have seen. I did enjoy the Shakespearean plays

[ 899 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

at Stratford-on-Avon and often went to London, Cambridge,

and Oxford, and met quite a few English familics. So all in all

I did have a good ume while there and would like to go back

and revisit the old places once more. In the summer of 1945 the

war in Europe was over. It was most exciting not only to be
going home but also to contemplate that I would get married. |
had decided that my state of single blessedness had gone on long
enough, and that I was going to rectify the condition as soon
as I could upon my return. The speed with which we were
processed at Camp Dix and sent home for our terminal leave was
most amazing. The next wonderful thing to happen was the
announcement of my engagement to Eleanor Birdsall of Glen
Cove, New York. We had corresponded all during the war and
had known each other for years. It just took the separation to
make us realize that we were made for each other. In October,
shortly after my release from the Army, we were married in the
little church of St. John’s of Lattingtown in Locust Valley.

We are now living in my ancestral home in Westbury on the
Jericho Turnpike and hope to remain there for the rest of our
lives if progress in the form of road widening projects or business
developments does not force us out. The Hicks Nurseries where
I work is just across the street. It is pretty nice to be able to have
your three meals at home and not have to waste any time on the
trains or highways commuting to and from work. For our en-
joyment, we belong to the Hempstead Harbour (Yacht) Club
of Glen Cove where we keep our Lightning sailboat. We very
much enjoy taking our friends out for a picnic and sail on a
pleasant afternoon. Since we once capsized in a sudden squall,
my wife does not enjoy rough sailing. I have noticed that some
of the other husbands have the same difficulty. This is one of
the advantages of the rocking chair fleet for those who do not
like to get wet. Being on the board of governors prolongs the
club’s activities to twelve months a year for me. A year ago I
was elected to the Vestry of the Church of the Advent in West-
bury. Eleanor thinks that it has very much improved our church
attendance. In that she is right. One of our wardens is Mr.
George Whitney, president of the Hfarvard Alumni Association.
Before the war there were few opportunities to hear good music
in our local towns. Now many of them have their concert asso-

[ 900 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ciations which put on a series of three or four good professional
programs each winter. I am president of the Mid-Island Concert
Association of Hicksville and am on the board of the Carle Place,
Westbury, one. I have very much enjoyed working with both
of them. It gives me a feeling of great satisfaction to think that
in some small way I have been part of a movement which has
given listening pleasure to so many.

GEORGE HENRY PATTISON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 766 Prospect Ave., Winnetka, IIL.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Barrett Varnish Co., 1532 S. soth Ct. Cicero 50, Il.

BORN: Oct. 14, 1910, Wheaton, Ill. parents: George Henry Pattison, Alice
McClure.

PREPARED AT: New Trier High School, Winnetka, Til.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932.

MarRRIED: Mary L. Barrett, June 18, 1941, Kenilworth, Il. compren: Mary
Susan, June 2, 1942; Kathy Jean, Sept. 28, 1944; Elizabeth Barrett, Aug.

29, 1949.
HARVARD BROTHER: Walter Thomas Pattison, ’25.
OCCUPATION: President, Barrett Varnish Company.

AS you all remember, we graduated at a discouraging time in
which to find employment. I had three or four temporary jobs
ranging from working for the county assessor’s office to selling
automotive supplies. During this time I took a number of courses
in accounting at Northwestern University night school. From
1935 to 1947, I was with the Union Special Machine Company of
Chicago, and since then have been with the Barrett Varnish
Company.

We lead comparatively quiet lives in Winnetka, a suburb of
Chicago. Having three daughters, I am completely surrounded
by women and find it very comfortable. For recreation I play
a little golf, tennis, badminton, and like to go fishing. We take our
vacations as a family group in Michigan or Wisconsin but have
been as far as North Carolina and Florida. Usually I am able to
work in a few extra weekend trips fishing with the boys.

Life has been good for the past twenty-five years and I hope
the next twenty-five will be as rewarding.

[ 901 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

LAWRENCE OGLESBY PAUL

HOME ADDRESS: 251 Park Drive, Longmeadow, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Indian Co., 29 Worthington St. Springfield, Mass.

BORN: July 2, rg09, Villa Nova, Pa. parents: Oglesby Paul, Laura L. Wilson.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: S.B., 1932; M.B.A. 1934.
MARRIED: Louise Lancaster Carr, Aug. 28, 1937, Peacham, Vt. cyipren:
Laura Wilson, April 21, 1938, Penelope Bradford, July 21, 1940; Law-

rence Oglesby, Jr. April 6, 1945 (died July 19, 1945); Nancy May,
May 19, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Rodman Wilson Paul, ’36; Oglesby Paul, ’38.

occupaTION: Executive vice-president, Indian Company (Indian motorcycles
and bicycles).

OFFICES HELD: Business manager, 1946-49, assistant director, 1949-51, Armour
Research Foundation; operations manager, Oak Manufacturing Com-
pany, 1951-54; executive vice-president, Indian Company, since 1955;
chairman, program committee, 1950-51, Third Midwest Business Con-
ference, 1952, president, 1952-53, Harvard Business School Club of
Chicago; member board of directors, Harvard Club of Chicago, 1952-54.

SINCE we were the bottom of the depression class, I was
peculiarly fortunate in not having to brave the world of hard
times until two years later, as at that time I went to the Harvard
Business School. While there, one of my teachers was Harvard's
other great “Copey,” Melvin T. Copeland, Professor of Market-
ing. A further delay in my entering the business world was
brought about by my joining Raws Collins in the summer of 1934
on a trip to Europe, from which I, having had a wonderful time,
returned in an incipient state of insolvency.

Gainful employment thus being a necessity, I became a sales
trainee for a small company in New Hampshire. Upon arriving at
this establishment full of ambition, my first assignment was un-
loading several freight cars of garage doors — the net result of
which was a sore back and hands full of splinters. (Ah me, the
benefits of six years of a Harvard education!) After driving
54,000 miles in twelve months, I decided that life as a salesman was
not for me, and so eventually settled down for seven years in the
Research Division of the United Shoe Machinery Corporation.
For all of the excitement of the war years with this fine company,
its peace-time operation scemed tame; and so followed a move to
Chicago and work as business manager and assistant director of

[ 902 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the rapidly growing industrial research organization, Armour
Research Foundation.

J am now in another rapidly growing (or re-growing) organiza-
tion, the Indian Company of Springfield (motorcycles and bi-
cycles). This sitution has more problems than I’ve previously
seen in any one place, but also greater satisfaction and more fun.
Fortunately, so far at least, I’ve not acquired the business man’s
occupational disease — ulcers.

Probably because of my deep involvement in business and the
necessary interests that go with it, most of my work for Harvard
since graduation has been concentrated on the Business School
end of the University, as I have been president of the Harvard
Business Club in Chicago and general chairman of the Third
Midwest Business Conference of the school, as well as participat-
ing in various of its fund drives.

During the early gyrations of this business career, I got married
to a girl who has enj oyed as much as] our different business connec-
tions and changes of domicile. Through them we have made
many lasting friendships in widely separate parts of the country,
as well as increasing the objectivity of our points of view. Our
family consists of three daughters, rather grown up, and two
dogs, one of which has yet to grow up. As a family we’ve had
our ups and downs, including the loss of our little boy ten years
ago, but on the whole, we've been fortunate and had more of
our share of the “ups” and fewer of the “downs.”

As I suspect is true of most members of the Class, the first
twenty-five years have been exciting and interesting and on the
whole satisfactory. For all this uneasy, shaky world around us, I
am just enough of an optimist to believe that the next twenty-five
will hold as much again and hopefully more.

JOHN HOWARD PEARSON, II

HOME ADDRESS: 62 Fairmount St., Lowell, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pearson & Pearson, 12 Hurd St., Lowell, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 1, 1910, Lowell, Mass. parents: Gardner Whitman Pearson, *89,
Alice France Duckworth.

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1032, DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

[ 903 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

marriep: Barbara Clark Leland, Oct. 23, 1948, Lowell, Mfass. cHILpren:
John Howard, Jr. July 13, 1949; Sally Leland, Oct. 13, 1954.

occupation: Patent lawyer, Pearson & Pearson; vice-president, Butler Co-
operative Bank, Lowell.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Lowell Republican Ciry Committee, 1939-41,
Lowell Development and Industrial Commission, 1954-56; member,
Republican State Committee, 1936-42, Lowell School Committee, 1940-
41; lieutenant colonel, U.S. Infantry, 1941-46; president, Lowell Ex-
change Club, 1947-48, Lowell Chamber of Commerce, 1949-51, Family
Service of Greater Lowell, 1952-53; treasurer, Lowell Technical In-
stitute Research Foundation, 1954-56, vice-president, New Industrial
Plants, Inc, 1955-56.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Association; Lowell, Middlesex, Massa-
chusetts and American Bar Associations; American Patent Law Associa-
tion; Patent Law Association of Boston; Vesper Country Club; Yorick
Club; Pilgrim Commandery, Knights Templars.

SPENDING twenty of the past twenty-five years as a patent
lawyer and banker was to be expected, but to complete twenty
years of army service, be qualified for a pension and be a retired
colonel was certainly not part of my planning.

Inventions had intrigued me from childhood and the years:
before World War II were spent in studying for the patent and
legal examinations and then learning to practise law in my father’s
office. Most lawyers like to have a second line of defense and
mine was a small cooperative bank struggling along in our law
office in Lowell. Extracurricular activities included working up
from the ranks in the National Guard, as well as organizational
work in the Republican party.

World War II found me chairman of the Republican City
Committee and the only elected Republican School Committee
member in a Democratic city (two-vote margin). My law
practice was just beginning to flourish when I was called out with
the 26th Infantry Division. In five years of active service, the
Army assigned me to nearly every division and Corps staff job,
except chaplain, and educated me at the Command and General
Staff School, Washington and Lee, Cité Universitaire and even
a week at Oxford. The experience was broadening but left me
with an increased fondness for civilian life.

Re-establishing a law practice proved to be a long process
which took place in a practically empty office. Elowever, ad-
ditional years had their compensations and clients not only began

[ 904 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to dribble in, but even to follow my advice. I now find the
practice of patent law, in the area north of Boston, most interest-
ing and rewarding. In addition, the cooperative bank, still as-
sociated with my law office, has now grown considerably larger
and is an increasingly demanding client.

As a deserter from the bachelor ranks, I was married in 1948 to
Barbara Clark Leland (a first cousin of Lewis Perry) and survived
the seventh year without even an itch. Jock, aged seven, and Sally,
aged two, are our proud contributions to society. One of my
major triumphs in the past twenty-five years is the fact that they
seem rather fond of me. Another is that I am much in demand as
a bedtime story teller, toy repairer and piggy-backer.

Community work has also kept me busy, first as president of
the local Chamber of Commerce and now as chairman of the
Lowell Development and Industrial Commission. We have
launched a community-sponsored Industrial Park and have three
fine industries established in new one-story buildings. While I am
the world’s worst solicitor of gifts for church and charity, I do
enjoy community self help projects of this nature. We are only
twenty miles from Cambridge and might even annex both
Cambridge and the University before long.

ARTHUR JOHN PEHRKON

apprEss; Hq, Nebraska Military District, 21st & Woolworth, Omaha, Nebr.

BoRN: July 23, 1911, Cleveland, Ohio. Parents: John Pehrkon, Louise
Zekalowsky.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Ohio Wesleyan University, Delaware, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREE! S.B. 1932.

occupation: Army Officer.

STANLEY DEXTER PEIRCE

HOME appRESS: Washington Street, Rye, N.H.

OFFIcE appress: Mack Electronics, Division of Mack Trucks, Inc., 40 Leon
St., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: May 14, 1910, Topsfield, Mass. PARENTS: Thomas Wentworth Peirce,
’oo, Gabrielle Manigault Dexter.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1928-1933, 1934-1935. DEGREE: S.B, IN ELEC. ENG, 1932 (35).

[ 905 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

MarRiED: Margaret Francis MacBean-Stewart, April, 1934, Wellington, New
Zealand (divorced 1937); Jill Evelyn Trelawney Chandor, May 3, 1943,
Wenham, Mass. (divorced 1947); Eleanor Nancy Sheehan Bowen, Dec.
8, 1948, Alexandria, Va. cHiLpren: Gabrielle Manigault, Dec. 2, 1935;
Camilla Trelawney, April 14, 1944; Susan Dexter, Sept. 23, 1949; Eleanor
Nancy, Nov. 11, 1951; Stanley Dexter, Jr.. Aug. 26, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Wentworth Peirce, ’33; Robert Knight Peirce, 39.
occupation: Electronic and electromechanical designing and manufacturing

for industry and Department of Defense, executive engineer 1/c gov-
ernment and industrial liaison.

MEMBER OF: Registered professional engineer, District of Columbia, Har-
vard Club of Boston; Union Boat Club; American Society of Naval
Engineers; Institute of Navigation, American Ordnance Association,
Armed Forces Communications and Electronics Association.

COLLEGE was interrupted and receipt of a degree delayed by
my joining the Byrd Antarctic Expedition, from which I re-
turned to receive my S.B. from the Engineering School in 1935.
I went to work immediately as a radio engineer for the General
Electric Company.

I suppose as I look back, I fared no worse and perhaps on the
average a good deal better than a lot of us who got out of college
during that difficult period. The menial tasks and seeming lack
of opportunity were frustrating. Nevertheless I gained a certain
amount of good engineering experience. ‘This period came to an
end with a commission in the Signal Corps, February, 1942. I
spent a most interesting year in England receiving a grounding in
the brand new field of radar. I was then assigned to 60 Group
RAF where I commanded ground radar installations in northern
Scotland and the Orkneys, A somewhat pointless period followed
back in the States where I did technical staff work in the east
coast aircraft warning system. My World War II career ended
at Wright Field, as a captain directing a development project in
radar navigation, This last job started the pattern of my career
since then.

In 1946 during the complete demobilization of military per-
sonnel, equipment and effort, I was back in my prewar job.
However, in a short time, as the guided missile program began to
gather impetus, I was back in the development of military equip-
ment with which in some capacity or other I have been associated

[ 906 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ever since. First I was an engineer at Fairchild’s Pilotless Plane
Division in the LARK development program, an early ground to
air missile, crude by present standards, which helped point the way
to present day accomplishments. As the LARK program “phased-
out” in favor of more promising ones I transferred to the Navy’s
Bureau of Aeronautics where [ managed development projects
which have now materialized into acceptable tactical systems for
Fleet use. I initiated the development and carried through to the
prototype stage the guidance system which is now in use in the
REGULUS missile, likewise a system for close support bombing
for the Marine Corps which reached prototype test in actual
combat in Korea and later a guidance system that now is giving
excellent results in the SPARROW missile.

Although there are many good points and advantages in work-
ing as a government engineer, in most cases, with mine no excep-
tion, opportunities beckon sooner or later back into industry. I
have been in the Boston area the past four years. I’m still essen-
tially in work involving the development and manufacture of
electronic and electro-mechanical military equipment. First, as
manager of the Government Contracts Department at Control
Engineering in Norwood, Massachusetts, and now I am one of
the entrepreneurs, so to speak, in a new division of Mack Trucks,
Inc. We have recently organized what is known as Mack Elec-
tronics in Boston to diversify the corporation’s efforts into the
fields of electronics, electro-mechanics and solid state devices
for the Department of Defense and industry.

As to locations, Witch Hill, Topsfield, Massachusetts, was
home base until after World War II. My first child, Gay, was
born there in 1935. My mother died shortly before World War
II, but my step-father, Howard Brown, Jack’s wife, Grace and
stepsisters held the fort here until we all returned from the serv-
ice. Camilla was born at Mitchel Field in 1944. By this time,
with all of us having families of our own, the big place was dis-
banded. Nancy and I with Camilla and Gay moved to Washing-
ton in late 1948. Susan and Eleanor were born there. Gay later
finished school in San Francisco and has remained there since as a
physiotherapist in the Shriner’s Hospital. Since I returned to the
Boston area we have been living first in Beverly Farms. There

[ 907 ]

ae |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

the long succession of daughters was broken, our first son, Dexter,
was born August, 1954. Recently we bought a home of our own
and settled down in Rye, New Hampshire.

LeROY PEMBERTON

HOME ADDRESS: 437 Berkley Rd., Haverford, Pa.

OFFICE appREss: Wyeth Laboratories, P.O. Box 8299, Philadelphia 1, Pa.

BORN: Sept. 22, 1910, Concord, Mass. parents: Clifford Pemberton, Anita
LeRoy.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932 (33).

marrieD: Ruth B. Longnecker, June 3, 1950. cHiLp: Clifford Hollingsworth,
March 1, 1952. —

occuPaTIon: Assistant general credit manager, Wyeth Laboratories, Inc.,
Division of American Home Products Corporation, ethical drug manu-
facturer.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Union Benevolent Association, since 1949.

EVERY rule seems to have its exception; that the moss gdthered
while I rolled from one job to another after graduation bears this
out. From very short careers in selling vacuum cleaners and
motor oil and a slightly longer one on an assembly line making
electrical appliances, I drifted into the tire recapping business in
1935 and had my own company two years before the war. Be-
cause of my experience in this field | was commissioned in 1942
and served in the Ordnance Department in this country and
the Philippines until discharged as a captain in 1946.

After winding up my tire business I was determined to settle
down with some large firm for the rest of my days, but an article
on a new type of bookkeeping service to help small businessmen
caught my eye. Despite my resolve to become the solid type of
wage earner I quickly found myself the owner of a “Mail-Me-
Monday” franchise enthusiastically trying to sell better bookkeep-
ing to the thousands of small businessmen in Philadelphia. It
soon became apparent that I was more successful at acquiring
partners than clients. Then on New Year’s Eve, 1948, came the
meeting that was to change the wandering course of my life.

Ruth and I were married in June, 1950, and in January, 1951, I
succeeded in Janding my present position with Wyeth Labora-

[ 908 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tories. Two years later we had a small son and a house, and this
stone had very definitely stopped rolling.

Work in the field of credit is rewarding in the sense that it con-
firms constantly the value of the homely virtues. It is surprising
how honest the overwhelming majority of our people are. Then,
too, it has been particularly gratifying to me to find the type of
work in which the varied experiences in my past at last prove
valuable.

For a hobby I find woodworking with power tools both useful
and absorbing. My carpentry may not be of the best, but my son
admires it, particularly when building something for him. At
present there are strong indications that we may form another
partnership in HO trains.

Although my forebears were Quakers, I was brought up an
Episcopalian. The leadership of my grandfather who was a
minister in that church and my years at Kent School have given
me a firm background in that faith, Politically, I have always
been a Republican, but I enthusiastically voted for Roosevelt in
1932 and again in 1936. However, not liking the trend towards
socialism I began to detect, I returned to the party that reflects
more truly my respect for the laws of supply and demand. I am
an enthusiastic booster for “Ike” today.

CHRISTIAN BAIRD PEPER

HOME ADDRESS: 6334 McPherson St, University City 5, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jones, Hocker, Grand, Peper, Martin & Roudebush, Suite
808, 407 N. Eighth St., St. Louis 1, Mo.

BORN: Dec. 5, 1910, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Clarence F. Peper, Mary Chris-
tine Baird.

PREPARED aT: St. Louis University High School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1930, 1931-1932. DEGREES: A.B. Cut laude, 1932; LL.B.
(Washington Univ.), 1935; uL.m. (Yale Univ.), 1937.

marrigep: Ethel Chenault Kingsland, June 5, 1935, St. Louis, Mo. CHILDREN:
Catherine Kingsland, May 26, 1936; Anne Chenault, April 15, 19393
Christian Baird, Sept. 12, 1941.

occupation: Lawyer, partner, Jones, Hocker, Grand, Peper, Martin &
Roudebush.

OFFICES HELD: Editor, Washington University Law Quarterly, 1934-35,
Missouri Bar Journal, 1942-44; lecturer in law, Washington University

[ 909 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Law School, since 1943, St. Louis University Law School, since 1954;
partner, A. G. Edwards & Sons, since 1945; president, St. Charles Gas
Corporation, since 1954; director, St. Louis Steel Casting Inc., Pan
American Realty Corporation, Catholic Preparatory School for Boys,
Inc., Life Insurance Company of Missouri, and others.

MEMBER OF: Order of the Coif; Phi Delta Phi, Eta Sigma Phi; American,
Missouri and St. Louis Bar Assoctations; American Archaeological So-
ciety; Missouri Historical Society; Harvard Club of St. Louis; Noon-
day Club; Old Warson Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Corporate Policy under the Surtax on Undistributed Profits,”
22 Washington University Law Quarterly 1; “The Lawyer and the
Controller consider Corporate Morality,” The Controller, October,
1953; various other legal notes.

A CLASSICS concentration proved a xrivd és aieAi, and my senior
reading of the Republic was prophetic of a life concerned with
justice. An LL.B, at Washington University led to a year of resi-
dence at Yale Law School as a Sterling Fellow. Since 1936 there
remain only the short and simple annals of a metropolitan law
practice. Part lawyer, part businessman, part teacher, I have lived
an active and share a little of the contemplative life. As a lawyer
I have been attracted to business and tax transactions where the
counselor can play a creative rdle in shaping affairs. ‘This type of
practice in turn has led to a partnership in the brokerage firm of
A. G. Edwards & Sons and the presidency of a small gas utility —
areas where legal and economic peripheries merge.

Academically, since 1943, I have lectured at the Washington
University Law School and later at St. Louis University, and have
run through much of the law curriculum at the intermittent rate
of three hours a week; I have been a founder of the St. Louis
Priory School; I have introduced my children to the humanities.

Ours is a Harvard-Radcliffe marriage, each Class of 1932, and
our shared recollections of college include separate but equal
courses under John Lowes and Robert Hillyer. Our daughter,
Anne, is now a Radcliffe freshman; her elder sister, Catherine, in
June completes her senior year at Manhattanville and hopes this
fall to enter Radcliffe Graduate School, our son, Christian, pre-
pares for Harvard, Class of 1963, as a sophomore at the Thomas
Jefferson School. I report that all our children are Grecians,

acquainted with both the ancient languages — docti sermones
utriusque linguae.

[910 ]

 

'
;

wry

2 ayant gt ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

‘JOHN FORBES PERKINS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 5621 S. Kenwood Ave., Chicago 37, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Physiology, University of Chicago, 951 E. 58th
St., Chicago, Ill.

BORN: Feb. 9, 1909, Milton, Mass, PARENTS: John Forbes Perkins, ’99, Mary
Coolidge.

PREPARED AT: Thacher School, Ojai, Calif.; Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: M.D., 1936.

MARRIED: Frances Jackson Williams, July 1, 1938, Dover, Mass. CHILDREN:
Mary Coolidge, May §, 1943; Katharine, Aug. 31, 1949; John Forbes,
3d, Nov. 21, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Malcolm Donald Perkins, °36, LL.B., 1939.

occuPATION: Associate professor of physiology, University of Chicago.

OFFICES HELD: West surgical house officer, Massachusetts General Hos-
pital, 1937-38, tutor in Biochemical Sciences, Harvard University,
1942-43; Austin teaching fellow, 1942-43; instructor in physiology, 1944-
47, Harvard Medical School; assistant professor, 1947-53, associate
professor of physiology, since 1953, University of Chicago.

MEMBER OF: American Physiological Society; Sigma Xi; New York Acad-
emy of Sciences; Tavern Club of Boston; Alpha Kappa Kappa Medical
Fraternity; Cruising Club of America.

PUBLICATIONS: Scientific papers in physiological or medical jounrnals on
“Reflex nature of shivering,” “Effects of cold on peripheral circula-
tion;” “Cooling as a stimulus to smooth muscles;” “Rapid evaluation
of basic functions of lung using devices to measure oxygen (“Oxi-
meter”) in blood and expired air,” “Medical instrumentation (record-
ing oximeters, temperature measurements).”

THIS account might be termed “The Education of a Sheltered

Bostonian.” The process was accelerated in medical school by

getting to know 124 classmates from all over, by seeing patients

from all walks of life, many of whom bore oppressive burdens
gallantly, by delivering babies in people’s houses. In the fourth
year many new principles were learned during a month spent in

a hospital in New York. Perhaps it was then that I began first

to wonder whether the Boston lady was entirely correct when

she said, “I have never had to travel because I have always lived
in Boston.”

A surgical internship, enriched by the kindness of certain
staff members and residents, in particular Drs. E. Hamlin, R.
Cohn and F. A. Simeone, was an experience I would not have
missed. In 1938, a three-year courtship was successful and Fran
Williams and I were married.

Lor]

—_____. L__-

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

mocracies such as we have in this country, and in England, though
perhaps to a lesser extent, offer something truly unique — namely
a respect for the dignity of man. My hat is off to the distinguished
members of our class, the columnists, public servants and others
who work so effectively, not only to maintain but to strengthen
that tradition!

BERNARD BERENSON PERRY

HOME ADDRESS: 915 E. Maxwell Lane, Bloomington, Ind.

OFFICE ADpREss: Indiana University Press, Indiana University, Bloomington,
Ind.

BORN: Dec, 16, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Ralph Barton Perry, PH. ’99,
Rachel Berenson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932, 1933-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1932 (34).

marriep: Marian Wynn, Oct. 2, 1941, Brooklyn, N.Y. (divorced 1947);
Mrs. Elizabeth B. Jennings Evans, Nov. 22, 1947, New York, N.Y.
CHILDREN: Marjorie, Feb. 6, 1945 (stepdaughter); David, Oct. 10, 1948;
Rachel, Aug. 29, 1049.

HARVARD BROTHER: Ralph Barton Perry, Jr., ’29.

occuPaTion: Director, Indiana University Press, in charge of Indiana Uni-
versity’s official book publishing operation since 1950.

OFFICES HELD: Sales representative, College Department, W. W. Norton &
Company, New York City, 1934-35; associate editor, FE. P, Dutton &
Company, New York City, 1936-40; associate editor and sales manager,
Vanguard Press, 1940-45; general manager, A. A. Wynn, Inc. New
York City, 1945-49; visiting professor in creative writing, University
of New Mexico, 1950; member-at-large, executive board, Association
of American University Presses, 1956-57.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Contributed two chapters to a book entitled, Writing for
Pleasure and Profit, edited by Warren Bower, Lippincott, contributed
an article to Book-of-the-Month Club News and book review in the
Indianapolis News and an article in the New York Times Book Section.

CONSIDERING the exciting and spectacular events occurring
in the world since our Class graduated, I would say that my life
has been uneventful. In the middle of college I lost the best part
of two years because of illness, spending my junior year at the
University of North Carolina, which I liked very much, and re-
turning to Harvard for senior year and to get my degree in 1934.

[914 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

It seemed calamitous at the time not to graduate with the Class,
but it soon became clear that it made little difference.

After a delightful summer in Europe in 1934, I started in the
publishing business in the humble capacity of college textbook
salesman for a small firm and found that [ didn’t care much for
business travel or for textbooks. Thus, in 1936 when the oppor-
tunity came, I joined the “trade” department of E. P, Dutton and
worked with books published for the general audience. I was
never the type of person who knew at once on entering college
just what subject to major in and what his field of work would
be. In college I wandered from history to sociology to English
as major subjects while after graduation I drifted into book pub-
lishing chiefly because I found publishing offices so much more
friendly than those of advertising agencies where rudeness was
matched only by a general tough, go-to-hell attitude. Of course,
as members of my Class will know, this was a rough time for job
hunting and when I was taken on at twenty-five dollars a week
as a salesman, I was prouder than at any time since then. When
I was with Dutton, the firm was stagnating under a man of the old
school whose illiterate state was matched by a shrewd business
sense. However, after four years, it was clear that no new ideas
were welcome and the time had come to move on.

At Vanguard Press I had an interesting and challenging job
helping to revive the fortunes of a small firm which was in the
doldrums and badly in need of the Auntie Mame which has
recently put it into green pastures, While there, however, the
time came when further advancement was not possible, so I went
to work for a publisher of pulp magazines who wanted to go into
book publishing. This position called for building a new business
from the ground up and the experience of hiring the staff, looking
for good manuscripts and establishing the operation kept me
busy and showed me incidentally how much more profitable con-
fession magazines and comic books were than the “trade” or
general interest books with which I had been working. When
Mr. Wynn and I parted company over a difference in policy, I
joined the ranks of free-lancers for a while and in getting my
bearings was attracted by the field of university press publishing.

When [ heard that Indiana University was thinking of founding
a press, I got in touch with my classmate and former Harvard

[ors ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

roommate, Henry Veatch, professor of philosophy at Indiana
University, and soon had persuaded the president of Indiana
University to start a press with me in charge. Considering the
small sum of money that we had to start the operation, I have
often marveled since that I had the nerve. Anyway, in 1950 the
new publishing baby was born and today is established and
flourishing, the Indiana University Press imprint having appeared
on some ninety books, some scholarly monographs, some sturdy
non-fiction volumes, and some intelligent non-fiction for the
general audience of the type that interests me but which in this
day of best-sellers, spectaculars and book-club bonanzas is a
luxury and in need of financial support.

While the move from Scarsdale, New York, to the hills of
Bloomington, Indiana, was quite a wrench for my family and
myself, it has been an interesting and stimulating experience, and
we find the background and atmosphere of university life re-
warding. My wife and I, with and without the children, enjoy
summer travel, having taken a Grace Line cruise to South
America, and explored the West, especially California, New
Mexico, Utah and Wyoming. For contrast, some summers find
us back east on Long Island while others take us south to the
Great Smokies and the Blue Ridge in North Carolina and
Tennessee, Observing one’s faculty colleagues coming and going
abroad in a constant procession makes one particularly restless.
We hope one day soon to be off to Europe, even though not
eligible for the various Fulbright, Guggenheim, Rockefeller, etc.
grants and sabbaticals.

My father, Ralph Barton Perry, an honorary member of the
Class of 1896, received an A.M. in ’97, Ph.D. in ’99 and Litt.D. in
"44 at Harvard.

DEWOLF PERRY

HOME appress: 76 Meeting St., Charleston, S.C.

oFFice appress: St. Michael’s Church, Meeting & Broad Streets, Charleston,
S.C.

BorN: Nov. 24, 1908, New Haven, Conn. parents: James DeWolf Perry,
’92, Edith Dean Weir.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

[916]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; B.D. (Virginia Theological
Seminary), 1936.

marrige: Adela Carter Daingerfield, Sept. 27, 1939, Norfolk, Va. cumpren:
James DeWolf, Jr., June 24, 1941; John Haigh Daingerfield, June 6,
1944; Adela Weir, Dec. 1, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Weir Perry, 36.

OCCUPATION: Rector, St. Michael’s Church.

OFFICES HELD: Curate, Christ Church and St. Luke’s Church, Norfolk, Va.,
1936-39; vicar, The Church of St. Mary of the Harbor, Provincetown,
Mass., 1939-41; rector, St. John’s Church, Newtonville, Mass. 1941-47;
chaplain, Boston Psychopathic Hospital, 1945-47; currently, member,
Standing Committee, Diocese of South Carolina, examining chaplain,
and president, Charleston Ministerial Association.

MEMBER OF: The Society of the Cincinnati; Rhode Island Society (chaplain
and chaplain general); Charleston Club; various historical societies,

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional magazine articles.

HEADING for priesthood in the Episcopal Church while in col-
lege, a certain direction was set then and quite naturally has
marked my course since. The quarter century has brought
abundant variety and fullness.

The variety is characterized in many ways, geographical
variety being most apparent, or “wobbling back and forth across
the Mason-Dixon Line” as a friend once put it. In Virginia for
seminary training at Alexandria and then curacy in Norfolk, and
then back to Massachusetts to live and work in Provincetown and
later in Newtonville, then back south to live in Charleston, South
Carolina, brings variety in outlook and understanding of the
nation we cherish. In 1935, a year at Corpus Christi College,
Cambridge, England, brought a return to undergraduate life,
added vocational preparation and the opportunity to row for an-
other year, producing a trophy oar (about all I have to show for
nine years of crew), and ending at Henley.

Variety is also found along the way in such contrasts as paying
a pastoral call on a garbage collector’s family one afternoon and
that evening dining at the White House, though not officially;
or working on the wards of mental hospitals and serving as chap-
plain to the Archbishop of York, William Temple, at the corona-
tion of King George VI in May, 1937, an Alice-in-Wonderland
sort of experience that takes one into another world, Fullness is
found in the constant and complete life of the ministry, in fact
it is hard to conceive of any fuller sort of life.

[917]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Family-wise, the years have brought blessings, Kitty would not
be my wife if it were not for my sojourn in Norfolk; three fast-
growing children add to the domestic scene. Although I have
lived fifteen years in the South, we still try to get back to our
summer home in Princeton, Massachusetts, when possible, so my
New England root is still deep and well nourished.

If anyone compares the Freshman Red Book or Class Album
with this Twenty-fifth Report and wonders why my name is
shorter, the answer is that it is deliberate. The “James” went
out with the “Junior.” It avoids multiplicity in the family, I
hope, and besides, it is shorter.

When one moves as freely throughout the community as one
does in the ministry, rigid patterns of political concern usually do
not hold for long. Therefore, ever since college days I have been
one of that vast number of independent voters, incidentally the
ones who swing the elections. Anyone digging further into

motives for this pattern would probably find it parallels pretty
well the Anglican heritage in religion, which also makes a lot
of sense to me — a rejection of the extremes and strengthening of
the solid ground between, with stress on inclusiveness and whole-
ness. The danger and frequent accusation is that it is merely fence-
sitting and inability to come to definite conclusions, but actually

I am convinced that this sort of independence is the way of true
wisdom and understanding.

JOSEPH PERRY

HOME appress: 10 Mechanic St., Mattapoisett, Mass.

BorN: Nov. 27, 1910, Terieira, Azores. PARENTS: Anton Caton Perry,
Josephine Costa.

PREPARED AT: Fairhaven High School, Fairhaven, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-19209.

LEWIS FREDERICK PERRY

HOME appress: 26 Old Orchard Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Edward K. Perry Co., 322 Newbury St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 27, 1910, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: Edward King Perry,

Mar;
Rosamond Clark. arion

[918 ]

i
:
:
x

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Noble & Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1932.

marrieD: Alice de Vermandois Ware, Dec. 25, 1941, Boston, Mass, cum
DREN: Samuel Dexter, March 29, 1943; Elizabeth Lowell, Nov. 24,
1946; Alice de Vermandois, May 30, 1948.

occupaTion: Treasurer, Edward K. Perry Company, decorators.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1948-50, director, 1953-56, Footlight Club; treasurer,
King’s Chapel, Boston, since 1950; member board of managers, Boston
Music School, Inc., since 1955; member, Standing Committee, First
Church in Chestnut Hill, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Footlight Club; Pan American Society of New England.

IMMEDIATELY upon graduation, I joined my father in the
decorating firm of Edward K. Perry Company and have been
with that concern ever since except for five years in the Army,
We specialize in the fine painting and decorating of private homes
and special buildings at such well-known institutions as Harvard
and the Williamsburg Restoration, and although much of my
work is in the Boston area, I have been fairly active along the
greater part of the eastern seaboard and have recently been en-
gaged in such widely scattered projects as the decorating of the
Rockefeller Institute in New York City, the National Gallery
of Art in Washington and the Tryon Palace Restoration at New
Bern, North Carolina. While my work makes heavy demands on
my time and energy, I find it eminently satisfying and am par-
ticularly pleased with the opportunities which it has afforded for
closer contacts with many of my classmates and other college as-
sociates. While my main concern in the years prior to the War
was establishing myself in business, I was fortunate in having
several chances for extensive travel in Europe and in Latin
America.

In early 1941, I was inducted into the Army and after nine
months as an enlisted man, I attended Officer Candidate School at
Fort Monmouth, New Jersey, and was commissioned in the Signal
Corps. During my military service, I served with the 26th In-
fantry Division, with the War Department General Staff in the
Office of the Chief of Staff at the Pentagon Building, at Head-
quarters, U.S. Army Forces in the South Pacific Area, and at
13th Air Force Service Command, and was stationed at numerous
military installations in the United States, in the Caribbean area,
and in the South and Southwest Pacific. I also attended and was

[919]

—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

graduated from the Command and General Staff School, Fort
Leavenworth, Kansas. I was discharged from the service in Janu-
ary, 1946, with the rank of major.
The year 1941 was an eventful year for me in another way. I
had known Alice Ware for some time, and we had planned on
being married at the end of my year of military service. The out-
break of war and the consequent uncertainties of the times were
cause for apprehension and hesitation, but we decided that it was
better to live in the present rather than to wait for a future which
might never be, and so we were married very quietly on Christ-
mas Day, 1941. I have never regretted our decision and although
the war years were not conducive to an ordered family life, we
had some happy days together, made happier, I think, by the long
separations. Our boy, Sammie, was born while I was at Fort
Leavenworth. I saw very little of him until he was almost three
years old, and although I regret missing his early years, I am
thankful that I could be around after the war when his sisters,
Elizabeth and Alice, came to gladden and to bless our home. We
lived in Cambridge for a short time and then in Boston for several
years before moving to Chestnut Hill seven years ago. That
proved to be a very happy move, for we all love our home, our

neighbors and our surroundings, and I, for one, shall be happy if
we never move again.

 

5
\
|
|
|
|

My business and my family (especially the former, my wife
says) leave me little time for other activities, but I have a firm con-
viction in the value of our religious institutions, and I try to do»
my part in working for and supporting my church. For some
years now I have been treasurer of King’s Chapel, the first Uni-
tarian Church in America, and a church with which my wife’s
family has had long association. I also participate in the activities
of the First Church in Chestnut Hill and am particularly interested

in the development of a religious education program for our
children.

eo Pate
. Senate OIE.
ne pg tte LEE serine’
penne ANN EME

cp tgp nk ee
fe nh OP eat!

All in all, it has been a full and happy quarter-century, and if

the next twenty-five years only offer half as much, I shall still feel !
that mine has been a complete and contented life.

[920]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT WOODWARD PERRY

HOME ADDRESS: 8 E. Riverside Drive, Dedham, Mass. .

OFFICE appress: American Mutual Liabilicy Insurance Co., 142 Berkeley St,
Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 26, 1910, Lexington, Mass. parents: Philip Edgar Perry, Marion
Woodward.

PREPARED AT: Lexington High School, Lexington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MmarrieD: Louise Kent, April 29, 1937, Nashua, N.H. cump: Bradford Kent,
Oct. 26, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Insurance underwriter.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Riverdale Congregational Church Hob-Nobbers
Club, 1948-50, Riverdale P.T.A., 1953, 1954; member, Riverdale Cub
Scout Pack Committee, 1950-52.

MEMBER OF: The Railroad Enthusiasts, Inc.

THOUGH I had money and banking background, old man de-
pression stepped in to stifle any aspirations I had along those lines.
There followed a succession of periods of temporary jobs. These
welcome interludes included efforts as a brush salesman, door-to-
door orange salesman, department store worker, grocery clerk,
filling station attendant, office equipment salesman and, finally in
1939, insurance underwriting —a task at which I am still em-
ployed.

So much for the drab subject of work. Jumping back a bit,
I think the most important event of my life occurred during a
vacation in ’36, which took my Dad and me on a swing out
through the Middle West in search of a stalwart example of the
near-to-extinct iron horse. To explain, Dad and I were charter
members of an organization presently known as “The Railroad
Enthusiasts, Inc.,” a group of folks who enjoy railroading in its
many phases, including photography, visiting freight and passenger
yards and terminals or even, as in our case, just plain driving out
to watch ’em go by. I guess some of the small boy in us never
did wear off! I will never forget the fun we had on many such
trips. After a swell week in Ohio and New York, we turned back
east through Vermont and put up for the night at a small hostelry
near Conway, New Hampshire, where I met up with a most
attractive gal who, in an unguarded moment the following year,

agreed to become my better half. We have a son, Bradford, now

[921]

_— Le

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

fourteen, who at the moment is busily engaged with his pal in
constructing a cage for his latest acquisition, a lone lorn hamster,
(Thank God, there aren’t two of them — yet.)

Yes, I spent some time in the World War II unpleasantries,
There were two years in the Infantry, half of which were spent
in the European theatre. (I had previously enjoyed a good hike,
and still do, but on my own time, thanks!) Following this un-
pleasant interlude it was back to underwriting again for me.

Politics — Thank God for Ike! Hobbies— most mundane;
gardening, and yes — still chasing after trains occasionally in the
family Chevvy, usually on weekends and sometimes accompanied
by my long-suffering family.

Digressing to a more serious note: near tragedy struck our little
group in February, 1956, when Louise was stricken with cancer.
Thanks to a miracle of X-ray treatments and timely discovery, we
have been advised that she has a good chance of complete re-

covery. We have every hope that the next twenty-five years will
be as full and enjoyable as the last.

ALBAN HAYES PETERSON

HOME ADDRESS: Maple Avenue, Cohocton, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 8 Jackson St., Batavia, N.Y.

BORN: June 14, 1907, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Albin Ivan Peterson, Julia
Agnes Hayes.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1032. DEGREE: S.B. 1932.

MarRIED: Barbara Bolles, 1934 (divorced 1939); Alice Elizabeth Ghirardini,
1939 (divorced 1944). cH: Julian William, Aug. 4, 1941.

occupation: Public Relations,

MEMBER OF: Reserve Officers’ Association; American Legion; Austro-
American Society.

 

cy ag tt ae NE PUIPP INE OLETE TE Rn ee ES " :
2 ECAR I EE

myibse

I AM sure that my tardiness in sending in the requested data (a
sin which I hereby publicly repent) has been largely due to a sub-
conscious refusal to face the fact that twenty-five years really
have elapsed since that afternoon in the Yard when we all moved
the tassel which was obstructing the vision of the right eye to a
position where it would obstruct the vision of the left... or
was it the other way round? If a lost weekend is a tragedy, how

[ 922 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

shall we describe mislaid years? Does anybody know what
happened to 1937, for instance? And there are a few others I’m
not so sure about.

But in the thirties, most of us had years, and little else, to spare.
Mine were spent in and around Boston at a variety of hard-come-
by occupations including editorial writing for a chain of rural
weeklies, a brief fling at the small loan business, feature story
writing for the Boston Sunday papers, being a term supervisor
and eventually Assistant State Director of the Federal Writers’
Project and publicity man for various political and fund-raising
campaigns.

After Pearl Harbor, I approached the Navy hopefully, thinking
that my Naval R.O.T.C. training at Harvard might qualify me for
a blue uniform but the years of desk work combined with eating
too regularly betrayed me at the physical examination. When the
scale indicator passed the 240-pound mark and the yard stick
showed the usual 6’ 4%” in height, I was told to go away and
lose an inch in stature or twenty-five pounds, whichever was
easier. Nine months in a defense plant, tossing boxes of bomb
triggers and motor parts about for ten or more hours a day —
wurra, wurra! — got rid of the blubber and I got the uniform.
At about this time some unknown but mortal enemy in “BuPers”
decided that I had all of the repulsive qualities necessary for a
good Beachmaster and, after special Amphib training, it was in
this capacity that I served out the war in the Pacific.

Back in Boston by February, 1946, I went to work immediately
as publicity director for the Republican State Committee in a
campaign which resulted in the election of Cabot Lodge to the
Senate, Christian Herter to the House and Bob Bradford to the
governorship.

An opportunity to work with the Information Services Branch
of the Army in Austria arose in 1948 and, anxious as I was to have
a first hand view of postwar Europe, I jumped at the chance. It
Was an exciting time and place and I would not have missed it.
The financial rewards were nothing to write home about but
" many other things were. When the control of civil affairs passed
over to the State Department in 1950, I was invited to stay on as
a foreign service officer and did so until 1953, when bad health
and a growing sense of homesickness brought me back to the New

[ 923 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

York-New England area which, in spice of its many obvious
shortcomings, I am still naive enough to believe the most desirable
place on earth to live.

My chief preoccupation currently is with my out-size fifteen-
year-old son who, as of this moment, wishes to be neither Right
nor President but merely an All-American tackle. As a normal
American parent I want him to be all three. Regardless of the
outcome of this strength, I foresee a future in which my major
concerns will be the humdrum business of earning a living and the
welfare of my family.

My bed-rock convictions are few, although I have been ac-
cused by admiring (?) friends of having more opinions than a
full-grown porcupine has quills. It is true that at any suitable
sisnal—the dropping of a hat or the sunset gun or just a
momentary lull in the conversation —I am prepared to shyly
interpolate ten or twelve thousand well-chosen words on such
subjects as foreign policy, domestic affairs, television programs,
women’s hair-dos, the Russian Air Force, the care and breeding
of Schnauzers, the Battle of Tours, Salvador Dali, modern educa-

tion and/or who killed Cock Robin. Anybody want to listen?

CHARLES DAVID PETERSON

HOME appress: 414 S. Boulevard, Petersburg, Va.
OFFice appress: Army Logistics Management Center, Fort Lee, Va.

Born: April 28, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Charles Edward Peterson,
Elizabeth Gertrude Larkin.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932(48); t1.8. (George Wash-
ington Univ.), 1951; Command and General Staff College, U.S. Army,

Armed Forces Staff College, 1954, Army Supply Management Course,
1954.

marrigep: Alice Helen Ginac, Jan. 29, 1940, Burlington, Vt. cup: Carol
Anne, July 9, 1948.

occupation: Lieutenant Colonel, US. Army, director, Requirements Man-
agement Course, Army Logistics Management Center.
LITTLE did I realize that, when I accepted a nicely tailored

uniform from the Army back in 1931 as a member of the Harvard
R.O.T.C. Unit, I would wind up as an officer in the Regular

[924]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Army. However, the year 1957 finds me in that position. I had
planned a career in business and had so stated in the Senior Class
Album. As a matter of fact, I had completed almost ten years
with a major oil company in various capacities too numerous to
mention when in March, 1942, I received the “official greetings
and salutations” that changed all my plans. Although my com-
mission was in Field Artillery, the Army apparently decided that
my civilian talents were more important and in a short time I
found myself back in the oil business, military style, supplying
our forces and those of our Allies in Africa and later in Italy. My
major military decorations were the Legion of Merit and the
Bronze Star. Upon my return to the States in 1946, I was given
the job of assisting the State Department finalize the Lend-Lease
petroleum accounts of the United Kingdom and French Govern-
ments, which gave me the opportunity to visit the parts of Europe
that I missed during the War.

In 1947 I made what I consider the most important decision that
I shall ever make and decided to accept a direct commission in
the Regular Army. I had made many fine friends in the Army
during World War II and I enjoyed the travel. Further, I had
come to realize that it would be a long time before world con-
ditions would become stable, and saw the possibility of being
recalled again to active duty if I left the service. It turned out
that my decision was correct because I would certainly have been
recalled in 1950 when hostilities erupted in Korea.

From 1947 to 1951, I was assigned to duty in Washington, D.C.,
first with the Army-Navy Petroleum Board of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff and later with the Munitions Board Petroleum Committee.
In 1951 I again went overseas, this time to the Far East Command,
where I was given the responsibility for the supply of petroleum
to all U.N. and ROK forces. Returning to the States in late 1953,
I went to the Armed Forces Staff College at Norfolk as a student.

Since graduation in late 1954, I find myself in the role of school
teacher, a role I swore never to play, at the Army Logistics
Management Center at Fort Lee, Virginia. The instruction is
tailored after the Advanced Management Program of the Busi-
ness School. As a matter of interest, the curriculum was developed
by graduates of the school and the case method is used, Actually
the assignment has been most enjoyable.

[925]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

As can be readily understood, Army life is hard on a family,
You are no sooner settled in one place, then off again to another
to start the cycle all over again. I still find time for hobbies, how-
ever. Listed in order of importance, they are do-it-yourself (a
“must”), photography, and golf (duffer variety).

Another eight years and I shall have to start out on my third
career, unless some “stars” fall my way in the interim. With
this prospect in view, I acquired an LL.B, in 1951 as a hedge;
however, I might end up in the profession I once dreaded —
teaching — now that I have been exposed to it.

My sole wish now is that I shall stay where I am or at least

in the U.S. until after the Twenty-fifth, so that I can renew old
acquaintances,

JAMES CRONON PHELPS

HOME appress: 1848 Paul Ave., Bethlehem, Pa.

oFFIce ApprEss: Bethlehem Steel Co., 701 E. Third St., Bethlehem, Pa.

BorN: Dec. 31, 1911, Tuxedo Park, N.Y. parents: Charles Edward Phelps,
Gertrude Mae Cronon.

PREPARED AT: Nyack High School, Nyack, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; LL.B. cumt laude, 1935.

Marnie: Claire Gertrude Gorman, July 2, 1938, Tenafly, N.J. CHILDREN:
Suzanne Claire, Dec. 9, 1941; Robert James, Nov. 7, 1944.

occupation: Lawyer; assistant to vice-president, Bethlehem Steel Company.

OFFicks HELD: Secretary, Mackay Radio & Telegraph Company, 1939-40;
secretary and general counsel, Postal Telegraph, Inc., 1940-43.

MEMBER or: American Bar Association; American Iron and Steel Insti-
tute; Industrial Relations Research Association; Harvard Club of New

York; Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Saucon Valley Country Club;
Bethlehem Club.

 

DURING the first three of the twenty-five years which this
Report is to review, I remained in Cambridge at the Law School.
Then going forth to offer to the world the fruits of seven years’
rigorous education, I was shocked to be told by an old and eminent
member of the Bar that what I had learned was interesting but
that it was what I would learn in the next ten years that would
really be useful to me. The observation was, of course, true
except that the pace of social and political change scems to have

[926 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

speeded since my informant completed his education because the
process of learning and meeting new problems and experiences
seems never-ending; and I hope it continues.

I began practising law in New York City with the firm of
Cadwalader, Wickersham, and Taft. After two years there I
took advantage of an opportunity to enter the legal department of
the old Postal Telegraph system. The depression had left the
company so financially weakened that it was forced into a
bankruptcy reorganization and later into dissolution by way of a
merger; but that same fact which made employment with the
company undesirable for older lawyers with greater family re-
sponsibilities turned to my advantage by causing me to advance
more rapidly than I could otherwise have expected. When I left
five years later I was secretary of the company and assistant
general counsel in charge of the intra-mural legal department. In
that capacity I had an intensive experience in almost all branches
of the law, spiced with the romance and excitement of helping to
run a communications business which reached all parts of the
world. ,

When Postal was on the verge of going out of business, I began
to look for new opportunities, and I was offered a position in the
industrial and public relations department of Bethlehem Steel
Company where I would specialize in labor law. Somewhat
reluctantly I accepted. My wife and I were confirmed New
Yorkers, and we were not entirely convinced that we wanted to
move to Bethlehem. However, a little mature reflection as I rode
to and from the office on rush hour subway trains decided me.
In fourteen years at Bethlehem I have yet to regret the change.
The steel industry is a complex business which continually
fascinates me. Although I would hardly call what I am doing the
practice of Jaw in the classical sense, work in the industrial
relations field is often frustrating, sometimes rewarding, always
stimulating and interesting, and never dull.

I sometimes suspect that my wife, whose consuming interest
when we were married was the New York stage, is somewhat
surprised, too, to find herself in Pennsylvania. However, we are
close enough to New York to spend an occasional evening or
weekend there and we enjoy our life in Bethlehem. We spend our
summers in the Poconos where the children try to tempt me to

[927]

L

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

engage in physical activities which are the principal cause of m

realization that it has been twenty-five years indeed since | a
parted from college.

ROBERT HENRY SHEPARD PHILLIPS
HOME apprEss: 45 E. 28th St, New York 16, N.Y.

OFFIcE ADDRESS: New York Public Library, Room 84, Fifth Avenue & 42d
Street, New York 18, N.Y.

BoRN: March 30, 1911, Sound Beach, Conn, Parents: Henry Albert Phillips,
Margaret Wheeler Shepard.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1932; LL.B. (Fordham
Univ.), 1939.

UNMARRIED,

occupation: Librarian, Music Division, New York Public Library.

cere
Le EY se CEP
FE PARES PRONE

FROM 1932 to 1934, I was associate editor of Recorded Music,
a magazine reviewing phonograph records. After this failed, I
went to work for the law firm of Wise, Shepard & Houghton.
From 1935 to 1939, I attended evening classes at Fordham Uni-
versity Law School (downtown division) and in 1940, I was ad-
mitted to practice in New York State. In March, 1942, I was
inducted into the Army of the United States, where I remained
until November, 1945, serving in various parts of this country and
abroad, in England, France, Germany, etc. After a further two
years with the aforementioned law firm, I became a member of
the staff of the Music Division of the New York Public Library
(Reference Department), where I still am. At present, I am {

i
completing the requirements for a degree at the School of Library '
Service of Columbia University.

arent ve

acre NITE AN A

eonetins OEM
pape ene TTR

em NENG ROT ID TREES

GRANT JULIUS PICK

HOME ADpRESS: 100 Hogarth Lane, Glencoe, Ill.
orFice appress: c/o George Pick & Co., 120 S, LaSalle St., Chicago, Ill.

BORN: Dec. 29, 1910, Chicago, Ill. parents: George Pick, Frieda Rosenthal.
preparep AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, III.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-2932. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932} M.BAy
1934-

[928 ]

a °

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Helen R. Block, Nov. 2, 1940, Highland Park, Ill. (died April 12,
1955). CHILDREN: Helen Judith, April 19, 1942; James Block, July 29,
1943; Grant Daniel, Aug. 1, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, George Pick & Company, investments.

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1946-56, president, 1948-56, board of directors, Mi-
chael Reese Hospital, Chicago; member board of directors, Jewish
Federation of Chicago, 1947-51; member, South Side Planning Board,
Chicago, 1948-56; member executive committee, Health Division, Wel-
fare Council of Metropolitan Chicago, 1951-56.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa (1931); Standard Club; Mid-Day Club; Down-
town Club; Lake Shore Country Club, Glencoe, Ill.; Art Institute of
Chicago (governing life member).

AFTER graduation I attended the Harvard School of Business
Administration for two years. I found this course uninspiring
after the stimulation of my undergraduate work, and the faculty,
at that time, seemed to be in a state of shock from not having
anticipated the changing conditions of the depression, However,
I found the factual grounding obtained here to be useful in later
life. During 1934 and 1935, I worked briefly for an investment
counseling firm in Chicago, and then entered the family business
(investments). During the five years prior to the war, I devoted
myself to learning the essentials of this business, which consisted
mainly of the management of investment portfolios.

In the fall of 1940, I was married and shortly thereafter (May,
1941) found myself at Selfridge Field, Michigan, as a pre-Pear]
Harbor draftee in the Air Corps. The prevailing philosophy of
that summer was well expressed by the song hit, “Good-Bye Dear, _

Tl Be Back In A Year.” My main accomplishment during this
period was the acquisition of the limited skills involved in being
a weather observer, which entitled me to have a Specialist Fifth
Class rating appended to my rank of private. At the end of 1941,
I was released from service, men over twenty-eight being looked
upon at that moment as being more trouble than they were worth.
The impact of Pearl Harbor, however, resulted in a change in
this thinking and I found myself back in service in January, 1942.
I was fortunate in finding meteorology a congenial assignment
and advanced from weather observer to weather forecaster, after
a five months’ course at Chanute Field, Illinois.

The responsibility of being a weather forecaster was not too
onerous, although the elements in this country have a curious

[929 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

way of defeating in some respects one forecast out of five. ]

was enabled to go to the Air Corps Officers’ Training School at

Miami Beach in early 1943, and returned to weather forecasting

as an officer in April of that year. During the summer of 1943,

I was attached to the 435th Troop Carrier Group, with which

Group I spent the next two years in this country and subsequently

in England, Italy and France. This Troop Carrier Group par-

ticipated in the invasions of Normandy, Southern France, Holland
and Germany. I found it a rewarding experience to be attached
to so fine a group for so long a period of time. Particularly in
England, weather forecasting is more of an art than a science,
but I received increasing recognition from the group pilots as I
acquired more skill and as they acquired more tolerance of my
fallibility as a forecaster. In 1945, I was separated from the service
in the grade of captain, and returned to my family which now
contained two children, and my work. I found that the war had
had the effect upon me of wanting to be responsible for some-
thing more than my family and the investment business which had
been carried on by an elder brother during the war years.

In 1947 my search along these lines was rewarded when I was
asked to assume the presidency of the board of directors of
Michael Reese Hospital which is the largest voluntary hospital
west of the Alleghenys (goo beds), Since 1947 I have devoted all
my time not needed by my business to the affairs of this institu-
tion. This involves attendance at more than one hundred board
and committee meetings a year. The Michael Reese Hospital has

made very significant progress during the past ten years, and it —

has been a rich experience for me to have my horizons broadened
through a dedicated interest to an institution whose activities
impinge upon almost every facet of metropolitan living, including
slum clearance programs and a vital medical research program.
The story of the accomplishments of the hospital has recently
been recounted by a well-known author, Lucy Freeman, in the
book Hospital in Action, published by Rand McNally & Com-
any.
F My wife succumbed to a malignancy in April, 1955, and since
that time I have been trying to retie the threads of my life into a

workable pattern, finding my greatest consolations in my children
and my work at the hospital.

[ 930 ]

i.
3
¢

 

att ROE
etme cones

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CARL DALE PIERCE

HOME ADDRESS: 229 Woodland Rd., Woonsocket, R.I.

OFFIcE appress: U.S. Rubber Co., Woonsocket, R.I.

BoRN: Dec. 16, 1909, St. Louis, Mo. parents: George Abel Pierce, Nora Dale.

_ PREPARED AT: Berea High School, Berea, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1932.

MarrieD: Helen M. Robinson, June 14, 1941, Lexington, Mass. cHmpren:
Brien, April 2, 1942; Barbara, Oct. 2, 1943; Diana, Nov. 9, 1945; Richard,
May 28, 1950.

occupation: Controller, Woonsocket Plant of U.S. Rubber Company, manu-
facturing footwear, foam sponge and specialties.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Globe Church, Woonsocket, 1950-53; institutional
representative, Boy Scouts of America, 1951-53; member board of
directors, Citizens League of Woonsocket, 1952-55, member advisory
board, Woonsocket Y.W.C.A., 1952-56.

MEMBER OF: Universalist Society of Woonsocket; National Office Manage-—
ment Association, National Association of Cost Accountants; Rhode
Island Public Expenditure Council.

I HAVE been engaged in industrial control and accounting work
since leaving college. When I was young, my dreams envisaged
a success beyond my present attainment. I can look back, how-
ever, on the accomplishments of an industrial controller’s life.
They might have been bigger, I suppose, and the rewards thereof,
but there is still more to do.

I have the best wife and the four best children in the world.
We have a lot of fun at home, which also includes two dogs, a cat,
various birds, snakes, pet mice and models of practically every-
thing under the sun, constructed by my boys. Except for a
pleasant two weeks spent in Bermuda and an almost-as-pleasant
vacation in the Virgin Islands, we have never left the continental
borders of the United States and Canada. We like mountain-trail
hiking, fishing, horseback riding, swimming, etc., and during the
past few years have spent a considerable amount of time on color
photography.

We are Congregationalists, though at present we are attending
the local Universalist Church. Politically, we usually vote Re-
publican, but we are not pig-headed on the subject. Middle-
roaders are pretty much the same in both parties. The difference
is that they don’t seem to be able to run the Democratic party.

[931 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932
+ ELLSWORTH KENNETH PIERCE

BorN: July 7, 1910, Lynn, Mass. parents: George Whittemore Pierce,
Mary Boot.

PREPARED AT: Saugus High School, Saugus, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

piep: Killed in action, Dec. 31, 1944, in Belgium.

AFTER leaving college Pierce was engaged in the advertising

business in Boston. In 1943 he entered military service and served
overseas with the 4th Armored Division.

GEORGE MANUEL PIKE

HOME ADDRESS: 44 Chapin Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 137 Bay State Rd., Boston 15, Mass.

BorN: Dec. 18, 1910, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: David Charles Pike, Dora
Hermanson.

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. C47 laude, 1932; M.D. 1936.
marRieD: Frances Yarchin, July 1, 1936, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Elizabeth,
Feb. 10, 1942; William, March 5, 1943; Daniel, March 1, 1947.
OCCUPATION: Physician.
WHEN I made the decision, at some point in college, to go to
medical school, the pattern for the subsequent years was set, Four
years at medical school were followed by four years of hospital
training. One year in practice prior to the war, then almost four
years of military service, and finally in 1946 I settled down to the
practice of internal medicine in Boston.
One child before the war, one during the war, and one after
it completed our family. For recreation 1 review books for a
Boston newspaper, Politically I am a registered Democrat.

+ WALLACE KEATING PINFOLD

Born: March 2, 1910, Hamilton, Ohio. parents: Wallace Gant Pinfold,
Anna Keating.

PREPARED AT: Hughes High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932, DEGREE: A.B, magna cum laude, 1932.
DIED: June 23, 1933, International Falls, Minn.

PINFOLD was elected a member of Phi Beta Kappa.
[932 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THOMAS COULSON PINKERTON

HOME ADDRESS: 1609 Park Ave., Baltimore 17, Md.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene & Public Health, Balti-

. more, Md.
BORN: Oct. 18, 1909, Ardmore, Pa. parents: Thomas Coulson Pinkerton,

Gertrude Ann Caskin.
PREPARED AT: Park Lodge School, Pau, France.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREE: S.B. (Johns Hopkins Univ.), 1949.
marRIED: Berthalea Lidden, August, 1936, New York, N.Y. (divorced 1946).
OccUPATION: Administrative assistant, Baltimore Study of Health and Ad-
justment, Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene & Public Health.
MEMBER OF: Johns Hopkins Club,

FROM 1932 until 1937, I managed to survive the depression, but
not quite sure how.. My first job, in 1933, was operating various
punch-presses for the Atlas Doll and Toy Company in Baltimore.
Fifty hours a week at sixteen cents an hour, my take-home pay
was eight dollars a week. I adjourned to New York in 1935. I
worked as enumerator on the U.S. Public Health Survey, later
as a “newspaperman” on the WPA Theatre Project. By now I was
making some twenty-three dollars and seventy-five cents or so
a week. I got married in August, 1936, and had my wedding
supper with Lyman and Thelma Smith at their apartment in the
village. I remember having to leave early to go to some con-
spiratorial meeting or other. Actually, I was busy being an ardent
young Red during these five years. I finally got fed up and got
out.

In early 1938 I went to work for Arthur Murray in New York.
I turned out to be pretty good at it and went to Boston in the
fall of 1938. After two years’ experience there, I became branch
manager of the Hartford, Connecticut and Springfield, Massachu-
setts, studios in the fall of 1940. Business thrived, but just as I was
happily plotting up on my little graph the weekly gross of one
thousand dollars for the first week in December, 1941, somebody
stuck his head in the door and said, “The Japs have attacked
Pearl Harbor.”

I couldn’t see running a dance studio, so after much sweating,
[ enlisted in March, 1942, and did my basic and OCS training at
ort Belvoir and then spent a really hellish winter at Westover
tield trying to build roads out of ice and snow. Then, overseas in

[ 933 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

April, 1943, with the 871st Airborne Engineer Battalion. This was

a very interesting outfit. We built airstrips with miniature air-

borne equipment. I spent twenty months in New Guinea and ten

in the Philippines. I sailed from Manila on Thanksgiving, 1945,

and was discharged at Devens on Christmas Eve. My final rank

was Captain.

From 1946 until 1949 I decided to learn some engineering and
went to Johns Hopkins on the G.I. Bill. (I tried Harvard first, of
course, but the Dean said they were too full). I studied civil
engineering and got an S.B. in February, 1949. I found this was .
the wrong field but stuck with it. From 1949 to 1952, I held various
engineering jobs — bridge design, State Roads Commission, ship
repair, Bethlehem Steel Shipyard; airfield design, Whitman, Reg-

vardt — Grenier. One really exciting field job was with Frederick
Snare on the Chesapeake Bay Bridge.

I finally decided to quit engineering. Since 1950 I had been
teaching dancing again as a side line in children’s classes. I ex-
panded this into enough of a business to make a living and went
back to school in 1953 to study psychology. I had a full-time
graduate schedule and a part-time but hectic business and this
was too strenuous to make work at a Ph.D. level possible. How-
ever, work in Psychology Department led to my present job on
the Baltimore Health Study, a large scale, longitudinal public
health research project of great interest.

My main social, political (and maybe even religious) conviction
at the moment is that the most important thing going on in the
country and possibly in the world, is the process of desegregation,
Also, though it may seem like Twenty-fifth year sentimentality,
when I read President Pusey’s recent report, my immediate re-
action was that this could be second in importance only to the
above. To put one aspect of our own national internal develop-
ment and even more so, one phase of the development of one Uni-
versity ahead of, say, developments in the Arab states, or in India,
or in the Satellites; or ahead of developments in the whole field

of science, may seem out of focus. Nevertheless, I think a fully
desegregated Unietd States will be the greatest bulwark against
disaster anywhere in the world. And the solidest underpinning
for creative scientific and intellectual endeavor I can think of is a
solid and strengthened undergraduate school at Harvard.

[934]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM THEODORE PLATT

HOME ApDpREsS: 555 Grand Ave, St. Paul, Minn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: General Refineries, Inc., 27 N. Fourth St., Minneapolis, Minn.

BORN: Aug. 13, 1908, St. Paul, Minn. parents: Frank Bowman Platt, Cora
Krysher.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul Academy, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931.

marriepD: Mary Guest Smith, Dec. 30, 1933. CHILDREN: Mary Dustin, 1935;
Elizabeth, 1936; William Theodore, Jr., 1938; Virginia, 1939; C. Thomas,
1942.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, General Refineries, Inc., manufacturer and re-
finer of precious metal alloys.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Platt Hardware Company, Ottawa Power Equip-
ment Company.

MEMBER OF: University Club, St. Paul.

BUDD EMILE POLLAK

HOME ADDRESS: Convent, N.J.

OFFICE ADDREss: American Hard Rubber Co., 93 Worth St., New York, N.Y.

BoRN: July 11, 1909, Cincinnati, Ohio. parents: Bernard Emile Pollak, Fannie
Marcus,

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

MarrieD: Anne Louise Coghlan, Feb. 14, 1942, Alexandria, Va. CHILDREN:
Michael Coghlan, Sept. 22, 1946; Ellen C., Dec. 1, 1947.

occupation: Secretary, American Hard Rubber Company.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant treasurer and governor, New York Young Repub-
lican Club, 1937-40; director, 1953-56, campaign chairman, 1953, presi-
dent, 1954-55, Morris County (N.J.) Community Chest and Council,
trustee, 1954-56, vice-president, 1955-56, Peck School, Morristown, N.J.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York; Morris County Golf Club.

THE Fifteenth Anniversary Report ten years ago brought me
and the rest of the Class through the war years and back into
civilian life. At the risk of a tenth communication from Briggs
and Wilder, I refuse to repeat what I babbled about in 1947 and
shall go on from there.

Family — the last Report showed wife, Anne, and son, Michael.
Nine years ago Ellen was added and that completed the roster.
In 1949 we moved to the Morristown, New Jersey, area and the
kids don’t remember living any other place.

[935]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Job —T'm still with the same company and like my work, |r
has been and is interesting to help a little company grow into a
big one.

The vital statistics at the top tell the rest of the story quite

fully. I think that Harvard has helped me to enjoy and appreciate
it all.

SPENCER DRUMMOND POLLARD

HOME apprEss: 717 S. Manhattan Pl, Los Angeles 5, Calif.
oFFice appress: University of Southern California, Los Angeles 7, Calif.

BorN: Dec. 3, 1910, Washington, D.C. parents: Frank Drummond Pollard,
Violet Spencer.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: AB. magna cum laude, 1932; B-LITT.
(Oxford Univ.), 1935; PH»o. (Harvard Univ.), 1940.

marrieD: Dorothy Willard, June, 1935, Cambridge, England (divorced

1940); Helen Files, June, 1941, Los Angeles, Calif. (divorced 1944).
cup: Roger Spencer, Sept. 9, 1943.

occupaTion: Associate professor of economics, University of Southern
California.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Oxford University Political and Economic Society,
1933-34; regional chairman, National Academy of Arbitrators, 1955.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California; Association of American
Rhodes Scholars; The Oxford Society; Industrial Relations Research
Association; National Academy of Arbitrators; American Association of
University Professors; Western Economic Association; Los Angeles
County Museum Association; Phi Beta Kappa, Order of Artus.

PUBLICATIONS: Opinions and Decisions as Arbitrator of Labor-Management
Disputes published in serial volumes of Labor Arbitration Reports,
Bureau of National Affairs, Washington, since 1946.

I HAVE spent the whole of these twenty-five years in and around
universities as a student and teacher. From Harvard, the path led
to Oxford and Cambridge in England, then back to Harvard as a
teacher, on to New York University for an experiment with
educational films, out to the University of California at Berkeley,
into the War Training Program of U.C.L.A., and the War Labor
Board, and most recently, to the University of Southern Cali-
fornia in Los Angeles where I have been teaching since 1946.

My subject has always been economics, At the time of the stock
market crash in the fall of 1929, I was taking Economics A at

[ 936 ]

 

cern tet one
oh A Tg MORO

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Harvard, and our instructor assured us that the economy was
fundamentally sound, and that there could be no depression, be-
cause the Federal Reserve System would prevent it. But the de-
pression either didn’t hear him or didn’t care. As it deepened
and spread over the world during my undergraduate years, and as
I saw more of it than most undergraduates during my work in the
settlement houses of East Boston and South Boston, it seemed to
me that economics would be a fascinating and important field of
study about which little was known. At that time the Classical
theory of prosperity was the essence of Harvard teaching. It
said that so long as there was plenty of competition and little
government interference, the economy would grow by itself. I
remember how a group of our class, ——- Moe Abramovitz, Dave
Popper, Henry Veatch, Emile Smullyan and Norton Long —
used to stand in the courtyard of Dunster House on warm spring
evenings, and discuss whether we could reform a subject which
was so obviously unable to square itself with the facts of life.

After graduation, I fortunately fell into a Rhodes Scholarship.
The main factor in that success was that our classmate, Barry
Wood, the clear favorite, did not choose to apply. During the
next two years at Oxford, I found only Classical economics
offered, but there were compensations. It was exciting to be free
of classes, and free to read at leisure towards a distant degree,
after the heavy schedule at Harvard. Then, too, Oxford, has
magnificent vacations —six weeks at Christmas, six weeks at
Easter, and three months in the summer. We traveled on the
Continent during those adventurous times, noticing, among the
beauties and monuments of the old countries, that the long de-
pression, going on year after year, was leading everywhere to a
feeling of hopelessness about capitalism and democracy, and to a
turning towards dictatorship of the right or left.

My college at Oxford was Balliol, my supervisor of studies was
Roy Harrod of Christ Church, the biographer of Keynes, and my
degree was a B. Litt. in international economics. For a year I was
chairman of the Oxford University Political and Economic So-
ciety.

The third year of the Rhodes Scholarship is tenable at a uni-
versity other than Oxford, and I chose Cambridge, because of the
number of prominent economists there — Keynes, Robertson and

[937]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Pigou especially. I had some trouble over this choice. It seems
that Englishmen do not usually go to both Oxford and Cambridge,
and it was only after research had uncovered a case or two some
centuries back, that I was welcomed as a bearer of tradition, and
not, as had been feared, an innovator. I was admitted to St. John’s
College, and had Dennis Robertson of Trinity as a supervisor,

Pigou was lecturing a kind of Classical economics, but Keynes

was presenting in lectures the material he published the following

year as his famous General Theory of Employment, Interest and
Money. It sought to replace the Classical ideas of competition and
laissez-faire, with full employment through government spending,
as the right formula for prosperity. There was a great buzz of
excitement over Keynes, because everyone was hungry for a
solution to the terrible situation of depression, despair and dic-
tatorship which was stretching Europe—and the world—to
its breaking point.

Then it was time to come back to the other Cambridge, to teach
at Harvard and be a tutor at Lowell House while working towards
my Ph.D. Professor Joseph Schumpeter was Harvard’s great
theorist then. He thought little of Classical competition, and less
of Keynesian full employment, as keys to prosperity. His watch-
word was innovation and he taught that the great industrial
families —the duPonts, Rockefellers, Mellons, Krupps and the
like — were the agents of prosperity. It was the third general
theory of the economic system to which I had been exposed.
While absorbing it, I received my Ph.D. with a thesis on the
internal government of large labor unions.

There followed an interlude at New York University as director
of their Educational Film Institute. They had money from a
foundation to make films to teach economics to the public. But
the three different theories of free enterprise which I have
mentioned kept cropping up to cause disagreement, and those re-
sponsible for the content of the films could not agree about why
America was prosperous. Also, we found that films, although
useful for illustrating something, are not a valuable way to present
a logical analysis. .

After our film-making expired, I decided to see the West, and
I took a position teaching at the University of California at
Berkeley. It was exciting there, among the green hills by the

[938 ]

 

|
|

seaprrvesieerte neste Re
ow eabece ye SOTERA AOE
pS the TROL

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

great bay, with San Francisco and the Golden Gate shining in the
distance, but Pearl Harbor came and upset things, and I went
first with the Army as a civilian investigator of shipping efficiency,
then with the Wage Stabilization Division of the War Labor
Board, and finally, into their disputes in Los Angeles. In the
evenings I taught in the aircraft plants the techniques of super-
vision and labor relations which had to be learned so quickly by
so many new people to promote the general effort.

Since the War, I have become a professional arbitrator of labor
disputes, and last year I was regional chairman of our National
Academy of Arbitrators. I have also continued to teach economics
at the University of Southern California. Here in the West, we
hear more than I heard in the East about institutionalism as a
general economic theory — that is, the building of new institutions
to meet newly-felt needs, and the operation of the economy as a
system of checks and balances between them. Professor Galbraith
of Harvard has called this method of “countervailing power” the
secret of a successful capitalism.

I am now writing a book which will, I hope, contain an ac-
count of all the factors which make the difference between pros-
perity and poverty in the world — including religion, science,
education, investment and other relevant matters. I intend it to be
read by educated people who are not economists, and the job of
keeping it clear, compressed and free from jargon is an interesting
challenge.

BEEKMAN HOPPIN POOL

HOME aporess: Dublin, N.H.

OFFICE AppRESS: State Charities Aid Association, 105 E. 22d St.. New York,
N.Y.

BORN: Nov. 23, 1909, New York, N.Y. PARENTS: Eugene Hillhouse Pool, ’95,
Esther Phillips Hoppin.

PREPARED at: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; LL.B., (Columbia Univ.),
1935.

MarriED: Elizabeth Shallcross, Sept. 7, 1934, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Anthony Beekman, June 11, 1937; Sylvia Fleetwood, May 15, 1940;
Felicity Milliken, May 25, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Lawrence Pool, ’28.

[939]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

occupation: Lawyer; director, Legislation Information Bureau, State Chari-
ties Aid Association.

OFFICES HELD: President, Beekman Estate, Inc. (real estate); secretary, Vivian
B. Allen Foundation, Inc.; chairman, Finance Committee, Dublin Com-
munity Church; member board of directors, American Parents Com-
mittee; president, Association to Protect Mt. Monadnock.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Dublin Lake Club.

PuBLicaTIoNs: “The Erosion of Language,” published in the Humanist.
HOW can you cover the quarter of a century where you “take
aim at life,” so to speak, without departing from narrative and
going into philosophy? Today, my hobbies and work are far
different from what they were after graduation; which may or
may not bea sign of growth. (Let me here admit to wilful forget-

fulness of blunders.)

Over the quarter-century, these things stand out as important:
learning to live together as a family, shifting my main job from
the practice of law to fields emphasizing social and philanthropic
ends, becoming a pilot and the great exhilaration of flying various
planes (pre-jet), more and more contact with the outdoors. Be-
hind these things are lots of specific episodes.

In our early married days my wife and I had a trip to Italy; a
flying trip around South America (partly business); and enough
of the commuter’s life from Long Island to wonder about ulcers.
I was then practising law with the firm of Breed, Abbott &
Morgan in New York City. War came; in 1942 I was commis-
sioned as a second looey in the Army Air Force; endured basic
training in Miami, attended Intelligence School in Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania. There I decided I should learn to fly, and during
the next eleven months of boredom in the U.S.A., my joy in
scampering out to whatever air field was available was the shining
moment of every day. This effort resulted in 300 hours of stick
time and a C.A.A. commercial pilot’s license, and this in turn
entitled me to take an Army flight test, which resulted in my
getting Service Pilot’s wings and being on flying status in the Air

Force. During the next two years with a B-17 Bomb Group in

England, I flew four-engine ships whenever free from my regular

job as an Intelligence officer.

In prewar days I had served on the boards of several charitable
organizations and a large hospital and felt that some sort of pro-
fessional job in one of these fields would be more interesting than

[ 940 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

resuming law practice. For more than three years I was associate
director of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America. In
1951 we decided to move to New Hampshire to live, and at just
that time I was fortunate enough to find my present job:
fascinating, yet allowing me to spend more than half the year in
New Hampshire. The work entails following bills in the New
York State Legislature that involve health and welfare, and
sending out bulletins each week of the legislative session, de-
scribing the bills, their background, etc., to agencies, public
officials and others.

Our home has the joy of unobstructed views of far-away
mountains and valleys. I engage in seasonal activities: when
skiing is over, white water canoeing starts, and then it is soon time
to fuss with wild flowers; then comes the planting of vegetable
and flower garden, and it is time to see whether tennis muscles
will last another season. A three-day Youth Hostelling bike trip
with three or four kids has become an annual custom. One summer
my son and I motored to the West Coast, camping and sleeping
out. He is now a sophomore at Swarthmore, Sylvia is at Putney
School, and Felicity, our “autumn crocus,” remains at home, a
joy to look at and be with. When rain mars the outdoors, there
is desk work and fumbling on the piano.

Participation in squash racquets continued for a few years after
graduation and included winning the national title in 1933, Gold
Racquet in ’33 and ’35, and the New York City Metropolitan
singles and doubles several times; also served as president of the
Metropolitan Squash Racquets Association for two years.

So much for facts. What of thoughts? Population growth and
pressure threaten our standards of living (see Toynbee, Malthus
and Pool), water tables, national parks, food supplies. Race rela-
tions in the U.S. as well as in Africa present an extremely serious,
yet seemingly insoluble, problem — with implications that affect
the ultimate political and ideological alignment of the peoples of
the world. Group thinking and authoritarian dogma threaten to
stifle freedom of thought and expression. Although I resolutely
determine not to burst out in social gatherings, I remain wistful
that such crucial topics command realistic attention from relatively
few of our leaders; and perhaps only an embarrassed acknowledg-
ment from others.

[o4r ]

ae

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Despite the enumeration of these national and global woes, I am
an optimist: my line of professional work has convinced me that
something can be done about anything, if enough people care.
The tragedy lies in the timing: it was impossible to arouse con-
cern for the passenger pigeon until too late, Will it be so with
freedom of expression? And will the explosive effects of world
population be recognized too late? Will men of good will hew
out a pathway for effective interracial cooperation in time to
avoid a world array of pigment against paleface?

ALTON BURRELL POOLE
HOME appRESS: 300 Colonel Hunt Drive, Abington, Mass.
oFFice appress: Arthur D. Little, Inc., Cambridge, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 19, 1910, Abington, Mass. PARENTS: Roy Alton Poole, Mabel
Susan Burrell.

PREPARED AT: Abington High School, Abington, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933. DEGREE: S.B., 1932 (33).

MaRRIED: Sara Alice Stevens, April 13, 1940, Whitman, Mass, CHILD: David
Stevens, Dec. 3, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Clyde Franklin Poole, ’38.
OCCUPATION: Research industrial chemist.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Technical Association of Pulp
and Paper Industry; John Cutler Lodge, AF. & A.M.

CERTAINLY I delayed this account of the past twenty-five years
long enough to have hoped for an epic. However, like most re-
ports which are postponed, nothing was gained and perhaps some-
thing lost.

Following graduation into the dismal atmosphere of 1932, I
found that the world was somewhat less than anxious to explore
my talents as a chemist. Two years of body building working at
various jobs culminated in the glorious opportunity of interviews
for “jobs with a future.” I still remember vividly the battery of
intelligence tests which were a prerequisite to a job as a gas station
attendant with a major oil company, Eventually, a job with
Godfrey L. Cabot, Inc., in my field restored a bit of my badly
maimed self-confidence and the past was forgotten. Following a
stint with Cabot in Texas and Boston, I worked for ten years for
Whittemore Corporation in Cambridge. In 1952 I joined Arthur

[ 942 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

D. Little, Inc., in Cambridge, as a research and development
chemist.

The disappointments of 1932-36 were more than compensated
for when I married the sister of Herb Stevens, ’35, with whom I
used to study Geology 4 and 5. Our son, David, was born in 1941
and we hope he will be able to matriculate at Harvard.

Hobbies? The list is long for the period of the past twenty-
five years — photography, gardening, bowling, bridge, etc., but
the one hobby which has endured through the years is wood-
working. Owning a house has made me a charter member in the
Do-It-Yourself Society. As is the case with most Protestants,
changing my religious affiliation was not difficult and I now attend
the Episcopal Church.

Politically, I am nominally a Republican with periodic moments
of believing that the Democratic candidate has more to offer than
his Republican counterpart. Perhaps this makes me a member
of that nebulous group who like to call themselves Independents?

College — I wouldn’t trade my years at Harvard for anything.
Certainly I regret the fact that our football teams are not uni-
versally successful, but there is always the fond and buoying hope
that next year when our freshman team graduates to the varsity

Although financial success has eluded me, if the next twenty-
five years are as happy as the past twenty-five, I shall indeed be
fortunate.

EDWIN EMMONS POPE

HOME apprEss: 34 Gilbert Rd., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Socony Mobil Oil Co., Inc., 648 Beacon St., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: July 30, 1907, Red Oak, Iowa. PARENTS: Glen V. Pope, Sarah Della
Emmons.

PREPARED aT: Marion High School, Marion, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREE: S.By 1932.

UNMARRIED,

Occupation: New England Division marketing assistant, Socony Mobil Oil
Company, Ine.

OFFIcEs HELD: Member board of directors, Huntington Avenue Y.A.C.A,
Boston; president, Two-State Association of Y.M.C.A.’s of Massachu-
setts and Rhode Island, 1953; former vestryman, St. John’s Church,

[943 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Arlington, Mass; member, Bethlehem Lodge No. 35, AF. & A.M,
Augusta, Approved National Basketball Referee, 1937-55; chairman,
National Y.\1.C.A. Basketball Tournament, Boston, 1951.

MEMBER OF: Member and participant, Belmont Dramatic Club.

HOW true it is that little things so often give determining direc-

tions to our lives. When, after college I found myself back in
service station routine, I reflected with much greater significance
upon that casual job after high school. How was I then to realize
that this marked the beginning of life work in the petroleum in-
dustry? But the readjustment to this beginning was all the more
difficult after the intellectual years of college. Even the prospect
of training for better things to come was little consolation for
some of the vicissitudes of both the public and the weather. But
the art of handling the public successfully at this level was surely
not one of the subjects covered in college.

The marketing management field in petroleum has been a
fascinating one, particularly since our economy has become more
and more a petroleum economy. While my major in Economics
in college delved into all the intricate ramifications of the basic
laws of supply and demand, yet it did not take long in business to
recognize that the ruling guide was the old mathematical equa-
tion of cost plus profit equals success. My old love for mathe-
matics helped in solving this equation in terms of proper product
cost allocation. It has also helped in determining the best types
of future marketing for many of our sales areas. But my chief
devotion has been in the management field in the marketing of
heating oils and diesel fuels. :

Once a midwestern lad gets a taste of basketball, and what one
doesn’t, it seems to get into his blood. My House participation
activity was followed up after college by several years of team
play and this was followed by a period as referee. I must confess
that although my interest still continues it is now confined mainly
to the spectator angle. But I can still engage in that exhilarating t
and healthful sport of cycling, made respectable and popular for \
adults in this country by the President’s heart specialist.

The war years found me in supply for the Army Air Force as
it was then known, Overseas assignments were in both England L
and France. When my economic history course devoted great

[ 944 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

emphasis to the industrial revolution in Britain with particular
attention to the canal area from Liverpool to Manchester, little
did I realize that later I would be stationed in that region near
Warrington. Never have I had such a washed-out experience; but
I can appreciate the true meaning of humidity, so vital to the suc-
cess of the cotton spinning and weaving industry that had its start
there. So a change to the brighter and more invigorating atmos-
phere of France was most welcome. My change came with the
establishment of the first continental supply base at Compiegne,
in the lovely forest and resort area northeast of Paris. Our base
was located very near that historic spot in the forest where the
armistice of the first World War was signed and the very same
spot where Hitler forced the French to capitulate in the last war.

The wanderlust yearnings of my youth, so long curbed by lack
of time and money, were fully rekindled a few years ago by a
transcontinental railroad tour of the United States and Canada.
However, I missed the advantages my car would have given so I
decided that in the future I wouldn’t complain about the strain
of long drives. Most of my recent vacations have been spent in
typically American fashion, grinding out the many miles over
busy highways to places new to me. Last summer it was Glacier
Park and the Canadian Rockies and the previous year, Grand
Canyon, Zion, Bryce, the Teton Mountains and Yellowstone.
For nearby foreign flavor as well as beautiful scenery, I can
recommend Nova Scotia’s Cabot Trail and Quebec’s Gaspe
Peninsula. Whenever possible I take a winter vacation in Florida
as this time of year I find myself much in need of sunshine and
ocean bathing.

My community interests have been mainly devoted to volunteer
leadership in behalf of the Young Men’s Christian Association.
I have been profoundly impressed with the effectiveness of their
varied programs conducted in the democratic spirit under Christian
influence. With such guiding principles the association has sought
to administer in everyday situations to the spiritual, mental and
physical needs of youth and adults of both sexes. It is most
heartening to note that the movement has spread to practically all
countries of the world except the Communist ones which prohibit
the work of the association. This world-wide association has been

[945 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1 932

instrumental in fostering international friendship and world Peace
to a far greater degree than its limited means and membershj
would suggest. P

DAVID HENRY POPPER
SEE Appendix.

* ROBERT PERKINS POST

BORN: Sept, 8, 1910, Bayport, L.L, N.Y. parents: Waldron Kintzing Post,
’90, Mary Perkins.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932.DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

marrieD: Margaret Lapsley, Oct. 5, 1935, Brooklyn, Conn.

pieD: Killed in action, Feb. 26, 1943, near Oldenburg, Germany.

 

AFTER graduating Post worked as a reporter for the Boston
American. In 1933 he became associated with the New York
Times and at the time of his death was correspondent for the i
Times and Boston Herald. He was a passenger-observer ona
plane which crashed during a bombing mission in Germany.

ROGER POTTER

HOME appreEss: 56 Coburn Rd., Weston 93, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Receiving & Cathode Ray Tube Operations, Raytheon Manu- :
facturing Co., 150 California St, Newton 58, Mass.

BorN: March 17, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: William Henry Potter, '78, :
Mary Louise Allen.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928~1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MarRieD: Frances Beverly Canfield, Sept. 21, 1940, Marblehead, Mass. (di-
vorced 1950).

HARVARD BROTHERS: Allen Potter, ’17; William Potter, ’27, M.ARCH., °33.

OCCUPATION: Sales and industrial engineering; government contracts adminis-
trator, Government Contracts Department, Raytheon Manufacturing
Company, Receiving and Cathode Ray Tube Operations,

[946 ]

tae age pO LAIST

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: President and treasurer, Potter Merchants, Inc., Boston.
MEMBER OF: Delta Lodge, AF. & A.M., Braintree, Mass.
pusLications: Technical articles in industrial engineering field.

IT is not my intention to dwell further on my H. Alger career
from rags to more rags as covered in the 1947 (Fifteenth Year)
Report, except that the fifteenth year left me deep in the arms of
both an ever-loving wife and an equally so mortgage, living in a
heavily-encumbered house in Scituate, while working as an indus-
trial engineer for Armstrong Cork Company, South Braintree,
Massachusetts.

Sad to say, irreconcilable domestic differences of opinion arose
and I moved my own residence to Braintree in April, 1948, the
Scituate house burned down in October, 1949, and divorce
finalized the unfortunate affair early in 1950. What relation these
events have to or upon each other I am not prepared to guess at
this time.

With the start of the Korean “affair” in June, 1950, I bethought
myself of my government contract work for Raytheon during
World War II, notified them of my desire to return to help out.
To this offer Raytheon agreed and I returned to the Receiving
Tube Division at Newton on February 1, 1951 (just four years to
the day after I had left). I was put in charge of government
facilities contracts (with a new plant building at Quincy) and
several million dollars worth of government-owned equipment
which always seemed to be disappearing just when the inspector
general was arriving. In January, 1956, a combined and enlarged
Government Contracts Department was formed at the Newton
Operations and I am currently the number two man therein,
specializing in contract administration primarily in the research
and development field.

Besides seeing Charles Adams on properly august occasions (vis-
iting “Brass”), I was pleased to find Cy Wood's beaming counte-
nance lurking around the financial stratosphere at Raytheon. If
we could get more ’32s at Raytheon, who knows?

All of the above sounds oppressively dull (and I agree with you),
but the work has been extremely interesting and offers many
Opportunities for good practical progress and accomplishment in
the relatively new and sometimes little understood field of govern-

[947]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

ment-industry defense partnership which in the electronic field,
at least, will always be with us.

Although single, I find much pleasure in my small Weston
house which I built in 1952 and welcome any classmates, par-

ticularly if they are adept at cutting grass, digging out boulders,
and/or having a contemplative libation.

SAMUEL POWEL
SEE Appendix.

LAURENCE THOMAS PRENDERGAST

HOME ADDRESS: 15-21 Plaza Rd., Fair Lawn, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Arrow Rubber & Plastic Corp., 493 Boulevard, East Patter-
son, N.J.

BORN: Dec. 28, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Maurice Joseph Prendergast,
Adelaide Steeves.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1932; A.M., 1932} PHD,
1935.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Maurice Joseph Prendergast, ’30, A.M., 32, PH-D., "37.

occupation: Vice-president, Arrow Rubber & Plastic Corporation, molding
of plastic parts; research and development.

MEMBER OF; American Chemical Society.

JAMES FAULKNER PRESTON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 2467 Guilford Rd. Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio.
OFFice appress: 1857 Union Commerce Bldg., Cleveland 14, Ohio.

BorN: Dec. 6, 1909, Lowell, Mass. PARENTS: James Faulkner Preston, '83,
Jane A. McLellan.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; LL.B. (Univ. of
Michigan), 1935.

marriep: Margaret Hertrich, Aug. 21, 1935, Flushing, Michigan. cHILpREN:
Frederick McLellan, Nov. 23, 1936; James Faulkner, 3d, July 4, 1939;
Henry Nickels, Jan. 30, 1944; Jessie HL, June 4, 1951.

occupation: Lawyer; general partner, Squire, Sanders & Dempsey.

[ 948 ]

 

®
}
$
:
i
i
¥
i
x
i
}
&
:

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

oFFices HELD: Director, Citizens’ Gas Fuel Company, Adrian, Mich., George
P. Little Company, Inc., Cleveland, Peoples State Bank, Flushing, Mich.;
member, Council of Delegates, Ohio State Bar Association,

MEMBER OF: Cleveland Athletic Club; Tavern Club, Mayfield Country Club,
Harvard Club of Cleveland.

UNTIL October, 1941, I was employed by Herrick, Smith, Don-
ald, Farley & Ketchum in Boston, and during the next two years
was associated with Squire, Sanders & Dempsey.

In October, 1943, I entered the Navy as a deck officer. In June,
1944, I commenced sea duty on U.S.S. William C. Miller, DE259,
serving successively as A.S.W. officer, A.S.W. officer and navi-
gator, and as executive officer. I was discharged on December 2,
1945.

On January 1, 1945, I became a general partner at Squire,
Sanders & Company and still practice in that capacity. Since I
have been in Cleveland, and particularly in northeastern Ohio, I
have been busier and busier each year. The sixty or so lawyers
in Squire, Sanders & Dempsey have been equally busy. I find that
we seldom stop to look back on what we have been doing. This
makes an adequate report on the past twenty-five years difficult
for me. As my fellow lawyers know, we just get through with
one problem which we hope we have handled properly, to find
ourselves in the middle of another one which we must even more
imperatively handle properly. It has all been most satisfying, but
I always hope that next year I will better organize my life in
order to have time for other things. In spite of this, I still find

some time for tennis, squash and hunting. And, of course, also
the children’s homework and recreational interests.

WILLIAM EDWARD PUTNAM

HOME appress: 159 N. Main St., Sharon, Mass. :

OFFICE appRESS: Bankers National Life Insurance Co., 58 Winter St., Boston,
Mass. ! j

BORN: Oct. 31, 1910, Chestnut Hill, Mass. parents: William Edward Put-
nam, ’96, Helen Preston Haughwout.

PREPARED AT: Rivers School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933. DEGREES: A.B, 1932(33); M.B.A., 1935

marriep: Eleanor Mary Peach, Dec. 26, 1939, Milton, Mass. (divorced 1955);

[ 949 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Ruth M. Nixon (Ross), May 4, 1956. CHILDREN: Eleanor Dale, Oct. 1,
1940; William Edward, 4th, May 7, 1942; Francis Preston, Feb. 28, 1946;
Vivian Haughwout, Aug. 14, 1948.
occuPATION: Special supervisor, Bankers National Life Insurance Company.
OFFICES HELD: Training officer, Meriden (Conn.) Squadron, 1943-44, flight
commander, East Haven (Conn.) Flight, 1945-46, Civil Air Patrol;
committeeman, New Haven Junior Chamber of Commerce, 1944-47;
commander, Milton Hospital Building Fund Drive, 1947-48; chairman,
Central School Committee Forum, Milton, 1947-48; secretary, Repub-
_lican Town Committee of Milton, 1948-52; neighborhood commis-
sioner, Boy Scouts of America, 1947-52; chairman, Planning Commit-
tee, Milton Chamber of Commerce, 1947-49, president and commis-
sioner, Little League of Milton, Inc., 1951-52; master, Harvard Lodge,
AF, & A.M., 1953-54; director and member executive committee, Nor-
folk Chapter, Massachusetts Heart Association, since 1954; president,

Sharon Chamber of Commerce, 1954-55; chairman, United Community
Services Drive, 1955; Sharon Heart Fund Drive, 1955; director and
camp committee chairman, Ellis Memorial, since 1955.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Lodge, AFF. & A.M.; Milton Lodge, AF. & AM,
St. Paul’s Chapter, R.A.M.; Boston Commandery No. 2, Knights

Templar; Massachusetts Consistory, S.P.R.S. 32°, Aleppo Temple,
A.A.O.N.M.S.; Sharon Country Club,

LOOKING in retrospect at the past twenty-five years of in-
teresting and extremely diversified business, civic, family and
social experiences, 1 am reminded of chapter six of The Education
of Henry Adams —“All experience is an arch, to build upon,” and
I look forward with eager anticipation to the accomplishments
and pleasures of the next twenty-five.

Armed with an M.B.A. from the Harvard Business School in
1935, I started in the sales field in the house-to-house sales of
appliances, then dealership sales, wholesale and jobber sales to the
sale of intangibles. This was followed by three years in various
branches of manufacturing including serving my time as a tool-
maker and later becoming administrative assistant in an aircraft
accessory plant.

The war found me raising a young family and I set up a section
as administrative assistant with the Air Technical Service Com-
mand, During this time, I became very active with the Civil Air
Patrol and began to take interest in civic enterprises. After the
war, I helped organize an export company in Connecticut and
later entered the insurance field, moving my family to Boston after

[950 ]

 

z

“aa 8 ASIEN SE EN, mare

se agg eaeettna art etal
AMA PATRI ETE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the death of my father, William E. Putnam, Harvard ’96, who is

and was a great inspiration to me.

Through the inspiration of Masonic teachings, practical religion

as applied to everyday life and situations has assumed an in-

creasingly important part in my life — though I am by no means

saintlike in my own estimation. I was confirmed in the Episcopal
faith together with Ruth Nixon — my wife, inspiration and con-
stant companion — in March, 1956, by Bishop Norman B. Nash.
As many of you know, my hobbies have been many and diversi-
fied, including skiing, golf, bridge, boating, target shooting,
bowling, poker, detective stories, dancing, etc., but now they
have narrowed to golf, shooting, bowling and dancing — with
most of my time being wonderfully occupied enjoying all phases
of life with my wife and partner in all things — Ruthie.

My mother amazes me with her ageless mentality and humor,
her knowledge and love of literature and music and her ability to
capture the love of my children and of my wife, Ruthie.

My four children are a constant source of delightful surprises
and are great fun to be with, whether on the golf course, bowling,
at spectator sporting events, fishing or just discussing all manner
of subjects. I learn much from them and each is completely an

individual in his or her characteristics. Vivian, at eight, is full of
fun and vivacity, is quite a young lady and is a horseback-riding
enthusiast, Francis, at eleven, is innately extremely thoughtful of
others, is always glad to do most anything in a group or singly

and has a great interest in buried treasure and mining. Bill, who
will be fifteen in May, is very handsome, good at all sports he
ries, loves fishing and has a grand sense of humor. Lenore, at
sixteen, is quite grown-up — a beautiful young lady — extremely
Jependable and levelheaded. She loves music, animals and birds,
s well as group activities with her friends.

I am wholeheartedly an Eisenhower Republican and take issue
vith the Basil Brewer Republicans as much as with the Democrats.
ut, of course, I am first, last and always a Harvard man.

WILLIAM WATERS QUAY
“E Appendix.
[951]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

MAXWELL MILTON RABB

HOME ApDpREsS: 3101 Albemarle St, N.W., Washington, D.C.
OFFICE appress: The White House, Washington, D.C.
BORN: Sept. 28, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Sol Rabinowitz, Rose Kostick

PREPARED aT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.; New Preparatory
School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREES: A.B. Cue laude, 1932; LL.B. 1935.

magriep: Ruth Creidenberg, Nov. 2, 1939, Washington, D.C. ciioren:

Richard Bruce, Oct. 4, 1941; Sheila and Emily (twins), Sept. 7, 1943;
Priscilla, Dec. 4, 1945.
OCCUPATION: Law.

THOMAS JOSEPH RAFFERTY

LAST KNOWN ApprEss: Dedham Street, Dover, Mass.

BORN: July 23, 1910, Parkersburg, W. Va. parents: Patrick Rafferty, Helen
Collins.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933. DEGREE: AB., 1932(33).

RAFFERTY has been carried as a “lost” man in our records since
1956.

DUANE WEILLS RAINBOLT

HOME ADDRESS: 2366 Front St., San Diego 1, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 735 Bank of America Bldg., San Diego 1, Calif.

BorN: Aug. 20, 1909, Omaha, Nebr. PARENTS: Wynn Mack Rainbolt, ’oo,
Margaret Rebecca Weills.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.
MarrieD: Caroline Roller Robinson, Oct. 3, 1936, Pasadena, Calif. (divorced

1950). CHILDREN: Caroline Kingsbury, July 22, 1942; Rebecca Carel,
1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Wynn Mack Rainbolt, Jr., °28.
occupaTION: Insurance broker,

I’M sure the devil himself must be sitting on whatever committee

it is that decides about things like writing autobiographies for
twenty-fifth Reunions, What insidious ingenuity! To be asked

[952]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to write about oneself under the comfortable guise of writing for
others!

As I write this, Russia has smothered Hungary, and is threaten-
ing a “peace” action in Egypt. She seems to have maneuvered her-
self into holding the whip hand and England and France into
committing the blunder of the century. I, as no doubt the rest of
the world, am wondering if this is the beginning of that war that
will (literally) end all wars, but still I’m planning three months in
Mexico this winter, helping Selden Rodman, Yale ’32, write a book
on the land. It is an attractive assignment. Life looks good at the
moment.

Even with our country’s clear claim to the highest consumption
of liquor per capita and the most psychiatrists ditto in the world;
even with life in these United States apparently becoming more
and more an elaborate county fair with the main accent on the
Barker approach to winning friends and influencing people, life
looks very, very good.

The years have brought two daughters who seem to have less
trouble adjusting to this civilization than their father. The
younger is in public school in the South and finding three Negro
teachers, likeable and good. The elder, in school in Virginia,
is showing a balance and perception about human relations that
I can only wish I had had at fourteen. What kind of a world
they are growing up into I can only wonder about, and only hope
that the two main precepts of child-rearing, a love of the truth
and courage, are theirs to hold fast and sustain them.

If any of you find yourselves in San Diego for a vacation, visit-
ing, or en route to some other exotic land, I should be delighted
to see you.

GEORGE CURTIS RAND

HOME apprEss: 370 Park Ave. New York 22, N.Y.

BORN: Oct. 14, 1909, Short Hills, N. Y. parents: Curtis Gordan Rand,
Alice Kobbe.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

MarRiED: Mimi Bushnell, Nov. 4, 1940, Havana, Cuba.

OCCUPATION: Transportation.

[953]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

JOSEPH L. RAUH, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 3625 Appleton St., N.W., Washington, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1631 K St. Washington, D.C.

BORN: Jan. 3, 1911, Cincinnati, Ohio. PARENTS: Joseph L. Rauh, Sara Weiler,

PREPARED AT: University School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: $B. miagna cum laude, 1932; 1.3,
magna cum laude, 1935.

MARRIED: Olie Westheimer, Sept. 1, 1935, St. Louis, Mo. cnrupren: B,
Michael, July 11, 1936; Carl Stephen, Dec. 14, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Carl Joseph Rauh, ’26.

occuPaTION: Lawyer.

OFFIcES HELD: Washington counsel, United Automobile Workers, since
1951; vice-chairman, D.C. Democratic Committee, since 1952; mem-
ber board of directors, Washington Housing Association, since 1953;
national chairman, Americans for Democratic Action, since 1955.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington; New York City Bar Associa-
tion; Ohio State Bar Association.

PusLicaTions: Various articles in current periodicals on civil rights and

civil liberties.
ALL those self-satisfying excuses about being too busy to write
an autobiography seem somehow to have vanished this morning;
it’s President Eisenhower's second inaugural and it would be hard
to conjure up a more dispensable human being at the day’s festivi-
ties than the chairman of Americans for Democratic Action. I
don’t know whether I’ve been avoiding this hour of reminiscence
on the theory that Harvard would blow up, or I would, but some-
how the idea of writing a “life since graduation” always seemed
something older men like H. M. Pulham, Esquire, and my brother
(Harvard ’26) were doing. What distresses me even more than
the realization that it’s our turn now is the speed with which we
covered the road from Lowell House to Reunion time. Whether
happiness or activity or less ready reasons account for it, the road
seems strangely short. The road is always short with true com-
panionship, and my greatest good fortune was that Harvard didn't
frighten off the lovely girl from St. Louis whom I met in Cam-
bridge in 1931. Olie suffered through economics our last year in
college and loose talk about everything from contracts to conflicts
for three years of law, and then despite these storm warnings
married me upon graduation from law school. The bumps in the

[954]

oon
seth eea Np AT RS Tes Amt Me MEM AE AE ORNATE IP ROE OT EE HET we

PO ATE RN NTT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

road behind don’t seem very important when shared with so
understanding a partner.

We are both very proud of our two boys. I took Mike on a
tour of Harvard when he was in high school, and he is now a
junior at the University of Michigan. Carl is coming with us to
the Reunion and no doubt he'll end up at Stanford. Needless to
say, I am adjusting well to the “Harvard-isn’t-the-only-college”
theory and am philosophically awaiting the advent of the next
generation. At any rate, we are all tolerant enough of each other
to have spent three months together in a Volkswagen bus touring
Europe the summer of 1954 (with my sister thrown in for ballast).
To such of our Classmates as still have children young enough to
be willing to be seen with their parents abroad, take your big trip
before it’s too late. Children (and ours never read anything, even
comics) are the most avid sightseers. Carl, then aged thirteen,
wound up his three months of sightseeing by telling me at break-
fast in Rome, “None of that funny business of yours knocking off
at noon to go swimming like we did in Florence yesterday; we’ve
got too much to see.” Try it out for yourself.

Since graduation from Law School in 1935, we have lived in
Washington; it’s never been dull and sometimes it’s been down-
right exciting. Looking back I have the warm feeling that even
my worm’s eye view of the great events of the past twenty-odd
years was a richly rewarding experience. Between law school and
the war, I had two wonderful years as law clerk to Mr. Justice
Benjamin Cardozo and watched President Roosevelt’s ‘“‘court-
packing” proposal from the ramparts manned by the Nine Old
Men; a short period as law clerk to Mr. Justice Felix Frankfurter
whose warm friendship has meant so much to so many; and several
years as counsel in various government agencies, both during the
days of New Deal reform and later during the period of prepara-
tion for war. War service was routine, although I pretty generally
escaped that worst military disease of all, boredom. I spent three
years in the southwest Pacific, ending up as a military government
officer trying to run the much-destroyed city of Manila following
its capture from the Japanese. If there were any courses at Har-
vard that would have helped in that job, I must have been out
somewhere else when they were given.

Since the war I’ve been practising law in Washington, with the

[955]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

exception of a stint in 1946 as deputy something-or-other trying to
get houses built under the Veterans Emergency Housing Pro-
gram. Both as a lawyer and as an officer of Americans for Demo.
cratic Action, I’ve had the opportunity these past nine or ten
years to work in the field of civil rights and civil liberties, and if
Fulton Lewis and George Sokolsky aren’t listening Pll admit most
every minute of it has been fun. There is both an immediate thrill
and a lasting satisfaction in winning a civil liberties case or expos-
ing a new fraud by some charlatan seeking his personal advance-
ment at the expense of innocent bystanders. And during this
decade of miasma and fear, it has always made me feel proud and
encouraged that Harvard remained an island of sanity and
courage.

MORTON ADLER RAUH

HOME ADDRESS: 322 Allen St. Yellow Springs, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Antioch College, Yellow Springs, Ohio.

BorN: Feb. 25, 1910, Cincinnati, Ohio. paRENTs: Louis L. Rauh, Sylvia Adler.

PREPARED AT: University School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932.

MarRiED: Betty Pollak, Nov. 15, 1939, Cincinnati, Ohio. CHILDREN: Catherine
Louise, Nov. 18, 1945; Anne Pollak, Jan. 1, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Business manager, Antioch College.

MEMBER OF: Museum of Modern Art, New York; Contemporary Art Cen-

ter, Cincinnati; various professional associations of college business
officers.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in professional journals,

HERE at Antioch College we require seniors to write a paper in
which they look back over their undergraduate years and appraise
the effect of their educational experience. I feel that I am doing
something like that now, except I must cover a span of twenty-five
ears.
4 Upon graduating I entered the general insurance brokerage
firm which had been founded by my grandfather, enlarged by
my father, and was currently being managed by my brother. |
found the work varied and interesting and, after a few years,
financially rewarding. I became a general partner. During this
period I entered into widely-varied social, cultural, civic and

[956 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

charitable activities. I held offices in these organizations. I be-
longed to clubs. In short, I did all the things which were expected
of a reasonably intelligent and active young man in a community
in which he and two preceding generations had lived all their lives.

When the war came I attempted to find my place in the new
situation. I was astounded to find that a ten-year-old Harvard
undergraduate degree in physics was in great demand. From
various offers I took a job in Washington as a junior physicist,
working for the Bureau of Ships, Navy Department. I was pitched
into the then infant art of radar and had to learn electronics the
hard way. Apart from modest exposure to the subject at the
hands of Mr. Chaffee and Mr. Mimno, I had little knowledge.
I found myself in the field of technical writing. My responsibili-
ties grew and I had a very busy life for four and a half years.
Living in Washington was a fine experience. I still return there
almost once a year to visit the city and my friends who live there.

With the war's end, I cast about for the future. It was
abundantly clear that my interests were no longer in the insurance
business. I decided to return to school and formalize some of the
knowledge I had picked up in my war job. I was admitted to the
Harvard Graduate School in the Department of Applied Physics
and Engineering Sciences, where I studied for a year.

I had become interested in the field of technical writing and,
as a result of my concentrated efforts during the war, I had
achieved considerable skill in this specialized field. I did a rather
extensive publishing job for Raytheon, some work for Polaroid,
all intermixed with free-lance writing. Then out of the blue I
received overtures to accept the post of business manager at
Antioch College in Yellow Springs, Ohio. I Jater found out that
the new president had stipulated as an unalterable qualification of
any candidate that he have no experience whatsoever in educa-
tional administration. My credentials in this respect were im-
peccable.

So, in 1949, we all moved to this small college town and entered
a new and gratifying life. College business managing is an amaz-
ing kind of job — every once in a while I look back over a week’s
work and get amazed all over again. Decisions may range from
planning a million-dollar building to deciding whether a new
counter top should be affixed in the kitchen of a faculty house.

[957]

en Lo

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

It is a sign of wisdom, I think, when one can accept the fact that
the latter decision may be a lot harder to make than the former,
Bur, in general, I manage a large enterprise involving expenditures
of several million dollars annually. At Antioch one does this
always with an eye to what the customer wants and needs — the
customer being the student, and what he wants and needs being
hard to appraise. Happily, I work in a college free of the social
castes so often found on other campuses where teachers and ad-
ministrators move in very different circles. As a result, I am in
close touch with the educational problem. So I find myself in a
job which pays me at age forty-six just slightly less than half of
what I was making at age thirty-two. But on the other hand,
rare is the morning that I do not get up looking forward to my
day’s work.

Living in a small town is the happiest part of all. The whole
family likes it, although my wife complains sometimes when I take
an hour and a half to run downtown for a Joaf of bread — one is
so often tempted to pass the time of day with the storekeeper,
the chief of police, or a colleague also buying a loaf of bread.
Sometimes my wife and I feel the need for sidewalks and heavy
traffic, and then we relish visits to Cincinnati, New York, Boston
and Washington. But we are always glad to get back to Yellow
Springs, I find my life completely filled with family, home and
job, and this suits me.

GEORGE EINAR RAY

HOME ADDRESS: 11333 -W. Ricks Circle, Dallas, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ray & Hammonds, 1018 First National Bank Bldg., Dallas,
Texas,

BorN: April 23, 1910, Gloucester, Mass. PARENTS: Matti Ray, Sandra Sofia
Kujala.

PREPARED AT: Gloucester High School, Gloucester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. #iagna cum laude, 1932; LL.B., 1935.

marriep: Mary Lee Osborne, Sept. 7, 1940, Terre Haute, Ind. cHILDREN:
Mary Danforth, June 10, 1942; Michael Gritton, July 4, 1943 (died
July 20, 1943); Priscilla, Jan. 11, 1951; Elizabeth, July 10, 1952; George
Einar, Jr., March 18, 1955; Clifford Osborne, June 18, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHER: Waino Theodore Ray, '39, a.M., ’44.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; partner, Ray & Hammonds, oil and investments.

[958 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Dallas Estate Council, 1949-50, Taxation Division,
Southwestern Legal Foundation, 1951-52; president, Harvard Law
School Association of Texas, 1952-53; member of council, Harvard
Law School Association; chairman, Tax Section, State Bar of Texas,
1952-53; chairman, Tax Section Committee on Estate and Gift Taxes,
American Bar Association, 1952-56; president, Harvard Club of Dallas,
1951-52, Downtown Club of Dallas, 1952-53, Hillcrest Estates Associa-
tion, 1956; regional vice-president, Associated Harvard Clubs, since
1954; secretary and treasurer, Texolina Oil Company, since 1955.

MEMBER OF: Texas State, Dallas County and American Bar Associations;
American Society of International Law; Southwestern Legal Founda-
tion; Northwood Club; Salesmanship Club; Downtown Club, Dallas.

PuBLicaTions: Chapters on “Federal Income Tax and Assignments of Inter-
ests in Oil and Gas,” “The Expansion and Contraction of Corporate
Operations: How to Buy Out a Stockholder,” J. K. Lasser’s The En-
cyclopedia of Tax Procedures, 1956; “Problems in Community Prop-
erty,” John Alan Appleman’s Basic Estate Planning; “The Business
Man’s Businesslike Solution to his Tax Problems,” Prentice-Hall Tax
Ideas Service; also approximately forty articles in various legal period-
icals, principally on subjects involving federal taxation, trusts and
estates.

AFTER three years at the Harvard Law School, my first job as
a lawyer was that of assisting Professor Roswell Magill at the
Columbia Law School, in writing a book called Taxable Income.
I took the Massachusetts and New York bar exams in successive
years and, upon completion of the book, joined the Cravath law
firm in downtown New York. There I experienced something of
big city law practice for about three years. I then moved to
Washington as an attorney for the U.S. Board of Tax Appeals,
now known as the Tax Court of the United States.

In 1940 I met and married Mary Lee Osborne of Nacogdoches,
Texas.. In the following year I joined the Tax Division of the
Department of Justice and then moved to the Office of the Tax
Legislative Counsel of the Treasury Department. - This involved
spending most of my time on Capitol Hill, helping draft tax
legislation. In 1942, we moved to Boston, where I practised for a
couple of years with Hale & Dorr, and then entered the Navy as a
lieutenant j.g. After a year spent partly in the study of Japanese
at Columbia and teaching international law and military govern-
ment at Princeton, I served in Italy for a year as chief counsel for
the Mediterranean Theatre of the Office of the Army-Navy
Liquidation Commissioner. Our function was the disposal of

[959]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Army and Navy surpluses to foreign governments. Upon return
to the States, early in 1946, I left the Navy as a lieutenant com-
mander and then served for six months in the State Department
as deputy executive director of the Office of the Foreign Liquida-
tion Commissioner.

In 1946, my partner and I opened our law office in Dallas,
Texas. Our practice is primarily in the fields of taxation, oil and
gas, corporations, trusts and estates. For diversion and investment
we have shared with our clients in drilling a substantial number
of wells, most of which, as those who have gone into oil realize,
were dry or “non-commercial.” Fortunately, a few have proved
productive.

My chief hobbies are my five children and golf. I gave up

_ tennis when we moved to Texas — hot, you know. I manage to
find time for some interest, but little activity, in politics. Being a
Baptist deacon, I spend a goodly portion of my Sundays at church.
Vacations, when we can fit them in between babies, are generally
spent in Florida, Colorado and New England. I do about as much
lecturing and writing, primarily on taxes and estate planning, as
the demands of my practice will permit.

If we had it to do over again, we wouldn’t change very much.
The Lord has been very good to us and we find Texas a wonder-
ful place in which to live. Texas is to me primarily a state of
mind and an outlook on life. The typical Texan says things are
fine today, but they will be wonderful tomorrow. Robert Burns
might well have been speaking of Texas when he said, “‘A man’s a
man for a’that.” The native Texans are very kind and friendly to
us “Texans of choice.” We don’t feel that we could rightfully
ask the Lord for twenty-five additional years which would bring

any more joy in living and any more rewards than he has given us
in the past twenty-five.

GORDON BAYLIES RAY

HOME appress: 16767 Warwick Rd., Detroit 19, Mich,

orrice appress: College of Liberal Arts, Wayne State University, Detroit 2,
Mich.

BORN: June 18, 1909, Franklin, Mass. parents: William Francis Ray, Isabelle
Walker Kenney.

[ 960 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; A.M., 1933; PH.D.,

1939.
MARRIED: Elizabeth Ann Crockett, Oct, 31, 1936, Lexington, Mass. cHILDREN:
Charles Crockett, July 26, 1944 (died July 27, 1944); David Crockett,
April 19, 1946.
HARVARD BROTHER: John Frederick Ray, ’34.
OCCUPATION: Associate professor of Spanish, Wayne State University.
MEMBER OF: American Association of University Professors; Institute Inter-
nacional de Literatura Iberoamericana; American Association of Teach-
ers of Spanish and Portugese.

I SUPPOSE that I always knew that this “progress report” of my
journey to Judgment Day would have to be written sooner or
later, but surely there must be some mistake about the date. It
is much too soon, no matter what the calendars say. Why it was
only yesterday that... . .

Unlike those of my classmates who wanted to be doing things
in a hurry, my inclination was to stay right at Harvard after
graduation, and so I did. In fact, I stayed there for some seven
more years until the powers that were realized that it was a
question of giving me my Ph.D. or having on their hands the
oldest graduate student in history. They gave. Those years of
high adventure trudging back and forth from Widener to home
to class to home to eat to sleep to Widener had suffered no
significant interruption when in 1936, for some reason utterly
beyond my comprehension now as then, Elizabeth Ann Crockett
(Wheaton ’29) decided to marry me. Well, then, with 1939 came
my Ph.D. and the horrible moment of having to do something
different, As part of the bribe to get me out of the Yard and clear
the Widener steps at one and the same time, the grounds keepers
offered me a post-degree fellowship for a year abroad. My wife
and I got one foot on the boat in New York when World War II
broke out. What to do? Should we go back to Cambridge?
Gad, no! Go to Latin America and study Spanish or something.
Stay away from here! So off we went for seven months or so in
Mexico. Then there was nothing for it but to start to work. The
most undramatic career in the history of teaching began (leaving
aside three pre-Ph.D, years as instructor in French at Harvard)
at the University of Vermont. Then came Dartmouth. Then
Wayne University in Detroit. Came Pearl Harbor and the Navy

[961 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

sent me to Annapolis where I taught and lived most comfortably
for the duration. On leaving the Navy I returned to Wayne

where I have been ever since, and where I am now associate pro-
fessor of Spanish.

Our first child, Charles Crockett, lived but one day. Our
second, David Crockett, is ten as I write this. We live quietly —
my habits haven’t changed — in Detroit during the winter and,
up to now, spending the summers at my mother-in-law’s
in South Bend, Indiana, where I play all the golf I can and cool
off with frequent visits to Lake Michigan. There are few who
don’t play golf better than I, but there aren’t many who enjoy it
more.

Social, political and religious convictions? Well! I like to
read and that has meant, among other things, that I’m not a
joiner. I don’t seem to like groups, however useful or worthy.
I try to live my own life in a world where, I feel, the individual is
almost completely smothered. I had to say that, not to be stuffy
or pompous, but to try to explain to myself how in the world I
could have got to this point in my life with so little to say about
social, political or religious convictions. I don’t seem to belong
to anything, social, political or religious, and far from having
“convictions” I seem to move in an atmosphere of confusion and
doubt. I guess I am a professor. If I could ever arrive at a defini-
tion of anything I might answer the questions. Social convictions?
The only one is that I don’t care for people who are quite sure
and quite vocal about how other people should lead their lives.
Political convictions? I don’t think Virtue wears a party label.
What is a Republican? What is a Democrat? Religious convic-
tions? That (my religion) is my own affair. A matter between me
and the Almighty and no one else’s business, but no one’s! I en-
joy reading of the success of my friends and, of course, I note
with particular pleasure the careers of those I knew at Harvard.
However, for me (and I insist that this is merely a personal
feeling) most of the work that we do in this world is essentially
busy work, a way of dodging the really fundamental questions of
life which, on a more serious scale, bring forth the same feeble
attempts at an impossible evasion that occur to me as I sit here
worrying about the lack of progress this “progress report” un-
fortunately reveals; Why me? Why here? Why now?

[ 962 ]

 

X
%
*
&
:
x
%
3
£

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES PAUL RAYMOND

HOME ApprEss: 117 Robbins St., Waterbury, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 23 Commercial St., Waterbury, Conn.

Born: April 7, 1909, Waterbury, Conn. parents: Charles Lewis Raymond,
Edith Elizabeth Cray.

PREPARED AT: Crosby High School, Waterbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

OccUPATION: Business manager and director of labor relations, Eastern Color
Printing Company, large-volume color printers.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, general manager, K.D.R. Realty Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Country Club of Waterbury.

BECAUSE I shun personal publicity and because I feel the value,
if any, which may be placed on what one has done, may be doing,
or may eventually do can be judged only by others — not by
one’s self —I would suggest only the vital statistics, such as they
are, to be used in my identification.

PAUL CASHMAN REARDON

HOME appREss: 28 Avon Way, Quincy 69, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1112 Court House, Boston, Mass.

BorN: Dec. 23, 1909, Quincy, Mass. parents: Daniel Bartholomew Reardon,
’o2, Mary Cashman.

PREPARED AT: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.; Phillips Academy, An-
dover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 19323 LLB., 1935 (36).

Marrigep: Ann Leich, June 17, 1939, Cambridge, Mass. cHILpREN: Martha
Ann, April 25, 1941; David C. Aug. 11, 1942; Jane, April 8, 1944;
Thomas, Aug. 15, 1946; Robert, March 27, 1948 (died Sept. 13, 1951).

occupation: Chief Justice of the Superior Court, Commonwealth of Massa-
chusetts.

OFFICES HELD: Director, New England Law Institute; trustee, Massachusetts
Committee of Catholics, Protestants and Jews, Quincy City Hospital,
William B. Rice Eventide Home, Quincy, National Probation and
Parole Association, New England Conservatory of Music; graduate
adviser, Harvard Glee Club; member visiting committee, Harvard Law
School; member, Committee for Program for Harvard College; vice-
chairman, 1932 Twenty-fifth Reunion.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Quincy; Union Club of Boston; various Bar
Associations.

WHEN our Fifteenth Class Report was published I had just re-
[963 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

turned to my law practice after a period of service with the Navy.
I entered the Boston firm of Haussermann, Davison & Shattuck,

becoming a partner after my first year there. In serving on a
number of charitable and public boards, I endeavored to follow
the advice which I had parceled out in the Class Oration in 1932,
namely that, “We are indebted to our respective communities in
proportion to what we are able to give.” I continued on as a
director of several banking institutions and some business enter-
prises and my work began to veer over into business, trust and
probate fields until I became general counsel of the Boston
Chamber of Commerce. At that time, I developed a considerable
interest in legislation on the State level and in allied public fields.
Meanwhile, I continued my work as managing partner of my firm.

In 1953 I was requested by Governor Christian A. Herter of
Massachusetts, to serve as his Special Counsel and did so for well
over two years, during which span I divided my time between
my work with my firm and my office in the Governor’s suite at
the State House. It was an intensely interesting and exciting
period which can be summed up in the statement that Harvard
is deserving of all our support if she will continue to produce only
once in a while men of the Governor’s character, ability and
dedication to the common good.

In August, 1955, upon the death of the Chief Justice of the
Superior Court of the Commonwealth, the Governor asked if I
would assume the responsibilities of that office, and after some
very difficult consideration, for 1 was happy with my firm and my
work as it then was, I decided to accept the office which I have
now held since September, 1955. I am charged with the adminis-
tration of the Court comprising thirty-two judges and the assign-
ment of them to the County courts throughout Massachusetts. By
virtue of my office, I head the committee which supervises the
probation system of the Commonwealth, The work has been
most challenging and interesting, principally because of the attack
which the judges of the Court have been making upon the con-
gestion in the civil dockets, a malady which is afflicting a great
many of the metropolitan trial jurisdictions throughout the
country. .

Meanwhile, our family has continued to grow up and the pleas-
ant progress of the last ten years has been marred only by the

[ 964 ]

boll

ee to EM ANOHED MET ARTE Te BETTIE

KO

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

loss of our youngest child, a happy and well-loved little boy, who
was unfortunately killed in an automobile accident.

I look forward with great pleasure to the meeting in June, for
where in ten years, on either side of us, can you find a better
Class than 1932?

EUGENE EDWIN RECORD

HOME ADDRESS: 219 Fisher Ave., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 234 Marlborough St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: Feb, 22, 1910, Arlington, Mass, PARENTS: Charles Arthur Record, Em-
ma Fabian Tittman,

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: 8.B. 1932; M.D. (McGill Univ.),
1937.

MARRIED: Emily Crowninshield Davis, March 29, 1940, Boston, Mass. cHiL-
DREN: Eugene Edwin, Jr, May 7, 1941; Katharine Bradlee, Sept. 13, 1943;
George Tittman and Francis Crowinshield (twins), July 29, 1950.

OccUuPATION: Orthopedic surgeon,

OFFICES HELD: Assistant orthopedic surgeon, Dept. of Orthopedic Surgery,
Massachusetts General Hospital; orthopedist, Surgical Division of
General Staff, New England Deaconess Hospital, 1954; member ortho-
pedic staff, New England Peabody Home for Crippled Children; in-
structor in orthopedic surgery, Harvard Medical School; consultant
in orthopedics, Massachusetts Hospital School, Canton, Mass., Harvard
University Dept. of Hygiene, Massachusetts Eye & Ear Infirmary,
Veterans Administration Facilities, Boston, chief of Orthopedic and
Prosthetic Appliance Clinic Team, Boston Veterans Administration
Facilities; member-at-large, board of directors, Boston Metropolitan
Chapter, American Red Cross, 1954-57.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons, 1950; diplomate,
American Board of Orthopedic Surgery, 1949; Boston Orthopedic
Club; Massachusetts Medical Society; Suffolk District Medical Society

(councilor, 1955-57); American Medical Association; The Country
Club; Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Varsity Club; Owl Club.

UPON graduating from McGill Medical School in 1937, there
followed a five-year period of hospital training in New York and
Boston in the field of orthopedic surgery. When the war came,
I was in the last year of resident training at the Children’s Hospital
in Boston. I was in the Medical Reserves and was told I would
have to leave immediately for Fort Devens as there was a great

[965 ]

—— |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

need for orthopedic surgeons. I was sent to Fort Devens and was
immediately put in charge of a V.D. Ward. It was there I learned
to be philosophical about matters beyond one’s control. Subse-
quently, I became chief of an Orthopedic Auxiliary Surgical
Team during the entire campaign in the European Theatre of
Operations and served in the Fourth Auxiliary Surgical Group
which received the Unit Meritorious Plaque and five battle stars.
After the war, in 1946, I joined a group of orthopedists known as
the Marlborough Medical Associates in Boston and have been
practising orthopedics up to this date.

My family and my practice are my consuming interests. The
major event in my life occurred in 1940, when I was married to
Emily Davis of Boston. We now have four interesting children
and have our best times when doing things as a family unit. |
have been fortunate and daily count my blessings. |

My greatest admiration and respect goes to those who con-
tribute to the present knowledge in their ficlds of endeavor, for
they are the wheels on which advancing civilization will roll.

WARREN GODDARD REED

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Manitoba Rd., Waban 68, Mass.

orrice appress: Haussermann, Davison & Shattuck, 15 State St., Boston,
Mass.

BoaN: Jan. 9, 1911, Plymouth, Mass, parents: Laurence Bradford Reed, 'o3,
Edith Goddard.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932, DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1932; LL.B., 1935.

maraieD: Helen Clare Shepard, May 27, 1939, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.
CHILDREN: Dorothy Shepard, Feb. 11, 1941; Barbara Merrill, Aug. 21,
1942; Katherine Goddard, March 16, 1949.

occuPATION: Lawyer,

orrices HELD: Director, three American Companies of Employers’ Group
Insurance Companies, Massachusetts Federation of Taxpayers, trustee,
Employers’ Group Associates, Insurance Library Association of Boston, i
Pilgrim Society of Plymouth, Mass, member executive committee, =
International Association of Insurance Counsel, Insurance Federation
of Massachusetts, clerk and director, Newton Taxpayers’ Association;
former president, Waban Improvement Socicty, Men's Club of Union

Church, Waban; former deacon, Union Church; treasurer, Ward 5
Republican Committee of Newton,

[ 956 J

eo TETANY TTT tom

CET BTN PR EEL REI POE MAEE E EEE IS

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: American, Massachusetts, Boston and Cambridge Bar Asso-
ciations; Harvard Club of Boston; Algonquin Club; Down Town Club,
Brae Burn Country Club; Plymouth (Mass.) Yacht Club.

TAKING pen in hand to titillate my sophisticated peers of 1932
with shafts of wit or to ennoble them by sage gleanings from a
quarter-century experience is, for me at least, too forbidding a
task. I'll do better sticking somewhat closely to the record.

It is not easy to parade the salient features of one’s life in one’s
imagination after the manner of Frank Skeffington. Nevertheless,
casting a foreshortening eye back over the twenty-five years about
to end, they seem to fall into several epochs — the epoch of law
school, the epoch of bachelor law practice, ditto early marriage,
ditto World War II, ditto postwar. And now, circumstanced by
events and fortune, I find myself a corporation lawyer commuting
to and from the suburbs of Boston, a pater familias, a little gray
and middle-aged to be sure, but still enjoying family, friends,
business, travel, golf, sailing, swimming, trout fishing and the rota-
tion of the seasons. There’s a kick in the old mule yet.

After Law School and a bicycle trip to France I settled in
Boston, getting attached to a medium-sized firm which did a con-
siderable volume of trial work. I ate, drank and slept law for four
years, doing a good deal of appellate work. There was an
exhilaration in this practice, briefing a case, then arguing it, and
then the keen anticipation of the result.

Who would deny the large part luck plays in the all-important
institution of marriage? I have been far from unlucky. In May,
1939, just a few months before Germany invaded Poland, I
married Helen Clare Shepard in Winnipeg, Canada. Our first
daughter, Dorothy, was born early in 1941, and our second,
Barbara, in 1942. Meanwhile the ferment and tension of the War
Was mounting. My eagerness to get in the service was foiled at
every turn owing to near-sightedness, At last, in 1943, when the
Army was taking almost anyone (including fathers) who could
walk, I was drafted into the Infantry.

These three years were intensely vivid. Infantry basic was
followed by Judge Advocates O.C.S. at Ann Arbor, then eleven
months in Washington with the surgeon-general, and finally by a
year in the Philippines as Staff Judge Advocate of the 86th In-
fantry Division. There I had experiences I shall never forget. On

[ 967 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

one occasion I was in charge of a detachment of four in a remote
village called Manguering. It fell upon us to negotiate and accept

the surrender of upwards of 7oo armed Japanese who had been
marauding thereabouts. For this I received a Bronze Star.

If it was frustrating to get into the service, it was almost equall
so getting out; but ] was at last separated in 1946. After observing
and administering Army justice in a variety of circumstances, |
left with the strong feeling that the underlying fault with that
system was the great disparity in the treatment of officers and of
men. If that had been remedied, much of the griping of the G.L's
would have ceased and the new cumbersome and probably less
practical system would have been unnecessary.

Like millions of others, when I was released I found for a while
the old routine of law practice and conventional bread-winning
had Jost much of its savor. The old standards of value seemed so
different from those of the wartime army. Custom and time have
long since dimmed these philosophical perplexities, and yet it
was a steadying thing to see that in other surroundings different
qualities were called for than those we esteem, and different stan-
dards prevailed. The heroes of battle are not necessarily equipped
to make money in our social order, or rise to eminence in this
materialistic economy. Still, who can say that the qualities that
make a hero are not just as worthy as those which drive a tycoon:

Since the war our third daughter, Katherine, was born.
Through various stages I have become chief counsel for a group
of casualty and fire insurance companies, the largest of which 1s
English. Business requires as much travel around the country as
I like. Four years ago, with our two older girls, Helen Clare and
I visited our head office in London and toured Europe, one of my
several trips abroad.

‘There is perhaps more truth today than in Thoreau’s day in his
statement that most men lead lives of quiet desperation. For my
part, time seems to be what I constantly have least of — time to
work, time for various charitable, civic and social demands, time
for a growing family and for friends, time to enjoy our cottage
in Plymouth. And yet life is too full of interest and promise for
me to feel desperate except infrequently; and even then I am apt
not to be quiet.

Early in November, after the above was penned and handed in,

[ 968 J

 

t
:
t
&
5
:
i

iti oll

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I resigned voluntarily all my offices with The Employers Group
Insurance Companies and The Employers Group Associates,
Effective February 1, 1957, I joined the law firm of Haussermann,
Davison & Shattuck, 15 State Street, Boston. I intend to engage in
the general practice of law.

ALLEN MERRIHEW RICE

HOME aAppREss: 280 Mount Rose St, Reno, Nev.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Flanigan Warehouse Co., 4o8 Eureka Ave., Reno, Nev.

BORN: Nov. 14, 1910, Springfield, Mass. parents: Allen Galpin Rice, ’o2,
Mary Louise Merrihew.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

MARRIED: Olive E, Gring, June 7, 1941, Reno, Nev. (divorced 1956); Lor-
raine Forster, Dec. 8, 1956. CHILDREN: Susan Jane, Sept. 14, 1943; Stephen

G., May 4, 1947. .
OCCUPATION: Sales representative, Flanigan Warehouse Company, wholesale

building materials.

TO some of us, 1957 means looking back on the years since we
left the well-ordered routine of Harvard, to review our ac-
complishments and progress from the position in which we find
ourselves today. To others of us, 1957 is a milestone from which
we can project our lives ahead twenty-five years, in the belief that
the future still holds promise and that dreams are still to be ful-
filled. I belong to the latter group.

Twenty-five years have seemingly flown by so fast as to give
the impression of but twenty-five months, and yet they have
left their mark. The early depression years of teaching in private
schools, both in New England and in California, made me a
westerner by choice, and I chose to settle in Berkeley, California,
where I was blessed with two beautiful children. Except for the
war years, when I was successively a machine welder and a junior
engineer on a welding research project for the University of Cali-
fornia, I have been in wholesale sales work, first with the Ford
Motor Company, then with Westinghouse Electric Supply
Company in San Francisco, and then with Frigidaire Sales Cor-
poration in Oakland, California.

The year 1956 has special significance for me as it was the

[ 969 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

year in which I was divorced from my first wife. On December 8,
1956, | was married to Lorraine Forster of San Luis Obispo, Cali-
fornia, and decided to remain in Reno, Nevada. The future, there-
fore, lies ahead, and I hope to be able to look back on our
Fiftieth Reunion and point with pride to many accomplishments
of what promises to be a happy and eventful life.
I am, at present, a sales representative for the Flanigan Ware-
house Company of Reno, Nevada, distributors of building ma-
terials. My wife and I live at 280 Mount Rose Street in Reno.

CHARLES DUANE RICE, JR.

HOME AppRESS: c/o Huepper, 37 Shadow Lane, Larchmont, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 21, 1910, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Charles Duane Rice, Char-
lotte Foss.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932.

MarrieD: Winifred Hamilton Tomb, May 28, 1938, New York, N.Y. cum:
Jane Joslin, Aug. 15, 1940.
occuPaTION: Publishing.

CHARLES SOMES RICHARDSON

HOME apprEss: Mount Desert, Hancock County, Maine.

BORN: Sept. 8, 1909, Mount Desert, Maine. parents: H. Sumner Richard-
son, Ida Mabel Somes.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932, DEGREES: A.B. 1932; M.B.A., 1934.

MARRIED; Virginia Carolina Ruffin, July 3, 1940, Chicago, Ill, cero: Charles
Somes, Jr., Oct. 5, 1945.

occupation: Mail order executive.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Hancock County Trustees of Public Reservations
since 1932; member, Merchandise Staff, Sears, Roebuck & Company,

1934-52; merchandise manager, Signet Club Plan, since 1952; vice-
president and director, The Porta Company, since 1956.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Musical Association.

WHILE instinctively repelled by regimentation in the form of
questionnaires and instructions I suppose under the “Rules” you
must give your name, degree and social security number.
Volunteer more and you can be an unwitting accessory to some

[970 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sinister statistical skullduggery. Besides, the more you have to
say the more apt your audience to make comparisons —a sure
way to lose friends and alienate people or to develop an inferiority
complex.

Although men have succumbed to the urge to tell their stories
ever since the invention of writing, few autobiographies have
ever become “best sellers.” Certainly a clear indication that
personal histories are viewed with universal suspicion. Granting
that no prophet is without honor save in his own country, it
seems unlikely any really interesting or significant contributions
by our classmates have escaped mention in the press or the Alumni
Bulletin. Seriously, I take a dim view of this whole idea of writing
“an account of your life since graduation.” Unless by chance we
have a counterpart of Franklin or Cellini in our midst, our ex-
periences and peregrinations will make dull reading even if mod-
estly embellished with such exaggeration as the average con-
science will allow after the third Martini!

Some thirty-five years ago my father said, “The best years of
your life are spent in school and college— make the most of
them.” I know now what he meant. But, I don’t know now how
to convince his eleven-year-old grandson that a scholastic career
is especially rewarding or that it offers an opportunity worthy
of much concentrated effort.

OTTO THOMAS RIEFKOHL

HOME ADDRESS: Condado Ave. 64, Condado, Santurce, Puerto Rico.

BoRN: April 8, 1909, Patillas, Puerto Rico. parents: William E. Riefkohl,
Mercedes Villodas.

PREPARED AT: Peekskill Military Academy, Peekskill, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-193I. .

MARRIED: Manuelita Gorbea Valles, 1939, Santurce, P.R. cumpren: Otto
Joseph, Jan. 21, 1940; Madeline Josephine, Sept. 28, 1943; Lorraine
Josephine, Jan. 9, 1946.

occupaTion: Law.

ALLEN DAVID RIEMER
SEE Appendix.

[971]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

«DAVID LOUIS ROACH

BORN: Aug. 7, 1912, St. Louis, Mo. parents: J. Augustin Roach, Lenore
Kledus.

PREPARED AT: Memphis University School, Memphis, Tenn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

marriep: Caroline Mottram, Aug. 30, 1941.

Diep: June 30, 1945, in France.

AFTER two years spent at Harvard Law School, Roach was em-
ployed as export traffic manager for Sterling Products Inter-
national in Newark, New Jersey. He entered military service in
1942, was assigned to Anti-Aircraft Artillery and later transferred
to the Transportation Corps. In 1944 he was sent overseas and

promoted to first lieutenant. He was killed while on a special
mission,

CHANDLER ROBBINS, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Sugar Island Camps, Greenville, Maine.

BORN: March 30, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Chandler Robbins, ’99, Laura
W. Foster.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

marriep: Anne Vera Oberg, March 21, 1936, White Plains, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Chandler, 3d, July 10, 1937; Frances-Anne, Sept. 26, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Foster Robbins, 36.

occupation: Resort camp owner and operator.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Sarasota, Florida; American Ornithologists’
Union; Sarasota Bird Club.

LIFE for me has been rather varied since I left college. I stayed
around Boston until 1936, doing various things, among them
working at the former Boston Society of Natural History. After
our marriage in 1936, we went to live in Cincinnati, where our
two children were born. We moved back east in 1941. At this
point, John Barleycorn and I were waging a serious battle. Ap-
proximately a year later, I managed to win out after a long, hard
struggle, Faith in a power greater than myself and a sincere desire
on my part to overcome my problem was the answer.

From 1942 to 1945, I was employed at the New England Ship-

[972 ]

LL

. ceca mat eB RTE NOTE I OER I at
‘ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

building Company in South Portland, Maine, while living in
Cape Elizabeth. In August, 1945, after the war was over, we
bought a fishing and recreational camp on Moosehead Lake in
Greenville, Maine. We call it Sugar Island Camps and have been
operating this camp from May to October, since the spring of
1946. We have been spending our winters in Sarasota, Florida,
where I have been doing various things to keep busy.

We have two children: a son who is a sophomore at Duke
University, and a daughter who is a freshman at Smith College.
I must not forget our collie and Belgian shepherd who accompany
us everywhere we go and help to fill the emptiness of the house
now that both children left us at once.

My hobby has been birds, and living part of the year in the
North and part in the South has provided a great opportunity to
build up my “life list.” City life has never appealed to us and
for the last ten years we have only passed through large areas of
population. This is not a good way to build up a fortune, but
living close to nature makes one realize that material things are
not necessary for one’s happiness in this world.

CHAUNCEY ROBBINS

HOME apprEss: 75 Court St. Houlton, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1625 I St, N.W., Washington 6, D.C.

BORN: July 22, 1910, Hamilton, Mass. parents: Reginald Chauncey Rob-
bins, '92, Jane Ruthven Hall.

PREPARED aT: St. Mark's School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: AB. 1932; LL.B. (Portland Univ.),
1952.

MARRIED: Doris Elizabeth Turney, July 22, 1939, East Hodgdon, Maine.
cup: Jane Turney, April 27, 1943.

OccuPATION: Executive director, Republican National Committee.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Maine House of Representatives, 1947-52; member,
1947-53, chairman, 1953, Maine Commission on Interstate Cooperation;
member, Maine Senate, 1953-54; trustee, Maine Maritime Academy,
1947-53; Ricker College, 1951-53.

MEMBER oF: Army & Navy Club; Congressional Country Club; Capitol
Hill Club, Washington, Elks Club; American Legion; Veterans of
Foreign Wars; Lions Club, Houlton Maine; Maine Bar Association;
Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association.

[973 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

AS long ago as preparatory school days, I determined to make
government my life work — and by government I, of course, in.
clude politics. I have deviated from this goal only infrequently
and never for very long. My first job in 1932 was as a clerk to the
U.S. Senate Committee on Appropriations, following which |
spent four years on the staff of U.S. Senator Frederick Hale of

Maine. In 1937 and 1938 I was a secretary to the Chairman of the

Republican National Committee, John D. M. Hamilton; and to

conclude this phase of my activities, I was a member of the com-

mittee staff during the 1936 and 1940 campaigns. It follows that
my present tour of duty as executive director is my fourth with
the committee.

One deviation was a two-year stint as an editor of the Houlton
Pioneer Times (Maine’s outstanding weekly newspaper — adv't).
But even in those years I served as executive secretary of the
Young Republicans of Maine (1938) and as chairman (1940).

In December of 1940, I was called to active duty in the Navy,
wherein I held a commission as lieutenant (j.g.) No one could
have been more fortunate in his service, as I started out in com
mand of a subchaser and continued as C.O. of a minesweeper, an-
other subchaser and two Destroyer Escorts. One of these, the
Frederick C. Davis (DE 136), distinguished herself at the Anzio
landing and was awarded the Naval Unit Commendation. Asa
result, her commanding officer was honored by the United States
with a Legion of Merit and a Bronze Star and by Great Britain

with a Distinguished Service Cross. At present, I am an active,
“inactive” captain U.S.N.R.

For three years after the war, I deviated again, as manager of
the Houlton Chamber of Commerce. But I also served simultane-
ously as the Representative of my town in the State Legislature.
From 1949 to 1952, 1 attended law school in Portland and the
Legislature in Augusta as well. In 1951 and 1952, I acted as execu-
tive secretary of the Maine-for-Eisenhower Committee. Despite
these distractions, I managed to acquire an LL.B. magna cum laude,
twenty years to the day after my A.B, (without any honors what-
ever). I subsequently practised law for one year and represented
Aroostook County as a State Senator before coming to Wash-

ington in September of 1953.

Following the election of 1956, the Robbinses purchased a house

[974]

ae
Raat .

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in Washington and expect to enjoy there many years of Eisen-
hower prosperity. For hobbies, I have only golf and flying. My
religion is still Episcopal.

MANUEL LEE ROBBINS

HOME ADDRESS: 26 Eastwoods Lane, Scarsdale, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 30 Broad St., New York 4, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 18, 1910, New York, N.Y. parENTs: Meyer L. Robbins, Blanche
Stern,

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932; LL.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Eleanore Landau, March 26, 1941, New York, N.Y. cHILpREN:
Thomas L., Oct. 13, 1943; Elizabeth L., July 8, 1946; Diana L., June 26,

1947.
occuPATION: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant District Attorney, New York County, 1935-47;
counsel, New York State Athletic Commission, 1951-54; secretary and
director, Hillside Hospital, Bellerose, N.Y. since 1941; member board
of governors, Town Club, Scarsdale, N.Y.; counsel, New York Grand
Jury Association, since 1947.

MEMBER OF: Sunningdale Country Club, Scarsdale, N.Y¥.; Harmonie Club,
New York; Harvard Clubs of New York and Boston.

SINCE that fateful June 23, 1932, when President Lowell and
the Sheriff of Middlesex County admitted me into the world of
educated men, I have followed the paths of the least resistance and
the most satisfaction. Though lacking the eloquence and ex-
pansiveness of J. P. Marquand, I can nevertheless look back over
these past twenty-five years and safely say that nothing monu-
mental was accomplished, yet no foul blow was delivered.

The first three years after college found me snugly sheltered
in Harvard Law School where the mediocrity of my grades fully
proved to me that I could never hope to be a pillar of the bar.
Adjusting myself to this sadness, I decided to at least fully enjoy
the practice of the law and flavor its excitement. Upon my
graduation from Law School, I joined the racket-busting staff of
Thomas E. Dewey, then a Special Prosecutor in New York and
spent twelve years investigating, chasing and prosecuting criminals.
The reward for these twelve years as Assistant District Attorney
of New York County was not financially significant but afforded

[975]

__— L

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

me a great deal of experience in fields usually relegated by the
profession to the “mouthpiece” type of attorney. It set me quite
apart from my friends at the bar who were building up lucrative

practices but who had never learned to get anybody in or out of
trouble.

High blood-pressure and a defective ear kept me out of service
during World War II; with a drastic diet the blood-pressure went
down, but the ear got deafer. So I stayed on as a prosecutor during
the war years and had to content myself with the rationalization
that somehow or other I had been drafted to remain on in essen-
tial civilian service.

I left the District Attorney’s Office as chief of the Indictment
Bureau and commenced to practise law, first as a member of a
well established partnership and then by myself —a step that
only one prone to having his own way and possessing a comfort-
able inheritance could take. My prior legal training was so
specialized, and my interest in the law so confined to human in-
terest problems, that I readily abandoned all forms of commercial
and estate law and devoted myself to advocacy and trouble-
shooting. I have attempted to be the type of lawyer who is not
your business counsellor but your defender. Curiously, the great
bulk of my practice came from law firms whose clients, friends,
relatives or employees got into a mess — the kind they could not
or would not handle. Although I have assiduously avoided
negligence cases, I was ushered into the field of literary law rather
early in the game, mainly by reason of a number of cases in the
United States Supreme Court in which I was retained to brief and
argue. Right now I am trying cases and arguing appeals through-
out this country and Canada on behalf of some of our leading
publishers and literary lions who are seeking to stem the current
drastic inroads on freedom of press.

My private life is not private at all. With a busy wife and three
loud children—a boy of thirteen and girls ten and nine —I
hasten to the office each day for the quiet and solitude that is
afforded me there when no one is menaced by some disaster, real
or fancied, I am not too much of a householder, though I live in
the now-crowded New York suburb of Scarsdale in a fieldstone
and white clapboard house which is amply large enough and
shows the many years of neglected husbandry. I’ve never stoked

[976 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a furnace nor have I done any gardening. I have an inky thumb
rather than a green one. I commute to and from work in m
neighbor’s Cadillac and thank God we both went to Harvard so
that we can chat during these rides about something other than
our families, our cases, baseball and politics.

The only hobby I ever developed was to teach myself to play
the piano. My fingers are not nimble and my mind comprehends
the notes far more easily than my hands can move over the key-
board, I have a modest interest in the town affairs of Scarsdale
and I am surprised to find I am on the board of governors of our
Town Club where I am more of a talker than a doer.

I am an ardent Republican and have served in high level but
behind the scenes positions in a number of national and state cam-
paigns. My wife is even more active than I am in this field so that
our children no doubt will grow up one-sided and intolerant.

All in all, it has been a pleasant life since college days and a
lucky and comfortable one. I belong to all the clubs I want to
and am building up a fairly good-sized obituary. I have no debts
nor any misgivings about the many foolish ways in which I spend
my money. My only extracurricular exertions are as counsel to
the Grand Jury Association of New York County and as secretary
and director of Hillside Hospital, one of the leading mental health
institutions in the country. And though I represent show-
business folks and handle many divorce cases, I am still married to
the same girl, which, when I look around at the ever changing
faces at the country club bar, is no small accomplishment on both
our parts.

DONALD WITTMER ROBINSON

HOME ApprEsS: 380 Collingwood St., San Francisco 14, Calif.

oFFice appress: California College of Arts & Crafts, Oakland 18, Calif.

BoRN: July q4, 1911, Williamsport, Pa. PARENTS: Francis Martin Robinson,
Anna Darnell Ledlein.

PREPARED aT: Upper Darby High School, Upper Darby, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932; PH.D. (Univ. of Pennsyl-
vania), 1944. °

MarrieD: Doris Churchill, Dec. 26, 1936, Watertown, Mass. (died June,
1950); Esther Louise Stanbro, Dec. 14, 1950.

[977 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932
occupation: Dean of students, head of Humanities Department, California
College of Arts and Crafts.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of San Francisco; Phi Delta Kappa; California
Council on Education.

PUBLICATIONS: Fifteen articles in professional journals.

LAST Saturday Harvard retained the Redwood Bucket by trounc-
ing Yale in three of the four events. We were disappointed to find
ourselves the only representatives of 1932 at this annual jamboree
of the Harvard and Yale Clubs of San Francisco.

The magic of the Bay Area has so completely captivated us that
we will not leave for longer than a summer. A nine weeks’ trip
to Japan in 1954 and a summer in the Sierras in 1956 were high-
lights.

“Developing the academic program to supplement the studio
work in a professional art college is never dull. It is possible that
the California College of Arts and Crafts may achieve a liberal
arts status within the next decade. Already we have earned recog-
nition by the Western College Association as a specialized institu-
tion.

Recent years have brought new enthusiasms and convictions.
Unitarianism, the American Civil Liberties Union, contemporary
art and outdoor living provide stimulus for a happy, busy life.
Teaching is, of course, a never-ending delight.

A glance at my wallet may offer a clue to the kind of life I lead.
It reveals a California car operator’s license, a lifetime lubrica-
tion warrant issued by a Plymouth dealer, a college library card,
membership cards for the San Francisco Museum of Art, the
Kaiser Foundation Health Plan, the Mental Health Society of
Northern California, the California Teachers Association, the
National Education Association, and Phi Delta Kappa. Also there
is a Social Security account card, a resident citizen angling license,
an annual permit to enter Yosemite National Park, and a US.
Forest Service campfire permit. Another compartment contains
seven dollars and a snapshot of my very loving wife.

[978]

 

¥
E
z
i
2
i
¥
i
t
$
t
é
i
»,

stg GEENA TNA

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DUDLEY ROBINSON

HOME ADDRESS: 166 Salem St., North Andover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hemphill, Noyes & Co., 10 Post Office Sq., Boston 3, Mass.

BorN: April 19, 1910, New York, N.Y. parents: Seth Banister Robinson,
Caroline Graydon Martin.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.B.A. 1934,

MaRRIED: Louise Storer, Dec. 23, 1940, Cambridge, Mass. cutmpren: Sarah
Storer, Sept. 17, 1941; Katharine Lee, April 13, 1944; Mark Crediford,
July 11, 1946; David Banister, Feb. 1, 1950; Ann Endicot, Dec. 26, 1951;

. Thomas Dudley, June 11,. 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Seth Banister Robinson, Jr., °23, M.B.A. "25.

OCCUPATION: Investment banker.

OFFICES HELD: Associated with Graham, Parsons & Company, 1946, Hemp-
hill, Noyes & Company, since 1949 (when they merged); Radiation
Laboratory, M.1.-T., 1943-46, National Company, Inc., 1942-43, War
Production Board, 1941-42; Merlin Sales & Service Company, 1940-41;
E. L. Van Houten, 1938-40; Blade Master, Inc., 1936-38; James Talcott,
Inc., 1934-36; trustee, Organ Society, since 1950; governor, Fine Art
Society, since 1950; trustee, 1953-56, chairman of Building Committee,
since 1956, Pike School, Inc.; director, Andover Silver Company, Inc.,
Luke Nakashian, Inc. Suffolk Merchandising Corporation.

MEMBER OF: National Roster of Scientific and Specialized Personnel, Wash-
ington, D.C.

UNDERGRADUATE concentration in economics was followed,
logically enough, by Business School, ostensibly to learn the cause
of the great crash but more practically in the hope of learning
how to detect the well publicized “turn.”

From the Business School the next step showed that office work
was not exactly my strong point, but before moving on I dis-
covered that getting money and ventures together was very
satisfying work. This work was temporarily interrupted during
the war years by periods with the War Production Board and
Radiation Laboratory, M.I.T. The opportunity to help co-
ordinate private industry and scientific agencies merely strength-
ened my conviction that my work would be useful.

In 1946 I resumed the interrupted profession with Graham,
Parsons & Company, predecessor firm of Hemphill, Noyes &
Company in Boston. The rapid expansion of industrial facilities
coupled with the desire of large institutions to become direct
lenders to smaller concerns over the past decade permitted me to

[979 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

work as investment banker for a large number of New England
companies engaged in a wide range of activities. Essentially the
work is that of helping businesses assemble the essential tools to
help themselves.

I married Louise Storer in 1940. We now have six children,
three boys and three girls. The increasing pressure of children,
belongings and animals on our home has occasionally shattered
my parental composure, but Louise has the ability to control the
situation and be reasonably undisturbed by it all. While my
family and occupation have absorbed a large part of my time,
the pleasure that each has given me will, I hope, continue.

EDWARD ANTHONY ROBINSON

HOME ADDRESS: 125 Gramatan Drive, Yonkers 2, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fordham University, New York 58, N.Y.

BorN: Feb, 21, 1910, Saranac Lake, N.Y. parents: Anthony Bernard Robin-
son, Mary Ellen Finnegan.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Notre Dame University, South Bend, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932; A.M.
1934; PH.D., 1950.

marRiED: Maude Eva McSweeney, Sept. 7, 1939, Belmont, Mass. cHiLp:
Edward Anthony, Jr., Sept. 12, 1940; Mary Elizabeth, July 20, 1942;
Richard Jeremiah, Sept. 16, 1943; Margaret Catherine, Dec. 22, 19453
Martha Ann, July 19, 1948; John Bernard, Oct. 3, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Anthony Robinson, °34, LL.B., °37.

OccUPATION: Associate professor of Classics, Fordham University.

OFFICES HELD: President, Catholic Classical Association, New York, 1949-50;
editor, The Classical W eekly, since 19523 member executive committee,
Classical Association of the Atlantic States, since 1952.

MEMBER OF: American Philological Association; Classical Association of the
Adantic States, Teachers of Classics in New England (honorary);
Catholic Classical Association.

PusLications: Articles in Trans. American Philological Association, Har-
vard Studies in Classical Philology, Classical Weekly, etc.

PROFESSIONAL preparation for college teaching in his chosen
subject (Classics) occupied the years 1932-35: three terms at
Trinity College, Cambridge (England); the Grand Tour; comple-
tion of residence requirements for his Harvard doctorate.

In the summer of 1935 he was called to Fordham University to

[ 980 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

superintend graduate instruction in Classics, and has continued,
since 1936 unofficially, in that capacity. Tours of duty at the
state universities of Illinois (1946-47) and Colorado (summer
1951) were illuminating interludes.

In 1950 he was prevailed upon to terminate his Harvard doctoral
dissertation, an unnecessarily circumstantial investigation (un-
published and of no conceivable interest to non-specialists) of the
composition of the De Legibus of Cicero (106-43 B.C.). This
event was followed by the award of a Guggenheim fellowship
(1951-52) for related studies equally remote from present-day
concerns.

In 1949 he became associate editor, in 1952 editor of The Classi-
cal Weekly, a professional journal now in its fiftieth year. In his
administration of this philanthropy he has inaugurated several
features of obvious utility to the profession; for example, syste-
matic surveys of recent literature in the various branches, lists of
classical societies throughout the country, rosters of classical
faculties. It remains to be seen, however, to what extent this
‘effort, or any effort, can counteract long-tolerated habits of
triviality and misplacement of effort which he feels characterize
both so-called research and organizational activity in this field as
in the humanities generally.

A wise teacher (the late Milman Parry) once told him: “They
pay me well for doing what I should gladly pay to do.” But that
was at Harvard, the time about 1934.

EDWARD WIGGIN ROBINSON

HOME ADDRESS: 157 Court St. Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Middlesex County National Bank, 431 Broadway, Everett,
Mass.

BORN: Aug. 3, 1910, Sharon, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Edgar Robinson, Mary
Locke Wiggin.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. ¢477t laude, 1932; M.B-A.. 1934.

MARRIED: Barbara Helen Glidden, June 23, 1939, Duxbury, Mass. CHILDREN:
Edward Wiggin, Jr., April 22, 1942; John Glidden, July 21, 1948; David
Hopkins, Dec. 27, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Finance; Credit Department, Middlesex County National Bank.

[ 981 ]

|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Dedham Cub Pack No. 1, 1950-53; president, Ded.

ham First Parish Men's Club, 1955-57; incorporator and trustee, Massa.
chusetts Savings Bank, Boston, 1936-56.

MEMBER OF: University Club; Union Boat Club; Dedham Choral Society.

pusuications: “Problems of the Gold Exchange Standard,” Business School
thesis published by Franklin Lectures, Inc. 1935; “Boston Banks and the
Wool Market,” co-author, in Robert Morris Associates Bulletin, 1943,

WITH our twenty-fifth milestone just ahead, who among us does
not pause to examine in retrospect the years since graduation?
Who can deny indulging to some degree in self-censure for not
having accomplished more? Yet, all smugness aside, just how
many of us would not make exactly the same moves again if the
clock were turned back to 1932?

My own activities over those years can be divided into two
parts of equal length, interrupted in the middle by a tour of duty
with Uncle Sam’s Forces. Having postponed the process of job-
hunting for two years by going on to the Harvard Business
School, I entered the employ of the Merchants National Bank of
Boston in 1934, advancing through various stages of training into
the Credit Department, where I was located when tapped for.
duty with the Army in 1943.

As far as my years in the Service are concerned, let me say that
I consider this a rich experience, but one which I should dread
having to go through again. For a Harvard Grad to serve as an
enlisted man was virtually an eighth wonder of the world. I can
remember well one afternoon at a company formation when our
Regular Army Top-Kick, experiencing considerable difficulty
pronouncing a relatively simple word, called out, “Hey, Robinson,
you're a Harvard graduate— how do you pronounce this?” as
he slowly spelled out the word! In those two-plus years, I
traveled over 40,000 miles, trained for many months in the States,
served in combat for about two months in Europe and finally
wound up in the Army of Occupation in Japan, separating as a
staff sergeant. I won a Purple Heart the easy way with a graze

wound received in Czechoslovakia. My outfit was the 97th In-
fantry Division.

After the war, a favorable opportunity turned up in the textile
business and I became a “string pedler,” or yarn salesman for the
William Whitman Company, Inc. Five years later, after it be-

[ 982 ]

sane Ane ETE TET I eS
PEE TEDREE FI TOO
raneeuegerte Te!

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

came obvious this staid old company was headed for liquidation,
I shifted into a similar position with the Richard C. O’Brien Com-
pany of Boston, a commission yarn-selling organization. All went
well for a while, but beginning in 1953, I became increasing]
alarmed over the future of middleman textile selling in New Eng-
land, because of migrations to the South, liquidations and merg-
ers. Accordingly, I resigned during the past summer and in Au-
gust became associated with the Middlesex County National Bank
with headquarters in Everett, Massachusetts, and branches
throughout the northern half of Middlesex County. As this is
written, I am serving in the Credit Department, checking bor-
rowers’ credit and supervising loans, presumably in training for
officer’s duties. The ten-year fling in textiles has been a valuable
experience and I am now finding that the techniques of banking
are coming back readily, notwithstanding the thirteen-year in-
terruption.

I must be a typical father, because I regard my family as the
best in all the world. Having three active sons keeps us on the
hop all the time, and spare time is something we “ain’t got.” If
the house isn’t in need of do-it-yourself maintenance or repairs
inside, or the outside doesn’t require attention, then church, sing-
ing and other extra-curricular activities are making demands on
our time, Lest this Report leave the impression that we are com-
plaining, however, let me spike that thought by adding that we
“go to sleep counting our blessings.”

We are looking forward with a great deal of anticipation to
all the Reunion activities!

JOHN MINOR ROBINSON

HOME ADDRESS: 538 S. Flower St., Los Angeles 17, Calif,

orFice appress: Musick, Peeler & Garrett, 621 S. Hope St., Los Angeles 17,
Calif.

BoRN: March 18, 1910, Uniontown, Pa. parents: John Milton Robinson,
Martha Ellen Downs.

PREPARED AT: Uniontown High School, Uniontown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932} LL.By 1935.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Lawyer; partner, Musick, Peeler & Garrett.

[ 983 ]

—_———— lL —

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

MEMBER OF: California Club; Universicry Club of Los Angeles, Stock Ex.
change Club of Los Angeles, Bel-Air Country Club; Metropolitan
Club, Washington, D.C.

AFTER graduation from Harvard College, I attended the Har-
vard Law School, from which I was graduated in 1935. In the
summer of that year I drove to the West Coast and became
associated with the firm of Macdonald, Schultheis & Pettit to
engage in the general practice of law. My experience with that
firm was principally in the corporate field. In 1941 I left general
practice to become resident counsel of Consolidated Steel Corpo-
ration, which was then the largest independent steel fabricator
in the West. In due course I became the secretary and a vice-
president of that company. In 1941 Consolidated Steel had en-
tered the shipbuilding business and was embarking upon a pro-
gram of defense work under government prime contracts which
eventually made it one of the nation’s largest government con-
tractors, particularly in the field of shipbuilding. From 1941
through 1946, 1 was concerned principally with the negotiation
and administration of the company’s war contracts, and during
that period spent a large part of my time in Washington, in
connection with its affairs.

In 1946 I decided to return to the general practice of law and
joined with four other lawyers to form the firm which today is
known as Musick, Peeler & Garrett. The firm has enjoyed success
and has become one of the larger law firms of Los Angeles. Not-
withstanding my return to general practice, I have remained an
officer of Consolidated Steel, which in 1948 sold its operating
assets to U.S. Steel Corporation; and at the present time I am an
officer of the Consolidated Western Steel Division of U.S. Steel.
Although my firm is a departmentalized organization which en-
gages in all phases of civil practice, my own practice is devoted
primarily to corporate and oil and gas matters. Since: 1951 I have
organized and participated in a number of oil exploration ven-
tures, with moderate success. This activity I have found most
interesting.

Still a bachelor, I have for many years lived at the California
Club in Los Angeles. Several years ago I forsook tennis for golf,
which today I pursue with more enthusiasm and pleasure than
skill. In conclusion, I can say that I do not regret having cast my

[ 984 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

lot with the West and that, so far, I feel that life has treated me
well.

LEONARD GEORGE ROBINSON

HOME apprEss: c/o Harvard Club of New York, 27 W. 44th St., New York,
N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Army War College, Carlisle Barracks, Pa. (temporary).

BORN: Nov. 24, 1911, New York, N.Y. parents: Leonard George Robinson,
’oz, Betty Florence Levey.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928~1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Jeanette Bruck, Feb. 18, 1938, New York, N-Y. cHitpren: Patricia
Joan, Sept. 25, 1941; Geoffrey Philip, Jan. 24, 1948.

occuPaTION: Colonel, Artillery, U.S. Army.

OFFICES HELD: Chief, Strategy Branch, 1955-56, Requirements Planning
Branch, 1956, Plans Directorate, Office Deputy Chief of Staff for Mili-
tary Operations, Department of the Army; chairman, Army Long
Range Strategic Estimate Committee, 1954-56.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Association of the U.S. Army.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional contributor to The Military Review and The
Field Artillery Journal (now incorporated with Army magazine).

AN Exeter teacher of mine, in a recent letter wrote that “a mili-
tary career is one that I never would have guessed for you.” He
need not have been so credulous. The fact is that I wanted to be a
soldier from the beginning, consciously I think from about the
age of six. This is not to say that I knew what being a professional
soldier entailed, or that I had no knowledge of other careers. I
had no end of advice on that score. As to the original “why?” of
this vocation, it seems rather irrelevant at this point.

At any rate, I had to give up the idea, temporarily as it turned
out, because of the small emphasis on the military aspect of our
national life which prevailed during the early thirties. A super-
ficial stab at retail merchandising during the first two years after
graduation reinforced my conviction that soldiering was my true
vocation. Therefore, when the opportunity came, with the es-
tablishment of the Civilian Conservation Corps, to use my Army
Reserve commission on active duty, I jumped at it.

Within a few months, the nucleus of regular officers under
whose reluctant direction the “three C’s” had been inaugurated

[ 985 ]

_— Le

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

greatly impressed with my exalted rank, but finds useful my
knowledge of the principles of rifle marksmanship. Jeanette is
yearning to sink some roots somewhere, preferably Denver or
San Francisco. One of my secret ambitions is to return to Har-
vard as professor of military science and tactics,

ROBERT RIDGWAY RODENBERG

HOME ADDRESS: 2356 Massachusetts Ave, N.W., Washington 8, D.C.

BORN: Nov. 8, 1909, East St. Louis, Ill. parents: William August Roden-
berg, Mary Grant Ridgway.

PREPARED aT: Tabor Academy, Marion, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931.

marrieD: Anne W. Kiess, 1941, Knoxville, Tenn. (divorced 1943); Jean M.
Henry, July 8, 1949, Alexandria, Va. (divorced 1954). cup: Robert
Ridgway, Jr., 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Ridgway Rodenberg, 11.B., '28.

OCCUPATION: Business promotions and real estate broker.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Public Relations and Publicity, Reynolds Metals
Company, 1940; president, World Parade, Inc. 1941, Baltimore Colts
Football Team, 1947-48, Rodenberg Realty Corporation, 1949-55;
vice-president and treasurer, Mountain Resorts, Inc., since 1956.

MEMBER OF: National Press Club; University Club; Capitol Hill Club,
Commonwealth Club, Richmond, Va.; Country Club of Virginia.

I] AM twenty-five years older, dammit! These fast fleeting years
have not treated me too badly. I live well, eat well and generally
sleep well. I am still six feet, five inches tall. I still have a full head
of hair, but, alas, it’s graying. My weight has fluctuated from 175
pounds (due to sickness following World War II) to 275 pounds
(due to an over-consuming appetite). I now tip the scales around
210 (due to watching them calories). My eyesight is good but
damn those telephone books. My disposition is good but damn
people at times. My work has been varied — sometimes profitable
and sometimes not so.

In 1932 — worked for a toy company. Salaried. From 1933 to
1938 — newspaper reporter on the old Washington Herald, El
Imparcial in San Juan, Puerto Rico, and the defunct Capitol Daily
in our nation’s capital. Salaried — but not too much. In 1939 —
public relations work in Washington. Non-salaried and not too

[ 988 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

lucrative. In 1940— director of publicity and public relations
for a large aluminum company (no commercials, please). Salaried
at about a fiftieth of what they are now paying. In 1941 — pro-
ducer of motion picture shorts. Slightly unprofitable. From
1942 to 1946—~ Uncle’s Army. Salaried. Began at $21 a month
minus a buck and a half for laundry. Finally received over $300
monthly. Might have been great opportunity. More about this
later. In 1947 and 1948 — founded the Baltimore Colts football
team. Very, but very unprofitable at time. Chalk up six-figure
personal loss here. From then to the present have been engaged in
real estate, business promotions both at home and abroad and land
development. But let us regress a bit.

Back in March, 1942, in order to impede the war effort, I en-
listed as a private in the Army of the United States. After
suffering much abuse (oh, how I hate rank!), I emerged from
O.C.S. as a full second lieutenant. Then by hook and crook, I got
into the cloak and dagger Oboe Sugar Sugar group. They were
delighted to have me. After going through several Oh So Secret
training camps, I found myself in Assam, India. Then to Burma
where I was never mistaken for a native but did spend four
months doing intelligence work behind Japanese lines. Then I
drove into China over the Ledo-Burma Road in one of the first
convoys and spent some five months, including V-J Day, there.
Thence back to Uncle Sugar Able and the plain title of “Hey,
you.” Quite a let-down from my lofty captaincy.

The year 1946 found me in and out of Walter Reed General
Hospital where I was suffering from every known oriental
malady. Finally recovered and was placed on the wagon for
thirteen months, eight days, or one year, one month and one day.
People were much more boring during this sojourn of holiness.

Since leaving Cambridge, I know how to spell Y-N-O-M-I-L-A
backwards. I am apparently a beast in the eyes of two Florida
divorce courts. I have one image, R.R.R., Jr., pushing sixteen and
now at South Kent School. That’s all. See you guys at the

Fortieth, I hope.

[ 989 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

GEORGE COX RODGERS

HOME AppRESsS: Chauncey Circle, Westboro, Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 15, 1910, Camden, Mass. parents: Wilfred Claymore Rodgers,
Mae Greeley.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

occupation: Garage Management.

THOMAS NICKERSON ROGERS

HOME ADpREsS: 24 Coughlin Rd., Acton Center, Mass.
OFFICE ADpREsS: Hastings Sales Co., 171 Newbury St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: March 18, 1g10, Brookline, Mass, PARENTS: Howard Lewis Rogers,
Clara Hunt Phillips.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, RI.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Jane Zimmerman, Aug. 21, 1937, Syracuse, N.Y. (died Nov. 11,
1951); Jane Anthony Richardson, Nov. 20, 1952. CHILDREN: Christine
P., Nov. 20, 1947; Thomas Nickerson, Jr., Sept. 6, 1953; Anthony Lo-
throp, Jan. 3, 1955; Judith Richardson, Feb. 18, 1943 (stepchild), John
E. Richardson, Feb. 7, 1946 (stepchild).

HARVARD BROTHER: John Gardner Rogers, °36.

occupation: Manufacturers’ representative.

WHAT a year 1932 was for us job hunters! At last, to my sur-
prise and pleasure, I was taken on by the Boston Safe Deposit
& Trust Company —at the bottom — of course —and spent a
good ten years moving gradually upwards. It was not exciting
but interesting and a source of many good friendships.

The Navy took over for the years 1942 through 1945. After
a year of aviation administrative duty at NRAB, Squantum, Mas-
sachusetts, I had three years on seaplane tenders, U.S.S. Barnegat
AVP 10, in the North and South Atlantic and U.S.S, Cumberland
Sound, navigator and operations officer (no air duty). High
spots: Argentia, Rio, Montevideo, Ulithi (Mog Mog) and Tokyo.

Back to civilian life, I decided to change from banking. Now
selling is my business. I am a manufacturers’ representative han-
dling New England sales for various small companies.

Hobbies, vacations, social life: —all rolled up together come
out “Five children thirteen to two” (sounds like a game — it is
from dawn to dusk). My twenty-fifth year, then finds me

[ 990 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

happily living in the country with my wife and children all set
for a long vacation when my youngest graduates from Harvard

in °75.

SIGMUND T. ROMAS

HOME ADpRESS: 33 Sullivan Ave., Newton Upper Falls 64, Mass.

OFFICE appRess: Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge 39, Mass.

BORN: May 16, 1909, Newton Upper Falls,.Mass. parents: Maciej Romaszkie-
wicz; Martha Josephine Bystszynska.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930, 1931-1933. DEGREE: S.B. cum laude, 1932 (33).

occuPATION: Assistant cashier, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary or president, Holy Name Society, for eleven years;
treasurer, Mary Immaculate of Lourdes Conference, Society of St.
Vincent de Paul, since 1946; financial secretary, 1950-55, vice-
president, since 1955, Newton Catholic Welfare Committee.

MEMBER OF: Holy Name Society; Society of St. Vincent de Paul; Society
of St. Gregory of America; National Council of Catholic Men; New-
ton Catholic Welfare Committee.

AM just another member of that great class of “drawers of water
and hewers of wood,” spoken of by President A. Lawrence
Lowell in his welcoming speech to our freshman class; interested
in things pro-American and pro-Catholic,

EDWARD IGNATIUS RONAN

HOME ADDRESS: 35 Birch Rd., Winthrop, Mass.

OFFIcE appress: U.S. Veterans Administration, 1 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 27, 1909, Dorchester, Mass. parents: John Joseph Ronan,
Christine Murphy.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930, 1931-1933.

MarrieD: Harriett C. Brawley, Feb. 8, 1941, Boston, Mass. cur~pren: Martha
Ann and Patricia Ann (twins), Dec. 31, 1942; Gayle Anne, Jan. 28, 1950.

occuPaTION: Board member, U.S. Veterans Administration,

MEMBER OF: Cottage Park Yacht Club, Winthrop, Mass.

[991 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

JOHN CARROLL ROONEY

HOME ADDRESS: 794 Dorchester Ave., Dorchester, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 148 State St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: Nov, 4, 1910, Roxbury, Mass. parents: John Joseph Rooney, Jennie
E. Ducey.

PREPARED AT: Boston College High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1932; LL.B. 1935.

marrieD: Helen Geraldine Sullivan, July 1, 1939, Dorchester, Mass. cum-
DREN: Karylann, Aug. 19, 1945; Joan, Jan. 2, 1948; John, 3d, July 27, 1951.

occupation: Lawyer, Rooney, Sweeney & Slater, New England Loss and
Claims Manager, Royal-Liverpool Insurance Group.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Furnace Brook Golf Club, 1944-54.

MEMBER OF: Norfolk County Bar Association; Furnace Brook Golf Club.

ON graduation I, like many of my classmates, preferred to re-
turn to the Law School for three more pleasant and instructive
years, rather than attempt to earn a living with conditions as they
were. This reprieve from worldy toil passed all too quickly, as
I found myself in about the same situation in 1935 as I had been
in 1932. It was any port in a storm and I wound up riding around
the country as a claims adjuster for the Royal-Liverpool Insur-
ance Group, having a fine time spending other people’s money
but not getting much myself. The fine time was short-lived, for
with an internal reorganization I came to, on my feet, in a court
room as a defendant’s trial attorney. The Group certainly had
more confidence in the value of a law degree than I, but with a
little experience, this became a most agreeable and often thrilling
assignment. By and large, the legitimately injured are fairly
compensated for their injuries and rightly so, but the satisfaction
comes in knocking the props from under the fake and built-up
claims.

Some of my classmates also joined the Group and for a while
we had a fine old time losing the company’s money. We even
opened an office at 6 Beacon Street that served as an intown stag
club. With the war, they departed one by one with various com-
missions and smart uniforms, but when it came my turn to enlist
the only position open was Apprentice Seaman, third class — and
that term of service is probably the briefest on record.

About this time — July 1, 1939 to be exact — Helen Geraldine

[ 992 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Sullivan and I were married at St. Margaret's Church in Dorches-
ter. In comparison to the fanfare, we have lived quietly since.

In the mid-forties I became treasurer of a golf club that was
slightly in debt — about a quarter of a million. While it did noth-
ing to improve my golf, I did acquire various bits of information
about buying and selling liquor, promoting weddings and ban-
quets, the care and “maintenance” of slot machines, and the sale
of real estate.

A few words about the present before this becomes a book.
Currently, I am loss and claims manager of the Group for New
England, handling fire, casualty and marine losses, claims and
suits. It is interesting, although of late, with the influx of new
broadened coverages and package-policies, a bit difficult to keep
up with.

My family arrived late so that my girls are still in grammar
school. Do you know that there are such things as intransitive
verbs and predicate adjectives? I’m even learning to divide frac-
tions. Harvard’s English and Math courses should be radically
revised! My son, correctly nicknamed “Roughy,” is only in
kindergarten but he couples an unbounded faith in his father’s
ability to repair anything with a tube of glue, to such simple

questions as “how do you make an atomic bomb?” or “what
makes a rocket rise?”

That’s life, and if my graph remains as steady in the next
twenty-five years as it has been in the past, I'll still be happy at
our Fiftieth.

HENRY CLIFFORD ROSEN

HOME ApDpDRESS: 140 Sewall Ave., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 31 Bay State Rd., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Oct, 13, 1910, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Julius P. Rosen, Dora Hur-
Witz.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.p. (Tufts Univ.), 1936.

MaRRiED: Annette E. Hollander, Nov. 10, 1940, New York, N.Y. cHILD:
Jonathan Edward, Sept. 7, 1955 (adopted).

OccUPATION: Physician; obstetrician and gynecologist.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant in obstetrics and gynecology, Tufts University

[ 993 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Medical School; associate obstetrician and gynecologist, clinical assistant
in pathology and cytologist, Beth Isracl Hospital, Boston; consultant in
obstetrics and gynecology and secretary of staff, Booth Memorial Hos-

pital, Brookline; associate gynecologist, Mt. Auburn Hospital, Cam-
bridge.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
Greater Boston Medical Society; diplomate, National Board of Medical
Examiners; New England Obstetrical & Gynecological Society; Inter-
Society Cytology Council; diplomate, American Board of Obstetrics
and Gynecology; fellow, American College of Surgeons.

MY four years at Harvard had furnished me with an A.B. de-

gree in biochemical science, endowed me with a liberal educa-

tion but had inspired within me a fervid desire for a maximum

of ease and a minimum of pain. Consequently, I had planned a

European trip for postgraduate study at London and then Berlin

for the following year, although my ultimate goal was the study

of medicine. Despite my well-laid plans for a year of travel and
study, having been accepted at medical school, I decided to give
up my sabbatical year and start my medical training in the fall.
My four years at Tufts University Medical School, were busy
ones — replete with application and study. They were happy
years but passed all too quickly. In June, 1936, I received my
M.D. degree which was just the threshold of my medical career.
I was a doctor, but our era demanded more — more knowledge,
more training, more skill—the study and art of medicine were
beckoning; the practice of medicine was still to come. Five more
years of training were ahead of me —I had chosen obstetrics and
gynecology. There was one year of general internship, followed
by four years of intensive training, the last part of which was -
spent at the Sloane Hospital for Women at the Presbyterian Medi-
cal Center in New York City. It was here in New York that I
met, courted and married my wife. It was 1940 — Europe was
torn with strife —the situation here was uncertain, but my de-
cision was to return to Boston to practise, to help bring new life
into the world. One year in Boston, enjoying old friends, furnish-
ing a home, starting the nucleus of a practice, treating clinic
patients, teaching third-year and fourth-year medical students,
was suddenly brought to a halt by Pearl Harbor. By June, 1943,
I was in uniform in the U.S, Public Elcalth Service, derailed to the
Navy. Fortunately, my war years were spent in this country;

[994 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

six weeks in New York City and then three years in Baltimore,
Maryland. My job was that of Port Medical Director of the port
of Baltimore.

The years spent in Maryland reaffirmed my decision to return
to the city of my birth. Finally, in July, 1946, after a trans-con-
tinental trip, I started in practice for the second time. For the
past ten years, I have enjoyed the pleasure of my work, the com-
pany of good friends and my hobby of painting. All this was
climaxed by the greatest joy, so far, the adoption of our first and
only child, a son, Jonathan Edward, now fifteen months old —
prospective Harvard material, I hope.

IVAN ROSENTHAL

HOME appreEss: Pleasantville, N.Y.

BORN: Dec. 8, 1908, New York, N.Y. parents: Mark Rosenthal, Pauline
Scharfmann.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1930.

MARRIED. CHILDREN: Carey, Sara.

OCCUPATION: Pianist; builder.

ROSENTHAL transferred from Harvard to the University of
Wisconsin from which he graduated and received the Vilas prize
for literature.

BERNARD WILLIAM ROTHBLATT

HOME appreEss: 483 Beacon St., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 23, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Harry Lewis Rothblatt, Eliza-
beth Hurwitz.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929. DEGREES: A.B. (Brown Univ.), 1933; MD. (Tufts
Coll.), 1937.

marriep: Alice May Peterson, Jan. 31, 1942, Shrewsbury, Mass. CHILD:
John Peterson, Dec. 12, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Medicine.

[995 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

HOWARD RUBIN

HOME ADDRESS: 6 Croftdale Rd., Newton Center, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: Guterman, Horvitz & Rubin, 82 Devonshire Str, Boston,
Mass.

BORN: Jan. 23, 1911, Boston, Mass. ParENTS: David Rubin, Rose Susser,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREES: A.B. Cut laude, 19323; LL.B., 1935.

marrieD: Estelle Ann Ginsburg, Jan. 12, 1938, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Matthew H., May 21, 1940; Richard L., April 14, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Allen Donald Rubin, ’35.

occupaTIon: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Class agent, Harvard ’32; trustee, Associated Jewish Philan-
thropies, Boston, Temple Shalom, Newton; director, Jewish Centers
Association, Jewish Family and Children’s Service; president, Camp
Kingswood.

MEMBER OF: American and Boston Bar Association; United Lodge, AF. &
A.M, Brookline; Temple Israel, Boston; Temple Shalom, Newton;
Belmont Country Club.

MY children have observed that the latter years have been
weighty ones. Comparing waistline measurements of 1932 with
1957 I am forced, reluctantly, to agree.

I often wish that I could recapture and relive my undergradu-
ate days. I have no desire whatsoever to relive those three brutal
years at Law School. The practice of law has been thoroughly
enjoyable since my LL.B. in 1935. My work has been interesting
and rewarding. I am convinced that society is on the whole bet-
ter for the profession; and that lawyers themselves are the better
for the constructive help they are frequently privileged to give
to the little person in his small world of personal confusion.

My hobbies have not been too successful. My saxophone, oc-
casionally picked up, frequently blows flat. My sons have con-
vinced me that my photography suffers from insufficient exposure.
I am deeply indebted to those good friends of mine who are my
constant companions at golf — their willingness to play with me
is the best evidence of their true friendship. Several years ago, my
boys called me “chicken” —I then decided that the time had
come to give up skiing.

In the last ten years, I have spent most of my free time work-
ing with under-privileged children. As a trustee of the Associated
Jewish Philanthropies here in Boston, I have had the opportunity

[996 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to work closely in the Jewish Centers Association and the Jewish
Family and Children’s Service and, more especially, in the de-
velopment, planning and operational problems of a summer camp
maintained and supported for those children who would other-
wise be denied a needed summer camping experience. No single
endeavor has been so enriching and gratifying.

These twenty-five years have not been glamorous nor monu-
mental. They have been years in which one gray flannel suit has
been replaced by another slightly larger in size but not of a tailor-
ing significantly different from the earlier models.

+ FREDERICK WILLIAM RUSSE, JR.

BORN: Sept. 20, 1910, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Frederick William Russe,
’o2, Elizabeth Prince.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Suzanne Cable Mackay, July 15, 1939, St. Louis, Mo. (died Feb.
9, 1945); Constance Russe. CHILDREN: Susan, May 30, 1940; Frederick
William, 3d, Aug. 13, 1944; Roger D.; Thomas C.; Laurence L. Prince.

DIED: Sept. 2, 1956, Bethesda, Md.

wiwow: Mrs. Frederick W. Russe, Jr., P.O. Box 283, Fairfax, Va.

FREDERICK WILLIAM RUSSE, JR. former engineering
specialist with the Naval Bureau of Ordnance, had retired shortly
before his death. He was a civil engineer in St. Louis until he
entered the Navy the week after Pearl Harbor was bombed, and
had served in Washington and New York as an ordnance officer.
A commander in the Navy, he had participated in the Bikini
atomic bomb operation in 1946 and afterwards returned to in-
active status. He was a consulting engineer in New York until
1951 when he was recalled to naval duty. He was assigned to the
Naval Gun Factory as an inspection officer. Earlier he was a
quality control specialist with the Bureau of Ordnance.
__. He was a member of the University Club in Washington, D.C.,
the Harvard Club of New York, the American Chemical Society
and the American Engineering Society.

[ 997 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

FRANCIS RUSSELL

HOME ADDRESS: 24 Cunningham Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 12, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Leo Spotten Hamburger, ’ 02,
Ethel Russell Kent.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B, (Bowdoin Coll.), 1933, a.m. (Har-
vard Univ.), 1937.

UNMARRIED.

occupaTion: Journalist (free-lance).

OFFICES HELD: Commander, Post 121, Canadian Legion (1953).

MEMBER OF: Canadian Legion; Appalachian Mountain Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Three Studies in Twentieth Century Obscurity, Hand &
Flower Press, England, 1955.

SOME time during the war, when I was stationed at Aldershot,
that formidable barracks city, in a condemned building in the
Wellington lines which had kindly been rented to the Canadian
Army, I began to write articles for various English magazines.
They weren't very remarkable articles, but then I had to write
them in an unheated room with mittens on. Since then I have
continued to write for a mixed bag of English, Irish, American,
and Canadian magazines. It’s not much of a way of earning a
living, but I can’t think of anything else.

Several essays of literary criticism that I wrote for Roy Camp-
bell’s magazine, Catacomb, were reprinted as a book in England.
It had reasonably good reviews. The Spectators reviewer de-
scribed me as having a “‘derisive and derogatory vocabulary.” In-
cidentally, I have noted that the mortality rate of magazines that
print my articles is high.

In 1936 1 cast my first vote for Landon, the Kansas Coolidge,
because F.D.R.’s voice reminded me too much of old Tommy, the
headmaster at Roxbury Latin. Politically, I am a Republican, for
I feel that the inevitable inflation is somewhat slower under the
GOP. I am an Episcopalian because I had the misfortune to be
born one.

As I look back on Harvard, it does not seem to have had much
effect on my life — but perhaps this is because the dean dropped
the boom on me at the end of my second year. Subsequently he
died, and I sometimes wonder how he feels about it now.

I am still a bachelor, living for the time in one of the antiseptic

[ 998 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

dormitory suburbs of Boston. I shall survive into the first decade
of the next century, according to the life-line of my hand and
also according to my intentions, By that time, I am sorry to say,
the rest of you will be dead.

HENRY DRUMMOND RUSSELL

HOME AppREsS: Springdale Avenue, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Biology, Boston University, 67; Commonwealth
Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 5, 1908, Boston, Mass, PARENTS, Charles Theodore Russell, 'o2,
Louise Rust.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; A.M. (Boston Univ.), 1933;
PH.D. (ibid.), 1940.

MaRRIED: Mary Elizabeth Meade, June 16, 1939, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Mary Loujse, April 7, 1940; Barbara Meade, April 30, 1942; Cynthia,
Nov. 11, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles Theodore Russell, Jr. ’30; Joseph Ballister
Russell, ’34.

OCCUPATION: Assistant professor of biology, Boston University; secretary,
Cape Cod Shellfish Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant biologist, Division of Marine Fisheries, 1940; assistant
to president, New England Museum of Natural History, 1941; member,
Dover Town Warrant Committee, 1941; chairman, Dover Public
School Association, 1946; member of corporation, Bermuda Biological
Station.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Longwood Covered Courts, Duxbury
Yacht Club; Dedham Country & Polo Club; Boston Malacological Club;
American Malacological Union; Oceanographic & Limnological So-
ciety of America; Ecological Society of America; American Fisheries
Society; Boston University Chapter of Sigma Xi (treasurer); National
Shellfish Association; Society of Systematic Zoologists.

PUBLICATIONS: Wide variety of subjects; 800-foot color, sound moving pic-
ture, depicting the capture, processing and marketing of my company’s
product, ocean clams, for the wholesale and retail trades.

CHE SERA SERA (what will be will be) appears upon my fam-
ily shield with three scallop shells denoting travel. These seem
to have held considerable sway in shaping my ends, rough-hew
them as ] may. This influence, coupled with a natural curiosity,
has led me down many, always interesting but often fascinating,
avenues to the frontiers of biological sciences. For example,

[ 999 ]

Fo We OTE TEM EEEETIEce  ..

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

confirmed member of no church, bute am an Episcopalian by
adoption. I can’t help fecling, however, that the study of nature
has helped me to appreciate somewhat the mysterious ways in
which God works “His wonders to perform.”

JOSEPH ANTHONY LOUIS RUSSO
HOME apprEss: Old Fosterburg Road, P.O. Box 11, Godfrey, Ill.

oFFiceE appréss; Giberson Insurance Agency, 221 Market St., Alton, Ill.

Born: Oct. 16, 1909, Dorchester, Mass. parents: Joseph S. Russo, Giovanna
Di Milla.

PREPARED aT: Newton High School, Newtonville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931, 1932-1933. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1932 (33).

MarrieD: Roma Eugenia Lalk, Aug. 8, 1938, Milwaukee, Wis. (died June
15, 1940); Virginia Frances Hoffman, June 22, 1946, Knoxville, Tenn.

occupation: Manager, Life, Accident and Health Department, Giberson
Insurance Agency.

OFFIces HELD: Director, Alton Association of Life Underwriters; director of
publications, Monticello College, Alton, 1946-53.

MEMBER OF: Kiwanis Club.

MILITARY seRvVicE: Army Signal Corps, 1942-1945. Radio operator, high
speed automatic. New Delhi, India. -

ALVARO ENRIQUE SANCHEZ, JR.

LAST KNOWN aporess: Calle 4 esq. 19 185, Vedado, Havana, Cuba.
Born: April 2, 1910, Camaquey, Cuba. parents: Alvaro Sanchez, Raquel
Montoulieu.

PREPARED AT: Irving School, Tarrytown, N. Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

SANCHEZ has been carried as a “Jost” man on our records since
1956.

JOSEPH WEBSTER SANDFORD

HOME aporess: 1275 Denmark Rd. Plainfield, N.J.

orrice appress: White & Case, 14 Wall St, New York 5, N.Y.

BoRN: Jan. 25, 1909, Plainficld, N.J. parpxis: Joseph Webster Sandford,
Minnie Murray.

prepareo at; The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

[ 1002 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cut laude, 1932; LLB. 1935-

marRiED: Barbara Tracy, June 18, 1938, Cleveland, Ohio. CHILDREN: Tracy,
May 6, 1941; Joseph Webster, Jr., Jan. 11, 1943; Lucinda, June 24, 1947;
Catherine, Dec. 20, 1948; Sarah, May 26, 1951, Priscilla, Dec. 29, 1952.

occuPaTIoN: Attorney; member of firm of White & Case.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Common Council, 1944-46, Board of Education,
1946-54, Plainfield, N.J.; former trustee, Crescent Avenue Presbyterian
Church, Plainfield Y.M.C.A.

MEMBER OF: Bar Associations; Down Town Association, New York City.

AFTER that pleasant day in June of long ago, when our atten-
tion was chiefly absorbed by the steps taken during the Latin
Oration to insure that the Governor and the High Sheriff laughed
or applauded at the right places, I went on to the Law School.
There a steady and increasingly alarming decline in marks was
arrested in the nick of time by the arrival of another June, in 1935-
To recuperate from having to think for so many years, I jour-
neyed to our Classmate Gordon Morrill’s ranch in Wyoming.
Visiting his kid sister was a girl from Cleveland who tripped me
into the horse-trough the first day. This well-recognized form
of courtship had the inevitable result that we were married two
or three years later. No doubt she has lived to regret her youthful
brashness, but I have not.

In the fall of 1935, I began practice with White & Case in New
York City and have been there ever since, with the exception of
wartime service as an attorney in the New York Ordnance District
of the War Department.

We have always lived in Plainfield, and have a summer place
on Lake Wentworth, near Wolfeboro, New Hampshire, which
makes me almost wish that I practised in Boston, or Concord, or
better yet Wolfeboro. My goal for the next twenty-five years is
a plane that can travel from the soiled East River to the blue wat-
ers of the Granite State. The nearest approach to this so far,
however, is a 1931 Ford station wagon which has all the motion
of a spirited horse and a gear shift besides.

I have tried to do my turn in some of the activities which en-
gage one in a small town, including ten years divided between

the Common Council and the Board of Education. This experi-
ence was much more beneficial to me than to the electorate or
the school children, but it is certainly one which everyone would

[ 1003 ]

_ Lo

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

be fortunate to have. My hobby (to make a virtue of necessity)
seems to be, repairing things that are broken.

We have been kept reasonably busy supplying teacher-fodder,
and have often wondered why the simplest toy from the Five
and Dime comes equipped with a book of directions whereas
children arrive with no instructions whatever. We have pro-
ceeded on the theory of “Cheaper by the Dozen” (allowing for
the fifty-cent dollar), We have established that the theory 1s
not correct. .

Our children are spread over a period of several years, and on
the day that we waved good-by to the last diaper service, a
couple of gangling youths knocked on the front door to call on
our eldest daughter. So the wheel completes the full circle, and
another generation comes along; and in some future year, the
Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report will be discovered and read
by them with mild curiosity at olden times, and they will stare
at their father’s college picture in total incomprehension that he
was once as young as they.

WINTHROP WILLIAM SARGENT

HOME ADDRESS: 33 Monument St., Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Spinform, Inc., 69 Mechanic St., Attleboro, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 3, 1910, Clovis, Calif. parents: Winthrop William Sargent,
Elizabeth Abbot Kebler.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.B.A., 1934.

MaRRiED: Mary Elizabeth Taylor, Jan. 14, 1939, Pittsfield, Mass. CHILDREN:
Sarah Dodd, Nov. 29, 1940; Winthrop William, Jr., Sept. 21, 1942;
John Abbot, Aug. 23, 1945; Catherine K., Oct. 9, 1951.

occupation: Treasurer, Spinform, Inc., metal spinning and stamping.

OFFICES HELD: President and member board of trustees, Brooks School, Con-
cord; trustee, Fenn School, Concord; treasurer, Concord Community
Chest; chairman, Sea Scout Committee, Concord Municipal Light
Board.

MEMBER oF: Concord Country Club; Annisquam Yacht Club; Society of
the Cincinnati.

FOR one who has done nothing outstanding, an autobiography
is a difficult piece of work. Nevertheless, I have been told it must t
be done. :

ay oer

[ 1004 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

After Business School, I considered myself fortunate to be asked
to go with the Abbot Worsted Company in Graniteville, Massa-
chusetts. (I well remember the thirty-five cents per hour start-
ing pay.) This was definitely a textile concern and followed the
course of all New England textiles. War years, both World War
II and Korean, were profitable but then the troubles of an inde-
pendent yarn spinner began. For some time I had been a part of
management but in 1955 it became apparent that my ideas were
so opposed to those of the majority owners that there appeared
a large neon sign over “EXIT” flashing Sargent.

Then followed eight months of vacation and searching for
some position or business where I would be happy and could use
twenty years of mechanical and management training. After
many hours of investigating, I decided upon a very small manu-
facturing concern in Attleboro, which should have a profitable
future. This is Spinform, Inc., where we make both experimental
and production parts for an amazing number of industries: jet
engine, electronics, air conditioning and tclephone.

Being a fine 4-F specimen, I was confined in my World War II
activities to the U.S, Coast Guard Temporary Reserve.

Betty and I and our four children live in Concord next to the
famous “Rude Bridge.” At one time I became interested in old
cars but now have given up the lovely, but expensive, old auto-
mobiles for my first love — boats. The boats take us sailing, fish-
ing and just out on the water. Naturally, the male children are
anxious for the biggest and fastest outboard which has not arrived
and wont.

Now, twenty-five years of very pleasant living have been cov-
ered.

SPIROS PETER SARRIS

HOME AppREsS: 104 Atlantic Ave. Swampscott, Mass.

OFFICE aporess: 56 Broad Sct, Lynn, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 9, 1913, Lowell, Mass. parents: Peter Aristides Sarris, Vasiliki
Spheeris.

PREPARED aT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; m.v. cum laude,
1936.

[ 1005 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

marriED: Aphrodite Valos, July 23, 1949, Chicago, Ill. cyrupren;: Valerie,

Feb. 22, 1951; Marina, July 2, 1952; Peter, Dec. 4, 1953; Thomas, July
6, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in surgery, Harvard Medical School; chief of
surgery, Union Hospital, Lynn; associate chief of surgery, Lynn Hos-

pital; clinical associate in surgery, Massachusetts General Hospital,
Boston.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Surgery; American College of Surgeons;
Boston Surgical Society; Massachusetts Medical Society; American Medi-

cal Society; American Cancer Society; Alpha Omega Alpha; Rotary
Club; Wayfarers Lodge, F. & A.M.

pusLications: “New Method of Determination of Serum Protein,” “Acute
Gonococcal Tenosynovitis,” “Acute Mechanical Small Bowel Obstruc-
tion,” “Clinical — Pathological Conferences,” New England Journal

of Medicine.

IN the fall of 1932 I entered Harvard Medical School and grad-
uated cum laude in 1936. In the year 1933-34 I had a fellowship
in physiology under Dr. Walter B. Cannon. This was a research
fellowship in my spare time from the medical school curriculum.
Nothing very startling came out of this research. I put away a
lot of animals studying the effect of intravenous fat injections.
Let me assure any anti-vivisectionists among my classmates that
these animals did not suffer any pain. I did get an inkling of re-
search methods in basic medical sciences. In the summer of 1934,
between my second and third year in medical school, I was a
Rockefeller fellow studying public health. ‘This Rockefeller
fellowship gave me an opportunity to come under the magic spell
of a wonderful teacher, Dr. Cecil Drinker, then dean of the Har-
vard School of Public Health and a leading physiologist. Under
his influence and by special arrangement, I was permitted to take
half the course for a degree from the Harvard School of Public
Health. This I did in my last year at medical school, having done
one semester of regular school work in the summer of 1935. I
came very close to choosing public health for my professional
career. For better or worse, I finally decided to try to become a
surgeon and was very fortunate to get a surgical appointment at

the Massachusetts General Hospital.
While waiting four months for my surgical appointment, |
earned a little money in those depression years by being a doctor
at a C.C.C. camp — remember those? — in North Conway, New

[ 1006 ]

 

 

‘
2

i
+
€
¥

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Hampshire. After my two years’ internship in surgery, my luck
stayed with me and I was appointed successively assistant resident
and chief resident at the Massachusetts General Hospital. With-
out detracting anything from my college and medical school days,
in looking back I find the time I spent at the Massachusetts
General Hospital was the most instructive and crucial in my life.
I began the practice of general surgery in Lynn, Massachusetts, in
1941. Before Pearl Harbor I volunteered to join the Massachu-
setts General Hospital unit in case we entered the war. After a
few months of practice and shortly after Pearl Harbor, the
Massachusetts General Hospital was activated as the Sixth General
Hospital of the U.S. Army, and I spent thirty-one months over-
seas through the North African and Italian campaigns. At the end
of the European War I received my orders to go to the Pacific.
I was on my way there when the atomic bomb was dropped and
the rest is history. Since the war I have been back practising
surgery in Lynn and also doing some teaching of Harvard Medical
students.

I have no particular political convictions. I vote as an independ-
ent. Aly main social conviction is that equal rights and the eco-
nomic ascendancy of women are ruining their morals. What's
worse, these are the greatest contributory factors to so-called
juvenile delinquency, unhappy marriages, and many other social
evils. All in all, I have had a very pleasant twenty-five years. I
hope I live long enough to see my two boys graduate from Har-
vard, and as for my two girls, they will attend some home
economics school.

+ RUSSELL PEABODY SATTERTHWAITE

BoRN: May 12, 1910, New York, N.Y. PARENTS: Pennington Satterthwaite,
Helen Peabody.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

DIED: May 28, 1929, Cambridge, Mass.

SATTERTHWAITE was a candidate for the freshman crew
while at Harvard. He died during his freshman year.

[ 1007 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

ROBERT SAUDEK
SEE Appendix.

JOSEPH SAWYER

HOME ADDRESS: 5601 Riverdale Ave, New York 71, N.Y.

OFFICE AppRESS: Associated Merchandising Corp. 1440 Broadway, New
York 18, N.Y. .

BorN: March 14, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Julius Sawyer, Frieda Celia
King. .

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932; MB.A.,
1934-

MARRIED: Sara Zeserson, Nov. 25, 1937, Boston, Mass. cuitp: Marc Harris,
Jan. 12, 1943.

OccUPATION: Representative of Controllers’ & Credit Managers’ Groups,
department store buying office, Associated Merchandising Corpora-
tion.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Committee on Government Controls, National -
Retail Dry Goods Association, 1941-52; commercial arbitrator, Ameri-
can Arbitration Association, since 1947; member board of directors,
since 1954, program committee, since 1952, Metropolitan Controllers’
Association; member, Federal Reserve Advisory Committee, since 1955,
member, Standardization Committee, Controllers’ Congress, since 1956,
N.R.D.G.A.; member executive board, Parents’ Association, Riverdale
Temple, since 1955.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Business School Club of New York; Metropolitan
Controllers’ Association and Controllers’ Congress, New York Adult
Education Council; B’nai B'rith.

PuBLicaTions: Occasional contributions to Forbes, Purchasing, Chain Store
Age, Department Store Economist, other trade publications.

THE cold, cold world being too cold in 1932, many of us sought
the warm shelter of the Business School for two years. Things
were only a little better in 1934; however, the security of an office
job with a regular paycheck seemed as attractive then as a De-
ferred Compensation Plan does today.

Working as purchasing agent for a food chain in Boston during
the middle thirties allowed time for two side activities pleasing
to most graduates: teaching and writing. The courses on industrial
purchasing which we first introduced into the Massachusetts Uni-

[ 1008 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

versity Extension Division and Northeastern University about
twenty years ago are still being carried on by others. Writing for
such business publications as Forbes, Purchasing, Chain Store Age,
Office Appliances and Department Store Economist turned out
to be a satisfying extracurricular activity. At that period I con-
ducted a study and published a report on purchasing practices of
the town of Belmont.

I then entered the retail field as assistant to the basement mer-
chandise manager at Boston’s third largest department store. In
1941 I joined my present company where I’m still happy to hang
my hat. The war years found me handling government regula-
tions for our company and advisory work for the retail industry.
Being controllers’ representative of the oldest and largest depart-
ment-store buying group in the world means acting as coordinator
for controllers and credit managers and advising on control activi-
ties for twenty-five of the country’s outstanding stores.

In 1937 I married a Boston University graduate. We expatriated
to New York in 1941 but are still staunch Bostonians. Marc was
born in 1943 and has kept us busy being parents ever since, Be-
cause of my early experience in the field, I have retained an active
interest in adult education. We are proud to carry on our re-
ligious faith as members of Riverdale Temple. My favorite com-
munity activity has been helping to organize the annual Book
Fair for this Synagogue, which resulted in establishing a new
library for the Temple this year.

To sum it up, I’m getting middle-aged with my family in River-
dale and liking it.

BERTRAM HENRY SCHAFFNER

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 220 Central Park, S., New York 19, N.Y.

BORN: Nov. 12, 1912, Erie, Pa. parents: Milton Schaffner, Gerta Herzog.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Erie, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929, 1932-1933. DEGREES: A.B. (Swarthmore Coll.),
1932; M.D. (Johns Hopkins Univ.), 1937.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Physician, specializing in psychoanalysis,

OFFICES HELD: Consultant, Research in Contemporary Cultures, Columbia
University, 1948-50; mental health consultant, Health Services, U.N.

[ 1009 ]

r
PORT Re rere gern pr ong ogee ony

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

since 1954, Government of the Virgin Islands, since 1953; chairman,
Committee on International Relations, Group for Advancement of
Psychiatry, since 1953; editor, Conferences on Group Processes for
Josiah Macy, Jr. Foundation, 1954-58; member, Columbia University
Faculty Seminar on Communication, since 1954; staff member, Institute
on Education and Child Care in Germany of Unitarian Service Com-
mittee, 1952; guest lecturer, Cornell University School of Nursing,
1955-56.

MEMBER OF: American Psychiatric Association; New York Society for
Clinical Psychiatry; William Alanson White Society; Society for Ap-

plied Anthropology; New York Academy of Science; Academy of
Psychoanalysis.

PUBLICATIONS: Father Land: A Study of Authoritarianism in the German
Family, published by Columbia University Press, 1948; “Screening
Patients for Nasal Plastic Surgery,” Psychosomatic Medicine, 1954; co-
author, “The Role of the Psychiatrist in Governmental Situations,”
report of the group for the Advancement of Psychiatry, 1954.

IT took a lot of weaving back and forth, trial and error, before
I was sure what I wanted to do in life, to be a doctor. Then came
another decision, the choice of a specialty, which turned out to
be psychiatry and, eventually, psychoanalysis. Before I had fin-
ished two years of hospital residencies, I was drafted on the first
call in October, 1940, and appeared for duty at Governor’s Is-
land, New York, in February, 1941, all set except for having my
Sam Browne belt on backwards. For an erstwhile pacifist, I spent
a long time in the Army, until August, 1956, but with very good
consequences. After two years in induction medical examina-
tions, and two years with the Tenth Armord Division in combat
in Europe, I was called to Nurnberg at the time of the trials, to
examine Krupp’s mental fitness for trial and to keep Kaltenbrun-
ner well enough to undergo trial. Next came an assignment to
the Intelligence Screening Center of Military Government’s In-
formation Control Division, to try to weed out ona psychological
basis the Nazi applicants for licenses.

Out of this grew my first book, Father Land, a psychological-
sociological study of German culture and military government's
effort’s to influence that culture. From that stemmed a number
of interesting assignments, to study Russian psychology in the
Research in Contemporary Cultures project at Columbia Uni-
versity in 1948, to attend official conferences on the future of
mental health in Germany, conferences on the United States

[ roro J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

technical assistance programs overseas. I began to get a “feel” for
the difficulties of inter-cultural communications, and have been
doing a lot of traveling to international situations where psycho-
logical interpretations are needed. At times, the demands of
private practice and international situations conflict, but it makes
for a lot of satisfaction and variety. And somehow the trips to
the Virgin Islands, as-mental health consultant to the government
there, often coincide with the winter months.

At present, I am beginning to gather together the lessons from
almost ten years in practice as a psychoanalyst, and feel that they
will be the subject for a book. Psychoanalysis has gradually
changed from a rather impressionistic, theory-burdened, occa-
sionally sensational and sometimes unrealistic method of dealing
with mental and emotional problems, to a more precise, under-
standing and reality-based approach to human lives. It has been
a deeply satisfying kind of way to spend one’s life.

JOHN FORBY SCHERESCHEWSKY

HOME AND OFFICE apprEss: Rumsey Hall School, Washington, Conn.

BORN: Dec. 2, 1909, Baltimore, Md. Parents: Joseph Williams Schereschew-
sky, ’95, Bessie Berry Conklin.

PREPARED AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.; New Preparatory School,

_ Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Wass Foster, Jan. 20, 1933, Gloucester, Mass. CHILDREN:
John Forby, Jr., Oct. 9, 1933 (. Diana Faulkner, Nov. 27, 1954);
Michael Foster, Feb. 23, 1938; Elizabeth Duncan, Nov. 24, 1943; Stephan
Waring, Jan. 4, 1946 (died April 4, 1946); Deborah Clarke, April 18,
1949. GRANDCHILDREN: Catherine Schereschewsky, June 23, 1955; John
Forby Schereschewsky, 3d, July 29, 1956.

HARVARD son: John Forby Schereschewsky, Jr., °56,

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Waring Schereschewsky, ’28.

Occupation: Teacher, director, Rumsey Hall School.

OFFIces HELD: Head, Suffield Junior School, 1935-39, headmaster, 1939-41,
Suffield Academy; president and director, Rumsey Hall School, Inc,
since 1941; president, Housatonic Council, Boy Scouts, 1947-48, Corn-
wall Men’s Club, 1947-48; elected to State Legislarure, 1946-48; naval
aide to Governor of Connecticut, 1946-48; member, Board of Educa-
tion, Town of Cornwall, 1946-49, member board of trustees, Gunn
Memorial Library, Washington, Conn. 1955-56; member executive

[ rorr ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

committee, Connecticut Association of Independent Schools, since 1956,
vestry, St. John’s Episcopal Church, Washington, Conn.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York, Connecticut Asso-
ciation of Independent Schools; Harvard Varsity Club; Litchfield
County University Club; Annisquam Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Author-commentator, “You and Your Child,” Station WLCR,
Torrington, Conn. September, 1951, to June, 1952, Station WTIC,
Hartford, Conn., since June, 1952; “You and Your Child” newspaper
column, The Hartford Courant, since January, 1954, panel member,
“The Electric Show,” WNHC-TV, Channel 8, New Haven television,
since August 27, 1956— subject: child guidance.

AN autobiography deals with the most fascinating topic in the
world. Classified by public interest, however, it draws an audi-
ence usually of one. This biography is no exception.

It is a far cry from thirsty-two’s depression maw welcoming
that year’s graduates to today’s shortage of able enough man-
power to fill the available jobs. The depression shook us more
than we knew and, like ex-Marines, most of us seem surprised to
have survived it. .

When our son graduated from the College last June, he and
his friends gave a party for their parents and current lights of
love. Four or five of us fathers and one mother spent most of
the time swapping horror stories of the depression and debating
whether or not our own children would be able to take the same
pummeling. All of us hope so; some doubt it.

For my part, my life has been spent in the school-teaching busi-
ness from graduation until the present day. So far I’ve managed
to stave off the occupational disease of school teachers, i.e., nerv-
ous breakdowns, but many of the other things that happen to
humans, more good than bad, in the course of twenty-five years
have befallen me. Family and jobs are perhaps the two major
categories.

As far as jobs are concerned, mine have turned out to be geo-
graphically a westward trek. One year at the Browne and Nichols
Junior School in Cambridge, then to West Newton to the Fessen-
den School for two years; still further west to Suffield, Connecti-
cut, as head of the Suffield Junior School for four years, head-
master of Suffield Academy for another two. In 1941, with the
help of friends, Mrs. Sherry and I purchased the Rumsey Hall
School in even-more-western Connecticut. Rumsey Hall is a

[ 1012 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

junior boys’ boarding and day school which we incorporated not-
for-profit along with a curtailed board of trustees of our own
choosing. In 1949 Rumsey Hall moved sixteen miles further west
after buying much larger grounds and buildings in the town of
Washington, Connecticut.

Among other interesting things in Washington, the school
grounds are bounded on one side by a three-quarter of a mile
trout stream stocked by the State and the Washington Rod and
Gun Club. Fly fisherman? Of course!

While school-mastering is not primarily concerned with the
marts of trade, still there is a commercial side and we’re happy
to report that we’ve managed to eat. Through gifts the school
has quadrupled its assets and since 1952 has built $175,000.00
worth of new buildings. The time, money and effort of more
manhours than you could count has been aimed at one goal: help-
ing our young replace the attitude I WANT by I OUGHT.
Since a number of Rumsey graduates have gone to Harvard after
secondary school, we feel that the effort has shown rewarding
results. .

With regard to family, we have four children. John, Jr., was
first on the scene, followed by Michael four and a half years
later. Elizabeth arrived five years later. Three years after her
came Stephen who died of a thymic enlargement at the age of
three months and, happily, Deborah, three years after Stephen.
One of the nicest things that has happened to us was John’s mar-
riage at the start of his junior year to the prettiest female but one
east of the Mississippi. (The exception: your choice.) Diana and
John delighted the Faulkners and the Sherrys by producing two
of the handsomest grandchildren with two exceptions in America.
(The exceptions: yours.) .

In October, 1948, I was called from a special session of the
Connecticut Legislature to our summer home in Gloucester, Mas-
sachusetts, because of Michael’s being run over by a truck.
Among our many blessings we count the fact that he survived
thirty-five identifiable skull fractures and recovered sufficiently
in the course of the next four years to continue with his school-
ing. Elizabeth and Deborah have so far lived lives unmarred by
any similar events and shaken at this writing only by the crises
of healthy growth.

[ 1013 ]

7) 7) TSF ATTIRE SURE CRTNTERE ERE TTR TT I

KR

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Mrs. Sherry who has been creatively active in the school work
of her husband, took over complete direction of Rumsey Hall
during the two and a half years I was privileged to spend in the
Naval Reserve. Betty earned a Distinguished Service Cross, a
Mark I issue, for directing the headmaster and business manager
in addition to planning menus and teaching a full schedule of sub-
ects.

In regard to war service, I was lucky to shoulder myself into
sea-duty with the amphibious force as skipper to U.S.S. LCI(L)
415. Since I was married, thirty-two, and had a couple of chil-
dren, my application was not received with sounding shouts of
joy. Nevertheless, it happened and I had the best duty in the en-
tire Navy. Our ship landed 200 First Division troops on Omaha
Beach on June 6, 1944. We were especially proud to learn that
the troops we landed received a Unit Citation for being the first
of all the invasion troops, British or American, to reach their pri-
mary and secondary beachhead objectives. The Army flattered
me by recommending a Navy Cross which my newly-assigned
flotilla commander thumbed down. Colonel Corley wasn’t tak-
ing too much of that attitude, however, and everybody settled
for a Bronze Star with Combat V.

Soon after the war ended, I served on the Cornwall Board of
Education. The good citizens of the Town (the rest were Dem-
ocrat) later elected me as one of Cornwall’s two representatives
to the Connecticut State Legislature. I was lucky enough to be
assigned to the legislative Committee on Education. The newly-
elected Governor McConaughy who lived three-quarters of a
mile down the road from us, appointed me his naval aide, non-
abdominal, with the rank of three-stripe commander.

Connecticut is probably one of the best run states in the union
because: |

a) The Legislature sits only every other year,

b) the Legislators are paid only $800.00 for the two-year
term,

c) the Representatives, due to Connecticut’s commendable
system, come overwhelmingly from the small towns. The scoop
is that every city and town in Connecticut, regardless of size,
elects two representatives to the State Legislature. There are 169
municipal political units which means that a representative from

[1014]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a town with a population of a couple of thousand or less has the
same vote as a representative from a city of 150,000. While at
first this sounds unfair, remember the political axiom that the
more people an agent represents, the farther away he is from their
immediate supervision. A representative from a Connecticut
small town is aware that the whole town knows what he dreams
before he wakes up in the morning, a large factor in clean govern-
ment.

The unfortunate accident to our son just before the nominating
convention required me to refuse renomination since there was
little possibility that there would be enough time to divide among
him, the Legislature and the school.

During the past fifteen years my hobbies have consisted pri-
marily of hunting and salt-water boating. Both have contributed
their moments of excitement and hours of relaxation. In 1951,
another hobby was added. I began to broadcast a thrice-weekly
child guidance column called “You and Your Child,” for free,
from Station WLCR in Torrington, Connecticut. The next
year, Station WTIC in Hartford, invited me to conduct the same
series from there, but not for free. This has continued so far to
date. A year and a half after the WTIC series started, the Hart-
ford Courant began to print the same (or a reasonable facsimile
thereof) series, also not for free, as a three-times-a-week by-lined
column. That, too, has continued to date.

In August, 1956, a spot of time was assigned to “You and Your
Child” once a week within “The Electric Show” telecast on
Channel 8, New Haven. This author-commentator business plus
an average of thirty-five lectures per school year have been flat-
tering as well as a boost to the ego. The greatest personal value,
however, has been the stimulating necessity of re-thinking cliches
and researching practical answers to questions asked by listeners,
readers and viewers.

GEORGE BRADBURN SCHICK

HOME apprEss: 125 Addington Rd., Brookline, Mass.
OFFICE apprEss: Bureau of Accounts, Dept. of Corporations & Taxation,
Commonwealth of Massachusetts, State House, Boston, Mass.

[rors ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Born: Dec. 1, 1909, Holyoke, Mass. parents: William Anthony Schick, Jr,
‘o5, Lotta Renwee Bradburn.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Sylvia Peterson, Jan. 1, 1956, Brookline, Mass. -

OCCUPATION: State accountant.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant treasurer, Leyden Congregational Church, Brook-
line, 1954-56; chief of air raid wardens, Aspinwall Hill Section, Brook-
line (first year of World War II); elected Town Meeting Member,
Brookline, for four three-year terms, retired 1952.

MEMBER OF: Jaycee Club of Sc. Petersburg, Fla., 1935-37; Bentley School
of Accounting and Finance Alumni Association, Boston; Leyden’s Men’s
Club, Brookline; St. Petersburg Rod and Gun Club.

I AM writing this brief Class Report in my winter home in St.
Petersburg, Florida, having recently left the snows and cold
weather of Brookline, Massachusetts. Needless to say, the change
is welcome even though my spending the winter here is due to
illness of the past year. The temperature is in the seventies at
present, but the weather is not always as warm at this time of year
as the Chamber of Commerce would have you believe. Inasmuch
as this home has been in the family about twenty-three years, I
have visited here in Florida many of the years since my gradua-
tion from college — sometimes for only a vacation, other times
the whole winter. I have seen Florida grow in that time from
what was almost a frontier state to a place I hardly recognize,
due to so much building and growth of population. For luxury
and elaborateness, it would be pretty difficult to surpass the newer
hotels in Miami Beach. I have visited Havana, Cuba, which ts not
far from here, five times in my life and could almost qualify as a
guide there. Waterfront lots on the Florida West Coast which
real estate men begged one to purchase for one hundred dollars
twenty-five years ago sell for ten thousand dollars and up now.

I have done some traveling since leaving college. Having visited
Europe, the Holy Lands, and Mediterranean countries such as
Greece, Egypt, and Turkey during the summers of my college
years, my mother and | decided to go to the Orient in 1937. We
spent a few days in Hawaii, a month in Japan, and about three
weeks in China. Incidentally, I took the boat for Shanghai from
Nagasaki where the first atom bomb later fell. However, our
itinerary in China was limited to Shanghai and Hangchow since

[ 1016 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the Japs invaded China that summer. In fact, the Japs attacked the
Chinese section of Shanghai while we were there. There were
fine hotels all over Japan and I thought Shanghai a beautiful city.
I have often wondered what happened to all the “White Russians”
who were there. The female Russians were surprisingly attractive,
and I found from what little contact I had with the Russians there
that they spoke English as well as myself.

After graduation from college I was in the brokerage business
for about four years. At least there I was able to form my own
opinions of what securities one should invest in and what ones
never to invest in. Also I learned that no one ever knows really
what the stock market is going to do. After that I went into
public accounting and from there took a position of auditing
cities and towns for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. The
result is I have worked in and seen almost every port of my native
state. I have had the usual joys as well as sorrows of life. I lost
my mother in 1953 but was happy to have had the Park Com-
missioners of Brookline, in response to a petition by the towns-
people, name a park after her. So now there is a park behind my
house in Brookline called the “Lotta Bradburn Schick Park.”
There is also a plaque in that park énumerating some of her serv-
ices to the town and ending with these words, “Her life was
devoted to helping others,” which is a fine tribute to a mother
who deserves more than a park named after her.

The coming Harvard Twenty-fifth Reunion will be the second
one that I have attended. The first I went to was in 1930 when I
went with my father who was one of the Class Marshals at his
T'wenty-fifth Reunion. I remember my father introducing me to
Mr. Walter Gifford, the president of American Telephone and
Telegraph Company, who was Chief Marshal. I lost my father a
few years after graduation and all the Boston and New York
newspapers carried accounts of his track records when he was a
Harvard track captain as well as Olympic runner. In my earlier
years I took quite an interest in civic matters. Since my mother
was a member of the Brookline School Committee, I attended
graduations in public schools with her and sat five years on the
platform of Brookline High School and presented the “George
Bradburn Schick Cup,” which presentation was listed in the
printed program as the highest honor open to the boys of the

[ 1017 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

graduating class. Also, I was one of the original members of the
Young Republican Club of Brookline. Every profession and every
job has its advantages and disadvantages. At least working for
the State allowed me to be transferred many summers from
Brookline to the Berkshires where I could work out of the famil

summer camp. Also, no employer except the State would have

been so kind as to allow me to spend so many winters in Florida
in times of illness in the family.

HAROLD CARL SCHMIDT

HOME ADDRESS: 283 Santa Teresa Ave., Stanford, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Music Dept., Stanford University, Stanford, Calif.

BORN: Noy. 2, 1909, Schenectady, N.Y. parents: Emil Schmidt, Ella
Schuster.

PREPARED AT: Bartlett High School, Webster, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; A.M., 1938.

MARRIED: Barbara Saunders Wright, June 30, 1938, Danvers, Mass. CHILDREN:
Carl Brandon, Oct. 20, 1941; Ann Wright, July 27, 1943.

OccuPATION: Associate professor of music and director of choral music,
Stanford University.

MEMBER OF: American Musicological Society, American Association of
University Professors.

PusLications: “Song of Fate,” by Brahms—San Francisco Symphony —
Monteux conducting R.C.A.; music library recordings: Motets by Stan-
ford Choir, Motets-Chansons-Madrigals-Folk Songs, Stanford Choir-
Chorale, Stanford Songs, Vonna Records.

’

IN the midst of the depression I was one of those few graduates
who found a job, one for which I was trained musically but not
sociologically. For eleven years, as chairman of the Music De-
partment and director of the choir at Fisk University in Nash-
ville, Tennessee, 1 was in the midst of racial issues. Looking back
upon this job, rich with teaching experience, academically stim-
ulating and a situation in which I found a mine of musical talent,
I know I absorbed in eleven years what most people get in twenty
years. I was the first Harvard man to join that well-known Negro
Music Department and subsequently many became identified with
it. In the summer of 1937, 1 met Barbara Saunders Wright at the
Harvard Summer School and in June, 1938, we were married. At
this time, came my second trip to Furope and to Italy where I

[ 1018 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

studied composition and editing of seventeenth century music
with G. Francesco Malipiero. During the summer of 1941 I
taught at Tanglewood as an assistant to Paul Hindemith and in
1943 I took over the glee club and choir for Woody in the third
term of Harvard’s accelerated program. Ann Wright Schmidt
was born in July in Boston, giving us a rebel and a Yankee for
children. In the spring of 1944, my armed service career con-
sisted of three days in a Tennessee induction center and Uncle
Sam’s reviewers passed me by.

After eleven rewarding years at Fisk, I left for an English-
looking landscape — Western College for Women, Oxford, Ohio.
The exciting life of Fisk made Western seem tame. As chairman,
professor of music and director of the choir, I found Western
charming and congenial. My Edgar Stillman Kelly Studio was
attractive; Presser Hall, my workshop, was a well-equipped mu-
sic building. Three years brought joint concerts and conducting
with Eugene Goosens and the Cincinnati Symphony. Then came
the great invitation to Stanford University.

As easterners we were not at all prepared for the vastness of
the West. The Music Department was young and there was a
big job of building a program of choral music. From this time
on, I became a full-time teacher — dropping all administrative
work to develop a choral program. In ten years my groups have
made recordings and have appeared under various world-famed
conductors — Monteux, Steinberg, Thor Johnson, Victor de Sa-

bata, Enrique Jorda, and Bruno Walter. One of my pleasantest
jobs is choir director of the Stanford Memorial Church, a build-
ing beautifully constructed for music, called by Woody on his
tour — the “San Marco of the West.”

In addition to choral duties and lecturing I have taken many
tenor réles in our opera productions. This phase of my musical
experience is tremendously exciting and often makes me wish
I were a professional opera singer, The theatre gets into one’s
blood and it is hard to resist. There is nothing more satisfying
and challenging to me than the training of my choruses. The
joint efforts of the Stanford Chorus and the San Francisco Sym-

phony Orchestra take me back to the Harvard Glee Club under
Doc, with performances of the “B Minor” and “A German
Requiem” under Kouss. From Doc I received that great urge

[ 1019 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

to conduct. His sensitive musical spirit, his love for people, and
his ability to impart the essence of a last musical experience made
a profound impression upon me as an undergraduate. These
qualities of a great man and a true teacher have always been an
inspiration to me as well as to hosts of other Harvard men.
Needless to say, I owe a tremendous debt to men like Woody,
Tillman, Marritt, Walter Piston and Randall Thompson.

We often return east to spend the summer at the beach near
Portsmouth, New Hampshire. During the summers of 1953-55
and ’56, I have had the privilege of teaching in the Harvard
Summer School and have had wonderful choral concerts.

Yes —the family is musical: Carl studies piano, and Ann has
a superb voice in spite of the Presley stage which is on us at the
moment. Barbara is a great listener, sings, and is a topnotch

proof reader. We are fond of California, but still feel the tug
of New England. Out here our chief hobbies are gardening and
walking. Having been responsible for college and university
chapel choir music for twenty-four years, and a part of it for
four years at Harvard, we have always attended campus churches
where the stimulation of great preachers and magnificent choral
music resembles that of Harvard. On many occasions I say,
“Thank God, I went to a place like Harvard.”

am ase ETE eR HERAT IS
Sep eH SINE * "
coe 2 FARE RP RSN BRE MTT AE Pee WARP UCCIP EE RN SCARS

ei ea E ESRECI S AEeE

RICHARD CRANCH SCOTT

HOME AppREss: Miura-shi, Kanagawa-Ken, Japan.

OFFICE AppRESS: Lederle (Japan) Ltd., C.P.O. Box 957, Tokyo, Japan. :

BORN: June 1, 1910, Portland, Oregon. parents: Richard Gordon Scott, ’o2, i
Grace Cranch Eliot.

PREPARED AT: Washington High School, Portland, Oregon.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MarRieD: Madeleine Leonie Erhard, June 22, 1935, Dedham, Mass. cuHILp:
Richard Cranch, Jr., Sept. 6, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Eliot Scott, 731, A.M., ’32.

occupation: Managing director, Lederle (Japan) Ltd. pharmaceutical
manufacturers. :

OFFICES HELD: Member board of governors, American Club, 1950-53, Ameri-
can Chamber of Commerce in Japan, 1951; vice-chairman, Far East
Committee, Boy Scouts of America, 1952-54; chairman of the board,

American School in Japan, 1954; secretary, 1952-53, 1955-56, president,
1954, Harvard Club of Japan.

[ 1020 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Japan; American Club, Tokyo; Foreign Corre-
spondents Club; American Club, Hongkong; American Club, Shanghai;
Columbia Country Club, Shanghai; Nippon Ocean Racing Club,

AFTER a three-year stint on the Crimson in the business depart-
ment and some casual observance of the fate of the typical stock
and bond salesman in those critical years, I graduated with the
convictions that I was not the right temperament for a sales-
man or for the stock and bond business, It was equally clear to
me that I could contribute solidly to the staff of almost any well-
heeled advertising agency as an account executive.

Ice came as somewhat of a shock to me to find that the several
agencies who had been willing to invest their clicnt’s money with
the Crimson had no inclination whatsoever to risk their own
money on my talents. Finally, to complete my disillusionment,
I accepted a salesman’s job in an investment banking firm, After
a year of selling my friends investments that invariably dipped
to near vanishing the following day, I was sure that I did not
fit that business; and, to keep body and soul together, I spent a
year in direct door-to-door selling. From this experience, I
learned not only that I could sell but that I could scl! better than
most of the guys who were keeping their bodies together. This
experience started me on my present career, because one of my
contacts who was then manager of American Cyanamid’s Lederle
branch office said, “If you can sell that junk, you can certainly
sell a legitimate line.” In no time I was embarked as salesman in
Rhode Island and western Massachusetts.

I like to think that the hokus-pokus which sold pharmaceu-
ticals twenty years ago might have been useful in the huckster
business as well; and that Lederle was just more appreciative
and far sighted than BBD&O or Y&R. Anyway, I rose fast, from
salesman to first branch manager of the new Los Angeles office.
There I bloomed and sort of faded until 1942, when either pa-
triotism or adventure lured me into the Navy, where I had ex-
actly twenty-eight days at sea but succeeded in flying around
the world.

The rest of my Navy time was spent — first with the Marines
in the Solomons, then with the Army in China, where we be-
came a part of the great rice paddy Navy, and that is why I

[ 1021 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

am here today. Never having satiated my desire for travel in
the early days, I’ve pursued it with a vengeance since 1942, having
been around the world three times to date. By the war’s end,
there was still much of the mysterious Orient to see; and since
my shoes had been filled in Los Angeles by a better man, it was
a cinch to sell Lederle on sending me out as the Far East repre-
sentative. From 1946 to 1949, I headquartered in Shanghai and
covered the milk run from Japan to Jakarta. The collapse of
China coincided with the recovery of Japan, so in 1950, I moved
to Tokyo. Also, in 1950, they clipped my wings and gave the
rest of Asia to another guy. But I’m not too sad. We have quite
a factory here—jointly owned with Japanese interests, and
while ours is not a big show compared to the parent company, it’s
not so small. At present, it looks as if ’'d be here quite a while.
Hobbies, I have many — from our Harvard Club and Geisha
parties to raising exotic tropical plants around the swimming
pool in my living room, But my most sustaining and expensive
one is sailing my twenty-six-foot ketch on weekends. I com-
mute forty-five miles daily, mostly because on weekends I'm
where the finest view in Japan exists, as well as the best sailing
from the harbor below me — formerly the sanctuary of the one-
man submarines.
Would I do it the same way again if I could retrace these

years? Probably not. But I would not like to have missed these
interesting years either.

RUSSELL WHITMORE SEAVER

HOME AppRESS: Duxbury, Mass.

BORN: July 19, 1908, Newton, Mass. parents: Edward Seaver, Grace Am-
brose Whitmore.

PREPARED AT: Stone School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932.

MarnieD: Jane Bell, 1935, New Hampshire (divorced 1939); Virginia Dad-
mun, 1942, Washington, D.C, cuitpren: Barbara, April 14, 1936; Ed-

4
ward, Feb. 4, 1939; Richard, Aug. 20, 1943; George, Oct. 7, 1948
occupaTion: Merchant Marine officer.

MEMBER oF: Masonic Order.

PUBLICATIONS: Various feature stories and book reviews as magazine editor
for Boston Transcript,

[ 1022 }

 

th

ere RA IE Go He
bm egeprgan dip tnt AM Ope

gone aA ASA SAISON AAI ss estan

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

J ACHIEVED an Unlimited Master Mariner’s license some ten

ears ago and, since this symbolized for me a modest conquering

of the world, as I care to know it, I have been gradually easing
myself out of the general Rat Race in favor of such simple-
minded things as raking Bay scallops throughout a Duxbury
winter, doing elementary landscape work, assisting my good
Wheaton wife in the horrors and joys of being slaves to four
dolescents and, when the strain of this overcomes me, a cow-
-dly return to sea for a few months where I can catch up on
y reading and possibly see some new corner of the world
aere once again I shall learn that it is not everything to be

American but darn near everything.

ELLERY SEDGWICK, JR.

ADDRESS: Gates Mills, Ohio.

- appress: Medusa Portland Cement Co., cor. Monticello & Lee Blvd,
‘eveland Heights, Ohio.

Oct. 28, 1908, Boston, Mass, parents: Ellery Sedgwick, ’94, Mabel
Dot,

p at: Groton School, Groton, Mass, Thacher School, Ojai, Calif,

ton Academy, Milton, Mass. |

’ COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: $.B. 1932, M.BAy 1934.

Elizabeth Wade, May 5, 1941, Cleveland, Ohio, canner: Ellery,

‘uly 7, 1942; Irene Wade, March 18, 1944, Walter Cabot, Nov. 1,
Theodore, Nov. 13, 1948.

N: President, Medusa Portland Cement Company.

sp: Vice-president and trustee, University Hospitals, Lakeview
ery Association; trustee, Cleveland Protestant Orphanage, ptesi-
Harvard Club of Cleveland, 1955-56; director, Baton Manutac-
Company, Inland Investors Company, J. H. Holan Company,
d Cement Association; member, Cuyahoga County Republican

: Advisory Committee; Republican Delegate to 1956 Presidential
100. | |

Union Club; Tavern Club; Chagrin Valley Hunt Club, Kart-
9; Harvard Club of New York, Winous Point Shooting Cheb

nton, Ohio); 50 Club of Cleveland,

before I graduated from the Business School, one
i professors interviewed me and conchoded that 1

‘ular aptitude for business but did have a flat for
ged me to go into it, L subsequently went ito

103

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

mote young men of high standards to go into public life, I shall
have accomplished my political objectives.

One genuine regret that I have is the absence of more fre-
quent contacts with Harvard and with my classmates. This
past year I remedied this partially by taking the job of president
of the Cleveland Harvard Club which did give me the oppor-
tunity of meeting and talking to several of the officers of the Uni-
versity and seeing a few friends of twenty-five years ago.

ROBERT REX SEEBER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 26 Valley View Rd., Poughkeepsie, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: International Business Machines Corp., Poughkeepsie, N.Y,

BORN: Feb. 23, 1910, Detroit, Mich. PpareNTs: Robert Rex Seeber, Anne Lu-
rinda Haddock.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

marRiED: Dorothea Paddock, Sept. 16, 1933, Cambridge, Mass. (divorced
1952); Phyllis Sherry Lovering, Dec. 26, 1955, Belmont, Mass. cHt-

DREN: Laurian, May 25, 1938; Sherry Lovering, Sept. 12, 1938 (step-
daughter).

occupation: Technical adviser on machine systems, International Business
Machines Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Senior staff member, Watson Scientific Computing Labora-
tory, 1945-56; associate in astronomy, Columbia University, 1948-56;
technical adviser on machine systems, since August 1, 1956.

MEMBER OF: American Mathematical Society; Mathematical Association of

America; Association for Computing Machinery; Operations Research
Society of America. .

PUBLICATIONS: “Value of super-calculators,” 1944; “IBM Selective Sequence
Electronic Calculator,” 1948; “Programming of the IBM SSEC,” 1948.
Patents: Data look-up apparatus for computing or other machines,
No. 2580768, 1952; Selective Sequence Electronic Calculator, Noe.
2636672, 1953; Multidigit shifting device, No. 2700502, 1955; Word
writing typewriter, No. 2717686, 1955.

LOOKING out from the center of one of our most rapidly

growing industries, it is hard to realize that twenty-five years

have passed since the gray days of 1932. On the whole the years
have treated me well. I was lucky to land a job that first summer.

It was in the actuarial department of the John Hancock Mutual

Life Insurance Company, and it was there that my intense in-

[ 1026 ]

sat NEE
tm LIE IEE FNM
a rg ATES OEE AS

eee
a ef TERETE TE SEE

’

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

terest in the computing field began to take shape. My college
background in mathematics and engineering, with the actuarial
computing experience, fitted me well for my subsequent work in
the design of computing machines.

‘I was married in the fall of 1933 and lived in Cambridge for
four years, moving to a farm in Wayland in 1937. Those seventy-
five acres of land within reasonable commuting distance of Boston
look pretty big compared with anything I have seen since. My
daughter, Laurian, was born in 1938. (She expects to graduate
from the University of Kansas in 1958, probably in the field of
English.) .

In 1942 I went to Washington where I made use of my com-
puting and punch card experience in the anti-subarine warfare
operations research group of the Navy Department. This was the
pioneer American operations research organization; hence, this
experience was a broadening and useful one. Another war move
was back to Harvard where I worked with the I.B.M. automatic
segence controlled calculator, the first of the giant calculators.
This was during its first year of operation, under the Bureau of
Ships Computation Laboratory. So once again I was in on the
ground floor. Upon being released from my war job, I joined
International Business Machines Corporation on August 1, 1945,
in New York City, and have had a most rewarding association
with that company ever since. I took a major active part in all
phases of conception, invention, design, construction, and testing
(and naming! ) of the ].B.M. selective sequence electronic calcula-
tor, the first large-scale, general-purpose electronic calculator. I
had charge of its operation until it was torn down in 1952 to make
way for a bigger-and-better “brain.” As co-inventor of this
computer, I have had several patents issued, one of which contains
claims fundamental to the entire computer field. In the course of
litigation concerning this patent, I have become something of an
expert in patent law. A pet project of mine was the invention and
construction of the I.B.M. electric wordwriter, which can print at
the touch of a single key any one of forty-two words or phrases,
each consisting of eighteen characters. So far the wordwriter has
not seen the commercial light of day.

I was remarried in December, 1955, thus acquiring a second
eighteen-year-old daughter. (Sherry is a freshman at Antioch.)

[ 1027 ]

L

.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

In the summer of 1956 Phyllis and I moved here (to Poughkeep-
sie) where we are enjoying the country atmosphere. My work is
now in an advisory capacity, working on the computers and data
processing systems of the future. Phyllis and I have two hobbies.
The first is a do-it-yourself program designed to get our new home
settled. Also we are very fond of playing bridge and hope to be
able to play a good game when retirement comes along eighteen
years from now.

Most people call this era the Atomic Age. But I believe there is
good reason for calling it the Age of Mathematics and Computa-
tion. It is impossible to estimate the ramifications of this develop-
ment that we are yet to see, not only as scientific computation for
engineering and science, but even more as data processing in all
branches of business. If you have children not yet set in their
careers, I urge you to persuade them of the exciting future this
field offers. Perhaps you can do a better job with yours than I
have done with mine!

EDGAR VIGUERS SEELER, JR.

HOME Appress: 4 Berkeley Pl., Cambridge 38, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 25, 1908, Philadelphia, Pa. PARENTS: Edgar Viguers Seeler, Martha
Page Laughlin.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B4 1932; AM. 19343 PH.D., 1940.

MaRRIED: Katherine Per Lee Schiefer, Dec. 19, 1931, Petersham, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Mycological Society of America; Botanical Society of Amer-
ica; American Association for the Advancement of Science; Harvard
Faculty Club; Harvard Club of Central Florida, National, Massachu-
setts and Florida Audubon Societies; Cambridge Historical Association;
American Radio Relay League; Maria Mitchell Science Society; Nan-

tucket Historical Society, Massachusetts Horticultural Society; Save-
the-Redwoods League.

JUST before Christmas in my senior year I married a Radcliffe
junior who is still working hard to keep us both healthy and
contented and has succeeded very well these twenty-five years.
After graduation I continued to work at Harvard for a Ph.D in

Forest Pathology and Mycology. These were the last years of
the “old plan,” and I remember such professors as Faull, Linder,

[ 1028 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Fernald, Glover Allen and Oakes Ames. Also at this time, my
wife and I wrote a daily “Naturalist’s Diary” for the Philadelphia
Evening Bulletin, and since then we have had assorted wild pets:
tree frogs, a skunk, woodchuck, newts, chameleons, flying squir-
rels, a very exceptional deer mouse, etc. We took a semester
off for a trip abroad, seeing Europe before Hitler’s war.

During the war I worked on the diseases of food crops at the
Massachusetts State Experiment Station and my wife and I offered
ospitality to Japanese-American students who were dislocated
y the war and by the Californians. For thirteen years 1 have
lited Farlowia, a magazine of cryptogamic botany (mostly
vout fungi). My hobbies are amateur radio (station W1iBDF),
sotography, gardening, pottery, scrimshaw, bird-watching and
dairs on our old 1750 Nantucket house. My wife and 1 are
th members of the Friends Meeting at Cambridge.

ARNOLD LESTER SEGEL

3 ADDRESS: 129 Clinton Rd., Brookline, Mass.

E ADDRESS: 171 Bay State Rd., Boston 15, Mass.

May 6, 1911, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Sidney Segel, Celia Kramer.

RED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932; M.D. 1936.

=p: Dorothy S, Dana, Nov. 20, 1938, Boston, Mass. (died Jan. 13,

43); Ruth Cohn Wolpa, 1948. cHmpren: William Dana, July 12,

42; Margaret W., 1942; James W., 1945; Arthur L, 1951, Ann E.,

Te

> BRoTHER: Gerald Segel, *42.

on: Surgeon; instructor in surgery, Harvard Medical School.
HELD: Associate visiting surgeon, Beth Israel Hospital, Boston; in-
ctor in surgery, Harvard Medical School.

or: Greater Boston Medical Society; Massachusetts Medical So-
; Boston Surgical Society; American Medical Association, Ameri-
College of Surgeons, American Board of Surgery; Harvard Fac-
Club; Masons; Massachusetts Bay Lodge.

ns: Various publications in technical journals,

have had a premonition that prosperity Was not “yust
1¢ corner” in 1932 when I chose medicine as a profession
ry asa specialty. This choice effectively protected me
cruel, cold world during the next four years in medical

[ 1029 |]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

school and for another four training in surgery at the Beth Israel]
Hospital in Boston. By this time the thought of tearing myself
away from the protective arms of institutional medicine scared
the pants off me, but I realized the time had come to hang up a
shingle. After all, having reached the age of thirty, I felt that |
ought at least to try to earn my keep.
Unhappily my conflicts were resolved by the developing inter-
national crisis and the advent of World War II. I entered the
Army in January of 1941 and returned to civilian life in January
of 1946. During the intervening five years, I saw service in various
parts of the world, from the jungles of Guadalcanal to the beaches
of Normandy. After the Army the private practice of surgery
seemed like Heaven. I promptly opened an office in Boston and
have since contentedly stayed put. I spend a good deal of my
time teaching clinical surgery to Harvard Medical students and
not much more to my practice. This often leaves the days too
short, but it is stimulating and I wouldn’t change it for the world.
I don’t know what to say about my family that would be of

interest to anyone. They are as sweet, loving, thoughtful, noisy,
obstreperous and exasperating as any family. To me they are a
delight and just writing about them gives me a nice warm feeling.
My wife, Ruth, handles the brood with love and efficiency and
protects me from most of the minor annoyances incident to
running a big house with a lot of kids. All in all, I am busy,
happy, and looking forward to June.

 

RICHARD HYDE LORD SEXTON

HOME ADDRESS: 444 W. Chestnut Ave., Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia 18, Pa.

BORN: Jan. 25, 1908, New York, N.Y. parents: William Lord Sexton, Ida
Hyde.

PREPARED AT: Adirondack-Florida School, Onchiota, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

MaRRIED: Joan F. N. Blake, 1938, Beechfield, Melksham, England. cyrvpren:
Felicity J., October, 1939, Peter R. L., January, 1942.

|

FROM 10932 to 1940, 1 was associated with the Germantown
Trust Company in Philadelphia, and was on active duty with
the U. S. Navy from 1940 to 1945.

[ 1030 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MORRIS MAXIM SHAPIRO

LAST KNOWN aboress: 461 Essex St. Brooklyn, N.Y.
BoRN: Dec. 16, 1907, Brooklyn, N.Y. Parents: Jacob Shapiro Sophia Karp.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1930.

SHAPIRO has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since
1947+

DAVID COUSENS SHAW

HOME apoREss: Hills Beach, Biddeford, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pepperell Trust Co. Biddeford, Maine.

BORN: June 21, 1909, Biddeford, Maine, parents: William Emery Shaw,
Mildred Cousens.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1936.

MARRIED: Jeanne M. Joncas, Nov. 1, 1941, Biddeford, Maine.

OccUPATION: Treasurer, Pepperell Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Biddeford City Council, 1947-51; exalted ruler,
Biddeford-Saco Lodge 1597, B.P.O.E., 1947-48; treasurer, Pepperell
Trust Company, since 1953.

MEMBER OF: Biddeford-Saco Lodge 1597, B.P.O.E.

FROM 1937 to 1941 I was practising law in Biddeford, Maine.
From April, 1941, to October, 1945, I was in the U. S. Army,
serving in the Normandy and Rhineland campaigns, ETO, and
was discharged as T/Sergeant, FD.

JOHN ELLSWORTH SHELDON

HOME ADDRESS: 1253 Canton Ave., Milton 86, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 216 Summer St., Boston ro, Mass,

BORN: Aug. 17, 1909, Milton, Mass. parents: Percy Ellsworth Sheldon, ’o4,

~ Alice Hawthorne Hadden.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932.

MarRiED: Jane McIntosh, Jan. 11, 1941, Barrington, Ill. compren: Jane Mc-
Intosh, Nov. 30, 1941; Mary Hawthorne, April 15, 1943; Cynthia Han-
nah, Nov. 2, 1946; John Ellsworth, Jr., June 16, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Owner, Sheldon & Company, dealing in wool from contented
sheep.

[ 1031 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932
OFFICES HELD: Representative, Fourth Norfolk District of Massachusetts,
1954-58.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Milton-Hoosic Club; Rotary Club;
Scraggy Neck Recreation Association.

IT hardly seems possible that twenty-four years ago I started to
work in a Lawrence woolen mill as an apprentice to a cheery
Scotchman, named Sandy MacIntyre. When told of his good
fortune, Sandy curtly replied, “Judging from your baseball skill,
I'll thank ye to give better mind to wool sorting, and maybe |
kin learn ye something.” I worked with this Scotch gentleman
for two years and then took off to practice for my father’s
business what Sandy had endeavored to “learn” me. Except
for an interlude of five years during World War II, I have con-
tinued my learning. In December, 1945, my father died and since
then I have been on my own, enjoying perhaps fair success,
considering the recent sufferings of the American textile indus-

The wool business has offered me an opportunity to travel.
My first trips were into the wool-growing sections of ‘Texas, New
Mexico and Arizona, where I indulged in some baseball until
one night in a softball game I whiffed at nine pitches. In 1936
I took a trip to Switzerland where I gathered no wool, but did
enjoy the skiing. Other trips took me to Idaho in March, just
when the height of the sheep shearing season coincided with
the best skiing in Sun Valley. More recent excursions have in-
volved customer’s golf at Pinehurst and at Pine Valley in New
Jersey. At the latter, on a drizmal day in 1951, I produced a most
lucrative sub-ninety round. This feat of great good luck so
consternated my woolly friends (among them Dana Draper)
that my handicap will always be twelve.

During World War II, the Army confined my travels to Camp
Edwards, where | hiked as a private. I did play some baseball
for the camp team while there, but after the season was con-
cluded in September, 1941, I was discharged for old age. I then
went into the Navy as an Intelligence Officer for two years and
in 1943, was transferred into the operational field, which duties
involved a bit of the Atlantic and more of the Pacific Ocean. |
was discharged in December, 1945.

More recently, I have gone into politics, In 1954 I was elected

[ 1032 ]

|

AYER

pe eggeemefoperrpe mm te NR MeAIB EB

po taco oan Moa Bs CNN LOO TS

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to the Massachusetts House of Representatives, to which 1 was
reelected this past November. The time-consuming nature of this
job has precluded any wool-gathering travels, and out of respect
for public opinion I haven’t undertaken any junkets at the State’s

expense.

The highlight of my life resulted from my 1940 trip to Sun
Valley, when I met the Chicago girl who a year later did me
the great honor of becoming my wife. We've had a most happy
‘ife together and, with our four children skillfully tutoring us,
ve hope to make the grade at Harvard this June.

RICHARD JENNINGS SHEPHERD

ME ADDRESS: 154 Martling Ave. D 3, Tarrytown, N.Y.

“ICE ADDRESS: 2 W, Sixth St, New York 36, N.Y.

Nn: Dec. 28, 1911, Brookline, Mass. parents: Arthur Shepherd, Hattie
Jennings.

>arED AT: Hawken School, South Euclid, Ohio.

25 IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932; 8M. (Columbia Univ.),

1951.
21ED: Muriel Doyle, Feb. 16, 1943, South Euclid, Ohio. cuttpren: Althea,

Jan. 9, 1947; Sarah, July 29, 1955.
ARD BROTHER: Peter Shepherd, ’52.
aTION: Director of information center, Public Relations Society of

.merica,
ER or: American Library Association; Special Libraries Association,

hicago Library Club.
ations: Various pieces for Public Relations Journal and Art News.

AGED in association work with the Public Relations So-

of America, my principal duty is to direct an information
that collects and imparts information concerned with the

f public relations, Prior library work was performed at
‘cago division of the University of Illinois, and the refet-
vision of the New York Public Library. This followed a
0 school, Columbia's School of Library Service.

2 this, I was in newspaper and magazine work in New
d Cleveland, with an interruption of three year’s mmilitaty

nost of which was spent in the South Pacific.

[ 1033 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

+ SUMNER EVERETT SHIKES

porn: Feb. 19, 1910, Dorchester, Mass. parents: David Shikes, Rebecca
Herson.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DecREE: as. (Univ. of Michigan), 1934.

marniep: Charlotte Samet. cxmp: David Joshua.

pep: May 30, 1954, Brookline, Mass.

wiwow: Mrs. Sumner Shikes, 12 Lyon Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

SUMNER SHIKES was a partner in the Star Television and
Radio Company of Allston, Massachusetts. He was active in
Brookline community affairs and was district chairman of the
Combined Jewish Appeal of Greater Boston. He was survived by
his wife and son.

ROBERT SHIPPEE

HOME ADpREss: Grange Avenue, Red Bank, N.J.

BORN: July 3, 1910, Red Bank, N.J. Parents: Carl Clapp Shippee, Anna
Winsor.

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1030.

JAMES PETER SHOVLIN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 273 Catalpa Drive, Atherton, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 244 Kearny St., San Francisco, Calif.

BORN: Jan. 1, 1911, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: James Peter Shovlin, Eliza-
beth A. O’Keefe.

PREPARED AT: Browne & Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932; LL.B. (Univ. of Pennsyl-
vania), 1936.

Maraiep: Juliet Delany, Aug. 11, 1940. cHtLoREN: Diana Cynthia, Oct. 6,
1942; James Peter, Jr. Dec. 6, 1945.

OccuPATION: Attorney at Law, specializing in defense of casualty insurance
companies.

MeMBeR oF; State Bar of Pennsylvania; State Bar of California.

 

[ 1034 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ARNOLD LAWRENCE SHRIBER

HOME abpRrEss: 20 Kevin Rd., Milton, Mass.

OFFIcE appREss: Alice Ames, Inc., 98 Business St., Hyde Park, Mass.

Born: April 14, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Samuel Shriber, Mary Levine.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREE: LL.B. (Boston Coll.), 1935.

MARRIED: Thelma Finke, 1941, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Allan Nathan, Nov.
15, 1942; Louis Bowman, April 3, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Bernard Shriber, ’40.

occupation: General manager and sales manager, Alice Ames, Inc. adver-
tising specialties and gifts.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer and secretary, Direct Sales Managers Association of
New England.

AFTER two years at Harvard I attended Boston College Law
School and spent the prewar years practising law with the firm of
Schneider & Reilly. In 1941 I met and married Thelma Finke. We
now have two sons both destined, we hope, for Harvard. Allan is
fourteen, Louis is ten.

After my discharge from the Signal Corps, the practice of
law, while always enjoyable and attractive to me, did not appear
to offer the immediate income necessary to support a wife and
family. Therefore, I joined the Magnesium Casting Company in
an administrative position. In 1947 we formed a subsidiary, called
Alice Ames, Inc., which I currently manage and direct. We are
the company which, in 1948 and 1949, mailed all Harvard Alumni
a bronzed coaster with the Harvard insignia. We solicited your
business and comments and, Brother, we got both! Although I
am happy to report that the business far exceeded the comments
in volume. |

Our special life is centered in our community where my wife
and I are active in Temple affairs, the Milton Town Club, a
veterans organization and its auxiliary, and B’nai B’rith. I have
always been a lukewarm Democrat but after four years under the
Republicans, I am now an ardent Democrat.

[ 1035 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

LeROY SHULMAN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1365 Emory Pl, Norfolk, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Shulman & Co., Inc., 244 Granby St., Norfolk, Va.

BORN: March 3, 1912, Norfolk, Va. PARENTS: LeRoy Shulman, Flora Hom.
al

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREES: A.B, 1932(31)3 LLB. (Univ. of Vir-
ginia), 1935.

marrieD: Judy Traylor, Aug. 21, 1944, Petersburg, Va. CHILDREN: LeRoy, 34,
Feb. 1, 1947; Judith Kennedy, July 9, 1950.

occuPATION: President, Shulman & Company, Inc., retail clothing; merchan-
dising, advertising, etc.

OFFICES HELD: President, Virginia Association of Retail Clothiers and Fur-
nishers,1952-53; Retail Merchants Association of Norfolk, January,
1955, to January, 1957.

MEMBER OF: Virginia Bar Association; Lafayette Yacht Club; Kiwanis Club

of Norfolk; Lakewood Civic League; Norfolk Civic Duckpin Bowling
League (president).

AFTER law school in 1935 I got a job as a junior attorney in the
Legal Division of the Resettlement Administration (later the Farm
Security Administration). In two years I worked up several
notches and was making as much as I now have to pay a beginning
salesman in the men’s furnishings department. I enjoyed the ex-
perience thoroughly and still believe that that part of the New
Deal, among others, accomplished considerable good.

In 1937 the clothing business began to recover from the de-
pression doldrums and my dad told me that if I was ever going to
be a retailer I had better make up my mind. About then, F.D.R.
was trying to pack the Court and I was growing less proud of my
connection with his administration, so 1 gave up law for retailing.
Since 1937 I’ve been trying to learn what makes a clothing busi-
ness (women’s, men’s and boys’) successful and to do the things
I've learned. Any success my partner (my brother) and I have
had is due primarily to the fact that our father was not only an
exceptional merchant who gave us a good start, but was also an
interested and remarkably able teacher—and my brother a
remarkably able student. In our business, I am especially interested
in advertising and am rather proud that our store has been honored
on three occasions by the National Brand Names Foundation for
doing an outstanding promotional job in our field.

[ 1036 ]

mene :

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

From early 1942 to late 1946, I fought the War, from private to
major, at Camp Lee, Virginia, New Guinea and Luzon, ending up
with four delightful months in Japan, immediately after the sur-
render. At Camp Lee I instructed for about sixteen months in
military law and company administration in the Quartermaster
School. While there I was primarily responsible for rewriting the
Army Regulation on Company Administration. It had not been

changed since the Revolution, a fact which apparently had both-
ered no one since, except me.

As a result of my brief experience as an instructor I am con-
vinced most testing in education, at least at grade and high school
levels, should be objective; and that the effectiveness of teaching
is susceptible of measurement according to the testing results
achieved by students. I believe teachers should be compensated
according to the effectiveness of their teaching and superior teach-

ers should train others in their methods.

While at Camp Lee, I met a local girl whom I married just be-
‘ore I went overseas. We have two children; Roy, ten, and
Judith, six. Outside of reading, television and bridge, my chief
sobbies are bowling in the winter and fishing in the summer. We
ive on the water and have an outboard motorboat. Roy and |
pend some of our best days fishing and swimming in and around
Jampton Roads. Before the war I took some interesting cruises
» the Caribbean, and since the war have spent the short vacations
retailer gets in Canada, Bermuda and Mexico.

Another idea I hold, that I haven’t found anyone to agree with,
that a child and his parents should know the child’s 1.Q. at
early age. I feel that this way they all would know the level
2 child should attain in his education. High intellectual capacity
nuld be as much a matter of pride and development as is high
letic capacity. I feel that secrecy regarding the one and exag-
ated rewards for the other are probably not productive of the
t results for many individuals and for society,
Ine other private idea: I believe that most retailers spend
r business careers without any clear understanding of the
cesses that govern their success or lack of it. If I am ever
that I know the answers, | hope to be able to pass them
n understandable form.

[ 1037 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

ROLLIN HEAD SIMONDS
HOME ADDRESS: 410 Kedzie Drive, East Lansing, Mich.
OFFICE ADpREss: Michigan State University, East Lansing, Mich.

Born: Jan. 9, 1910, Albion, Wis. parents: Edmond M. Simonds, Helen
Louise Head.

PREPARED AT: New Trier High School, Winnteka, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929. DEGREES: 8.8. (Northwestern Univ.), 1935; a.m.
(ibid.), 1936; PH.D. (ibid.).

MARRIED: Doris Wheeler Clement, June 22, 1936, Evanston, Ill. crmpren:
Marjorie Louise, April 7, 1941; Richard Rollin, Aug. 5, 1945.
oocupaTion: Professor of management and chairman of management and

finance, Michigan State University College of Business and Public
Service.

orFices HELD: Offices in P.T.A, honorary fraternities, state and national
safety committees.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa, Beta Gamma Sigma; Phi Kappa Phi, Delta
Sigma Rho, Alpha Kappa Psi; Phi Delta Kappa; Society for Advance-
ment of Management; Academy of Management, American Economic
Association; Industrial Relations Research Association; A-C.B.L.

PuBLicaTIONS: Safety Management: Accident Cost and Control, co-author
with John Grimaldi, Richard D, Irwin, publisher, 1956, articles and

pamphlets— U.S. Department of Labor; Harvard Business Review,
National Safety News.

HAVING spent only one year at Harvard I never feel sure that
I should be included in such reports as this, On the other hand,
I should rather you “got the facts” than be listed as “wanted —
whereabouts and current activities unknown.” Further, as [ note
in some of my Harvard mail what has become of some of my
associates of the 1928-29 year like Paul Reardon, or learn in chance
conversation with Alvin Brown that a former roommate, Frank
Gilchrist, is in public relations work, I realize I should like to
know more about them all.

The meagreness of my part in Harvard Alumni affairs does
not stem from any wish to be disassociated, but, rather, from the
fact that I am obviously much more closely identified with North-
western University, which conferred my three degrees, Further,
since about the moment Lyn Chadmois broke away for a long
Michigan State run against Notre Dame in the fall of 1949 I have
_ found my university loyaltics heavily concentrated on this dy-

namic Michigan university whose faculty I had joined that fall.

In the depths of the depression of the thirtics, I put in some

[ 1038 ]

 

 

ieee err oar eae aaa

neg gage RO mp eer

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of my hardest work for very few but very large dollars. After

completing my first degree in 1935, I began some high school

teaching, which included my old school, New Trier. There fol-
lowed, also, junior college, and college teaching, mixed with
consulting work. The war found me instructing in industrial
engineering for the Navy at Illinois Institute of Technology. An
early interest in economics shifted to management, which seemed
to give more chance to put ideas into practice.

It was by good fortune, rather than by design, that I fell
in love with a girl whose father, a university professor, had al-
most the same weaknesses as I. I am thinking of university life to-
gether with a great enthusiasm for golf and bowling. This I have
compounded by frequent duplicate bridge games.

I hope my small contributions in the field of occupational
safety will turn out to be of some general benefit. Certainly,
the control of work accidents is an activity that grows on one
because the results of good work are so clearly apparent and
beneficial to all concerned. I find little of the “ivory tower”
in the academic life of a professor and administrator in manage-

ment in an expanding university. My family and I can testify
that East Lansing is a very pleasant community and that, all told,
life has a great deal to be commended.

FRIENCH SIMPSON

HOME ADDRESS: 884 Jansen Ave., San Jose 25, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: San Jose State College, San Jose, Calif.

soRN: July 26, 1911, Fresno, Calif. parents: Friench Simpson, Ruby Wil-
~ Jiamson,

REPARED AT: Mobile High School, Mobile, Ala.

‘EARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1932; A.M., 1936; PH.D.

(Stanford Univ.), 1950.
CCUPATION: Associate professor of English, San Jose State College.

[ 1039 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

IVAN FRICK SKINNER, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 818 Kanuga Drive, West Palm Beach, Fla.

BORN: June 15, 1909, Baltimore, Md. parents: Ivan Martin Skinner, Henrietta
Lenz.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE! A.B. 1932.

MORRILL MANSUR SLACK

HOME ADDRESS: 25 WW, Park St., Franklin, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Dean Junior College, Franklin, Mass.

BORN: June 21, 1909, North Abington, Mass. PARENTS: Judson Clarence Slack,
DMD. 06, Cora Mansur.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: $.B., 1932 (33): ED.M. (Boston Univ.),
1938.

MARRIED: Eileen Clements Sullivan, Sept. 26, 1942, Washington, D.C. (di-
vorced 1951); Cartha Emily Saunders, 1953, Presque Isle, Maine. cut:
Josiah, May 3, 1955.

OocUPATION: Teaching.

MEMBER OF: American Association of University Professors.

MY adventures since leaving college have been of a nature that
make them meaningful to me but of little inspiration to the
Alumni of Harvard College. The jobs that were available af-
ter college were so unremunerative that I decided that if star-
vation was inevitable, I might as well do something I enjoyed.
After securing a Master’s degree at Boston University, I entered
my chosen field and have been teaching and learning ever since.

My Army experience was routine. After the war I studied
under the G.I. Bill. I have taught at Aroostook State Teachers’
College, Boston University, and am at present head of the Social
Studies Department at Dean Junior College.

My remarks about my family will be very brief, as a fond
husband and doting parent, I need say nothing to those who are
equally fortunate. Those whose experience has been less for-
tunate would not be convinced whatever I might say.

[ 1040 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GUY VERNOR SLADE

HOME ADDRESS: 2 Euston St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Portia Law School, 47 Mt. Vernon St., Boston 8, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 7, 1911, Somerset, Mass. PARENTS: Guy Vernor Henry Slade,
Dora Armstrong.

PREPARED AT: Jamaica Plain High School, Jamaica Plain, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932, DEGREES: AB., 1932; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1936;
LL.M. (Portia Law School), 1953; yur. (Calvin Coolidge Coll.), 1956.

marrieD: Dorothy Jane Pitman, 1948, Providence, R.I. (divorced 1951),
cuit: Erika Jane, April 5, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Professor of law and administrative assistant to Dean, Portia
Law School; attorney-at-law. Specifically professor of torts, negotiable
instruments and a comprehensive study of the law.

OFFICES HELD: Editor-in-chief, Boston University Law Review, 1935-36;
law clerk to Justices of Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, 1937-
4o; professor of medieval history, Calvin Coolidge College, 1946-51;
professor of law, Suffolk Law School, Boston, 1947-50.

MEMBER OF: Medieval Academy of America; Criminal Investigation Division
Agents Association; Boston Bar Association; Delta Theta Phi Law
Fraternity; American Society for Legal History.

PUBLICATIONS: “Preliminary Notes on the Law of Torts”; “Review of the
Law of Torts;” “Outline of Medieval History;” “Domestic Relations Re-
view;” “Negotiable Instruments Review;” “Law of Evidence Review,”
“A Comprehensive Study of the Law;” various editorial notes, Boston
University Law Review, 1934-36.

HISTORY and law. It often seems that these constitute almost
the whole of my life—and what could be better? I was for-
tunate in studying enough history at Harvard to arouse a tre-
mendous appetite, and later a formal training in law led first to
law clerking to a very respectable state supreme court, then to
active practice and finally to the teaching of law.

There have been plenty of other interests along the way. At
one time or another my keenest interest, hobby-wise, has been
in figure skating (primarily as a drill instructor for a group of
females), in ballet (as a spectator), in Siamese cats (are there any
others?), in that refuge of weary legalists, the detective novel,
and more recently in science fiction which does too have a
serious side. Of course, my pleasure in music has never waned
although it is true that we now tend to perform less, if at all, but
perhaps we listen better. And by the way, the Harvard Band
today is admittedly the “best in the business” but the Band dur-
ing the years from 1928 to 1932 was not bad either.

[ 1041 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

My major and permanent hobby is the study of history, par.
ticularly medieval Europe and the European phase of World
War II. In medieval history my especial interests are Norman dy
and the Western Church. With great effort I refrain from say-

ing more of these. Lawyers usually love to talk and talk; teach-

ers must talk and talk. Combine the two in one person, let him

have a hobby in history and you are lucky to get away with
unimpaired hearing.

Marital affairs? Ended in divorce, but a wonderful daughter

is the source of much delight. Reddish hair, looks like me, is
healthy and intelligent. Restrain yourself, Guy, don’t boast,
The preponderance of the evidence is that there will be another
marriage which with God’s help will be successful, and Ricki
shall have brothers and sisters, or some part thereof, by the
half-blood, as we say. The aforementioned preponderance of
the evidence is that the marriage will be to a learned and lovely
Portia named Barbara.

Most of us, I suppose, were in World War II. Unlike many
Thad a year in the Infantry. This, I am told, was good experience.
The rest of my time in service was spent in the Criminal In-
vestigation Division in Northern France, working with the capa-
ble agents of the Streté Nationale. Our investigations were
limited to cases of murder, rape and large-scale black market ac-
tivities and were absorbing if not edifying. The outstanding
recollection is of a period of twenty-nine days in which four
of us, working in teams of two, were required to investigate
thirty-one murders. Despite the fact that many of the civilian
population were practically in G.I. uniform as well as the G.L’s
themselves, so that “everyone looks the same,” some of those
murders were solved.

As we write these little summaries for our Class Report, even
if some of us had literally to be goaded, it is natural to reflect
and to consider whether we have had success in one form or
another and whether we are content with our doings. I am the
luckiest of men for I am satisfied to date and see the way to sat-
isfaction in the future. I have enjoyed teaching history to
college students and none can deny that as a worthy task. Now,
concentrating on teaching law, my enjoyment is greater and
again the value of the task cannot be denied. Clearly we cannot

[ 1042 |

 

seca SNR TRS P OPI ETE

4
nets AA POTN TT

eA AIER EET dates stan SE AICIE IPAN A
smn eve genet aie “ :

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

do without law and equally clear is the constant need of the
law for competent, honest and honorable men and women. I
study law, write law, tutor in law and lecture in law. No other
subject could appeal in comparable degree and in addition I
see my students become members of the Jearned profession of
the law. How could I be other than happy! Not the least part
of my joy is that I teach in an evening division as well as in a
day division. To instruct evening students who are already tired
from a day’s work requires more than is necessary in teaching
day students — in patience, in clarity and in effort, for teacher
himself is often tired. But the teacher’s reward in seeing the
success of his students is all the greater.

Now as my hair disappears into the void with increasing swift-

ness, I am thankful that I keep on learning. That is only as it
should be but we know that things are not always as they should
be. Harvard’s most important influence to me is that humbly I
can realize that I still learn. The obvious gain is in knowledge of
law. More significant is the gathering understanding of ourselves,
even to an understanding of why platitudes are platitudes. The
reason can be seen for the looking — they are true, and serious
truth cannot be repeated too frequently. Know thyself — even
if twenty-five years permit only a beginning. Seek truth —
in all of life. Find God — for He wants us and we need Him.
Certainly this is not the place for extended moralizing but it is
the place to express the conviction that ultimate values are the
simple values. The longer we live and the wider our experience
of the incidents of life, the more clearly we see the validity of
simple faith in God.

RICHARD EATON SLITOR

HOME ADDRESS: §428 Lincoln St., Bethesda 14, Md.
OFFICE appress: Treasury Dept. Washington 25, D.C.

BORN: July 1, 1911, St. Paul, Minn. parents: Ray Francis Slitor, Nelle
Eaton,

PREPARED AT: Waukon High School, Waukon, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932. DEGREES: S.B. magna cum laude, 1932; AM.
(Colgate Univ.), 1934; PH.D. (Harvard Univ.), 1940.

MARRIED: Louise Bean, Dec. 24, 1937, Cambridge, Mass. cHILDREN: Prudence

[ 1043 ]

_ Lo

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Van Zandt, Oct. 27, 1940; Deborah Beckwith, Oct. 27, 1943, Nicholas
Wentworth, Nov. 13, 1948; Christopher Wells, Feb. 20, 1952.
OCCUPATION: Government economist.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Economic Association; Royal Eco-

nomic Society; National Tax Association; Harvard Club of Washing-
ton; Bethesda Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles and studies on taxation and fiscal matters.

JAMES SLOSS

HOME apprEss: 605 Skokie Lane S. Glencoe, II.

OFFicE aDprEss: The Englander Co., Inc., 2447 W. Roosevelt Rd., Chicago,
Ill.

BORN: Sept. 23, 1910, Jenkintown, Pa. parents: Milton J. Sloss, Margaret
Fleisher.

PREPARED AT; Oak Lane Country Day School, Oak Lane, Pa. 7
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. summa cum laude, 1932.

Marrizp: Priscillia Stern, Feb. 22, 1941, Chicago, Ill. crmpren: Karen, Jan.
11, 1946; Roger, Nov. 30, 1948.

occupation: General traffic manager, The Englander Company, Inc., furni-
ture manufacturers,

OFFICES HELD: Member board of directors, since 1948, vice-president, since
1954, Jewish Vocational Service, Chicago; vice-president, National .
Furniture Traffic Conference, since 1954; member executive committee,
Industrial Traffic Council of Chicago, since 1953; chairman, Traffic
Committee, National Association of Bedding Manufacturers.

MEMBER OF: Traffic Club of Chicago; Harvard Club of Chicago.

HAVING been badgered and hounded by the Class secret po-
lice; had my mailbox jammed with grim warnings and dire por-
tents of terrible punishments; received telephone calls from a
classmate who could smugly aver that his life story had been
written and mailed: — in the face of these cruel and inhuman
tortures, I have been whipsawed into a state of abject submis-
sion to that overpowering force known as “The Class” out of
whose clutches I mistakenly believed myself to have wandered on
a bright June day, twenty-four and a half years ago. Bowing
to the inevitable, I hereby place before my classmates a few
assorted “facts of life” in the hope that henceforth my leisure
and my conscience may be simultaneously liberated.

My story begins a week before graduation, in June, 1932, with
a weekend trip to Chicago — the most fateful journey I ever took.

[ 1044 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

As a consequence of this brief excursion I, who had believed the
western limits of our country lay roughly in the vicinity of Har-
risburg, Pennsylvania, became a Chicago prairie dweller and a
member of the traffic organization of Sears, Roebuck & Company.
For nine years I learned and practised the art of traffic manage-
ment in behalf of the nation’s largest retailing concern, remain-
ing all that while in my bachelorhood.

All at once, things began popping in every direction: war in
Europe; meeting the “one and only,” followed by a courtship
that had me burning the midnight oil and the candle at both ends
and concluding with a glorious victory (she married me); Pearl
Harbor and a summons to Washington, where I was mustered
into military service as a captain in the Army Transportation
Corps. Throughout the war, I was stationed in the basement of
the Pentagon and assigned to arrange for rapid movement of
the myriad of small shipments of material and equipment. In
furtherance of this objective, there was created the Army Navy
Consolidated Car Service which I ministered to during the
periods of its conception, birth, growth, maturity and, at war's
end, demise.

A civilian once more, I returned with my bride to Chicago,
and soon thereafter our family was augmented by the arrival
of our daughter, Karen. I spent my terminal leave secking shel-
ter for my growing family and pondering my future. This
weighing and deliberating led us to a city apartment close enough
to the railroad so that the midnight train for Detroit would
rattle our brains as we futilely fought this nightly interruption
of our repose. Concurrently, I went into a freight forwarding
business named, “Pacific Forwarding Association,” which opera-
ted a consolidated car service from the east and middle west
to the far west.

After presiding over the affairs of this enterprise for some
three years, I turned my attention to consulting work in the
transportation field. Meanwhile, our son, Roger, parachuted
into our lives with a din and an uproar which has continued un-
abated these past eight years. Came January, 1951, and the be-
ginning of my affiliation with The Englander Company, one of
the country’s premier purveyors of sleep products. A more
restful occupation could be discovered nowhere —I sleep all

[ 1045 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

night on the fruits of my previous day’s labors. During my wak-
ing hours, I attempt to remove the mystery from a wide and never-
ending variety of problems relating to transportation, warehouse-
ing, materials handling and distribution of our company products.
Three and one-half years ago, we left our noisy cliff dwelling
and its push-button elevator that sometimes worked and some-
times did not, and headed out into Suburbia to a white house with
blue shutters and four sump pumps. Here we found an dasis
of green grass requiring constant trimming by a lawnmower
which sometimes works and usually doesn’t; a spacious drive-
way to be swept free of snow; and a comfortable hour’s journey
to and from the city ten times each week. Country living has
been a wonderful experience for Karen, Roger, and their faith-
ful canine, “Curly.”

Although I have not become deeply engrossed in one particu-
lar hobby, I do have a number of interests wholly unrelated to
my professional pursuits. I have been active for many years in
the Jewish Vocational Service, a social welfare agency con-
cerned with vocational problems and adjusting people to work.
I retain a lifelong fondness for mountains and like to prowl
around in hilly places. This craze has taken me and my long-
suffering wife as far as Alaska, to the Tetons, to the Rawahs
of Colorado, and last summer to the White Mountains where
I confined my perambulations to some of the lesser peaks.

I like to acquire interesting maps, both historical and con-
temporary, and am one of those amateur meteorologists who can
always outguess the Weather Bureau, having secured a set of re-
cording instruments which I hope may someday enable me to
qualify as the “sage of Glencoe.”

There you have a thumbnail sketch of my deeds and transgres-
sions during the twenty-five years since I doffed my academic
robe at the conclusion of our Commencement exercises and
drove away from the sheltered, well-ordered routine of my
Alma Mater into the mad, disorganized maelstrom of life in
mid-century America.

 

[ 1046 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALVIN IRVING SMITH

HOME AppREsS: 1346 Second Ave., Salt Lake City, Utah. |

OFFICE ADDRESS: 313 Pacific National Life Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah.

Born: Nov. 9, 1910, Salt Lake City, Utah. parents: William Julius Smith,
Hannah White.

PREPARED AT: East High School, Salt Lake City, Utah.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

OCCUPATION: Law.

DAVID VICTOR SMITH

apprEss: P.O. Box 492, Medway, Mass.

Born: April 15, 1906, Yorkshire, England. PARENTS: Ernest Jonas Smith,
Frances Larmon.

PREPARED AT: Mount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932 (34).

occupation: Oil business — oil burners.

ERIC PARKMAN SMITH

HOME apprEss: 5 Academy Lane, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Maine Central Railroad, 222 St. John St., Portland, Maine.

BorN: March 23, 1910, Cambridge, Mass. parenrs: Benjamin Farnham Smith,
Helen Train Blanchard.

PREPARED aT: Concord High School, Concord, Mass.; Phillips Academy,
Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.B.A., 1934.

occupation: Chief statistician, Maine Central Railroad.

MEMBER oF: American Association for United Nations; American Civil
Liberties Union; Arctic Institute of North America (associated); Bos-
tonian Society; Concord Antiquarian Society; Concord Art Associa-
tion; Concord Players; Copley Society of Boston; L. M. Alcott Me-
morial Association; New England Railroad Club; Norfolk House Center
Corporation; Steamship Historical Society of America; The Wilderness
Society; Unitarian Laymen’s League.

IT is a little bit frightening to sit down to report on and
assess twenty-five years of activity. Have I done enough use-
ful work to justify my existence? Have I even tried to do enough
to justify it? To the second question, at least, I like to
think I can give a qualified “Yes.” With a world never more

[ 1047 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

interesting and with more opportunities for useful work in sight

than ever before, one can hope to be working towards a “Yes” to

the first one as well. Even though perhaps half my life and
more is behind me, still the incentive to push ahead was never
stronger, and I am sure the best is yet to come.

The fall of 1932 saw me, an A.B. in Geology, crossing the
Charles to the Business School, from which I emerged in 1934,
as an M.B.A. with some courses in transportation. That summer
was spent in Washington making friendships I shall always value
and doing most interesting work on the staff of the Federal
Coordinator of Transportation.

In December, 1934, I joined the staff of the New Haven
Railroad, where I remained nearly nineteen years. I was in ona
bit of the start of “piggyback” transportation in New England.
I participated in a good deal of research into traffic matters. Ul-

timately I became chief traffic analyst of the Traffic Research
and Development Department. I found the studying of problems
and the preparation of carefully thought out reports stimulating
and rewarding. I became a small-scale columnist in the monthly
company house organ — and a few things were more fun.

Came World War II. Uncle Sam looked hard twice and said
“No.” So I did my best on what “stay-at-homes” did — Civil
Defense, Fund Drives and the job. Transport was busy in those
days.

The year 1947 saw me in New Haven, Connecticut (it’s not
for nothing that the New York, New Haven and Hartford
Railroad is called the New Haven Road), as a member of the rail-
road’s merchandise department — first as cost analyst, and then
as assistant to the general merchandising manager. I took part
in useful and enjoyable work and took pride in it. But pride
cometh before a fall.

The heavy costs of the severe winter of 1947-48 precipitated
(along with several other more important, but unstated factors)
a sharp general retrenchment program. By 1953, back in Boston,
I was retrenched to the position of low man on the totem pole.
Contacts which had seemed promising for a transportation job
elsewhere appeared a bit slow in developing. Other matters
weighed heavily, too. |

A change seemed called for. It took the form of a trip to the
[ 1048 ]

 

(

; ean ect REM
in cE AT ES

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

west coast, which I covered leisurely from south to north, travel-
ing mostly by air. My first flight was from Boston to Los
Angeles, and I loved it — what a confession for a railroad man!

That fall I had a call to go to Portland, Maine. A new man-
agement offered me a chance to work on its problems as it
sought to revitalize the Maine Central Railroad. I jumped at the
chance, becoming, first statistician and then in 1955 chief statis-
tician attached to the executive department. The job is fascinat-
ing. All the experience of past years helps to attack new prob-
lems more effectively. Things never looked brighter.

Outside the job I have tried to do my share in local activities
— Community Chest, hospital, Red Cross, heart, and similar
drives. In Concord I have participated in the affairs of the First
Parish. I was an officer of the Laymen’s League for several
years. I also served on the Committee on External Charities and
on the Standing Committee, of which I was chairman for a time
—a most rewarding experience.

In Concord, too, I have acquired a little real estate, including
ten acres of woodland, the ownership of which I enjoy and from
which I derive a modest supplementary income.

For recreation I still have my three greatest hobbies dating
back to pre-college days: photography, now with emphasis on
stereo; camping in the Maine woods, and books on places far
and near, including the Arctic, Central Asia, Oceanic Islands and
New England.

LYMAN HIBBARD SMITH

HOME appress: 659 Main St., Hingham, Mass.

OFFice appress: Pepperell Manufacturing Co., 160 State St., Boston, Mass.

Born: May 1, 1910, Marblehead, Mass. parents: Charlton Lyman Smith,
Elizabeth Bateman.

PREPARED AT: Marblehead High School, Marblehead, Mass.; Huntington
School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DECREE: 3.B., 1932.

Marriep: Thelma Helene Sundlie, Sept. 19, 1932, Tiverton, R.I. cHiLpREN:
Charlton Sundlie, Oct. 23, 1938; Gerald Sundlie, Feb. 7, 1943.

HARVARD son: Charlton Sundlie Smith, 6o.

OccuPATION: Treasurer, Pepperell Manufacturing Company, textile manu-
facturers.

[ 1049 ]

ene

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

OFFICES HELD: Assistant production manager, 1933-41, production manager,
1941-42, assistant plant manager, 1942-46, general plant manager, 1947-
51, assistant to president, 1951-55, treasurer, since 1956, Pepperell Manu-
facturing Company; trustee, Thornton Academy, Saco, Maine, 1947-51,
Webber Hospital, Biddeford, Maine, 1947-51, treasurer, Hingham
Yacht Club, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Textile Club; Textile Dinner Club, Algonquin Club; Harvard
Club of New York; Treasurers’ Club; Hingham Yacht Club.

SINCE college, my activities have been primarily in family,
work and hobby. In the fall of 1932 I was married and one
week later started work for the Pepperell Manufacturing Com-
pany where I have been ever since. After a short apprenticeship
at a cotton mill in Fall River and a year at the Harvard Business
School, the company assigned me to a production job in New
York for a number of years.

Transferred to a mill in Maine as assistant, I became manager
in 1947. That job brought with it the experience of some com-
munity responsibilities as trustee of the local hospital, the local
academy, a home for the aged, Boy Scout work and other duties.
Also, while on that job, I had the experience of a trip to some
European textile centers. The latest move was to the company’s
Boston office some five years ago. We settled in the beautiful old
town of Hingham. We have lived in so many different houses
over the years my wife says she has no more moves left in her
system.

Since boyhood in Marblehead I have had a bad case of sea
fever. Fortunately, my work has always been located near the
coast. Since college I have always had some kind of boat for
cruising. At present I have a yawl in which my family and I
cruise weekends in Massachusetts Bay, and farther afield in
vacation time.

MARSHALL PARSONS SMITH

HOME ADpRESS: Rosedale Road, Rte. 11, Princeton, N.J.

OFFice ADDRESS: State Teachers College, Trenton, N.J.

BORN: Sept. 19, 1911, Orange, N.J. parents: William Hemans S
Margaret Parsons Nichols. |

PREPARED AT: East Orange High School, East Orange, N.J.

mith, ’95,

[ 1050 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; AM. (Teachers
Coll., Columbia Univ.), 1937; px.o (Columbia Univ.), 1951.

MaraigD: Ann Zulauf, Dec. 22, 1934, South Orange, N.J. cutpren: Marshall
Savidge, Sept. 16, 1937; Content Jane, Nov. 24, 1940.

HARVARD SON: Marshall Savidge Smith, ’s59.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Shepard Smith, ’30 (deceased).

occuPATION: Associate professor of psychology.

MEMBER OF: American Association of University Professors; American
Psychological Association, New Jersey Psychological Association;
various educational associations,

pusLications: “The Closing Door to College”; “New Jersey’s Undergradu-
ates, 1954-1973"; “Religious Training and Performance on Certain In-
tellectual Tasks”; “Demand and Facilities in Nursing Education in New
Jersey”; “Student Preferences for Types of Colleges”, contributions
to the Columbia Encyclopedia.

WHO can write a narrative? This is repugnant to our culture,
embarrassing equally to the writer and reader. Get it done with.
What does the Class want to know, if anything?

Career history — teaching, with, I hope, verve and optimism
and integrity.

Family — intelligent, a wife and two children, happy, affec-
tionate, independent, and with a fine sense of the ridiculous,

Travels — none, except in science fiction and The Scientific
American.

Hobbies — none.

War record — Infantry private, VOC; paper-pushing captain,
AGD.

Government service — teaching in public schools: high school
—cight years, college — five years (both rewarding beyond
measure),

Social convictions — that the young people of today are a bet-
ter bet than we were, at least in the things that matter — intcl-
lectual honesty, emotional balance, and human decency.

Political convictions — that the vital ideals of free inquiry,
equal justice, equality of opportunity, and pragmatic experiment
will continue their tortuous but positive way.

Religious convictions — see the two items immediately above.

[ 1051 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

PAUL DEVON SMITH

HOME ADDRESS: 304 Fairfax Hall, 1306 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge 38,
Mass,

oFFice appress: Christian Science Publishing Society, 1 Norway St., Boston,
Mass.

Born: Nov. 18, 1909, Billerica, Mass. PARENTS: William Harry Smith, Maude
Greenslade Phillips.

PREPARED AT: Howe High School, Billerica, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Pauline Agassiz Morse, April 6, 1935, Cambridge, Mass.

occupation: Newspaper publishing; proofreader, Tbe Christian Science
Monitor.

OFFICES HELD: Faculty member, Mitchell Military Academy, Billerica, Mass.,
inspector, Boston Ordnance District; examiners, War Asssets Adminis-
tration, R.F.C.

MEMBER OF: Rockport Art Association; Cambridge Art Association.

I AM associated with the University Press and the Harvard Un-
versity Press. I married Pauline Agassiz Morse whose professional
artist’s name is Polly Montague.

Summer address: Pigeon Cove, Mass. Winter address: Har-
vard Square.

ROBERT JAMES SMITH

HOME apprEss: Fryeburg, Maine. —

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hall & Smith, Fryeburg, Maine.

BORN: Jan. 5, 1909, South Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Smith, Isabella
Johnston.

PREPARED AT: Fryeburg Academy, Fryeburg, Maine; Worcester Academy,
Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

MARRIED: Ethel Hall, 1935, Fryeburg, Maine.

OccuPATION: Owner-manager of wood-turning business.

ROBERT GORDON SNIDER

HOME ADDRESS: 235 E. 46th St., New York 17, N.Y.
orrice apprEss: Conservation Foundation, 30 E. goth St., New York 16, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 21, 1911, New York, N.Y. parents: Guy Edward Snider, Con-
stance Elizabeth Berry.

[ 1052 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Roosevelt High School, Yonkers, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933. DEGREES: A.B. 1932 (33); M-B.A., 1934

MarRieD: Hazel Russell Wragg, Aug. 22, 1936, Norton, Mass. (divorced
1949); Helen Kahn, July 7, 1951, Yonkers, N.Y. cnttoren: Nancy Con-
stance, Aug. 12, 1940; Peter Guy, May 17, 1944.

occupaTion: Vice-president and director of research, Conservation Founda-
tion.

orrices Herp: UNESCO representative, Inter-American Conservation Con-
ference, Denver, 1948; member, Planning Committee, United Nations
Scientific Conference on Conservation and Utilization of Resources,
1948-50; delegate, International Union for the Protection of Nature
Conference, Copenhagen, World Population Conference, Rome, 1954;
member, editorial board, Soil Conservation Society of America, since

1955; executive officer, US. Naval Reserve Composite Company 3-27,
1952-56, commanding officer, since 1957.

MEMBER OF: American Association for the Advancement of Science (fel-
low); Cosmos Club, Washington; Harvard Club of New York, Ameri-
can Geophysical Union, Soil Conservation Society of America, Ameri-
can Range Management Society,

PuBLICATIONS: Professional papers.

HAVING given higher priority to working on a Navy cor-
respondence course which now completes the requirements for
my promotion to captain, U.S.N.R., [am at last driven by my
wife to this chronology. I consider myself fortunate. I walk to
work in mid-town Manhattan and yet get into the country on
weckends. T have a job with infinite variety, which ranges from
gricultural and water resource problems, through some basic
shysics and oceanography to physiology and birth control, I
ave two delightful children and a charming and devoted wife.
Jow did all this happen to me?

Social anthropology concentration and ficld work in New-
uryport (Mr. Marquand’s locus), followed by a stint at the
usiness School, led in 1934, to the first available job — in N.R.A.
eclared unconstitutional, I started work on a Ph.D. at Columbia
d taught economics and business management at City College
hool of Business, while trying a childlike hand at management
nsulting — all profit—if any—accruing to the client. In
ptember, 1940, clouds of war, an N.R.O.T.C. background,
da dusty commission put me on active duty as one of the most
jor ensigns in history. March, 1946, saw me back in street
thes, after a very interesting, if virtually non-combatant series

[ 1053 ]

tit

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

of duty tours — largely in anti-submarine development staff work

in a Fleet unit, but including one command. No glory, but some

use. Children got to see the eastern seaboard from Quonset to

Key West. So did I. In July, 1945, I was made commander.

A year plus as a college administrator, setting up a new in-
tensive business training program for veterans, staffing it, getting
it financed and running it, occupied my time at City College un-
til spring, 1947. A new organization was undergoing birth pangs
—then the Conservation Division of the New York Zoological
Society, it became the Conservation Foundation, within a year.
Here I still am, with a small staff, scouting around the country,
and some other parts of the western world, trying to find the
problems of resource use and development, and of population
growth and change which require careful study, and then find-
ing the best qualified people to carry these out for us, finally try-

ing to arrange to get the resulting information to the people
who need to know and to get them to act on it. Specialized,
provocative and ever-changing.

The connection between anthropology, business management,
undersea warfare and renewable resource conservation is not
readily apparent, but it is there — largely in the point of view one
has to take in any research problem, plus the accumulation of a
lot of odd bits of information and a desire to ask the right ques-
tions. Anyway, I’m supposed to know something useful about
water, from flood control to water supply, and something about
people and how they think, including how they think in un-
derdeveloped areas of the world about having fewer babies. The
work has taken me from Juneau in January and Fairbanks in
February, to the Caribbean two weeks later, and in addition to
all forty-eight states, to England and the Continent, not only in
the tourist season, but also late winter. My specialty, however,
has been Jamaica, B.W.1., which I have visited six times in the

last year, plus as many more trips, setting up sociological studies
on attitudes towards family and voluntary family limitation.
If the action arises from these which we hope for, I'll feel
that I’ve done a useful job.

My wife is quite patient about my travels, and she and my
children shared the fruits of my labors on a family trip to Ja

[ 1054 ]

r.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

maica early last summer. Pete, while still eleven, became a first-
class scout and is now a patrol leader at the tender age of twelve.
Nancy is in the active-in-everything stage at sixteen, and hopes
to go to Vassar. Pete is still undecided between Harvard, M.LT.,
Princeton (God forbid), or a career as a radio-technician.. My
wife and I are getting more garden and lawn conscious at our
weckend place than I had ever expected possible. It must be a

sign of approaching middle age! The only sure sign of youthful
enthusiasm is that we're still for Stevenson,

EDWARD ROWE SNOW

HOME AND OF FIcR Apoarss: Summer Street, Marshficld, Mass.

poan: Aug. 22, 1902, Winthrop, Mass. parents: Edward Sumptct Snow,
Alice Rowe.

PREPARED AT: Intermountain School, Helena, Mont,
WEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DELAPES: 8.8., 1932, A.M. (Boston Univ.), 1939.

marniep: Anna-Myrle Haegg, July 8, 1932, Helena, Mont. crtro: Dorothy
Caroline, March 28, 1951.

CCUPATION: Writer; lecturer; radio story teller.
eFicks Hep: Director, Massachusetts Marine Socicty.
rember oF; Boston Marine Society; Boston Y.M.C.U., Camera Club of
YALCU.; American Geophysical Union (in meteorology, oceanog-
raphy, hydrology).
cBLicaTions: Mysteries and Adventures Along the Atlantie Coast; Strange
Tales from Nova Scotia to Cape Hatteras, Secrets of the North At-
lantic Islands; True Tales of Buried Treasure, Great Gales and Dire
Disasters, New England Sea Drama, True Tales of Pirates and Their
Gold; Amazing Sea Stories Never Told Before, Famous Lighthouses
of America, The Vengeful Sea; Legends of the New England Coast.

RHAPS a little of my pre-Harvard background may be of
crest to those who read these words. Strangely enough, |

5 the youngest member of my class at Winthrop (Mass.)
*h School and the oldest member of the Class of 1932 at Har-

d. This unusual situation was brought on by my desire to see
ttle of the world when I was young enough to enjoy it.
is. I graduated from high school when barely sixteen and
twenty-nine when I graduated from Harvard. Although I
red with the Class of 1933, by attending summer sessions I
uated in 1932. Between 1919 and 1928 I journeyed all over

[ 1055 ]

Lo

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

I was recovering from wounds, I have served as the lighthouse
Flying Santa, flying over the lighthouses of North America drop-
ping Christmas presents. As the Flying Santa of the Lighthouses
I have visited such far-flung lighthouses as those located in Labra-
dor, Newfoundland, St. Pierre and Miquelon, Anticosti, the
Maritime Provinces, Sable Island, New England, the Mid-Atlantic
States, the Southern and Gulf States, Mexico, the Great Lakes,
and most of the Pacific Coast. The packages which I drop an-
nually from the sky include pens, pencils, cigars, cigarettes, candy,
chewing gum, airplane models, balloons, dolls, and copies of my
own books. I don’t know how long I shall be able to continue
this but I have tentatively set 1961, twenty-five years after I
started, as my possible terminal date. 7

At present I am writing for three different newspapers in three
widely separated parts of New England: (1) The Brockton En-
terprise, where I have an editorial page on Tuesdays and Thurs-
days each week; (2) The Rockland Courier Gazette in Rock-
land, Maine, where I have a column, “New England Lore of
Sea and Shore”; (3) The Quincy Patriot Ledger —I have writ-
ten several series on the general subject of ships and the sea.

In radio and television work I have had many regular pro-
grams, “Six Bells” was over twenty-seven stations of the Yankee
Network; “Five Bells” is now over WBET twice a week, and
“New England Sea Lore” has been heard over WRKD. Added to
this have been personal appearances with Mary Margaret McBride
and Ben Grauer, the latter over color TV in New York.

I have always voted Republican. I now attend the Marshfield
Hills Community Church, a combination of Congregationalists,
Unitarians, and other Protestant denominations. I serve in the
church council,

Not a year goes by but that I visit the truly great Widener
Library and in that way I live again as a student although my
hair is almost white, There is probably much more which might
interest some of the other members of the Class. Of course, we
cannot think of everything when we attempt to lay bare our
innermost thoughts for publication. I have enjoyed my life to the
utmost. I am thankful for the fine associations I had both with
instructors and classmates at Harvard and only regret that time
has erased many of the memories I have had of my classmates.

[ 1058 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANK MARTIN SNOWDEN, JR.

HOME ApoaEss: 1227 Girard St, N.E., Washington 17, D.C,

orrice aporess: Howard University, Washington 1, D.C,

porn: July 17, 1911, York County, Va. parents: Frank Martin Snowden,
Alice Phillips.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932, DEGREES! AB. 1932} A.M. 1033} PH.D, 1944.

maanieD: Elaine Hill, June 8, 1935, Cheyney, Pa. cripren: Jane, Nov. 17,
1939; Frank Martin, 3d, June 22, 1946.

oocuPaTion: Dean, College of Liberal Arts, and professor of classics, Howard
University.

orriczs HELD: Instructor in Latin and French, Virginia State College, 1933-36;
instructor in classics, Adlanta University, 1936-40; instructor in classics,
1940-42, assistant professor, 1942~44, director of Summer School, 1942-54,
associate professor, 1944-45, professor of classics, since 1945, director of
Evening School and Adult Education, 1042-48, chairman, Fflumanities
Program, t9s0-52, head, Department of Classics, since 1942, dean, Col-
lege of Liberal Arts, since October, 1956, Howard University; Fulbright
research scholar in Italy, 1949-50; Leaders and Specialists Lecturer for
the International Information Administration of the Department of State,
February to June, 1953 (French West Africa, Gold Coast, Nigeria,
Libya, Italy, Greece, Austria); Cultural Attaché, American Fmbassy,
Rome, Italy, 1954-56, visiting lecturer, Foreign Scrvice Institute, Depart-
ment of State, 1956-57; trustee, Vergilian Society of America, since
1956.

Mempen of: American Philological Association, American Archaeological
Institute; Classical Society of American Academy in Rome, Vergilian
Society of America; Association for Higher Education.

punucations: “They Always Ask Me About Negroes,” as told to Leigh
White, Saturday Evening Post, March 10, 1956; “Ethiopians and the
Isiac Worship,” Il (1954), L’Antiquité Classique; and numerous other
articles in classical and educational journals,

I EXHAUSTED my autobiographical competence last year
in collaborating on an article for the Saturday Evening Post (see
publications), which covered some of my experiences in the
Foreign Service of the United States. Hence, my Muse is equal
at this time only to the catalogue which I have offered.

[ 1059 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

HARRY WILLIAM SNYDER

HOME ADDRESS: 35 W, Gansevoort St., Little Falls, N.Y.
OFFicE abpREss: H, P. Snyder Manufacturing Co., Inc., Little Falls, N.Y.

BORN: Aug. 28, 1910, Amsterdam, N.Y. parents: Harry Lauren Snyder,
Lucy Bodmer.

PREPARED AT: Amsterdam High School, Amsterdam, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B, IN MECH. ENG., 1932.
MarRIED: Justa Helen Murphy, Oct. 5, 1935, New York, N.Y. cutopren:
Peter Henry, Nov. 10, 1936; Elizabeth Ann, Sept. 13, 1941.
occupation: President, H. P. Snyder Manufacturing Company, Inc. and
subsidiary, Excelsior Manufacturing Company, Inc., Michigan City, Ind.
OFFICES HELD: Director, H. P. Snyder Manufacturing Company, Inc., Ex-
celsior Manufacturing Company, Inc., Little Falls National Bank, Liule
Falls Building, Savings & Loan Association; officer, Little Falls Lodge,
No. 181 F. & A.M.; officer and director, Bicycle Institute of America.
MEMBER OF; Little Falls Lodge No, 181, F. & A.M.; American Society of
Mechanical Engineers; Little Falls Civic Club, National Rifle Associa-
tion; American Ordnance Association.

THE year 1932—A degree in mechanical engineering, but
where to use it? Who wanted an engineer.

The year 1957 — Who can find an engineer to hire? Twenty-
five years have really made a difference in my profession. After
graduation, economic conditions being as they were, my mind
was made up to take the first job offered, no matter what. Jobs
were that scarce, but then most of those reading this will remem-
ber. I look back, however, and see how kind fate was to me.
In about a month I joined the Eagle Pencil Company, East 14th
Street, New York City. At Eagle I was assigned to several jobs
and given a very fine opportunity to learn the manufacturing end
of that business. However, two years of commuting from Harts-
dale, New York, to New York City, began to take its toll of

an “up-stater’s” patience and energy, so even though holding

the position of assistant to the factory manager and the fact
that future advancement had been indicated, I welcomed the
opportunity to leave the land of the “cliff dwellers.”
Opportunity knocked once more as I was offered a chance
to try my luck at making bicycles at an old and well-established
(since 1895) wheel goods firm, the H. P. Snyder Manufacturing
Company, Inc. Having accepted, I moved to Little Falls in

[ 1060 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

March, 1934, where my first job assignment was that of just plain
learning what made the “wheels go around.”

At this point I should explain that the learning process was
slowed considerably by a bad case of “the girl I left behind,” a
Miss Justa Helen Murphy, who was in nurse's training at St. Luke’s
Hospital, New York City. Miss Murphy finally finished training
and was persuaded to join forces in Little Falls in the manner
listed above under the heading of marriage. To shorten a story
which could go on for a long time I will bring this event up-to-
date. Our marriage brought us two wonderful children: Peter
Henry, now aged twenty, and Elizabeth Ann, now aged fifteen,

My duties at the Ef. P. Snyder Manufacturing Company, Inc.,
have led me through the various jobs of assistant production
manager, production manager, factory manager and sccretary,
vice-president in charge of engineering and president. I have been
president since 1944.

Pleasing the children of the country is a wonderful job, That
brings us up to date — 1957.

LEONARD WELLINGTON SNYDER

HOME aponess: 02 S. Oka Ave. Mt. Prospect, Ill.

orrice aporess: Container Corp. of America, goo N. Ogden Ave., Chicago,
Hil.

porn: May g, 1910, Winchester, Mass. parents: Frederic S. Snyder, Anne
T. Wills.

paeparrp at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: AB., 1932.

marngp: Elizabeth Ailes Wilson, July 12, 1933, Bethesda, Md. critpren:
Anne, April 25, 1935 Gn. Donald W. Lewis, July 1, 1955); Frederic S.,
ad, June 7, 1938; Peter Jon, June 3, 1943; Christopher Wills, Jan. 13,
1954. GranpcniLp: Leonard W. Lewis, Aug. 25, 1956.

occupation: Sales manager, Beverage Department, Container Corporation
of America.

orrices HELD: Member, Board of Education, Mt. Prospect, Ill.; past chair-
man, board of trustees, Mc. Prospect Community Church; member,
Zoning Commission, Board of Appeals.

SINCE 1932, my business has moved my family and me to
various parts of the country, starting in Rochester, New York,
thence to Concord, Massachusetts, to Oshkosh, Wisconsin, to

[ 1061 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Ardmore, Pennsylvania, and presently to Mt. Prospect, Illinois,
where we have lived since 1944. The transition from a born
and bred New Englander to what is now being referred to (I am
told) as a Mid-American has progressed slowly and appears to
be something more than transitory.

Elizabeth and I live in what twelve years ago was a small
semirural village. Since then, the fact that it is twenty-five
miles northwest of Chicago has caused it to increase six or seven
times its population. The inevitable problems (so typical of
suburban America), of church and school presented an interesting
but time-consuming challenge. In one five-year period, our local
Board of Education, of which I was a member, built four new
schools.

Since 1941, I have been associated with Container Corporation
of America doing sales, sales dvelopment and sales research
work.

Our family of one girl and three boys range from twenty-one
to three years of age. Our daughter, Anne, provided us last year
with our first grandson. Our eldest son, Frederic, is a freshman
at Amherst. As a family, we have covered much of the United
States, fishing where and when we could, but traveling and
sightseeing on the way.

FREDERIC EWALD SONDERN, JR.

HOME appress: Warren Hill, Cornwall Bridge, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Reader’s Digest, Pleasantville, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 29, 1911, New York, N.Y. parents: Frederic Ewald Sondern,
Elsa M. Ottman.

PREPARED AT: Allen-Stevenson School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1932.

MarrieD: Olga von Mueller, 1933, Vienna, Austria (divorced 1948); Wenda
Davis, 1948, Westbury, Conn. cHitprEN: Barbara, Jan. 26, 1938; Cynthia,
Dec. 2, 1941.

occuPATION: Roving editor, Reader’s Digest.

MEMBER OF: University Club, New York City; National Press Club, Wash-
ington, D.C. .
PUBLICATIONS: Over one hundred magazine articles,

PROFESSORS FAY and LANGER actually started the whole
[ 1062 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

business of my career in their Harvard lecture rooms. Their teach-
ing of modern European history so fascinated me that I gave up
the idea of becoming a chemical engineer and decided to be-
come a writer instead — if possible, a foreign correspondent. And
that’s what happened.

Shortly after graduation, with the enormous arrogance of
youth, I persuaded Richard Waldo, the late editor of the Mc-
Clure Newspaper Syndicate, that I knew a great deal about
Central European politics. (I was appalled to discover, gradually,
how little I actually knew.) Anyway, I was finally made the
Syndicate’s European reporter and shuttled between Vienna,
Berlin, Rome, and Paris covering Hitler, Mussolini, and all the
associated unpleasantnesses until the outbreak of World War
II. In the meanwhile, I left the Syndicate to become a roving
editor of Reader’s Digest — with Europe as my particular baili-
wick. With the coming of hostilities, I was appointed as one
of the Digest’s war correspondents, changed into the uniform
which most of us wore in such unmilitary fashion, covered North
Africa in the days of Rommel, Montgomery and Eisenhower's
landing. Later, at the time of the Normandy invasion, I covered
the Allied Armada’s crossing of the channcl and the eventual
advance of the Seventh Army into Germany until after Hit-
ler’s collapse. During the last ten years my job with the Digest
has been triple-barreled: European politics, U.S. federal law en-
forcement, and unusual people are the three fields to which I
am mainly assigned.

My Texan wife and I live about half of the year at our place
in Cornwall Bridge, Connecticut — one of the few remaining
New England backwaters, but within easy reach of our edi-
torial headquarters. My hobby is carpentry; my wife’s, interior
decorating. (This has turned out to be a very practical combina-
tion in the construction of our house.) The balance of the year
we spend abroad, mainly on European editorial assignments
which last year took us from the troubles in Morocco to the Is-
tanbul riots. My job allows very few dull moments.

I am still, after twenty-five years, extremely grateful to Pro-
fessors Fay and Langer.

[ 1063 J

aa

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

LAWRENCE CARMARK SORENSEN

HOME ADDRESS: 160 Gibbs Ave., Newport, R.I.
BORN: May 12, 1907, Newport, R.J. PAReNTs: Lawrence Sorensen, Cristine

Carmark,
TRANSFERRED FROM: Brown University, Providence, R.I.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932 (44).
marriEeD: Ruth Elizabeth Anderson, Oct. 27, 1945, Newport, R.I.
OCCUPATION: Advertising.

ORDWAY SOUTHARD

HOME ADDRESS: 225 W, rogth St., New York 25, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Leaves of Chess, Box 158, Cathedral Station, New York 25,

N.Y.
BoRN: Nov. 29, 1911, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Elmer Ernest Southard, ’97,

Mabel Fletcher Austin.
PREPARED AT: Cambridge High & Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931, 1932-1933, 1934-1935. DEGREE: AB. (Univ. of

Alaska), 1948.
MARRIED: Mary Carr Boggs, May 18, 1936, Cambridge, Mass. cuitp: Barbara,

May 12, 1945.
occupaTIoN: Writer; editor, Leaves of Chess.

THOMAS ORDON SOUTTER

ADDRESS: 2906 Camp St., New Orleans 15, La.
BORN: June 26, 1910, Greenwich, Conn, Parents: James Taylor Soutter, ’o4,

Helen Battelle. .
PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.
occupation: Manufacturing.

FRANKLIN ELIJAH SPEAR
SEE Appendix.

[ 1064 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE SPECK

HOME apprEss: 2806 S. Randolph Sc. Arlington, Va.

BORN: Jan. 4, 19rt, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Morris Speck, Betty Dolman.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1928-1929.

occuparion: Medicine.

JOSEPH QUINTON SPRADLIN, JR.

LAST KNOWN Aponess: 4543 Ancady Ave. Dallas, Texas.

poan: June 6, 1908, Dallas, Texas. parents: Joseph Quinton Spradlin, Sophia
Robertson.

YRARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1930.

SPRADLIN has been carried as a “lost” man on our records
since 1952.

+ EDWIN DEXTER WADSWORTH SPRAGUE

Born: July 8 1907, Milton, Mass. parents: Henry Bruno Sprague, Hazel
Winslow.

prepareD at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931. DEGREE: A.B, 1932(33).

piED: July 28, 1955, Boston, Mass.

EDWIN SPRAGUE died after a long illness in Boston. He had
formerly been engaged in ship building with the South Portland
Shipbuilding Corporation in Portland, Maine.

THEODORE STALK

Home apoagss: % The Adjutant General, D.A. Washington, D.C.

OFFIcE aporess: Division Surgeon, Hq. First Cavalry Division, APO 201,
Tokyo, Japan.

BORN: May 2, 1906, New Britain, Conn, parents: Joseph Stalk, Mary Zurat.

PREPARED aT: New Britain High School, New Britain, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: $.B., 1932; M.D. (Boston Univ.), 1937.

magpie: Edith G. Gorman, Aug. 15, 1938, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Sheila, June 28, 1939; Susan, June 22, 1944.

[ 1065 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

oocuPaTION: Physician; Army Medical Corps.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Finance Advisory Board, Scituate, Mass., 1946-50;
medical examiner, Fifth Plymouth District, 1946-q9.

MEMBER OF: PHI CHI, Medical Fraternity, Boston University Chapter,
Massachusetts Medical Society; Massachusetts Medical-Legal Society.

AFTER marrying the loveliest lady in the world in August,
1938, 1 commenced my career as a family doctor “for the rest of
my days” in Scituate, Massachusetts, twenty-eight miles down
on the South Shore of Boston, on the first day of September,
1938. Three weeks later we enjoyed the first recorded hurri-
cane (not a Nor’easter) for that area.

Sheila, born June 28, 1939, is now almost half a - foot taller
than her mother (mother, who towers at a full four feet, eight
and three-quarter inches, says “Anyone shorter than that must
be a pygmy”). Her high school career included the freshman
year at Yuma, Arizona, sophomore at Herlong, California, Junior
at Braintree, Massachusetts, and she graduated from the Nari
masu High School, Tokyo, Japan, in June, 1956. She is finishing
the freshman year at the Sacred Heart University, Tokyo, and
plans to earn her A.B. degree at Boston University, then con-
tinue to study for an M.D. degree there. Susan, now twelve years
old, likewise has had her schooling in these different parts of
the world. She is getting along nicely in school, gets a big kick
out of traveling, and will be ready for her freshman year in
high school in the fall of 1957, but in what part of the world is
undetermined at present.

In May, 1940, I was persuaded to sign up with the ro1st Medi-
cal Regiment, Massachusetts National Guard, by Dr. Ronka, a
former anatomy instructor in medical school. In January, 1941,
I closed my office, established in my home, and began a year of
peacetime military training at Camp Edwards, Falmouth, Massa-
chusetts. During the next five years of military service, com-
manding one medical unit after another, I covered a substantial
portion of the globe from Guadalcanal in the southwest Pacific,
a while at Panama and on to northern Europe in 1944. With
practically no chance to practice medicine during this jaunt,
I couldn’t wait to get out of uniform in October, 1945, to start
building a practice for the second time in Scituate. However, as
much as I enjoyed general practice, by 1948 I closed the office

[ 1066 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and went to work for the Veterans’ Administration, Brockton,
Massachusetts. In 1946 I switched from the National Guard
to the Reserves and found myself in command of the 3o9th Field
Hospital, Reserve, located at the Boston Army Base. In August,
1950, the unit was recalled to active duty and there I was, back
in uniform again. I am now at the age where the zest for com-
mencing civilian practice for the third time is quite dim. The
present outlook points to a continuation of Army life.

ALBERT HOWARD STEBBINS, JR.
HOME AppREss: 34 Edgehill Rd., Little Rock, Ark.

OFFICE aDprEss: Group Service Underwriters, Inc., Commercial Bank Bldg.
Little Rock, Ark.

BORN: Oct. 22, 1910, Little Rock, Ark. parents: Albert Howard Stebbins,
Elizabeth Roberts.

PREPARED AT: Little Rock Senior High School, Little Rock, Ark.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

marrigp: Elsie Bellingrath, Oct. 17, 1935, Little Rock, Ark. cumLpren: Albert
Howard, 4th, Nov. 11, 1937; James Edward, Oct. 4, 1939; Theodore
Leon, April 4, 1941.

HARVARD SON: James Edward Stebbins, ’6o.

occupation: Chairman of board—part of over-all management, Group
Service Underwriters, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: President, Stebbins & Roberts, Inc., 1947-56, Little Rock Rotary
Club, 1949, Little Rock Chamber of Commerce, 1954; director, Coca
Cola Bottling Co. of Arkansas, Federal Reserve Bank of Little Rock,
Group Service Underwriters, Inc. Industrial Development Corporation;
national trustee, Ducks Unlimited; Pulaski County chairman, Red Cross,
1947, March of Dimes, 1948; district governor, Rotary, 1951.

MEMBER OF: New York Athletic Club; Harvard Club of New York; Hugh
de Payens Commandery; Scottish Rite Consistory; Little Rock
Country Club; Pin Oak Duck Club; XV Club.

MORE fortunate than most on graduation, I had at least a job
of sorts waiting for me in the then struggling family paint factory
in Little Rock. That broom handle hardly inflated my ego but it
carried me to the presidency of the corporation from which I re-
tired on August 4, 1956, after almost twenty-five years to seek
new ventures in the business world. Why I married into an Old
Nassau family would be self-evident to anyone knowing Elsa but

[ 1067 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

as further proof of good judgment, please note that she even
encouraged one son to go to Harvard—that’s the middle one
who did credit to the family as international president of Key
Clubs and in mid-south Golden Gloves competition in Memphis.
The eldest son, a wrestler of local stature, went directly from
Culver Military Academy to the University of Arkansas to study
Agriculture. And the youngest son, with his share of local ten-
nis trophies, is plugging away in high school.

Shepherding this active group over the years was sandwiched
between such varied civic activities as board service with the
local Federal Reserve Bank, Y.M.C.A., Area Boy Scout Council,
Community Chest, Visiting Nurses Association, Arkansas As-
sociation for the Crippled; presidencies of the Library Associa-
tion, Goodwill Industries, Chamber of Commerce and Rotary
Club (district governor also); such paying jobs as directorships
of Coca-Cola Bottling Company and Group Service Under-
writers, Inc.

During World War II, the clan traipsed after me when my
facility with small boats landed me a junior lieutenancy in the
Navy. Each summer thereafter we “saw America first” by trek-
_ king to Alaska, Martha’s Vineyard, Grand Canyon, eastern tide-'
water areas, Jackson Hole country, Yosemite, until last year
when the old order changeth. The eldest son took the Grand
Tour — the middle one blanketed the U.S., ending up with my
classmate’s family in Inagua—and the youngest safaried in Bel-
gian Congo with a hippo to show for it. Elsa and I relaxed
quietly in Bavaria. Frankly, I'll miss those hairy jaunts when
we were all together, all interdependent, and facing adventure
as a unit.

In summer we golf and fish, after church that is — because
with a vestryman and three acolytes, someone is always serving.
In winter my national trusteeship of Ducks Unlimited happily
provides us with guests aplenty to shoot duck and quail. Nights
are spent in chess or cards with the boys — or I arrange my old
Arkansas paper money collection, varying it sometimes by as-
sisting scholars studying in my library of Arkansas material.
Country clubbing isn’t my dish, but I enjoy my various Ma-
sonic meetings and relaxing when | get to the big cities as at the

[ 1068 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Harvard Club of New York, or wherever the New York Arhletic
Club has affiliates.

So far, our well-knit little family has enjoyed life tremendous-
ly by taking it as it comes — whether with olive, onion or lemon
peel.

SAMUEL CLARENCE STEELE, JR.

Born: Aug. 8, 1908, Rochester, N.Y. parents: Samuel Clarence Steele,
Yolande Killam.

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929. DEGREES: A.B. (Univ. of Rochester); A.M.
(ibid.).

prep: Feb. 18, 1949, Rochester, N.Y.

motuer: Mrs. S. Clarence Steele, 94 Barrington St., Rochester ro, N.Y.

SAMUEL STEELE graduated from the Hackley School in Tar-
rytown in 1928. In the fall he entered Harvard but later trans-
ferred to the University of Rochester, as he suffered from double
vision, so did not continue his studies for about a year. He at-
tained his Master’s degree in sociology at the University of
Rochester and then worked for Dun & Bradstreet in the Munic-
ipal Research Department.

In April, 1942, he enlisted in the Army and was stationed in
Hawaii. He was given a medical discharge (having become a
first lieutenant) in 1945. He had a long illness of four years
which finally was the cause of his death on February 18, 1949,
at the age of forty. He had multiple sclerosis, which we feel
caused the double vision at Harvard, although the doctors did
not recognize it as such at that time, as there often is a “re-
mission” of ten or more years before the actual diagnosis is
made. He was survived by his mother and a sister, Frances Steele
Curtis.

F.S.C.

[ 1069 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

ROBERT LESLIE STEPHENS

HOME ADDRESS: 5753 Cote de Neiges, Montreal, P.Q., Canada.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Suite X-24, Mount Royal Hotel, Montreal, P.Q., Canada.

BORN: Nov. 15, 1908, Somerville, Mass. parents: Arthur Henry Stephens,
Lena Marion Willians.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1932.

occupaTion: Public Relations.

EUGENE HERMAN STERNE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 3621 Eaton Lane, Cincinnati 29, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 3200 Vine St., Cincinnati 20, Ohio.

BORN: Nov. 2, 1910, Cincinnati, Ohio. parents: Eugene Herman Sterne, Edna
Lowenbach.

PREPARED AT: University School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: $.B., 1932(33); M.D. 1937.

MarrieD: Lavergne Mary Lynn, June 16, 1944, Cirencester, England.

CHILDREN: Lynn Douglas, Dec. 6, 1947; Cynthia Gene, March 1, 1950.
occuPATION: Physician,

MEMBER OF: American College of Physicians (fellow); Sigma Xi; Cincinnati
Society of Internal Medicine; Losantiville Country Club.
PUBLICATIONS: “Pernicious Anemia and Myelogenous Leukemia,” American

Journal of Medical Science, 1940; “Psoriatic Arthritis,” Annals of
Internal Medicine, 1952.

AFTER graduation I traveled the usual long but enjoyable road
that most physicians must follow. Medical school, internship,
residencies and fellowships culminated just before World War
II in my appointment as director of the hematology laboratory
at the Cincinnati General Hospital and to the teaching staff of the
University of Cincinnati College of Medicine.

In June, 1942, I entered the war as a captain and left it some
three and a half years later in the same grade, having in the in-
terval traveled at government expense through much of Ken-
tucky, Western Europe, Panama and California, rarely stopping
long enough for either sightseeing or the practice of medicine.
About the only useful thing I managed to accomplish was to
meet a lovely girl in Fort Knox and marry her in England after
considerable non-cooperation by assorted colonels and generals.

After the war I joined the Department of Medicine and Sur-

[ 1070 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

gery of the Veterans Administration and am now director of
professional services at the V.A. Hospital in Cincinnati and as-
sistant professor of medicine at the medical school.

I have found medicine a rewarding field, but often regret
my lack of training in the allied but often more useful subjects
of plumbing, carpentry and electrical repairs. ‘These specialties,
plus child and wife raising, leave little time for much other than
an occasional vacation.

CHARLES EDWARD STEVENS

HOME apprEss: Buena Vista Club, Walworth, Wis.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Synchronous Flame, Inc., Walworth, Wis.

BORN: Jan. 7, 1910, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Edward Stevens,
Gertrude Mabel Glover.

PREPARED AT: Chauncy Hall School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930, 1935-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1932 (37).

marriep: Grace Oliver, June 3, 1941, Queens Village, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Lawrence Frederic; Jonathan, Charles Edward, Jr., Geoffrey.

occupation: President, Synchronous Flame, Inc., Walworth, Wisconsin.

MEMBER oF: American Society of Automotive Engineers, Gama Division,
A.G.A.; Lake Geneva Yacht Club; Williams Bay Lions Club.

AS those of my classmates who knew me are aware, I left col-
lege at the end of my sophomore year due to difficulties induced
primarily by differential and integral calculus. After a trip to
Europe with my roommate, Bill Sargent, I went to work for
the United Shoe Machinery Corporation in Beverly, Massachu-
setts, where I stayed until the fall of 1935. In September of this
year, I reentered the University and obtained a degree after one
full year and one summer semester. Upon obtaining the degree,
an S.B. in M.E. (I think the last undergraduate engineering de-
gree given by the University), my sophomore roommate, Fred
W. Swift, arranged for me to interview the dean of a division of
New York University with an eye towards employment in the
field of engineering. This interview came off successfully and I
found myself an instructor of mathematics and engineering at
New York University. This division of the university eventually
broke off from its parent and became known as Hofstra College,
at Hempstead, Long Island. I stayed very happily engaged here

[1071 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

teaching mostly mathematics until 1941. The last two years of my
stay, I was assistant professor of mathematics. Teaching was a lot
of fun and I enjoyed it thoroughly. I also enjoyed the student
activities in which I participated. These included coaching the
rifle team, the rugby team and, with Fred Swift, co-directing the
efforts of the dramatic society.

In June, 1941, Grace Oliver of Queens Village, Long Island,
and I were married. Much as I liked teaching, a close look at the
financial opportunity provided by a small independent college
did not seem the best way to obtain the financial means neces-
sary to support the large family both Grace and I wanted. Con-
sequently, during the summer of 1941, I left Hofstra College and
went to work for the Fairchild Aircraft and Engine Corpora-
tion at Farmingdale, Except for a year interval, 1945-46, during
which time I lost my shirt trying to manufacture and market a
hydraulic device I had patented, I worked for Fairchild in diverse
capacities continuously until 1949. During the war years I had a
number of production jobs, winding up as superintendent in Plant
One. After the war, I was made chief engineer of one of Fair-
child’s experimental divisions and held this job until I left the
firm in 1949.

During these years with Fairchild, our family was coming along
as we hoped. At almost exactly two-year intervals, we had Law-
rence Frederic, Jonathan, Charles Edward, Jr, and Geoffrey.
During the summer of 1949 an attractive offer was made me by
the Chicago Railway Equipment Company of Chicago, Illinois.
So, for the first time in many generations, a member of the family
penetrated the great Midwest.

The years with Chicago Railway Equipment Company were
extremely interesting because the job was primarily executive
and administrative rather than technical. As works manager, I had
the running of two plants as well as a finger in the business of
setting up a Canadian operation. During this time, the family was
living in Park Forest, a very new and very rapidly-growing
community some thirty miles south of the Loop. It was very
interesting to see this community start and grow.

In 1953 I was offered the presidency and an opportunity to
participate in the ownership of Synchronous Flame, Inc., of
Walworth, Wisconsin, This firm manufactures commercial

[ 1072 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

burner equipment such as combination gas-oil burners, large oil
burners and large gas burners. I am still with this concern and
am enjoying every minute of it. After having been with two
reasonably large companies, it was quite interesting to get in a
small one.

We now live in Williams Bay, Wisconsin, on Lake Geneva, a
simply wonderful place for youngsters. All four of the boys like
sailing and swimming and my oldest boy has started on a very
successful yacht-racing career which is fine with me as sailing
has remained my primary interest outside of business. I sail a
“Class E” Inland Lake Scow with somewhat mediocre success
and certainly get a kick out of seeing my youngster bring home
trophies in the “Class X” group. During the winter I sail a
skeeter iceboat and occasionally manage to win a race.

The careful backward look required by the Class’s interesting
and varied duns for this biography has made me realize what a
lot of fun things have been so far. I would not swap a moment
of it for anything. It has been a fine twenty-five years.

EDWARD STEVENS

HOME ADDRESS: 330 Pleasant St., Brockton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Townes & Stevens, 232 Main St., Brockton, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 6, 1910, Middleboro, Mass. parents: Charles Henry Stevens,
Zarina Sarkisian.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: S.B., 1932: LL.B. 1935.

MarriED: Abbie Elizabeth Stevens, Oct. 11, 1939, Brockton, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Attorney at Law; partner in firm of Townes & Stevens.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, 1940-44, treasurer, 1944-48, Plymouth County Bar
Association; chairman, Brockton Housing Authority, 1949-55; City
Solicitor, Brockton, Mass., 1956-57; secretary, Old Colony Harvard
Club, since 1957.

MEMBER OF: Plymouth County Bar Association, Old Colony Harvard Club,
Masons.

AFTER graduation in 1932 I had the experience of spending
three more happy years at Cambridge at the Law School where
they tried to make a lawyer out of me. In 1935, after passing the
bar examination, I had the great fortune to become associated

[ 1073 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

with an office in my home town of Brockton, Massachusetts,
that was actively engaged in trial work in the various courts in
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and have been connected
with that office and actively engaged in trial work since that
time. Being a country lawyer, one does not have the opportunity
to specialize in any one branch of the law; therefore, I found
myself trying not only civil and probate cases, but also criminal
cases of all types. The past twenty-five years have been so ac-
tive and busy that it seems impossible that we are attending our
Twenty-fifth Reunion.

I can well recall Dean Pound saying in his lectures at the Law
School that the law was a jealous mistress, so what little time I
could spare from the practice of law for hobbies was used for
sports, theatre and travel, the one regret being that Harvard foot-
ball was not in a class with what we had become accustomed
to during our undergraduate days. The only other hobby has
been politics, and being a good Republican I have now served
for the past ten years on the state committee and on the finance
committee of the Republican party.

WILLIAM STIX

HOME ADDRESS: 4637 Pershing Ave., St. Louis 8, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Thompson, Mitchell, ‘Thompson & Douglas, 705 Olive St.
St. Louis 1, Mo.

BorN: Oct. 5, 1911, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Ernest William Stix, ’00, Erma
Kingsbacher.

PREPARED AT: John Burroughs School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: AB. magna cum laude, 1932; LLB.
cum laude, 1936.

MarRIED: Elizabeth Thompson, Dec. 9, 1944, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
David William, March 15, 1948; Dinah, July 17, 1949.
occupation: Lawyer; partner, Thompson, Mitchell, Thompson & Douglas.

APART from my sojourn at Law School (interrupted for one
year by a summer's trip to the Soviet Union, which grew into
a year’s stay), I have spent my time in one or another of the
various kinds of things that lawyers do.

After practising in St. Louis for less than a year, in 1937 I
followed the then well-beaten trail to Washington, where I re-

[ 1074 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mained for almost ten years. Initially I worked with the Senate
Civil Liberties Committee, commonly known as the LaFollette
Committee. By the time I joined its staff, the Committee had
already brought to light the widespread use of labor spies, strike
breakers and “industrial” munitions. During the period I was with
the Committee, it concentrated on employers’ associations and I
became a specialist on the National Association of Manufacturers.
Under the leadership of Senator LaFollette, Jr., and of Senator
Elbert Thomas (Democrat, Utah), the Civil Liberties Committee
pursued its work with integrity and with concern for the rights of
individuals. Abuses which have arisen out of subsequent Con-
gressional investigations have indicated the desirability of affording
formal protection to the persons summoned to appear or men-
tioned in the course of hearings.

My next stop was at the National Labor Relations Board where
I served first in the review section and later in the appellate
briefing section. This was a relatively new agency and its con-
stitutionality had been upheld less than a year before. The Board
was, of course, violently criticized by employers and, because of
their organizational rivalry, was sometimes hailed and sometimes
flailed by the AFL and CIO. The relatively sweet words which
pass between management and labor today and the general ac-
ceptance by management of the principle of collective bargaining
represent a remarkable step forward from the types of conduct in-
volved in the cases on which I worked at the Labor Board.

In 1941 I went to work for the Office of Price Administration
and Civilian Supply, then quartered in a large brownstone house
near duPont Circle. There were twelve lawyers on the staff by
the time I got there and my first job was to write Price Schedule
No. 7 on combed cotton yarn. You can be certain that I was
flabbergasted to be asked in a meeting of administrators and
economists what I thought the base price of yarn should be, but
this was in fact a good introduction to the lawyer’s role in the
agency, for Leon Henderson, who got it started, charged the
lawyers with the duty of inquiring into all phases of the agency’s
activities.

OPACS (later OPA) soon moved to a brand new apartment
building; soon again overflowed into a large “tempo”; and shortly
thereafter dispossessed the Census Bureau from its large and

[ 1075 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932 -

substantial quarters. I worked most of the time on textiles, chiefly
cotton and rayon, and went through endless negotiations and con-
tentions with mill men, selling agents, converters, the military,
(other) numb-skulled bureaucrats, and ever-wise legislators. The
work was fun and the results, even from the vantage point of ten
years, seem worth the effort. Notwithstanding the postwar in-
flation, I feel that had it not been for the government’s price con-
trol during the war, living costs would have gone out of sight
at that time.

The war over, I returned to St. Louis and came to work for the
firm with which I am now associated. Ours is, for this neck of the
woods, a large office, but we do not as individuals specialize un-
duly and consequently my work is fairly varied. Business prob-
lems, for both large and small business, trust work and real estate
occupy most of my time.

Having chosen not to go into the wholesale dry goods business
with which my father was connected, I spent a very busy month
in 1954 unsuccessfully repelling a stock raid on the company.
After rival raiders had doubled the market price of the stock, one
of them bought out the other and then made an attractive offer
for the stock necessary to complete his control. In the meantime,
numerous eager buyers appeared and during a frantic month we
negotiated simultaneously and successively with various groups,
ultimately to no avail. A curious but subsequent climax was that
one of the unsuccessful bidders later forced the initially successful
raider to sell out to him. .

Married in 1944, I did not become blessed with child until 1947,
so that my family of two young children is of a vintage compa-
rable to that of many ’32 grandchildren.

Apart from law and family, I occupy myself with only oc-
casional exercise (currently ice skating and golf), with household
and garden puttering, and with a number of civic and welfare
organizations. Of these activities one of the more interesting has
involved becoming an amateur discussion leader in the field of
mental health — the group discussion technique is one that can
be transferred to almost any area and the experience of discussion
leading is the most enjoyable and most fruitful public speaking
that I have had occasion to do. For some years I was on the board,
and for two years president, of an Fpiscopal-sponsored settlement

[ 1076 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

house. Currently, I am active in the American Jewish Committee,
an organization dedicated to and remarkably effective in promot-
ing better human relations.

CHARLES HEAD STOCKTON

HOME ApprEsS: Washington Street, Sherborn, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Choate, Hall & Stewart, 30 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 3, 1909, Manchester, Mass. PARENTS: Philip Stockton, ’96, Mar-
garet Head.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933. DEGREES: A.B., 1932 (33); LL.B. 1936.

MaRRIED: Elizabeth Farley, May 20, 1939, Dedham, Mass. cHiLpREN: Philip,
June 20, 1940; Evelyn, Sept. 30, 1942; Elizabeth L., Dec. 22, 1944; Nina,
July 31, 1946; Mary M., Sept. 28, 1951.

" OCCUPATION: Partner, Choate, Hall & Stewart, lawyers.

OFFICES HELD: Director, American Gas & Electric Company, Boston Edison
Company, Merrimac Hat Corporation, Old Colony Trust Company,
Thompson Electric Welder Company, United Fruit Company; trustee,
Children’s Hospital, Boston, treasurer, Roxbury Neighborhood House
Association; trustee, Boston Symphony Orchestra, New England Con-
servatory of Music.

MEMBER OF: Tennis & Racquet Club, Boston; Dedham Country & Polo
Club; Myopia Hunt Club, Hamilton, Mass.

FOLLOWING graduation from Harvard Law School in 1936 I
entered the employ of Choate, Hall, and Stewart, Boston, Massa-
chusetts, engaged in the general practice of law, remaining until
December, 1941, when I moved to Washington, D.C., to serve
with what was first known by the jaw-breaking title of “Pro-
curement Legal Division of the Executive Office of the Secretary
of the Navy,” later to become the Office of General Counsel of
the Navy. I spent four years in this organization assigned
throughout to the Bureau of Ships and wound up as an assistant
counsel of the Bureau in charge of contracts for the construction
of ships and propulsion machinery. I was given a distinguished
civilian service award for this work.

In 1946 I returned to Choate, Hall, and Stewart as a partner
and have remained there since, primarily engaged in corperation
law, particularly in the field of security issues and investment
companies, I have also been active as a director of a number of

[ 1077 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

corporations. In 1947 and 1948 I served as a lecturer on business
law at the Harvard Business School. :

Since the war public activities have included service with the
task forces of the Hoover Commissions and on various commis-
sions of my home town of Sherborn, Massachusetts. I am at
present its town counsel. I am on the boards of various charities
and a trustee of the Boston Symphony Orchestra and New Eng-
land Conservatory of Music.

My marriage. to Elizabeth Farley in 1939 was followed by the
birth of five children — in order, a son, Philip, and four daugh-
ters, Evelyn, Lisa, Nina, and Mary. We live happily in Sherborn,
Massachusetts, for most of the year and lately in summer on
Martha’s Vineyard.

WILLIAM BRENEMAN STONE

HOME ADDREsS: 2615 Grandin Rd., Cincinnati 8, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 301 First National Bank Bldg, Cincinnati, Ohio.

BORN: Sept. 30, 1906, Cincinnati, Ohio. parents: William Wood Stone, Helen
Breneman.

PREPARED AT: Franklin School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929, DEGREE: A.B, (Univ. of Cincinnati), 1931.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Stockbroker, W. E. Hutton & Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Cincinnati Union Stockyard Company, Avenue
Hotel Company, Cincinnat.

MEMBER OF: Cincinnati Country Club; Moraine Country Club, Dayton,
Ohio; Harvard Club of Cincinnati.

AFTER graduating from college and a trip to South America, I
became associated with the brokerage firm of Dominick & Dom-
inick, My interest in the financial world deepened and when
Dominick & Dominick discontinued their branch offices in 1942,
our business was taken over by W. E. Hutton & Company, with
whom I have been associated ever since.

My outside interests have been golf, polo, and the racing of
horses.

[ 1078 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HENRY EVANS STOWELL
SEE Appendix.

JOHN ARTHUR STRASSER

ApprEss: 812 Park Ave., New York 21, N.Y.

BORN: May 21, 1909, New York, N.Y. parents: Arthur Lewis Strasser, Edna
Wolf.

PREPARED AT: Ethical Culture School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931.

ROBERT JACK STRAUSS

HOME ADDRESS: 2016 Linnington Ave., West Los Angeles 25, Calif.

OFFICE ADDREsS: 819 Santee St., Los Angeles 14, Calif.

BoRN: March 8, 1911, New York, N.Y. Parents: Jack Scrauss, Florence
Klauber.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. cu7m laude, 1932.

MARRIED: Ruth Elizabeth Weill, Nov. 29, 1934, New York, N.Y. cio:
William Weill, Feb. 9, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Harold Strauss, ’28.

OCCUPATION: Independent textile business (mill representation including
American, Swiss and French mills).

OFFICES HELD: Chairman athletic committee, 1950, assistant cubmaster and
secretary-treasurer, 1951, Cub Pack 42, instructor, Pack Leaders train-
ing groups, 1952-53, Troop 88 executive committee, 1953-55, Westwood
District Bay Area Council, Boy Scouts of America.

MEMBER OF: Textile Association of Los Angeles; Harvard Club of Souther
California; Mens and Boys Apparel Club of Southern California; Mer-
chants Club of The City of Hope.

LOS ANGELES in 1956 seems a long way from Cambridge in
1932, even though I have kept fairly well in touch with Elarvard
doings through the Harvard Club of Southern California since
moving west in 1945. Having only been back briefly for the
Tercentary in 1936 and our minuscule Tenth Reunion at the
Harvard Club of Boston in 1942 (appropriately), T expect to
see plenty of changes when I return for our Twenty-tifth nevt
June.

[ 1079 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

The textile business has kept me rather busy since graduation,
except for two hiatuses devoted to, respectively, the camera
business and retail resident buying. The latter occasioned my
speedy move to California, leaving Ruth behind me for two
months to do the dirty work of getting us packed and moved, but
neither of us has any regrets about this move.

After surviving many broken bones, including four broken
arms, knocking out teeth, and the usual childish misfortunes, our
son, Bill, has now reached the increasing independence of
thought and deed of the middle teens. I went all through Cubs
and Boy Scouts with him, in various senior capacities, but now of
course he is increasingly on his own. An average student, but
with big engineering ideas, at University High School, he has
three major interests: the Y.M.C.A. swimming team, Temple
youth group activities including acting as a student teacher in
Sunday School, and Automobiles with a capital A. He is the proud
possessor of a 1940 Ford which needs lots of work, so he works
only to earn enough to get in running shape by his sixteenth
birthday (at which time he can get a full driver’s license). Jobs
have included dishwashing at a nearby hospital, newspaper selling,
errand boy at a silver shop, and a myriad of odd neighborhood
jobs, gardening, car washing, etc. The distaff side of the house
keeps busy with much good work as an active member of the
P.T.A. board and weekly helpful sessions with the non-delinquent
detainees at the overcrowded Los Angeles Juvenile Hall.

Uncle Sam having been reluctant to accept me for duty during
the late unpleasantness either on a voluntary basis or for a com-
mand performance, because of some congenital varicose veins,
the war years passed rather quietly in New York City. Command
of an air raid warden post was the only mild exception. The fol-
lowing years have provided great contrast.

Our life in California could be headlined, “Cave Dwellers be-
come Gardeners and Jacks-of-all-trades.” Moving in the middle
of 1945, across the continent lock-stock-and-barrel, had its ad-
venturesome aspects. The five-day rule in hotels and the fact that
no one would rent to families with children stand out as major
problems that caused us to hurry to buy a house that has taken a
lot of work, both our own and hired, to bring it to its present
liveableness. As lifelong city apartment inhabitants, we had to

[ 1080 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

grow green thumbs the hard way, learning to take care of lawns
and garden. It is also remarkable how one can learn quickly how
to repair plumbing, wiring, and many household fixtures and ap-
pliances, especially without proper tools and parts. This has had
its humorous moments, too, and some satisfactions.

Never having been accused of being a poet or an author, I
shall now quit while I think I am ahead.

Till June then...

WOODBRIDGE STRONG

HOME AppbREss: Stronghold, New Brunswick, N. J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Strong & Strong, New Brunswick, N.J.

BoRN: May 17, 1910, New Brunswick, N.J. Parents: Theodore Strong,
Cornelia Van Rensalaer.

PREPARED AT: Rutgers Preparatory School, New Brunswick, N. J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

MARRIED: Julie Maximilienne Jonmine de Viry, March 4, 1942, New York,
N.Y.

OCCUPATION: Law.

FRANK RAYMOND STUBBS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 38 Charles St., Melrose 76, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: C, E. Brier Insurance Agency, Inc. 112 Water St., Boston 9,
Mass.

BORN: July 12, 1909, South Wellfleet, Mass. parents: Frank Raymond Stubbs,
’93, Ethel May Dow.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929~1930.

MarRiED: Marion G. Bourne, Oct. 7, 1939, Melrose, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Stubbs, ’20.

occupation: Insurance Broker; treasurer, C. E. Brier Insurance Agency, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; United States Olympic Hockey Team
of 1936.

THE depression was going full blast and jobs were not plentiful
when I left the good Class in 1930. After a six-months try at
real estate, I found myself working for the Crofut & Knapp Com-
pany in Norwalk, Connecticut. Three years later when the thrill
of just having a job wore away, I was enticed to go to Furope

[ 1081 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

to play hockey on a barnstorming trip which was to take three
months. The forewarning clouds of World War II were already
gathering: the riots in Paris, the disturbances in Vienna, the gen-
eral unrest in the Low Countries, and the ever-menacing Swastika
of Nazi Germany growing more and more powerful each day.

Four months later when the thrill and glamour of Europe had
worn away and no job was in the offing, I departed to Denison,
Texas, where I was to help make powdered eggs and later on in
World War II to help (gag!) eat them! My stay in Texas was
brief and soon | returned to New England to make my stand.

A few interesting jobs followed, among which was that of
timekeeper and paymaster for a local dredging concern, followed
by (of all things) a small bit on the stage of the Wharf Theatre in
Provincetown. About this time the old Boston Olympics started
to roll and I combined hockey with a job in the Publicity De-
partment at the Boston Garden.

In 1936 I was a member of the United States Olympic Hockey
Team and enjoyed my second European trip. This time one
could see the war clouds ready to burst open at any moment. |
We were in Dusseldorf the day Hitler broke the Versailles
Treaty and marched his labor battalions over into the city and
across the river; deep in the Maginot Line sat the then power-
ful French Army of some two million men! I have often won-
dered what would have happened if the Allies had called Hitler’s
bluff at that time. It was a most interesting time to have been
in Europe.

In 1937 the Boston Olympics entered the old Provincial League
in Canada and were the only United States team in the league.
The colorful teams from Canada soon provided an exciting after-
noon’s entertainment at the Garden and the following year we
had turn-away crowds, The only way we could beat these teams
was to body-check them to death and, of course, such tactics
would lead to fights. But it was fun while it lasted!

In 1938 I met my wife and in the same year my mother died.
The following year we were married and although we have not
been blessed with children, we have been extremely happy to-
gether,

In 1940 I had to retire from hockey. Age and bad legs finally

[ 1082 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

caught up with me! Little did I think that Uncle Sam would still
“invite” me on a third European venture! I had entered the
insurance business in 1939 while I was still at Boston Garden,
and in 1941 I went to work for OBrion, Russell & Company.

My war experiences were covered in the Fifteenth Anniversary
Report, from D-Day in Normandy through the Battle of the
Bulge. | |

After the war I returned to OBrion, Russell & Company, where
I remained until December of 1950, when I resigned to become
a partner and treasurer of the C. E. Brier Insurance Agency, Inc.,
since its inception in January of 1951.

As for the next twenty-five years, let us all hope that the Good
Lord will leave out of His scheme of life for us a depression and
another World War!

EDWARD SAMUEL STUTMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 102 Lagrance St., Newton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 20 Pemberton Sq., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 13, 1910, Manchester, N.H. parents: Israel Stutman, Ida
Schneider.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Etta Blank, June 9, 1940, Brookline, Mass. cHULDREN: Paul, Jan. 26,

1947; Marcia, July 11, 1950.
HARVARD BROTHER: Jack Stutman, ’35.
occuPaTION: Attorney.
MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Bar Association,

I HAVE been engaged in the general practice of law for the past
twenty years. It has indeed been a jealous mistress. The return
has been small, the work hard but wonderfully fascinating and
worthwhile to me.

I have been blessed with an understanding wife and two fine
children; and the fact that my family was started a bit later than
usual keeps me young in spirit.

[ 1083 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

OSCAR SUTERMEISTER

HOME ADDRESS: 5923 Johnson Ave., Bethesda 14, Md.

OFFICE ApprEss: City Planner, 5923 Johnson Ave., Bethesda 14, Md.

BORN: Jan. 29, 1912, Kansas City, Mo. parents: Charles Oscar Sutermeister,
Julia Louise Morey.

PREPARED AT: Westport High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 19323 M.R.P., 1941.

MARRIED: Betty Wilson, June 5, 1948, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN: Louise
Morey Wilson, April 30, 1939; Richard Edwin Wilson, March 6, 9951;
Charles Oscar, Sept. 11, 1952; Kim (girl), Sept. 24, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Arnold Sutermeister, ’34.

occupation: City Planning and Urban Defense Planning Consultant.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, Washington Chapter, American. Institute
of Planners, 1947-49; vice-president, 1954-55, president, 1955-56, chair-
man, Planning & Zoning Committee, 1956-57, Ayrlawn Citizens Associa-
tion, Bethesda; member board of governors, and chairman, Technical
Planning Committee, Montgomery County Planning Association, 1956-
57; president, Grogreen Garden Club, 1955-56.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Planners; American Society of Planning
Officials, National Association of Housing and Redevelopment Off-
cials; American Planning and Civic Association; International Federa-
tion for Housing and Town Planning; Harvard Traffic Associates;
Society of American Military Engineers; Harvard Club of Washington;
Harvard Business School Club of Washington; Achilles Club, London,
Bethesda Country Club.

PuBLicaTions: “Reduction of Vulnerability in the Milwaukee Area,” 19545
“Off Street Parking and Loading in the District of Columbia,” 1956;
“Traffic Survey and Master Plan of Major Thoroughfares, Fort Meade,
Maryland,” 1956; “Some Factors to be Considered in Developing an
Underground Shelter Plan for a Metropolitan Area,” 1956.

THE years since graduation have for me fallen into three general
categories of activity: educational, military and civic, covering
nine, twelve and four years, respectively.

After a very pleasurable year as Lionel de Jersey Harvard
fellow at Emmanuel College, Cambridge University, I returned to
the Yard for nine years of combined graduate study in city and
regional planning and undergraduate and graduate teaching of
fine arts, economics, housing and planning, with accompanying
service as a proctor and faculty adviser to freshmen. Availability
of facilities made it easy to continue competitive pole-vaulting,
rewards from which included a Cambridge “Blue,” some minor
championships and several years of interesting competition.

[ 1084 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In 1941 pre-Pearl Harbor defense preparations drew me into
camouflage design for the Army engineers, whence came a
natural progression, continuing to 1953 and still reflected in a
professional designation of urban defense planning consultant.
This military progression covered passive defense of vital U.S.
industries, industrial and urban air target intelligence vs. Japan,
U.S. strategic bombing survey work in Japan, industrial and ur-
ban air target intelligence on Soviet controlled areas, U.S. na-
tional industrial dispersion policy, project East River Study
of non-military defense and dispersion review of one and three-
quarter-billion applications for rapid tax amortization certificates.

In 1953 severe blows to the USS. career civil service put me into
private practice of city planning, with emphasis on urban de-
fense and traffic engineering. In the spirit of the Littauer School,
I am trying to serve the public interest primarily; a typical as-
signment is a retainer with the Progressive Citizens Associa-
tion of Georgetown, which is fighting to prevent speculative de-
velopers from creating new areas of potential future slums in this
presently very desirable section of Washington.

My wife, Betty, is a 1940 Bryn Mawr graduate from New York
City, who is building a fine family of four children, the oldest
of whom is now seven. We live in a built-up section of Bethesda,
but have a hundred-year-old farmhouse on whose six-foot oaken
bull fence we now grow grapes to match our peaches, plums
and apples. Betty served on Red Cross hospital trains during the
war; our wedding in 1948 was followed by a honeymoon in
Switzerland via the Mary and Elizabeth. Since then our travels
have been more limited, mainly to relatives in New York and
Texas. Our Texas oil well has been temporarily delayed.

ROBERT HENRY SVENDSEN

HOME ADDRESS: 628 Seventh Ave., Spokane q, Wash.

Born: Dec. 12, 1909, Spokane, Wash. parents: Henry Peter Svendsen,
Magda Reiff.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. migra com Liude, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Engineering.

[ 1085 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

HOWARD TOWNSEND SWAIN

HOME ADDRESS: 132 Maple Ave., Claremont, N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Daily Eagle, Claremont, N.H.

BorN: March rq, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Howard Townsend Swain,
M.D., 97, Harriet French,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

MarrigD: Lindsay Field Williams, May 19, 1934, New York, N.Y. (died June
26, 1946); Jean Brehmer, Sept. 2, 1948, Nantucket, Mass. CHILDREN:
David Field Williams, July 14, 1929 (stepson); Julia Breed, Sept. 26,
1945; Cynthia French, March 9, 1950; Elizabeth Howard, Sept. 7, 1951;
Judith Dexter, March 31, 1956.

OCCUPATION: State editor, Daily Eagle.

JOURNALISM of one sort or another is the only thread that
follows clear through the pattern of my last twenty-four and a
half years. Five years in the Armed Forces during World War II
divided the rest of my postgraduate years into two parts. The
youngest of the four daughters in my current family only recently
turned six months. I have been with my present newspaper less
than five years. The local city government and the governments
of surrounding towns have aroused in me a new interest in politics
in spite of a state government which is overwhelmingly and
lethargically Republican. Although I am suspected by some on
circumstantial evidence of being a Republican, I practise inde-
pendence at the polls. I am still pondering the mysteries of
religion and sometimes wonder if compulsory chapel in the college
years might have helped me. These statistics all suggest a certain
youthfulness, but I fear the suggestion is deceptive.

As a buttoned-down white collar worker, my big problem
ahead is how to show my children as many places, things and
ideas as I myself was shown, so they can have their turns.

[ 1086 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ENNIS DuBOIS SWART

HOME AppreEss: 604 Orchard Rd., N., Syracuse 9, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: San-Equip, Inc., E. Brighton Ave. Syracuse, N.Y.

BORN: Aug. 4, 1909, Sparkill, N.Y. parents: Clarence Alva Swart, Bessie
DuBois.

PREPARED AT: St. John’s Military Academy, Delafield, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928~1931.

OCCUPATION: Manufacturing.

ROBERT REYNOLDS SWEENEY

HOME ApDpREsS: 19 Old Dee Rd., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rindge Technical School, Broadway, Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 26, 1906, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Robert Joseph Sweency,
Honora Katherine Reynolds.

PREPARED AT: Lexington High School, Lexington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932(35); ED.M., 1945.

MarRIED: Dorothy Canty, June 24, 1940, Medford, Mass. cumpren: Patricia
Ellen, Oct. 14, 1941; Robert Reynolds, Feb. 4, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Teacher of science, Rindge Technical School.

OFFICES HELD: Principal, Rindge Evening Industrial School, 1951-53, since
1956; fellowship recipient, Fund For The Advancement of Education,

Ford Foundation, 1953-54.
MEMBER OF: Charitable Irish Society of Boston, Cambridge Teachers’ Club,
Annisquam Yacht Club; National Association of Remedial Teaching.

AS I sit down and put my mind to the completion of this task, I
wonder whether or not J ought to make a carbon copy for the file.
For, considering the deleterious effects of twenty -five bygone
years, there is a suspicion that this sketch may come in hand y after
a like interval has passed; if for no other reason than to bolster a
memory wherein the happy events of the period we are recording
may have lost the detail that gives a piquancy to their recall from
this vantage point.

Well, 1932 is gone lo! these twenty-five years, and if there is
substance to some psychological theory, the events, which today
are somewhat indistinct, became so as a result of conscious and
deliberate effort.

When my greatest asset was the twenty-five years I had not yet
spent, to be employed indicated a modicum of success. In those
days I worked for the Sears Roebuck Company selling electrical

[ 1087 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

fixtures and appliances. For me, merchandising held little appeal.
I wanted to teach in a public secondary school — an objective
not easily attained in that period, The year 1934 saw me change
from retail business to the manufacture of clocks and recording
instruments. I enjoyed my work, but my desire to be a teacher, if
anything, was further strengthened.

In 1938 I entered the Cambridge school system as a teacher of
~ science, where I have remained to the present time. Many of my
early students are now married and their children are coming up.
Others keep up a sporadic correspondence from Europe, Japan,
Alaska and many less distant places.

The year nineteen-forty: That was the year! I married Doro-
thy, built a new house, and spent the summer on the west coast.
All good moves as subsequent events were to prove.

Back to Harvard in 1942 as a part time student in the Graduate
School of Education, Three years later came the Ed.M. degree
and subsequent study. Our daughter, Patricia, came in 1946 and
our son, Robert in 1949. These were the busy years in both study
and teaching. But there were also the periods of surcease from
the seemingly endless schedule; fishing in Vermont, exploring the
rivers of the east coast and visits to Castine in Maine.

In 1953 and 1954, having received a grant from the Fund For
the Advancement of Education of the Ford Foundation, I again
returned to Harvard for a half year. During the second half of
that year, I traveled in the Midwest and the South visiting school
systems and studying some educational experiments of advanced
viewpoint. Back to school the next year, and thereafter little has
happened to change in any great measure the work of teaching.

WILLIAM RUSSELL SWEENEY

HOME ApDpREsS: 7609 Exeter Rd., Bethesda, Md.

OFFICE appress: The Pentagon, Washington 25, D.C.

BORN: July 11, 1911, Quaker Hill, Conn, parents: Harry Cinton Sweeney,
Florence Riley.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1032.

Margiep: Neta Henderson, July 31, 1937, Jackson Heights, N.Y.

occupation: Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force.

{ 1088 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PAUL PLUMMER SWETYT, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 300 Kerneway, Baltimore, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 8 South St., Baltimore, Md.; 39 Broadway, New York, NY.

BORN: Jan. 21, 1909, Hartford, Conn. parents: Paul Plummer Swett, Anna
Howard Poole.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Catharine Carton, June 14, 1933, Lake Forest, Hl. caurpars: Steven
Carton, April 14, 1934; Bradford Norris, June 10, 1935, Thomas Carton,
June 18, 1940.

HARVARD sons: Steven Carton Swett, ’56, Bradford Norris Swett, 's>.

HARVARD BROTHER: Norris Poole Swett, ’37, ED.M., "40.

occupation: Financial consultant, specializing in institutional investment
with particular emphasis on mortgage loan financing.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Connecticut Merit System Association, 1934 4:
Hartford County Y.M.C.A., 1936-42, Ciuzens Planning & Houvurg As
sociation, 1947-54; secretary, League of Nations Association, Connects.
cut, 1934-39; secretary, 1948-49, president, 1949-50, Harvard Club of
Maryland; president, 1940, member executive committee, 1gyo Wilkie
Club of Connecticut; director, 1952-56, vice-president, 1953-54 Balumere
Symphony Orchestra Association; member, Vestry of St. John’s Fp:wo-
pal Church, West Hartford, 1942-44; regional vice-president, 19¢4-«¢.
president, 1956-57, Associated Harvard Clubs; member exceutive cum.
mittee, “Committee for the Program of Harvard College,” t9<4, chait-
man, industrial campaign, 1949-50, member, board of trustces and execu.
tive committee, 1953-56, chairman of budget committee, 1954-55, Vwe-
president, 1955-56, Community Chest of Balumore; president. 195% 47.
chairman, Veterans Committee, 1946-47, Mortgage Bankers Association
of Baltimore; trustee, since 1954, treasurer, since 1955, Fnoch Prare
Free Library; trustee, St. Paul’s School, Baltimore, ros2-¢6. Greater
Baltimore Committee, 1955; trustee, 1952, vice-chairman of beard, tor4-
56, chairman, executive committee, 1954-56, St. John’s College; trustee,
Milton Academy, 1950; vice-president and director, Hlead Ski Com-
pany, 1953; executive vice-president, Investors Central Manayemene
Corporation, 1955; director and treasurer, Construction Credit Corpora.
tion, 1956; director and chairman of finance committce, Man land Lite
Insurance Company, 1956.

MEMBER OF: Maryland Club; Green Spring Valley Hunt Club; Harvard (fib
of Maryland; Talbot County Retriever Club (Baltimore), Sw am ip Drege
Club (Philadelphia); Labrador Retriever Club (national), Efarvar.t
Club of New York; The Brook; The Lunch Club (New York}.

PUBLICATIONS: Various trade association papers.

THE prospect of this Twenty-fifth Anniv ersary looms aya de.
lightful experience although, at this moment, the w mein of a

[ 1089 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Bradford, Harvard ’57, is luxuriating in his senior year. Thomas,
at Milton Academy, hopes to manage the hockey team someday.
Now I can’t wait to read about old friends and new of Harvard

?

32.

+ JOHN BERRY SWEZEY

BORN: Jan. 16, 1911, Patchogue, N.Y. PARENTS: John Rose Swezey, Ella Berry.
PREPARED AT: Patchogue High School, Patchogue, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932; A.M,

1936.

piep: May 18, 1954, Patchogue, N.Y.

FATHER: Mr. John R. Swezey, 248 N. Ocean Ave., Patchogue, Long Island,
N.Y.

JOHN SWEZEY spent two years in business, completed his
graduate work at Columbia and Harvard toward a Master’s de-
gree, and taught four years at the Fresnal Ranch School in Tuc-
son, Arizona, and two years at the Rectory School in Pomfret,
Connecticut.

He entered the Army as a private, serving as a student and
instructor at the A.A.F. Radio School at Sioux Falls, South Da-
kota. He received a commission in the Medical Administrative
Corps and was reassigned to the Air Corps. His chief assignment
was as an officer in the Convalescent Training Program at the
A.A.F. Hospital at Pawling, New York. He was separated from
the service as a first lieutenant.

Since that time, he had been doing similar work for the Vet-
erans Administration, as executive officer of the Medical Rehabili-
tation Department of the hospital at Castle Point, New York.
This work involved physical therapy, occupational therapy,
educational retraining and shop retraining for disabled veterans.

Swezey was survived by his father, John Rose Swezey.

ELIJAH SWIFT, JR.

HOME apprEss: 314 Belvedere Blvd., Silver Spring, Md.

orFice appress: U.S. Naval Ordnance Laboratory, White Oak, Md.

BORN; June 15, 1910, Princeton, N.J. parents: Elijah Swift, '03, Cynthia
Wilson Lynch.

[ 1094 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Edmunds High School, Burlington, Vt; Phillips Academy,
Andover, Mass. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1928-1932. DEGREES: S.B., 1932; A-M. 1933; PH.D. 1937.

MarRRIED: Hilda Norman, Aug. 18, 1934, Cambridge, Mass. cHitpraes: Susan
Elizabeth, Dec. 2, 1935; Elijah, April 12, 1938, Cynthia Jennings, March
13, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Stewart Swift, m.B.a., 738.

occupation: Development of Naval Ordnance, chief of Explosion Hy dro-
dynamics Division, U.S. Naval Ordnance Laboratory.

FREDERIC WASHBURN SWIFT

HOME ADDRESS: Temple, N.H.

BORN: March 14, 1910, New Bedford, Mass. parents: Arthur Clinton Swift,
Ethel Washburn.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932; AM. CNew York Univ.),

"19333 A.M. (Harvard Univ.), 1941.

OCCUPATION; Education.

JOHN CHURCHILL SWIFT

HOME ADDRESS: 9go1 Avers Ave., Evanston, II.

OFFICE ADDRESS: White Cap Co., 1819 N. Major Ave., Chicago 39, Il.

BORN: Jan. 17, 1910, Elizabeth, N. J. paRENTs: George Wesley Swift, ‘or, Mary
N. Nickerson.

PREPARED AT: Pingry School, Elizabeth, N_J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; M.B-A. 1934-

MARRIED: Eleanor Lois Hughes, Feb. 24, 1940, Meadville, Pa. campren: John
Churchill, Jr., Dec. 26, 1947; Nancy Hughes, March 5, 1951.

occuPATION: General sales manager, White Cap Company, manufactures of
metal caps for hermetically sealing food in glass containers.

OFFICES HELD: President, Lorel Park Property Owners Association, Skobic,
Ill., 1949; chairman, Skokie Sixty Club, 1949; director, tos 4-54, viee-
president, 1956-57, Canning Machinery and Supplies Association, direc-
tor, Forty Niners (operating organization of CMSA), 1952-54, Hlarvard
Business School Club of Chicago, 1952-54.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Chicago; Harvard Business School Club of
Chicago; North Shore Country Club, Glenview, HL; American \lan re -
ment Association; Harvard Business School Alumni Association, Porty
Niners; Northeast Skokie Bowling League; Northminstee Presbs ter an
Church Men’s Club, Evanston.

PUBLICATIONS: A trade paper article or two talking about our products

[ 1095 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

ISTARTED my business career as assistant in the sales statistical
department of the Atlas Supply Company, Newark, New Jersey.
This company sells and merchandises tires, batteries, and acces-
sories in Standard Oil stations across the United States. I handled
sales analysis, pricing, and planing of sales, until made the head
of the department in 1936. I then moved to the New York buying
office of Montgomery Ward & Company, as assistant to the group
merchandise manager, in charge of soft lines such as hosiery,
underwear, children’s wear, lingerie, and fashion accessories. |
worked on planning and sales analysis of both retail and catalogue
selling of these items. A wonderful background in merchandising.
Also, an excellent background in things not to do, particularly in
personnel management, In June, 1938, I left Ward’s to join Bar-
rington Associates for a field survey of distribution of paint
through company-owned stores. In October, 1938, I went to
Talon, Inc., in Meadville, Pennsylvania, to help form the newly
created budget department. I worked on the sales budget, sales
and market analysis, and many other phases of the start of a
complete budgetary control system, Budgets proved interesting
and terrifying, and after three years I moved into inventory
control where I was responsible for the control of thousands of
zippers.

In 1940 I married one of the most attractive girls in Meadville.
Living in a small town had many advantages in friendships, com-
forts, and excitement. Haven’t been home for lunch since.

In 1942 I left Talon as the war had started and copper alloca-
tions (our basic material) had become scarce. I joined the War
Production Board in Washington in the rubber division, as senior
business analyst, to help in allocating the dwindling supplies of
rubber, handling allocations of rubber to thirty different indus-
tries. I eventually specialized in allocating rubber for food pack-
ing, home canning, shoe adhesives, and also found that statisticians
were a dime a dozen from deferment standpoint. In November,
1942, I joined the U.S. Marine Corps as first lieutenant in the
Engineer Division of the Headquarters, to set up a system for
following deliveries on contracts and to calculate requirements.
I was promoted to captain in June, 1943, went through indoctrina-
tion at Camp Lejeune, and the following February was trans-
ferred to the Pacific to form the new headquarters for supplies in

[ 1096 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the central area. I was officer in charge of stock control for the
entire Pacific area to the end of the war and received a citation
for performance of duties. All material ordered from the States
came through my office and I had to know the plans well in ad-
vance for combat re-supply and to reorganize for the next opera-
tion. I was fortunate in fitting into my specialty and enjoying
the responsibility, I took over command of the section in Septem-
ber, 1945, and got home on December 23, 1945.

In March, 1946, I joined the White Cap Company, as assistant to
the vice-president in charge of sales and was made sales manager
in January, 1949. This company had enjoyed tremendous success
as the innovator and chief manufacturer of the pry-otf type
vacuum cap for hermetically sealing food in glass containers at
high speed and the equipment to apply these caps to glass con-
tainers at high speed in the food packers plant, under conditions
of vacuum. Sales analysis, market research, administration, pric-
ing, and planning of meetings, along with the conduct of the
advertising function have been a constant part of my work. Early
in 1956, White Cap Company was acquired by Continental Can
Company and we are now a part of a tremendously diversified
organization. The food industry has been most intriguing anil
full of the uncertainties that beset a product that is affected by
weather and inventory problems. Budgets are again important.
Our interests and scope of operations are multiplied by this com-
bination. After more than ten years in the bottle cap industry, I
am still learning and finding the rewards attractive.

I found the minister of the Northminster Presbyterian Church
inspiring and attend regularly. Golf club handicap going up a
stroke a year (16). Family growing with all the pleasures and
problems encountered by everyone. A sympathetic and under-
standing wife.

NATHAN BILL TALBOT

HOME apprEss: 10 Cottage Farm Rd., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 25, 1909, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Fritz Bradley Talbot, ‘on,
Beatrice Bill.

[ 1097 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932
PREPARED AT: Newton Country Day School, Newton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932; M.D. 1936.

MarRiED; Anne Perry, June 30, 1934, Dover, Mass, CHILDREN: Nathan Den-

nison, June 26, 1936; Frederick Bradley, Aug. 19, 1938; John Nicholson,
Oct. 27, 1942.

HARVARD SON: Nathan Denison Talbot, ’58 (presently in Army).
occuPATION: Associate professor of pediatrics, Massachusetts General Hos-

pital, Harvard Medical School; physician to Children’s Medical Service,
Massachusetts General Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Society for Pediatric Research; American Pediatric Society;
American Society for Clinical Investigation; American Academy of
Arts and Sciences; American Academy of Pediatrics; Endocrine Society;
The Country Club, Brookline, Mass.

PUBLICATIONS: Various papers published in medical and scientific journals,

Functional Endocrinology from Birth through Adolescence, Harvard
University Press, 1952.

MY first move after graduating from Harvard College was to
obtain a medical education at the Harvard Medical School. From
there I moved across the street to the Boston Children’s Hospital
for intern and resident training in pediatrics. Even during those
early years I had a yen for investigation and a keen interest in
the metabolic and endocrine aspects of medicine. No doubt these
yearnings were due in considerable part to my contacts with Dr.
Kenneth Blackfan, then chief at the Children’s Hospital, and with
his associates, Drs. James Gamble and Allan Butler, who were
leaders in the field of body fluid and electrolyte metabolism.
Encouraged by them, I decided to take a couple of additional
postgraduate years of training in the metabolic and chemical as-
pects of endocrinology for which purpose I joined the group
headed by Dr. Frederick Hisew at the Biological Laboratories at
Cambridge. During these years of complete freedom to work ac-
cording to my interests, I collaborated with a variety of talented
individuals of various disciplines, notably Dr. George Langstroth,
spectroscopist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and
Drs. John K. Wolf, organic chemist, Oliver Lowry, biochemist
and Edwin Astwood, endocrinologist, who were working at that
time in various Harvard laboratories. It was this early experience
with these men which made me aware of the value of collaborative
workmanship in this day of intricate specialization.
Building on this foundation, subsequent years of investigation
have been devoted to basic studics of the rédle of the body’s auto-

[ 1098 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

matic chemical regulators in health and disease and to the applica-

tion of such knowledge to the diagnosis and management of

patients representing with a variety of metabolic disturbances.

Among these, those involving abnormalities in growth and de-
velopment of children and disturbances in the chemical composi-
tion of the body due to nutritional disturbances or to kidney
disease have received the largest share of attention. Recently we
have been extending these interests to include studies of factors
involved in human motivation. This interest is the product of an
increasing realization that our knowledge of how to manage a
number of metabolic disorders in physiologic and somatic terms
often is rendered almost useless by our lack of knowledge as to
how to help patients become motivated to take advantage of avail-
able therapeutic procedures.

In the spring of 1942 as World War II was raging, I moved to
thd Massachusetts General Hospital division of the Department of
Pediatrics of the Harvard Medical School. During the war years
I was assigned to serve as a member of the group investigating
survival rations for castaways, under the auspices of the Office of
Scientific Research and Development of the U.S. Government.
Throughout these and subsequent years, a considerable segment
of my time has been given to teaching undergraduate and grad-
uate medical students and house officers, to fund raising and other
administrative tasks. The wide variety of personal contacts with
high caliber physicians from near and far, incident to these teach-
ing duties, has made them most rewarding.

Changing the subject to less formal items, I can report a lively
interest in various family endeavors and hobbies. Our three boys
are fast growing up: one is now taking his two years in the Army,
while the other two are completing their schooling. It is still too
early to tell what their life interests are going to be. My wife and
I both have a strong liking for music — her. interest in this takes
the form of singing as a mezzo-soprano (which she does semi-
professionally), while mine consists in accompany ing her and in
playing the piano for the fun of it. All of us enjoy w “eekends and
holidays by the sea at Osterville on Cape Cod and some of us de-
light in sailing and cruising the adjacent waters in our small
auxiliary sloop. Other interests are gardening and furniture
building. While our traveling to date has been mostly to various

[ 1099 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

parts of this country in connection with medical society meetings,

we anticipate visiting some of our foreign friends in the years to
come.

MILTON OSCAR TALENT

HOME ADDRESS: 12454 Springdale Lane, St. Louis 22, Mo.
OFFIcE appREss: Moller & Talent, 611 Olive St. St. Louis 1, Mo.

BorN: June ir, 1911, Manchester, N.H. parents: Max Joseph Talent, Rose
Rutstein.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932, DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 19323 LL.B., 1935.

MarRIED: Marie F, Matthes, Dec. 10, 1949, St. Louis, Mo. cHtLprEeN: Barbara
Kathryn, Feb. 10, 1951; Charles David, Feb. 15, 1956.

OccUPATION: Attorney; partner in firm of Moller & Talent.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts, Missouri, American and St. Louis Bar Assocta-
tions; American Arbitration Association.

THREE years after leaving the College, I received my law de-
gree. Like most new graduates, I found the future generally
beckoning but somewhat confusing as to my specific place in
it. I managed to obtain a job working for a law firm or two
and then settled into the routine of general practice as an in-
dividual. I continued along those lines until the early part of
1942, when I joined the Navy as an apprentice seaman.

After what the Navy called an intensive course of preparation,
I was shipped to sea. Some time thereafter—the exact time
escapes me —I was commissioned an ensign and entered upon the
existence of an “officer and gentleman.” -After spending some
four years at this change of classification and station in life,
during which I spent some time in the North Atlantic, Pacific,
Caribbean, South America and Korea, I was given an honorable
discharge in the early part of 1946 as lieutenant, senior grade.

Next, I left to spend a most interesting and rewarding period
of time with U.N.R.R.A. in Europe, as legal adviser to the di-
rector, U.S. Zone. In the spring of 1948 I joined the staff of the
National Labor Relations Board as an attorney and spent almost
four years in the field offices at Atlanta, Tenth Region, and
St. Louis, Fourteenth Region.

During my stay in St. Louis, I exchanged my state of celibacy

[ 1100 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

for one of “et ux.” Early in 1951 we were blessed with a daugh-
ter, Barbara Kathryn, who continues to be the apple of her

father’s eye.
In the latter part of 1951 I left the government service to ¢n-

ter private practice in St. Louis, in association with my present
partner, with our practice limited to representing management
in the field of Jabor law and labor relations. We have so con-
tinued. In the early part of 1956, Charles David added his wee
voice to the family council and he continues to grow in status
and stature. So far, so good. So be it.

ROBERT HAROLD TALKOV

HOME appress: 86 Clements Rd., Newton 58, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 403 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

BorN: April 25, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Barnett Talkov, Bessie Brown.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: SB. 1932; MD. (Tufts Medical
School), 1937.

MARRIED: Eileen Shapiro, April 26, 1941, Brookline, Mass. cautprex: Barbara
Joan, Feb. 19, 1946; Richard Walton, March 4, 1949; Carol Lynn, Jan.
17, 1951.

JARVARD BROTHER: Leo Talkov, p.M.pD., ’43.

CCUPATION: Physician.

AEMBER OF: American College of Physicians; American Board of Internal
Medicine; Alpha Omega Alpha; American Rheumatism Associaton,
American Medical Association; New England Rheumatism Society,

_ Massachusetts Medical Society; Brandeis University Associates (lite
member); Massachusetts Bay Lodge of B'nai Brith; Temple Isracl
Brotherhood; Pine Brook Country Club.

JBLICATIONS: Various articles in current medical literature, principally in
relation to arthritis and other rheumatic diseases.

FTER graduation from Tufts Medical School in 1937, 1 spent
re years in postgraduate training, three as an intern and resi-
nt physician at the Beth Israel Hospital in Boston and two as
‘esearch fellow in arthritis at the Massachusetts General Eflo-
al, in preparation for an academic career in medicine. “Thess
re happy though hectic years and I was privileged to stuly

1 work with some of the outstanding figures in’ Amery Vy

[ rrot ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

medicine whose friendship and guidance have remained an in-

spiration.

During service in the Army Medical Corps from 1942 to
1946, I was most fortunate in being assigned to general hospitals
and when the Army established special centers for the study
and treatment of arthritis I was able to pursue further my special
interest in medicine.

After the war I decided not to return to the completely ab-
sorbing academic life because I realized that I would be hap-
pier dealing with human beings rather than the laboratory, charts
and statistics. I entered private practice but managed to retain
some of the flavor of teaching and research. As an instructor in
medicine at the Harvard Medical School, I share in the teach-
ing program at the Beth Israel Hospital where I am chief of
the Arthritis Clinic. I also do some teaching as attending physi-
clan and chief consultant in arthritis at the Boston Veterans Ad-
ministration Hospital and as civilian consultant in internal medi-
cine and arthritis to the Surgeon General of the United States
Army.

In 1941 I married a lovely and charming girl. Barbara, our
first child, appeared in 1946, soon to be followed by Rick and
Carol. These were busy years, sinking roots, setting up in prac-
tice and outgrowing houses. The children present us with the
same problems that other parents often consider so individual
unto them. We, too, resort to instinct to bend the twigs. Our
son, now seven, declared his Harvard allegiance on his first ap-
pearance at kindergarten. The girls are undecided between their
mother’s alma mater, Wellesley, or Brandeis University (their
maternal grandfather was one of its founding fathers and guid-
ing lights). |

I have been able to arrange for ample spare time to fully en-
joy my family, home and friends. On occasion, my wife may
comment about my enthusiasm for golf. We both devote some
time and effort to work for charitable organizations. In re-
cent years vacations have become a reality and we try to vary
the locale. A grand tour of the U.S.A. with the children is still
in the planning stage. Although I have not attended a Class

Reunion since leaving college, I anticipate our Twenty-fifth with
fond expectation.

[ 1102 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM SAMUEL TALLON

HOME ApbpREss: 5 Montvale Rd., Wellesley, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Electronics Corp. of America, 77 Broadway, Cambridge,
Mass.

BORN: May 23, 1910, Rosario, Argentina. parents: William Tallon, Bertha
Edna Kneeland. .

PREPARED AT: New Britain High School, New Britain, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: s.B. cum laude, 1932.

MARRIED: Kate MacDowell Black, May 5, 1934, Newton, Mass. critpers:
David William, May 26, 1940; Jane Kneeland, Dec. g, 1942; Elizabeth
Susan, Feb. 1, 1947.

occuParion: Sales manager, Electronics Corporation of America, automatic
panels and accessories.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Mechanical Engineers.

WHATEVER I report will sound as if I have been going in
circles both in occupation and geography. After graduating with
a degree in electric communications engineering (it would be
electronics engineering now), it was evident that i in 1932 there
was little demand for engineers in general. After sundry false
starts, I became a designer of industrial burner equipment and
associated control systems. Over the years, associated controls
became increasingly complex and were beginning to assume the
proportions of the tail wagging the dog.

About three years ago I had an opportunity to make a change
back to electronics — thus completing that circle. This involved
living subsequently in Cambridge, Wellesley, Muncie, Indiana,
York, Pennsylvania, and now back to Wellesley. During this
tour, we have acquired one son and two daughters — all born in
different states. This twenty-five years has been sometimes
enjoyable, certainly never dull. I hope I can say as much in the
report for the Fiftieth Reunion.

. ROBERT STONE TANGEMAN

HOME ADDRESS: 501 W. 113th St., New York 25, N.Y,

OFFICE appRESS: Union Theological Seminary, Broadway and rreth St, New
York 27, N.Y.

BORN: May 20, 1910, New Bremen, Ohio, parenrs: Theodore Hl. Vangeniary
Maude Ethel Stone.

[ 1103 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

PREPARED AT: Blume High School, Wapakoneta, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932; AM,
19335 PH.D., 1947.

MARRIED: Frances Moser, Sept. 9, 1933, Wapakoneta, Ohio (divorced 1941);
Nell Shelky, Sept. 3, 1942, Columbus, Ohio (divorced 1948), Clementine

Miller, Nov. 22, 1951, Columbus, Ind. cup: John Theodore, Dec. 29,
1936.

HARVARD SON: John Theodore Tangeman, ’59.
HARVARD BROTHER: Carl Herman Tangeman, LL.B., °36.

OccuPATION: Harkness associate professor of music, Union Theological

Seminary; acting director, School of Sacred Music, February-August,
1956.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in music, Ohio State University, 1934-38; assistant
professor, Indiana University, 1938-45; teaching fellow, Harvard Uni-
versity, 1945-46; faculry member, Juilliard School of Music (music-

ology), 1946-53; Harkness associate professor of music, Union Theo-
logical Seminary, since 1949.

MEMBER OF: American Musicological Society; Society for Music in the

Liberal Arts Colleges (SMILAC); Columbia University Men’s Faculty
Club; Harvard Club of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in Christian Science Monitor, Musical
Quarterly, Modern Music, Notes, Musical America, etc.

THE career of teaching always appealed to me. The field was
clearly music. In order to be more adequately prepared for a
college job, I spent two years in graduate study after 1932. An
A.M. from Harvard took one year; work with Mlle. Nadia Bou-
langer in Paris occupied the second year. My first job was in the
Music Department at Ohio State University. The department
came under the College of Education and was primarily con-
cerned with training public school music teachers. Nothing in my
background prepared me for the emphasis on methodology |
found there. The experience was a rather rough one at first, but 1
soon found ways of getting at some of the students with what I
felt were basic musical values. During those years I taught piano
and theory. I remember one scorchingly hot summer when I
gave seven broadcasts each of an hour’s length over the univer-
sity’s radio station. The series was devoted to Beethoven’s piano
sonatas which I discussed and played.
In 1938 I joined the Indiana University Music School when the
Institution was just beginning its present strong program. Here
music was an independent administrative unit — something like a

[ 1104 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

graduate school but on an undergraduate level. In addition to

public school music we dealt with students aiming for careers

as performers and private teachers. The atmosphere was not

unlike that of a conservatory within a university. Many of the

large staff were older European musicians. My major duties were

teaching music history and literature. There was also the baf-
fling assignment of a music appreciation class for students out-
side the music school. Before my advent this course had been
the prize “snap” for upper classmen. This soon shifted, ac-
companied by loud and prolonged lamentation from certain
segments of the student body. The Bloomington Draft Board
felt that my insulin requirements presented an insuperable handi-
cap to direct participation in the armed services, so I taught
through the war years on the accelerated programs Indiana em-
ployed. The young dean of music and I enjoyed planning for
the future of the program and were active in the various associa-
tions dealing with the problems of music education. Mile. Bou-
langer came for several lecture recitals during the war years. In
1944 I had the honor of presenting the first public performance
with her of Stravinsky’s “Sonata for Two Pianos.” For some
time I was in charge of a series of radio broadcasts devoted
mainly to contemporary music. My hope of having a year for
my own studies and the completion of my doctorate at Harvard
during 1945-46 were thwarted— in a pleasant and rewarding
way — when I was drafted into helping “Doc” Davison as a
Music I section man, due to the influx of returning G.Is.

In September, 1945, I joined the new staff of the refurbished
Juilliard School of Music in New York. The young president
at that time felt he wanted to try incorporating certain aspects
of the university music tradition into the conservatory tradition
which had prevailed at Juilliard. My job there was listed simply
as musicology. In addition to many classes in music history,
I did some adult education work in four series of illustrated lec-
tures on contemporary music at Town Hall. Beginning in 1949
I also took on the job of supervising the thesis work at Union
Theological Seminary, School of Sacred Music. Since 1953 I
have moved to the south side of West 122d Street entirely. In
addition to teaching musicology, theory and thesis supervision,

[ 1105 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

I do a certain amount of administrative work, supervision of doc.

toral programs, etc.

Almost thirty years ago Union established a division devoted

to music. All work is on a graduate level and the two degrees
of Master and Doctor of Sacred Music are granted. The work
is rather specialized and the student body is a small one but
drawn from the entire nation and many foreign countries. The
main job is the training of organists and choir masters, with
teaching and scholarship as adjunct fields. My work is more con-
cerned with the latter than the former. All of us associated with
the School of Sacred Music aim for the improvement of taste
in church music and for the increased awareness of the possi-
bilities of cooperation among all members of a church staff.
“Doc” gave a superb series of three lectures for us in 1954. He
conducted our excellent chorus in his masterly way in the many
illustrations used for each lecture. In April, 1956, he did a Mo-
zart lecture for us and we hope to have him lecture on Holst
during the current academic year.

Since 1952 my wife and I have done a good bit of vacation
traveling. Clemmie has been head of the International Division
of Girl Scouts for part of this time and much of our travel has
been a combination of duty and pleasure. There have been
Scout conferences in Norway, Holland and other places. Since
these meetings usually come in the summer, John and I try to be
in the general vicinity of the conference. In this way he andI
spent several days in Helsinki at the Olympic Games. Last June
Clemmie took me along for a look at the new International Scout
Center, called The Cabana, in Cuernavaca. I recommend it to any
of your Scout daughters interested in a journey to Mexico. We
have a summer place at Windermere, in the Muskoka Lakes of
Ontario, but seldom manage to spend as much time there as we

would like.
My younger brother, Carl (LL.B., ’36), is a very active lawyer
in Columbus, Ohio. He and his wife and three children live in
suburban Worthington,

Son John enjoyed his freshman year at Harvard and, at this
writing, is planning to concentrate in English. His marks through
his first year were such that he seems justified in going out for

[ 1106 ]

 

ALT AL APPA REE HN EAN
eg INTENTION EE LEA GIDE Penney: nae

pnp nt iM
an ieaty tA DNAS POL AIEEE A A

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

honors in his field. He now thinks he may want to become
a teacher and follow in my footsteps as to career. All I can do
is to point out the probable disappointments and rewards he may
encounter — confidentially I admit I am not displeased. °

WILLIAM PAUL TAUB

HOME apprEss: 818 Grant Ave., Plainfield, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Suite 203, 119 Watchung Ave., Plainfield, N-J.

BORN: June 3, 1911, Plainfield, N.J. parents: Harry Taub, Jennie Fenster-
stock.

PREPARED AT: Plainfield High School, Plainfield, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932; LL.B. (Univ. of Newark),
1936.

MaRRIED: Ruth Ellis, June 4, 1939, Newark, N.J. cHipren: Samuel Jonathan,
Jan. 17, 1943; David Joel, July 5, 1947; Deborah Ann, June 12, 1951.

occuPATION: Attorney and Counsellor-at-Law, State of New Jersey.

OFFICES HELD: Deputy Sector Warden, Civilian Defense, 1942; member,
Legal Advisory Committee to Draft Board No. 3, 1941-46; district
chairman, Commercial and Industrial Division, Plainfield Community
Chest, 1941; member board of directors, 1940-53, secretary, 1941-44,
Plainfield Hebrew Institute; member board of directors, since 1948,
vice-president, 1954, Yeshiva of Plainfield; member board of directors,
Council of Jewish Organizations of Plainfield, since 1950, Jewish Com-
munity Center, 1956, member, Traffic & Parking Commission, City of
Plainfield, 1952-58; trustee, B’nai B'rith Lodge No. 1853, 1955; chair-
man, Men’s Division, 1954, member executive board, 1950-56, United
Jewish Appeal Drive; member executive committee, Cancer Drive,
1954, Muhlenberg Hospital Capital Fund Drive; member, Republican
County Committee, 1953-54; chairman, Cub Scout Troop 2 Committee,
since 1954.

MEMBER OF: Plainfield, Union County, New Jersey State and American Bar
Associations; Emanuel Lodge No. 264, Masons, B'nai B'rith No. 1853;
Yeshiva of Plainfield; Center Choral Group and Mendelssohn Glee
Club; New Jersey Alumni Chapter, Tau Epsilon Phi Fraternity.

GRADUATION in June, 1932, marked the end of four very
happy years combining the pleasure of studying under the great
faculty we had and the enjoyment of the extra-curricular ac-
tivities. What could be nicer than studying in front of a crack-
ling fireplace in the Kirkland House Library, participating in the
exciting discussions in the “coffee pot” sessions after dinner, scull-
ing on the Charles in the late spring, traveling with the Glee

[ 1107 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Until recently, I continued my choral relaxation with the
Plainfield Mendelssohn Glee Club, an all male group of around

eighty voices. The constant and regular atendance at rehearsals

did not fit in with my varied civic activities and as a result I had

to graduate to associate member status. About two years ago

I helped organize a mixed chorus of twenty voices at the Center

and have had a lot of pleasure with this group.

Last year I was elected to the board of the Plainfield Jewish

Community Center. This organization started with twenty mem-
bers in rented quarters in November, 1906, and now has over
2700 members and a beautiful Center building. On November
24, 1956, we celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of the Center,
Two of the original founders were present and a comparison of
the orginal activities with the present was phenomenal. We have
a very complete program of character building activities for our
youth, courses for adult education and a supervised program for
the Golden Age group, in addition to the usual athletic facilities.
B'nai B’rith, the oldest service club in the United States, has been
a stimulating experience to me. Working on the B’nai B'rith
Anti-defamation Committee, whose purpose is to stamp out
bigotry and intolerance, has made my efforts in this organiza-
tion seem worthwhile.

The get-togethers for members of the Class of 1932 in the
area at the Harvard Club of New York have been especially
pleasant. The address by Barry Wood last year was fascinating
and the opportunity to meet some of the classmates after these
many years, brought back fond memories. I hope we continue
this custom in the future. The reunion before the Princeton game
was also a great thrill for my wife and boys. i

For many years I dreamed about a home in the city with a lot
of ground. This materialized two years ago when we built a
colonial house on a large lot. Maintenance of the lawn, shrubs |
and flowers has now become a full-time hobby during a good

'
!
}
:
;

   

portion of the year.

It is impossible to condense twenty-five years of a very active
life, including raising a fine family, in a few pages of print, but
I have tried briefly to cover the high points. I look forward
to reading the reports of the other members of our Class,

[ 1110 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EMERY FOLGER TAYLOR

HOME ADDRESS: 105 Woodland Drive, Staunton, Va.

OFFICE ADpRESS: E.. I. duPont de Nemours & Co., Waynesboro, Va.

BORN: June 27, 1910, Somerville, Mass. parents: William Emery Taylor,
Gladys Estelle Carr.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: S.B. IN IND, CHEM. cum laude, 1933;
A.M., 1938.

MARRIED: Isabel Hamilton Elliott, Feb. 27, 1943, Staunton, Va. quo:
Emery Folger, Jr.. March 21, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Area supervisor, Waynesboro Works, E. I. duPont de
Nemours & Company, synthetic fibers.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Virginia State Reserve Officers Association, 1935-
47; secretary, Young Men’s Civic Club, Staunton, 1952-53, president,
Staunton-Waynesboro Chapter, Reserve Officers Association.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Management Assocta-
tion; American Institute of Management; American Institute of Eco-
nomic Research: Sigma Xi; Tau Beta Pi; Alpha Chi Sigma; Young
Men’s Civic Club; Appalachian Mountain Club; Reserve Officers As-
sociation; major, U.S. Army Reserve.

PUBLICATIONS: “Flameproofing Textile Fabrics,” ACS Monograph, member
of editorial board and contributor to Journal of Amrerican Chemical
Society, Vol. 70, March, 1948— “The Apparent Molal Expansibilities
of Potassium, Barium and Lanthanum Chlorides as a Function of Con-
centration and Temperature,” co-author with Grinnell Jones and

Richard C. Vogel.

I FIND it hard to realize that we’ve been out twenty-five years.
My sense of timing, I fear, has been somewhat impaired by sub-
sequent years spent at Harvard. I actually severed connections in
1941 which is only sixteen years ago and doesn’t seem so far back.

After graduation I spent another year at Harvard as assistant
in Professor Grinnell Jones’ course in Industrial Chemistry. The
following year I found a job as a research chemist with the
B.B. Chemical Company in Cambridge, Massachusetts. After
three years of puttering with leather finishes and adhesives of one
kind or another, I decided I wanted some more education. In
1936 I returned to Harvard to work again with Grinnell Jones.
For the next five years I worked on some physical chemistry
problems and instructed in Chemistry II, and Chemistry B. Had
Harvard given me nothing else, my association with Grinnell
Jones would have been well worth the time spent,

[ rr ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

In June, of 1941, I joined the Acetate Research Section of

EF. I. du Pont’s Cellulose Acetate Plant at Waynesboro, Virginia,
A short time (nine months) later I was back in Cambridge. This
time as a second lieutenant at the Chemical Warfare Service Re-
search and Development Laboratory at M.I.T. While at M.LT.
I married a girl I had met while in Virginia. In December, 1943,
I was transferred to the Quartermaster Corps and finally ended
up in Washington, working for General George F. Doriot (pro-
fessor at the Harvard Business School) in his research and de-
velopment group. Here I stayed until the war was over.

In April, 1946, I returned to du Pont at Waynesboro. Since
then progress has been reasonable and experience broad — re-
search, process development, process control, chemical opera-
tion, textile operation. At the present time I’m an area supervisor
on special asignment working on problems in connection with
the “orlon” plant now being built. Our one and only son is
ten years old. We are hopeful that he will turn out to be college
material and decide to try Harvard.

WARD TAYLOR

LAST KNOWN appress: Central P.O. Box 2, Seoul, Korea.

BORN: Feb. 15, 1907, Kalama, Wash. parents: Harley Alexander Taylor,
Daisy Marsh.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1930.

WARD TAYLOR has been carried as a “lost” man on our
records since 1952.

* EDWARD THAW
BORN: June 13, 1908, Zurich, Switzerland. PaRENTs: Edward Thaw, Jane
Olmstead.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

DIED; June 29, 1934, Albuquerque, N. Mex.

[ r112 ]

  

5 ene Het NEA TITTLE LO OR meetin onan
pests tid BANNER TS ee

as RS Veco env HN EA MOEA DR PRE I PIE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN ALDEN THAYER

HOME ADDRESS: 397 Allaire Rd., Belmar, N.J.
OFFICE ADDREss: International Nickel Co., Inc., 67 Wall St., New York, N.Y.

BORN: March 22, 1910, Worcester, Mass. PARENTs: John Alden Thayer, ’79,
Maude Albee.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass. _

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1932.

MARRIED: Sylvia Jessen Ott, Oct. 22, 1941, Orange, N.J. cuHipren: John
Alden, May 21, 1943; Carol Ann, April 5, 1946.

occuPATION: Manufacturing.

EDWARD BONNEY THOMAS

JOME AppRESS: Westford Road, Concord, Mass.
FICE ADDRESS: Zenith Products Co., 58 Chestnut St., West Newton, Mass.

orN: Nov. 22, 1909, Arlington, Mass. parents: Charles A. Thomas, Therese
Bonney. ,

ZEPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

ZARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

ARRIED: Emilie Norton, June 28, 1933, Arlington, Mass. cHmLDREN: Mary,
Jan. 6, 1942; Jane, March 8, 1944.

CUPATION: President, Zenith Products Company, dealers in spinning pumps
for synthetic yarns and fibers.

MBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

YR ten years after graduation I sold securities in Boston and
January, 1942, I became salesmanager for Zenith Products
mpany, which supplies metering pumps to spin synthetic yarn
' fibre of all types — rayon, acetate, nylon and the multitude
oresent-day fibres. My “business territory” extends over the
re eastern half of the U.S. and Canada and western Europe
1 Oslo to Naples.
7hen we were married in 1933, we were fortunate enough to
half of an old New England farmhouse which had been
in Bedford, Massachusetts, in 1680. Because this house
1 not be purchased and since we could not find a similar
na location we desired, we set out to build a copy. We
fore began collecting woodwork from eighteenth-century
s which were being demolished. This collection became
ge that, for storage purposes alone, it became necessary

[ 1113 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

to build a house to include these materials which consisted of

panelled walls, doors, hardware, flooring, bricks, exterior door-

ways and even stairways. The house was commenced in the
fall of 1941 and became my only extra-business activity for years
to come, with every spare moment spent working on the house,

We moved in when some of the necessary rooms were com-

pleted in September, 1943. Since then I have completed the

original house, built an extra living room wing on one end,

a porch and attached greenhouse on the other end, a garage and

meanwhile tore down and re-erected an old pegged-frame bam.
At present, an addition to the barn is underway. Pounding nails,
in my case anyway, is apparently a habit-forming disease.

Through all our married life I have suffered from another
incurable disease — collecting antiques, with an emphasis on ship
paintings and clocks, particularly tall clocks. This has resulted in
a situation at home which would be tolerated only by a very
patient though long-suffering wife. However, I question even
her understanding of my malady when she recently agreed with
an antique dealer’s observation of our house — “What an auction
this would make!”

When our two daughters were large enough to walk we were
given a donkey which, alas, led to a horse for the older girl.
Since she could not learn to ride alone, the old man had to get
a horse. Then the younger girl had to have a horse because the
donkey could not, or rather would not, keep up with the rest
of us. The children then became interested in local horse shows
so that it was necessary to acquire better horses and before |
knew it another disease had become incurable, so that we now
seem to be collecting horses. This disease is not as simple as
antiques because horses involve so much side equipment — tack,
show buggies, trailers and even a van.

It would seem that my twenty-five years as an alumnus have
seen me go from bad to worse and at the moment no cure, or even
suspicion of a cure, is in sight.

[1114]

 

i
i
i
t
|
|
i
\

i

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM STEPHEN THOMAS

HOME ADDRESS: 663 East Ave., Rochester 7, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rochester Museum of Arts and Sciences, 657 East Ave,
Rochester 7, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 5, 1909, New York, N.Y. PARENTS: William Sturgis Thomas,
Emma Rheinfrank.

PREPARED AT: Collegiate School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929, 1930-1933. DEGREE: A.B. cu7m laude, 1932 (33).
MARRIED: Katharine Dunn Cornish, Aug. 1, 1942, Gillette, N.J. cimoren:
William Cornish, July 24, 1946; Stephen Livingston, April 12, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Museum director.

OFFICES HELD: Founder and first president, Adult Education Council, 1948-
50; member, Rochester Inter-Museum Council, 1948-49, UNESCO
consultant to Natural Sciences Division for planning science museum
in Montevideo, Uruguay, 1949; recipient of State Department Grant-in-
Aid as lecturer on museums in Havana, 1949; member board of directors,
Harvard Club of Rochester, since 1953, City Club of Rochester, Inc.
since 1955; secretary, Committee on Scientific and Technical Museums,
ICOM,, since 1953 (re-elected at Zurich, Switzerland, 1956), Genesee
Country Historical Federation, 1955-56; training officer, Naval Reserve
Composite Company, 1954-56; chairman, U.S. Committee on Inter-
national Campaign for Museums, 1956.

MEMBER OF: Explorers Club (N.Y.); Harvard Travelers’ Club (Boston),
Naval Historical Foundation (Washington, D.C.); The Thoreau So-
ciety; American Association of Museums; Rochester Harvard Club;
The Fortnightly Club (Rochester); Rochester Chamber of Commerce;
Laboratory of Ornithology of Cornell University; Rochester Association
of the United Nations; U.S. National Committee of the International
Council of Museums (ICOM), Sigma X1.

PUBLICATIONS: The Amateur Scientist: Science As a Hobby, W. NV. Norton
Co., New York, 1942; “The Layman Scientist in Philadelphia: A Guide
to Resources,” 1940; “Adult Education in Rochester — Guide Book to
Leisure Time Study,” 1948; Field Book of Connon Musbrooms, by
William Sturgis Thomas, third edition, G. P, Putnam's Sons, editor;
“Folklore Figures in Rochester,” New York Folklore Magazine, 1950;
“George Catlin As a Portrait Painter,” Antiques Magazine, July, 1950;
“Andrew Garrett: Pioneer Naturalist of Oceania,” in Paradise of the
Pacific, December, 1951; “Arthur C. Parker, Anthropologist, Historian
and Museum Leader,” in Rochester History, July, 1955.

OF our total class of goo-odd class members, only six made the
museum profession their life work. They are Cha ries C. Cunning-
ham, Paul S. Harris, John D. Cooney, Sheldon W. Keck, G.
Keith Martin and myself. But this is a large percentage for any

[ ar15 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

of 135,000 persons in 1955. Of recent years I have been for-
tunate enough to have had several international assignments in
connection with museum work, one of them to serve as a delegate
to the ICOM Conference in Switzerland, this past July.

To mark the significance of the museum’s role in daily life and
to show how greatly museums can promote world understanding,
a great international movement known as the “Campaigns for
Museums” is now underway and this year has culminated in
“International Afuseum Week,” October 7th to 13th, in which
over 300 museums in this country took part by staging special
exhibitions, film showings, lectures and “open house” programs.
I was privileged to serve as U.S. national chairman for this work
and our country was one of forty throughout the world which
participated. In no light way we can say confidently that the
chief purpose of the modern museum is to present original ob-
jects, both of God's creation and of human making so that man
may evaluate himself and all of life through the visual educational
method.

CLAUDE WESTON THOMPSON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 194 Canton Ave. Milton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1177 Washington St., Dorchester, Mass.

BogN: April 10, 1911, Wilmington, Mass. PARENTS: Claude Weston Thomp-
son, Florence Hattie Phelps.

PREPARED AT: Wilmington High School, Wilmington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930. DEGREE: D.M.D., 1934.

Marie: Muriel Louise Marfleet, May 28, 1931, Portsmouth, N.H. cHipren:
Claude Weston, 3d, Jan. 23, 1939; John Hadley, June 6, 1940; Bruce
Weatherburn, Sept. 15, 1947.

occupation: Dentist.

oFFices HELD: Grand Master, Delta Sigma Delta, 1934; Class Marshal, 1934
instructor, Operative Dentistry, 1935-42, Class Agent, Harvard Fund,
1935-42, Harvard Dental School; chief, Dental Clinic, Boys’ Club of
Boston, 1935-38; Chief, Dental Clinic for European Immigrants, Milton,
1940-42; Deputy Chief Medical Officer (Dental) for Civilian Defense,
Milton, 1940~42; Examining Dentist, Milton Draft Board, 1941-42; mem-
ber courtesy staff, Milton Hospital, since 1939; vestryman, St. Michael's
Episcopal Church, 1941-42; Scoutmaster and Troop committee, Troop
3, Milton Boy Scouts, since 1935, member executive committee, Har-
vard Odontological Society, 1954-57.

[1118 J

CONN NY EET TNR TATE NE EO RT RATNER RIPE BIRT PT! PPT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: American Dental Association, Massachusetts & Metropalsean
District Dental Societies; Harvard Odontological Society; Harriet
Newell Lowell Society for Dental Research; O.K.U. Honor Fraternity,
American Academy of Dental Science (fellow), Military Surgeons,
Harvard Club of Quincy; Milton-Hoosic Club; Milton Town Club,
Harvard Dental Alumni Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Paper on “The Technique for Mixing Cements and Amalyams
and Their Uses.”

LEAVING the Class in 1930 with some regrets, after taking
eleven courses in two years, yet impatient because of the desire to
get on with my chosen profession, I entered the Dental School
and found my marks improve to the point where, on graduation,
I received the Harvard Dental Alumni Association Medal and the
O.K.U. Honor Key. These honors were due in no small part to
my wife. At the end of my freshman year in Dental School, I
married the girl who then, as now after twenty-five years,
worked with and for me to help make my career a success, My
achievements have been a direct result of her encouragement and
assistance.

After graduation from the Dental School in 1934, I decided
not to take the state board exams, having exhausted myself try-
ing for honors, but being urged by my wife to take them any-
way without studying, I did, and passed. Before hanging out
my shingle, I interned at the Forsythe Dental Infirmary and did
some research on dental caries. This ended with a chance to go
into private practice and an appointment (part-time) to the
faculty of the Dental School. As the years rolled by and my
practice increased, it seemed as though my obligations ta my
fellow-men increased. Thus I took on ‘the job of establishing and
supervising a free dental clinic at the Boys’ Club of Boston, two
nights a week, as well as giving up one night a week to the Bur-
roughs Newsboys Clinic at Harvard.

January 23, 1939, heralded the first great event in our hives:
After eight years of marriage our first child, a son, was born —
the first for Harvard, we hope. Since he was named Claude Wes-
ton, 3d, we called him the crown prince. Seventeen months later,
June 6, 1940, we were again blessed —a second son for Elfir-
vard, John Hadley — and truly “our cup runneth over.”

My humanitarian instincts had also run over, ta the pout

[ 1119 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

where I was never home, day or night. Thus I readjusted my

perspective, gave up all the clinic work, vestryman of the church,

civilian defense and scoutmaster, to devote some time to my fam-
ily —and then came the war. This called for new resolves, so

I became examining dentist for the Milton Draft Board for two

years, after which I resigned, and then after resigning from the

faculty of the Dental School I was commissioned a lieutenant
in the Navy. “Join the Navy and see the world” —I did — from
Sampson to the West Coast to a cruiser in the South Pacific, and
all the islands from the New Hebrides through the Carolines to
the Marianas, and then Samoa, the latter being the only real
island paradise in existence — Robert Louis Stevenson knew what
he was doing. Early in 1946, my ship was transferred to the At-
lantic Fleet, so back to the West Coast, through the Canal and
a glorious reunion with my wife in Philadelphia. Before separa-
tion from the service I was promoted to lieutenant commander
and, still being in the Reserve, was again promoted to commander
in July, 1955. Throughout all these travels I met only one college
classmate — Wheeler (Chem. 22), one of our finest men — whose
untimely fate in the Adriatic after the end of the war proved the
futility of it all.

Readjusting to civilian life, particularly starting over in prac-
tice, proved quite a task, but with the help of my ever-under-
standing and long-suffering wife — “you can tell a Harvard Man
but you can’t tell him much,” it was duly accomplished. During
the interim, we managed a trip to Cuba one year and a month in
Nassau another year. We were supposed to have a daughter,
September 15, 1947, but it turned out to be our third son, Bruce
Weatherburn, and the third for Harvard, if education does
not revert to the nobility once more because of expense. In
1953 we invested in a place in New Hampshire to give our sons
wider latitude and to assure ourselves of a vacation annually.
I’m not sure that the latter has worked out, but what with swim-
ming, fishing, boating and mountain climbing in summer, and
skiing in winter, the former has been achieved.

At present we are enjoying life through our sons who are
very sports-minded. I can still play a little tennis and squash
with the two older ones, and my wife “never goes to anything

[ 1120]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

but athletic events. The crown prince will be ready for Harvard
next September and has received two M’s in football from Mil-
ton Academy. John, at Thayer, has received his J.V. letter in
football. Bruce, at Milton, is trying to surpass both. More im-
portant, however, is that they are doing even better scholastically,
I am happy to say.

Hobbies — my practice, my family, sports and music.

Social Convictions — Society as a whole and the mores of our
civilization (?) if allowed to maintain their present trend will end
up like the Roman Empire. We need to find inner peace and un-
derstanding within ourselves first and then it would automatically
follow with our fellow-men.

Political Convictions — politics still stink. The handful of few
men with integrity aren’t even in the game, but we are grateful
for them. As for that piano-playing haberdasher, the glorified
ward heeler, the shining light of the Democratic party —he
smells worst of all.

Religious Convictions —“Ah Wilderness.” I have gone from
a confirmed heretic, wallowing in science while in college, to a
confirmed believer in God. I have seen and felt personally the
results of His wondrous works.

In retrospect, would I do it all over again — Harvard — mar-
riage to the same girl — dentistry? An unqualified, yes, and I
only hope our children will do it better.

GEORGE RAYNOR THOMPSON

HOME ADpRESS: 309 Oak Drive, Falls Church, Va.

BORN: Sept. 8, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: George David Thompson,
Phoebe Brown.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1932; Pt.D. (Princeton
Univ.), 1941.

MarrieD: Mary Elizabeth Zeigler, 1945, Woodstock, Va. cumprex: Wilson
Raynor, 1946; Jean Elizabeth, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Government historian.

AFTER various teaching experiences since 1932, teaching Latin
and sciences at Emerson School, Exeter, New Hampshire, Tors

[ rr21 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

School, Port Deposit, Maryland, and Englewood School, Engle-
wood, New Jersey, I took my Ph.D. in Classics (ancient science)
at Princeton in 1941. During the following year I was a Carne.
gie fellow in the History of Graeco-Roman Science at the Johns
Hopkins Institute of the History of Medicine. From 1943 to
1946 I served as a communications officer in the Navy.

Since 1946 I have served as a government historian, first in
naval communications and since 1947 in the Army, working on
Signal Corps history. I am presently the chief of the Signal Corps
Historical Division. The first volume of the Signal Corps’ share
of the U.S. Army In World War II historical series, The Signal
Corps: The Emergency, was published in October, 1956. The
second volume, The Signal Corps: The Test, will be published
by the Government Printing Office early in 1957, I hope. The
third and final volume is still in preparation.

WILLIAM CRUM THOMPSON

HOME ADDRESS: 3 Villa Boissiere, Paris XVI, France.

Born: Aug. 9, 1911, Boise, Idaho. PARENTS: John Morrow Thompson, Helen
Crum.

PREPARED AT: Thacher School, Ojai, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.
occupation: Musician, .

WILLIAM LELAND THOMPSON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Box 526, R.D. 1, Rensselaer, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: John L. Thompson Sons & Co., 161 River St., Troy, N.Y.

BORN: Dec. 4, 1909, Troy, N.Y. parents: William Leland Thompson, '93;
Martha Groome.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

Marriep: Margaret Carr Leland, March 11, 1933, Saranac Lake, N.Y. (died
Jan. 5, 1938); Maris W. Townsend, June 3, 1939, Merion, Pa. (di-
vorced 1952); Joan Sterling, Nov. 13, 1952, Greenwich, Conn. CHILDREN:
Maris Wistar, April 25, 1940; Susan Crosby, May 18, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Peter Schuyler Thompson, ’40.

OccUPATION: Secretary and sales manager, John L. Thompson Sons & Com-
pany, wholesale druggists,

[ 1122 ]

ce arhaggen gi erg PRN TTR ERENT TIPPEE TIT
seach fopyteranae rn ape me ecagt tet Tm m
sa maios

se cP ME en cE Ba ES

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Company of Military Historians and Collectors; American
Military Institute; Schidack Lodge No. 87, F. & A.M.

AN account of my life since graduation twenty-five years ago!!!
Has it really been that long since the day in June when, mirabile
dictu, permission was granted me to place an A.B. after my name?
Trying to conjure up the happenings of such a long period of
time is hke attempting to remember a dream on waking. It’s all so
vivid until you must be specific as to details. This is particularly
true of a bird like me who has not made much of an effort to
remember the past. Anyhow, here goes.

With the exception of a few hiatuses, I have labored continu-
ously in my family’s business of distributing medicines and such
“kindred” products as toothbrushes, golf balls, hairnets, baby
rattles, bug bombs, sunglasses, etc. All the things you can buy
in the modern drug(?) store. Add them all up and we carry
an inventory of thirty-five thousand plus items. Please don’t ask
what they are all used for. I should know just because my fam-
ily has been in the racket for a hundred and sixty years? We
merely sell ’em.

We lead rather a Charles Addams existence (no reflection on
you, Charlie) praying for epidemics, revelling in warm, slushy
winters or hay-feverish summers, chortling ghoulishly when we
hear that some poor soul may need a wheelchair. A burst appen-
dix which will need a constant change of dressings fills our
hearts with joy. We dote on straight dank hair which can only
be improved by the use of a home permanent. A sallow com-
plexion makes us drool because it fairly screams for lipstick
and rouge. Our outlook on life is a bit unusual but the business
is good and there’s money in it— for some —so what matters.
Or does it?

Aside from the fact that I am not crazy about this kind of
work, it has been very interesting. My job as sales manager has
taken me into every village and town in New York north of
Beacon and east of Oneonta. However, it has been confining
making trips to the outside world infrequently thereby virtually
cutting me off from my friends in the Class of 1932. A fact
which is much deplored and will be corrected in the future. I
have missed you all no end.

[ 1123 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

One of the hiatuses occured in 1936 when a move to Arizona
was indicated due to the health of my wife. There, among
other things, I studied for a Master’s degree at the University
of Arizona and tutored “juvenile delinquents” on the side. We
had plans to stay out there permanently, but the Powers had

other ideas and, in 1938, Margy died and I returned to Rensselaer
County alone.

I remarried shortly thereafter and life began again. In 1942,
while trying to pass the physical for the Army, it was discovered
that there was a tubercular lesion on one of my lungs and I ended
up in bed. Another hiatus of a year’s duration. The hectic
war years went by. The drug business prospered and continues
to do so. New drugs, new marketing techniques have played
a big part.

In 1952 I was divorced and remarried. In 1954 the family
interests in John L. Thompson Sons and Company were sold.
I was asked to continue on under the new management. That
brings my business life up to date.

My hobbies have been as varied as my business life has been
‘stereotyped. They fall into two categories, the military and
collecting. Before entering the freshman class in 1928, I enlisted
in the National Guard and stayed with it until the war. When
tuberculosis closed the door on any service with the Armed
Forces, I went into the State Guard and have been there ever
since. At present I am the C.O. of the Third Service Command,
one of five in the state. The military slips over into my col-
lecting field, too, because the painting of miniature figures —
lead soldiers to you—has a fascination for me as do prints of
military uniforms. My field is the American Army in both cate-
gories. Then as sort of a sideline to this, I seem to have acquired
quite a goodly quantity of books relating to the American
Revolution and the War Between the States. The shelves on the
other side of the library seem to be pretty well filled with Ameri-
can First Editions and the dining room cupboard has in it a lot
of early American blown glass. All of this keeps us poor as
church mice, and though I'll never be an A. Edward Newton or a

McKearin or a Freeman, I’ll bet the satisfaction derived is equal
to that of any of theirs,

[1124]

:
a
&
‘
5

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
Joan, my wife, is a collector in her own right concentrating
on china and American antiques. By training she is an artist and
fashion designer. At present she is the subscription manager for

a Jaw book publishing firm in Albany hoping to return to her
art work.

My elder daughter, Wissie, is at Chatham Hall in Virginia try-
ing to keep out of trouble, while Sue is studying at Agnes Ir-
win’s in Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania. My stepdaughter Sue, yes,
90th answer to the same name when they answer, is doing well
t Stoneleigh-Prospect in Greenfield, Massachusetts.

You asked for it. There it is for what’s it’s worth.

ROBERT BRUCE THOMSON

ME ADDRESS: 48 S. Brunswick St., Old Town, Maine.

"ICE ADDRESS: University of Maine, Orono, Maine.

N: July 28, 1912, Providence, R.I. parents: William Robertson Thomson,
Frances Melchert.

2ARED AT: University School, Bridgeport, Conn.

RS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: AB. curt laude, 1932; LLB. 1936.

riED: Arline Kenyon Clough, Feb. 3, 1944, New York, N.Y.

rPATION: Assistant professor of government, University of Maine.

“ES HELD: Instructor in government, 1947-50, assistant professor of gev-
srmment, since 1953, University of Maine; U.S. Army Aur Force, 194:
6.

ER experimentation in many fields — law, literature, social
se and others—I have found the academic life to be the
satisfying. I enjoy teaching and the contact it gives with
> and fresh minds. My work here at the University of
: is principally in the areas of political philosophy, com-
ye government and public law. From 1950 to 1953 I did
ite study in public law and government at Columbia Un-
ve been spending summers at Port Clyde, Maine, where
e an old house overlooking the mouth of the St. Georze
My hobbies remain much as they were in college divs:
orts and the theatrical arts, My wife is an artist and ils:
{ books, and we have been able to develop a rich nds

7 pattern of life.

[ 1125 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

HAMILTON THORNQUIST

HOME AppreEss: 3 Alwington Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Ford Motor Co., 183 Middlesex Ave., Somerville, Mass.

BorN: March 15, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Carl Jacob Thornquist, Lillian
Hamilton.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932.

marrieD: Carolyn Day, June 29, 1935, Cape Neddick, Maine. cup: Karen,
March 22, 1943. .

occupaTion: Automobile manufacturing, manager of industrial relations,
Somerville Assembly Plant, Ford Motor Company. .

OFFICES HELD: Member of corporation, United Community Services, Boston;
member, Personnel Board, Town of Brookline, Mass.

MEMBER OF; Harvard Club of Boston; The Country Club, Brookline; Annis.
quam Yacht Club.

THE time was mine, and what did I do with it? A quarter
of acentury. Miniscule in geological terms. Alexander the Great
was but twenty-three when he died — and he had conquered half
the known world. But he was the son of a king, and Aristotle
was his tutor. Under those circumstances even I might have
done better at college. Oh, well. C’est c’a/ (Stand back, Walter
Mitty.)

* * * *

When I left college I knew I wanted to be a newspaperman,
and I knew I wanted to be with the Boston Evening Transcript.
It was two years before an opening occurred. Those years were
filled with junior experiences on other newspapers. (I remember
when I was hired for my first job, and the boss said, “All right,
Thornquist, you're hired. Now you went to Harvard, didn't

ou?” I said yes, my bright little face shining all over, and he
said, “Well, Pll give you thirty days to get over it.’’)

Life was fun then, in a dynamic nation bursting the bonds of
depression, We were married in 1935, when my salary had been
raised to thirty-five dollars a week and we had a year’s rent in
the bank. I wonder if we'll ever be that rich again. (Thick lamb
chops at Sage’s in Cambridge — fourteen cents apiece.) Life
was fun, but in early 1939, when I was news editor, the fun be-
gan running out. War became obvious. I rejoined the Naval
Reserve, volunteered for active duty in November of 1940, and

[ 1126 ]

sey oer “4

: shee eR NTT TTT
aroecweemtcarae aise

ay ree Ae wut emnbon age” #28275 real

sp othe ar nugBR Cape ME a INE

amr eg Fm A

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

emerged a commander in the winter of ’45, after varied service
afloat and ashore, with seven Battle Stars, a Purple Heart, many
wonderful memories and an extremely high regard for the over-
all devotion-to-duty and proficiency of our Armed Services.

While I was in the Service the century-old Transcript had
folded —a regrettable loss to the community. During the last
sixteen weeks of my terminal leave from the Navy — in the fall
and winter of 1945 —I was enrolled in the Advanced Manage-
ment Program at the Harvard Business School, and apparently
convinced the professors I was relatively sentient, for they passed
me. Right afterwards, I spent a very enjoyable eighteen months
in the advertising business, a very pleasant six months newspaper-
ing in Wilmington, Delaware, and then joined the Ford Motor
Company.

Ford was attractive for two reasons: first, it was in Boston
(and being in Boston means a lot to us), and second, I wanted to
have a small part in something significant. It seemed to me that
what happened in the United States was about as important as
anything in the world, what happened in the United States would
be influenced largely by what happened in management and
labor, and what happened to management and labor would be
influenced importantly by what happened at Ford. Therefore,
a part in the labor-management relationships at Ford would be
challenging. I joined the Industrial Relations Department at
Ford’s Somerville Assembly Plant in 1948, spent 1949 and half
of 1950 on the central staff in Dearborn, Michigan, and returned
as manager of industrial relations at Somerville. I’ve been there
ever since, and it’s been i inspiring and disappointing and fascinat-
ing. Fascinating because you ’re in the great currents that make
this country able to lend its power towards bringing peace to
this world of ours, inspiring because you're part of an honest
attempt to recognize the dignity and power of man in our de-
vouring mass-economy, disappointing because human beings
sometimes let you down, and because sometimes it’s hard not
to let them down, too.

With this has gone participation in community relations with
the company, and participation in the various activities that en-
gulf us all—I was chairman of the Industrial Division of the

[1127 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Community Fund the year Charlie Devens ran the show. I’m
currently a member of our new Personnel Board in the Town
of Brookline, and I’ve served as chairman of the Standing Com-
mittee of our First Church in Chestnut Hill.

Our company interest, and our own personal interest, in unified
campaigns has led us to devote considerable time and effort to-
wards a real one-for-all community campaign in Greater Boston,
and I’m glad to see that others apparently are on the point of
achieving this very end. Incidentally, it seems to me that sooner
or later, if we’re going to support all these causes and at the
same time avoid government control, we’re going to have to de-
velop a quasi-governmental civic group that will by common
consent determine the funds necessary to support all the good
works of a community and then extract from all the citizens
thereof their fair share of the cost.

There’s twenty-five years. I hope the next twenty-five are
as good. I know they will be, for as the years grow on, the fun
and warmth of being together grows with them.

Our home fits us and pleases us. I enjoy fighting the lawns
and shrubs and the gardens. I still haven’t been licked by a bliz-
zard, although the shovel is heavier and the battle takes longer.
I enjoy making repairs and improvements (?) to the house.
Carolyn used to beat me at tennis, and the other day Karen did
the same, but I can still take her at acey-ducey, and we all still
enjoy sailing and swimming — anything to do with the sea, in
fact. Pve just about given up golf because there’s so little time,
and I’m temperamentally unsuited to that 4-11-3-4-12 routine. |
get mad.

The real warmth of friendship has grown with the years, too
— and it’s been particularly enjoyable to work with classmates
on our T'wenty-fifth planning. We look forward to a very

pleasant spring. I’m afraid we're rather proud of our acquain-
tance with Harvard.

[1128 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES STEAD THORNTON

HOME ADDRESS: Gambier, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kenyon College, Gambier, Ohio.

BORN: July 22, 1910, Skipton, England. parents: Stead Thornton, Frances
Ann Collier.

PREPARED AT: Wilmington High School, Wilmington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; A.M. (Princeton
Univ.), 1936; PH.D. (ibid.), 1937.

marrieD: Mary G. Tyler, Dec. 29, 1937, Gambier, Ohio. cHitpREN: Tyler
Stead, May 29, 1939; Patricia Ann, March 30, 1943; Margaret, May 11,
1945.

occuPATION: Professor of biology, Kenyon College.

OFFICES HELD: Member Governing Board, Ohio Biological Survey, since
1937; Committee on Graduate Studies, Ohio College Association, since
1947; research grants: American Cancer Society, 1949-51, National In-
stitutes of Health, 1954-60, National Science Foundation, 1955-57; Ful-
bright professor, Faculty of Medicine, University of Cairo, Egvpr,
1952~53; UNESCO lectures, Beirut, Damascus, Istanbul and Nicosia,
1953; board of advisers, Franz Theodore Stone Laboratory, since 1955.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Zoologists, Society for the Study of De-
velopment and Growth; Ohio Academy of Science (fellow); The
Wilderness Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Some thirty papers, reports and demonstrations in Journal of
Experimental Zoology; Journal of Morphology, Anatomical Record,
Biological Bulletin, and others. Editor, “Regeneration in Vertebrates,”
a symposium given at the First International Congress of Development
Biology, Providence, 1956.

+ NICHOLAS JARROT TIFFANY

BoRN: March 17, 1910, St. Louis, Mo. PARENTS: George Shepley Tiffany, ‘90,
Marie Schalon.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931.

pieD: Feb. 24, 1933, Glen Cove, Long Island, N.Y.

CALVIN SYLVESTER TILDEN, JR.

HOME apprEss: 17 Middlesex Ave., Swampscott, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: National Can Co., 61 Sherman St. Malden, Mass.
BORN: Aug. 23, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Calvin Sylvester Tilden, ‘9’,

Mary Elizabeth Murphy.
[1129]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

marrigD: Cleora Veach, Aug. 25, 1941, Willard, N.C. cuttpren: Julia Ann,
Oct. 7, 1942; Thomas Veach, June 30, 1945; Richard Calvin, 2d, Oct. I,

1947.

occuPATION: Electronics buyer.

MEMBER OF: Civil Air Patrol.

AFTER leaving Harvard at the end of my sophomore year |
worked as a ticker clerk in the Boston News Bureau for some
five years. In 1941 I went to the General Electric Company in
Lynn, Massachusetts, and stayed there during the war years in
production work, also serving in the Massachusetts State Guard,
After a few years with Sylvania in the Electronics Division, |
landed at National Can Company, as a buyer in the purchasing de-
partment, an interesting and lively job. I had acquired one wife,
a rebel from North Carolina, and in due course, one blonde (girl)
and two brunettes (boys). At fourteen the blonde looks me in
the eye, and the doctor says the two brunettes will grow to be
over six feet. Since I am five-foot-eight, this portends an in-
triguing situation to come.
As for outside interests, I am financial secretary for my church
building fund, a job that promises to go on indefinitely. I have
also been active in Civil Air Patrol and am, at present, a lieutenant
colonel assigned as inspector general for New England. | find
that the above assortment, along with the most arrogant cat in
Essex County, keeps me well-occupied.

WILLIAM ROBERT TIMKEN

HOME ADpREsS: R.D, 1, Canton, Ohio.
OFFICE ADDRESS: % Timken Roller Bearing Co., Canton 6, Ohio.

BORN: March 5, 1910, Canton, Ohio, parents: Henry H. Timken, Edith
Kitzmiller.

prePaRED AT: Adirondack-Florida School, Onchiota, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1033. DEGREE: A.B., 1932 (33).
marrieD: Mary Jackson, June 13, 1935, Cleveland, Ohio, cHitpren; Edith

Marter, Nov. 16, 1936, William Robert, Jr, Dec. 21, 1938; Ward
Jackson, April 22, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Henry H. Timken, Jr. ’30; John Marter Timken, '36

[ 1130 ]

  

mee vaprceosspreniben, Heh, th

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER graduating from Harvard I attended the Business School
during 1934-35. Since September, 1935, I have been employed
by the Timken Roller Bearing Company, being elected a direc-
tor in 1936 and vice-president in 1941.

My daughter, Edith, is in the junior class at the University of
Hawaii; William Robert, Jr., is a freshman at Stanford Univer-
sity; and Ward Jackson is at Westminster Academy.

PHINEAS TOBE

HOME ADDRESS: 14. Wyllis Ave., Everett 49, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: East Boston High School, White Street, East Boston 28,
Mass.

BORN: Nov. 16, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Samuel Tobe, Esther Gold-
stein.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930, 1931-1933. DEGREES: A.B. 1932(33); ED.M.
(Teachers Coll., Boston), 1935.

MarRiED: Mary Estelle Caroselli, Nov. 29, 1939, Everett, Mass.

OccuPATION: Head of Science Department, East Boston High School.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, since 1950, member, board of directors, since
1954, Civic Symphony Orchestra of Boston.

MEMBER OF: Eastern Association of Physics Teachers; Military Order of the
Purple Heart, Massachusetts State Coaches Association, Boston High
School Coaches Association; Civic Symphony Orchestra of Boston;
Little Symphony Society of Boston; Amateur Chamber Music Players,
Boston Aid to the Blind, Inc.

I WAS a charter member of the Depression Class of 1932; in
fact, economic necessity forced me out of college for a year in
1930 and delayed my graduation until 1933. The same pecuniary
pinch forced me to rule out graduate study at a medical school
and enter Teachers College instead. I have been very happy in
the field of education. The free time which it allows gives me
an opportunity to pursue to the fullest my twin hobbies of
athletics and music.

In November, 1943, Uncle Sam made some demands on my
time, two years of it to be exact. Basic training found me using
my education to good advantage. The K.P.’s who possessed only
one college degree washed dishes, but intellectual snobs like me,
possessors of two degrees, enjoyed the special prerogative of

[ 1131 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

scouring pots and pans. Eventually, the 69th Tank Battalion, 6th
Armored Division, claimed me as a radio repair man. I was

rendered hors de combat for a month when I forgot to duck g
high pitch while attempting to reduce the Bulge near Bastogne.
Fortunately, I was able to return to complete my government.
sponsored tour of the European Theatre of Operations.

My teaching of physics and chemistry at South Boston High
School was resumed in December, 1945. In addition I assumed
the duties of assistant baseball coach. Two years ago, I became
head coach and took a championship team into the quarter-finals
of the State Tournament. Last year I was selected to coach
the Boston Conference All-Stars in their annual game with the
Catholic All-Stars at Fenway Park. My coaching career came
to a sudden end in September, 1956, when I was appointed head
of the Science Department at East Boston High School after

seventeen years at rival South Boston High.

Music is my principal hobby. I had been a boy violinist but
“threw in the towel” at the age of thirteen when I found that
I couldn’t divorce myself from the baseball diamond for thirty
minutes to saw away on the fiddle. I have been studying serious-
ly again for the past ten years and trying my wife’s patience
with daily practice sessions. Playing in the Civic Symphony Or-
chestra of Boston and the Little Symphony Society takes most

of my spare time as well as affording me much pleasure and re-
laxation.

 

One of the joys of teaching school is the long summer vacation.
Since 1942 my wife and I have spent a very pleasant eight

weeks each year at a boy’s camp in New Hampshire where | di-
rect the athletic program.

My pet charity is Boston Aid to the Blind, Inc., where I serve |
the visually handicapped in a volunteer capacity. |
i
|
4
i
i

WILLIAM JOSEPH TOOHEY

HOME AppRESS: 5646 Rockett St., Lakewood 11, Calif.

BORN: Dec. 19, 1912; London, England. parents: Frank Toohey, Jessie Irons.
prepareD AT: Acton High School, Acton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE; A.B., 1932.

[1132]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CURTIS NYE TOWNSEND

HOME ADDRESS: 24 Pine Ridge Rd., Arlington 74, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 24 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 23, 1910, Medford, Mass. parents: Walter Smart Townsend,
Elsie Jacobson.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

+ ROBERT LAWRENCE TRACY

BORN: Sept. 29, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTs: Neil Joseph Tracy, Grace
Phalen.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933. DEGREE: A.B., 1932 (33).

MARRIED: Catherine Elizabeth Mara, Feb. 14, 1942, Boston, Mass. cHi_pren:
Mara, Sept. 10, 1943; Ellen Roberta, Jan. 21, 1945 (died May 14, 1945).

pieD: Killed in action, Dec. 23, 1944.

TRACY was inducted into the Army in 1942. He was commis-
sioned a second lieutenant, A.A.A., and later promoted to first
lieutenant, transferred to the Infantry and sent overseas. He was
captured during the Battle of the Bulge and killed by allied
bombs while in a Prisoner of War Camp. He was awarded the
Purple Heart posthumously. He was survived by his wife and
daughter.

WILLIAM BRADFORD TRAFFORD

HOME ADDRESS: 19 Larch Row, Wenham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Peabody, Brown, Rowley & Storey, 201 Devonshire St.,
Boston 10, Mass.

BorN: March 22, 1910, New York, N.Y. parents: Perry Davis Trafford, "8.
Grace Elizabeth Meeker.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N. H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 19323 LL.B., 1936.

marrieD: Abigail Ingalls Sard, Jan. 23, 1937, Washington, D.C. crutorey:
Abigail, July 14, 1940; Elizabeth, March 16, 1945; William Bradford,
Jr.. July 28, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Perry Davis Trafford, Jr., ’25.

[ 1133]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

occUPATION: Lawyer, general practice.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Visiting Committee, Music Department, Harvarg
College; member executive committee, New England Conservatory of
Music; secretary, Boston Opera Association; trustee, New England

Opera Theatre; director, Massachusetts Society for Prevention of
Cruelty to Children.

MEMBER OF: American Law Institute; Boston Bar Association; Law Dinner
Club; Ski Club Hochgebirge; Tavern Club.

SOON after graduating from the Law School in 1936, I ac.
quired a domicil in New York City and a job as a law clerk to the

Honorable William Clark who had recently become one of the
judges of the Third Circuit Court of Appeals. The job with its
puzzling contrasts between the logic of argument and the logic
of decision was a most fortunate one for a young lawyer. So, too,
was the domicil, a powerful antidote to eight years of Bostonian
education. At about the same time, I also acquired a wife and,
as events have proved, in that I was more fortunate. My cletk-
ship with Judge Clark ended in due course, and I took up the
practice of law in the catch-as-catch-can atmosphere of the New
York City Corporation Counsel’s office. In addition to defending
the City at the rate of two trials per week, my municipal duties
ranged from being a compulsory volunteered civil defense fire-
man to serving on occasion with the claque for visiting dignitaries.
Meanwhile my eldest daughter was born, my wife and I set about
raising her, and we lived on accordingly until the war.

In 1942 I joined the ski troops and spent the next two years
at Camp Hale in Colorado. It soon became apparent that a ski
trooper’s life included many time-consuming, extra-curricular
activities having to do with sergeants, mules, drills, inspections,
and the like, not to mention a great deal of plodding up and
down hill carrying heavy loads to no apparent purpose. Even
military skiing such as it was turned out to be a chore — there
had to be an Army way for that, too. But if you like mountains
there are worse places than Colorado. In the spring of 1944 the

Mountain Infantry regiments were reorganized. Mine was .

broken up and some of us second lieutenants were actually given
a choice of either transferring out to other units still in training
or remaining with the reorganized ski troops. The issue was
crystal clear to all concerned: which course would best evade

[1134]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the replacement system and keep us out of the shooting war the

longest? I was convinced that staying on at Camp Hale sub-

merged in the secluded backwater of mountain warfare was

the only sensible choice. A friend was equally convinced that

he could transfer out and become indispensable to some outfit
in the earliest stage of training. We argued bitterly for hours,
each astonished at the other’s folly, and ultimately went our
separate ways. A few months later, in July to be exact, our paths
crossed again in the flatlands of Normandy where we reported
simultaneously for combat duty with the Ninth Infantry Divi-
sion. After that I put in a total of about six months as a line rifle-
company officer, not including time spent in the hospital for
a slight wound; and at the end served about three months on the
battalion staff. There was hard fighting going on most of this
time, and in a sense I got used to it, thanks to the example and
instruction of the “old soldiers” in the Ninth. These formed
groups in which morale was sustained not by leadership, patriot-
ism, anger, or military efficiency, but rather by a matter-of-fact
combination of relentless common sense and impersonal pity.
The combination is a rare one; and the fact that many such
groups existed — the Germans had them, too — still impresses me
as the most important unexplained feature of the war.

Late in 1945, by accident of the housing shortage rather than
any design to cut loose from New York, I settled down outside
of Boston and went to work as a lawyer with my present firm.
My family now included a second daughter born during the
war. As the years went by, I found that there was time left
over for a little small-boat sailing, some skiing, some reading,
some meddling in town affairs as town counsel, and more amateur
music than I like to admit. This last led to serving on the boards
of various musical organizations, and thus becoming indirectly
engaged in the task of finding out how, if at all, music with its
living and dead composers, its professional and amateur perform-
ers, and its sensitive and insensitive listeners can be made to fit
into the economic and technological scheme of things.

In 1955 George Homans announced with inimitable emphasis
that after a dramatic lapse of ten years he was again about to be-
come a father. For once I was able to top him by replying

[1135 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

casually that the same thing was about to happen to me. It did
and there have been many compensations. For example, in her
recent best seller, Mrs. Lindbergh likens the busy parent to the
oyster imprisoned in its durable, but ugly shell. After that, she
suggests, there lurks a possibility of achieving resemblance to the
argonaut or paper nautilus, a rare creature not fastened to its
shell at all; “Almost transparent, delicately fluted like a Greek
column, this narcissus-white snail shell is feather light as some
coracle of ancient times, ready to set sail across unknown seas...
Can we middle-age argonauts when we outgrow the oyster bed,
look. forward to the freedom of the nautilus who has left its
shell for the open seas?” I have been reprieved from this fancy
prospect and can remain content with my oyster-like lot.

JOHN HUGH TUCCI

HOME ADDRESS: 95 Whitman Ave., Whitman, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Brockton Hospital, 680 Centre St., Brockton, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 23, 1911, New York, N.Y. parents: Peter Paul Tucci, Virginia
Margaret Golluscio.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High & Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932 (33); M.D.

marriep: Geraldine Groves, July 17, 1936, Tilton, N.H.; Sara Helen
Dugan, March 1, 1952, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN: Paul Douglass, May
23, 1941; Peter John, Feb. 23, 1954, Mark Stephen, Dec. 30, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Physician, anesthesiologist; chief of anesthesia, Brockton Hos-
pital, chief consultant (anesthesia), Veterans Administration, Brockton.

OFFICES HELD: Clerk of the Vestry, St. Paul’s Episcopal Church, Brockton;
secretary-treasurer, Massachusetts Society of Anesthesiologists; master,
Hesperia Lodge, AF. & A.M. Boston; delegate (Mass.), American
Society of Anesthesiologists, 1952-57; member of council, Massachusetts
Medical Society; trustee, Episcopalian Club of Massachusetts.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts, New England and American Society of Anes-
thesiologists; Plymouth County Medical Society; Massachusetts Medi-
cal Society; American Medical Society; Masonry; St. Paul’s Men's
Club; Episcopalian Club of Massachusetts; University Club of Brockton;
Old Colony Harvard Club (soon! ).

PusLications: Eleven published papers pertaining to anesthesiology to be
found in several specialty journals of the medical profession.

A MEDICAL case history, so absorbing to a physician, is the
dullest reading for lay consumption. Yet my thoughts, guided

[ 1136]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

by habit and training, relentlessly drag me along. I pray I do
not end with the familiar: “Diagnosis . . .” or worse yet, make
an erroneous one.

With the completion of my medical school training and in-
ternship, I opened an office for the practice of general medicine
in Dorchester in 1938. This soon expanded into two offices, and
then into three, all of them part-time experiences with much
effort and little compensation, either financial or spiritual. The
merry-go-round of those years merged with a prolonged illness
(courtesy of the Navy and the Brighton Marine Hospital) and
the advice in 1942 by an older and admired practitioner that
“general practice is only for healthy psychopaths” led me to
abandon my offices and return to postgraduate study.

At the robust age of thirty-two, I entered the Massachusctts
General Hospital again as an intern. The “whites” that looked
so glamorous a decade before now represented long days and
the difficult task of learning a new medical regime. And book
learning was an agony to this elderly man who was posing as a
beginner. And Parkman Street, my quarters, was almost un-
livable except that the Navy very thoughtfully peopled the next
apartment house with young cadet nurses. However, time heals,
and when my residency came to an end in 1944 and Father Faxon,
benevolent head of the General, asked me to remain on as “statT”’
I completely lost my head and said I would. As I look back, it
must have been only to get back at succeeding generations of
interns.

Life at the General moved smoothly and without fuss, as befits
the denizens reared so carefully under the shadow of the Fther
Dome. The proper friends, the proper clubs and the very proper
parties and the proper obeisances to the NAMES on the General's
imposing roster, and one day flows into another with scarcely a
ripple. Occasionally I felt of my chin to see if I had yet grown
that long white beard. Along about 1950 I decided to break my
cocoon and see the world. I did both. And as so often happens,
I found it in my back yard. Or so it would scem to date, for
my medical duties as chief of anesthesia at Brockton are beth
fulfilling and challenging. On the geographical f ringe of the great

teaching centers of Boston, we are close enough to sit occasional:

[ 1137]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

ly at the feet of some distinguished mentor, and yet far enough
away not to feel his hot breath on our neck as we pursue our
daily course.

Although I miss some of the more cultural aspects, or were
they merely time-consuming, of living on Beacon Hill, life as
a country squire is infinitely easier on the coronaries. Sixteen
acres of parkland lie before us, plenty of “cops and robbers”
room. My office is five minutes away on a State road, and our
big house enables us to live together or separately as we wish.
I have at last the room to pursue my hobby, that is, making more
rooms, And if one room, complete with furnishings, doesn’t
come out too well, we go on to another one. After five years, we
are still not half done but it has been a lot of fun. Old houses
grow on one,

This more leisurely life, devoid now of writing papers, pre-
paring lectures and endless hours in laboratories, has also given
me the opportunity of examining the philosophy and politics, or
should it be called statesmanship, of medicine. I am enjoying
fully my roles as councilor, delegate, and secretary, though I
may be donating only my time, an unfailing interest, and my un-
flagging enthusiasm. Too now, I am able to devote much more
time to my church and its work. I canvass for money and meet
stimulating people; I chaperone record hops and note (I almost
wrote, learn) what makes the younger generation tick. I sit on
my Vestry and bemoan our inadequacy both as Christians and
as givers to others. I have met more men and women and grown
to like them here in a few years than I did in Boston surrounded
by a million, I think I could easily become a country snob. In
short, we like it.

We have taken several long vacations since 1950. I introduced
Sara to the slot machines of Vegas and Reno, and she promises to
give me the fifty-cent tour of Germany soon, we hope. We at-
tended an Anglican Congress in Minneapolis and lived pleasantly
on the campus of the University of Minnesota for a week. We've
watched calypso in Bermuda and Dixieland jazz in Los Angeles.
And, further, I’ve traveled coast to coast a few times alone to
attend the annual meetings of my specialty.

Today (December 30, 1956), our second son, Mark Stephen,

[ 1138 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

was born to us and I may finish this ramble, started over a month
ago. Peter John, our first is almost three, his birthday four hours
too late to name him George Washington Tucci. Our big home
will again echo to the laments, parental and filial, of the two
aM. feeding. We are all comparatively healthy, relatively ex-
pansive and a very happy country family. We look forward
not only to our Twenty-fifth, but at this pace, to a vigorous
Fiftieth Reunion.

HAROLD McGREGOR TUKESBURY

HOME appREss: 89 E. Clinton Ave., Tenafly, N.J. .

OFFICE ADDRESS: J. Norwood Smith, Inc. 5 Beekman St., New York 38, N.Y.

BorN: March ro, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Harold McGregor Tukesbury,
Edith L. Nason.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; C.P.A. (New Jersey), 1952.

MARRIED: Beatrice McKinley Lightbowne, April 29, 1945, New York, N.Y.

OccUPATION: Director and officer, J. Norwood Smith, Inc., food exporters.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Shakespeare Club of New York, 1946-47; director,
J. Norwood Smith Export Corp., 1950-51; trustee and treasurer, First
Church of Christ, Scientist, Englewood, N.J. 1953-56; member, Har-
vard Schools Committee for Bergen County, N.J., since 1955; director,
vice-president and treasurer, J. Norwood Smith, Inc., since 1956, mem-
ber, American Institute of Accountants.

MEMBER OF: Local social clubs.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on Christian Science for the Christian Science
Publishing Society, Boston.

SINCE I studied —if that is the word I want— Romance
languages and French literature at Harvard with the thought that
it would come in handy in the exporting business, it will hardly
seem surprising that for a large part of the time since graduation
I have been a public accountant. (After all, I never cared for
mathematics.) However, on August 31, 1956, I resigned from m

job as office manager of a C.P.A. firm and went into the food ex-
porting business with an old friend from Bermuda, At this writ-
ing I am, I hope, the only unpaid vice-president in the Class of
"32. Fortunately, my wife who was Phi Beta Kappa at Barnard
(and, incidentally, never lends me the key), is starting her third

[ 1139 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

year at the local high school as director of dramatics and teacher
of speech. She gets paid.

Two recent auto trips to the West and Northwest have stimu-
lated a growing enthusiasm for the Rockies, in general, and for
Colorado, in particular. For exercise we do a little square-
dancing in the winter season and lots of swimming in the summer-
time. I'd like to play more golf but never can find the time for it.

In 1954 my first article on Christian Science was published in
the Christian Science Sentinel, the weekly publication of the
Christian Science Publishing Society. I have been seriously in-
terested in this religion for a number of years and am an active
church member, having served as treasurer and trustee of my

church and, at present, as a teacher in the Sunday School.

BARTHOLOMEW BENEDICT TURBET

LAST KNOWN AbpRESS: 378 Harvard St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 16, 1904, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Michael Turbet, Bridget
Galligan.

PREPARED AT: Pond School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932; A.M, 1935.

TURBET has been carried as a “Jost” man on our records since
1954.

TOM CLARENCE TURLAY, JR.

HOME Appress: 6805 N. Campbell Ave., Portland, Oregon.

BORN: Feb. 5, 1912, Portland, Oregon. PARENTS: Tom Clarence Turlay,
Josephine Chunaird.

PREPARED AT: Jefferson High School, Portland, Oregon.

OCCUPATION: Military Service.

GARDNER CLYDE TURNER

HOME ADpREss: Seward Mountain Farm, East Sullivan, N. H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee, Washington, D.C.

BorN: March 3, 1910, Ludlow, Mass. parents: Clyde Arnold Turner, Goldie
Estes Lord.

[ 1140 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.; Pond School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 19323 LL.B. 1935 (36).

marriED: Virginia Wells, Aug. 16, 1941, Keene, N.H.

occuPATION: Lawyer; counsel to the Minority U.S. Senate Appropriations
Committee. ,

OFFICES HELD: Attorney, associate in office of Philip H. Faulkner, 1937-42,
vice-president, New Hampshire Junior Chamber of Commerce, 1938-
41; Representative, New Hampshire Legislature, 1947-52 (majority floor
leader, Judiciary Committee chairman); New Hampshire attorney for
War Manpower Commission, 1945; chairman board of trustees, New
Hampshire State Industrial School, since 1951; member board of
trustees, Golden Rule Farm, since 1950; delegate, New Hampshire Con-
stitutional Convention, 1948, chairman, Interim Commission to study
tax exempt property, 1949-51; member, Governor’s Commission for
Reorganization State Government, 1949-50; member executive com-
mittee, New Hampshire State Republican Committee, 1949-50; chair-
man executive committee, Cheshire City Legislative Convention, Cheshire
City Republican Finance Chairman, 1948-50, member advisory board,
New England College, since 1954; selectman, 1947-49, road agent,
1953-54, Lown of Sullivan; chairman, Governor’s Joint Board of Con-
trol, since 1956; counsel, Investigations Committee, Senate Appropria-
tions Committee, 1954; director, New Hampshire Council of Towns,
1948-51, New Hampshire Citizens Council for the General Welfare,
1949-51, Business Properties, Inc. since 1948; treasurer, Bentwood

. Products, Inc., 1946-52. .

MEMBER OF: Harvard Alumni Association; Harvard Law School Association,
American, New Hampshire, and Cheshire City Bar Associations;
Monadnock Region Association; Society for the Protection of New
Hampshire Forests, Cheshire County Forestry Advisory Commission,
Harvard Club of New Hampshire; Monadnock Club; Boothbay Harbor
(Maine) Yacht Club; Old Dominion Boat Club; Alexandria Association;
Old Town Civic Association; New Hampshire Maple Producers’ As-
sociation; Farm Bureau Federation.

THE task of autobiographical writing is so appalling that I have
only now started it, after the fourth or fifth “goad” card. I
know, too, that if I do not get to it in the comparative quietude of
Seward Mountain Farm, I never shall in the maelstrom of Wash-
ington to which I must take off on January Ist to resume my
duties with the Senate Appropriations Committee, I suppose my
procrastination in performing the duty of the autobiographical
chore is due to my secret fear. I might, on reflection, have to
admit that twenty-five years, egad, have gone by without a
ripple caused by my passage through them or their passage over

[ 1141]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

activities on that score and I have a power cruiser there. Since
going to Washington, the boating urge even in the muddy Poto-
mac has been such that I have also got a small runabout for the
limited time I have for boating while there. I still get a kick out
of trying to move things forward governmentally, but find that
the mass is much harder to move in Washington than it was in
New Hampshire, At any rate, I determined to stick it out for
a while and have purchased a home at 106 Prince Street, Alex-
andria, Virginia, for use as Washington headquarters, again early
American.

To sum it all up, I have found very rewarding and soul satis-
fying a law practice on the one hand devoted to helping the
average man through the bewildering maze which the law pre-
sents to him in the three or four occasions in a lifetime when he
encounters it, and on the other hand actually participating in the
day-to-day job of helping to move forward governmental affairs
on either the state or federal level. The daily challenge and the
daily rub of new ideas fighting for their recognition in the age-
old struggle to form a more perfect government and body of
law are vastly stimulating, When a beautiful sunset comes and a
tall cool one is at hand either aboard Virginia II on the Maine
coast or Twink on the Potomac, in that moment of reflection I
think I would probably do it all over again.

EARL COTTIER TYLER

HOME ADDRESS: 33 Frances St., Needham 92, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 40 Water St., Boston 6, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 12, 1910, Dorchester, Mass, parents: Almond Wesley Tyler,
Ellen Gifford Cottier.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 19323 A.M., 1933; LL.B. (North-
eastern Univ. Law School), 1943; Diploma (Rutgers Univ, Graduate
School of Banking), 1951.

marriep: Priscilla Walmsley, July 3, 1936, Boston, Mass. cHiLpREN: Barbara
Ellen, Nov. 19, 1942; Robert Earl, May 5, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, National Shawmut Bank of Boston.

OFFIcEs HELD: Librarian, 1945-46, vice-president, 1946-47, Boston Chapter,
National Institute of Credit; instructor, Boston University School of
Business Administration, 1946-47.

[1144 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: National Institute of Credit (fellow); Boston Bar Association,
Society of Colonial Wars; Harvard Club of Boston; Honorable Order
of Kentucky Colonels; Bank Officers’ Association of the City of Boston,

pusLicaTions: “The Solicitation of National Commercial Accounts by the
Larger Banks,” Rutgers Graduate School of Banking thesis, 1958.

[O teach in private secondary school had been my boyhood am-
ition. Owing to the unpropitious economic climate of 1932, 1
90k cover under the academic umbrella to acquire my Master’s
spree. Emerging a year later into the cruel, unchanged world
.d, unwilling to settle for room, board and laundry, 1 abandoned
y frustrated pedagogical aspirations in search of a career in
siness. This I found after intensive pursuit at the National
awmut Bank of Boston. Starting as a messenger at fifteen
lars per week (thanks to F.D.R. and the N.R.A.), I gradually
2 through the ranks to my present position as vice-president.
the past decade I have traveled the Midwest, handling na-
al accounts and correspondent bank relations in that area.
salizing early in my business career the futility of a Romance
1age major, I sought to remedy my academic deficiency by
king on the study of law, enrolling in the evening session of
heastern University School of Law. After successfully pass-
1¢ Massachusetts Bar and seriously considering a few attrac-
vartime offers from leading Boston law firms to join their
I decided to remain in the banking business and, to date,
ad no regrets. In fact, banking has afforded me a most in-
ig and rewarding experience and is one career I should be

to have my son embrace.

medical doctor, whom I visit for a periodic physical,
ically prescribes for his male patients, interested in
‘y, the adoption and cultivation at the earliest possible
two hobbies, one sedentary and the other active. My
ry as a bed reader and as a do-it-yourself devotce around
e not construed by him as sufficiently compliant with
doctor’s orders. Accordingly, under these conditions ke
would not be inclined to guarantee my writing a Gold-
ersary Class Report. .
racterize the Tyler family is, indced, a dithcule task.
vith Priscilla, there’s a gal with hobbies and activites

[114s ]

ee 1

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

galore! Chief among them are instructing classes in dancing and
swimming, Scouting, art and furniture refinishing, not to men-
tion her church, school, civic and charitable endeavors. I'll have
to admit they keep her young in every respect, although “the
buttons and socks department” is sadly neglected.

Judging from the report of other parents with a fourteen-
year-old daughter and a son of nine, our life is “normal.” The
fact that our offspring often fail to respond too willingly to the
counsel of their elders is truly frustrating. Further, our alleged
senile attitude towards the problems of youth is frequently the
subject of comment, and we are accused of warped perspective,
being “in the youth of old age,” whereas we like to feel we are
only “in the old age of youth.” Parents of a sub-teen-age girl
today are prone to an ulcer or coronary by worrying over
daughter's complete disinterest in dolls and jump rope. She
insists upon being regarded by all as a sophisticated, adult young
lady, with her triple interests tolerated and respected (i.e, boys,
clothes and rock ’ roll “music” — so-called, that is). Barbara
does possess a few “vicarious” interests such as ice skating, swim-
ming and sewing. Her parents, however, become discouraged at
times trying to swim against the tide of “teen-agerism” and,
despite owning a few shares of A.T. & T., they rue the day Alex-
ander Graham Bell invented the telephone. Robert is a typical
boy —his life is big, with many possibilities. Currently fore-
most among them is an intense aspiration to pilot a space ship
capable of piercing the sound and light barrier. As of this writ-
ing, to attain membership in the Harvard Class of 1968, holds
no attraction whatever.

My religion is mostly in my wife’s name. Priscilla is a Chris-
tian Scientist and takes a most active interest in the Needham as
well as in the Mother Church. Yours truly is a life-long Episco-
palian and member (in good standing, I hope) of Trinity Church,
Boston. Politically, the Tylers invariably vote Republican, and
we like to feel we contributed in a small way to the recent
Eisenhower landslide.

Goethe once wrote: “He is the happiest, be he king or peasant,
who finds peace in his home.” Notwithstanding the foregoing
account, peace generally prevails in our little castle, all the mem-

[1146]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

bers of which, canine and feline alike, Pll have to admit, seem
most happy. So, despite disobeying the medic’s orders, maybe
this will insure my being around for the Fiftieth!

HOWARD ULFELDER

HOME AppRESS: 15 Sheffield Rd., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Vincent Memorial Hospital, Boston 14, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 15, 1911, Mexico City, Mexico, D.F. parents: Sidney Ulfelder,
Ethel May Housel.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; M.D., 1936.

MARRIED: Ethel Louise Huse, Aug. 18, 1932, Washington, D.C. cmtpren:
Howard, Jr., June 25, 1933; John Carleton, Jan. 16, 1941; William
Harrison, Jan. 13, 1948; Thomas Huse, Sept. 16, 1952.

- HARVARD son: Howard Ulfelder, Jr., 755.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon and gynecologist.

OFFICES HELD: Clinical professor of gynecology, Harvard Medical School,
since 1955; chief of staff, Vincent Memorial Hospital, since 1955; chief
of Gynecological Service, Massachusetts General Hospital, since 1955.

MEMBER OF; American College of Surgeons, Halsted Society; American
College of Obstetrics and Gynecology; Boston Surgical Society; So-
ciety of University Surgeons; Harvard Club; Duxbury Yacht Club.

puBLications: Az Atlas of Pelvic Operations, and numerous publications.

THIS essayist celebrated his graduation from college by getting
married and he has been celebrating ever since as the vital sta-
tistics above eloquently attest.

I entered Harvard Medical School in the fall of 1932 and
graduated four years later. From January, 1937, to August, 1941,
my time was spent at the Massachusetts General Hospital where
I occupied successively the positions of intern, assistant resident
and resident in surgery. I then joined in practice with Dr. Joe V.
Meigs of Boston who was the chief of gynecology at the Massa-
chusetts General Hospital.

This orthodox progress within a medical specialty was rudely
interrupted in May, 1942, when the reserve hospital unit to which
I was attached was called to active duty. I embarked on my mili-
tary career as a captain at Camp Blanding, Florida. Within a
month I was transferred to another hospital and by August,
1942, I was on my way in convoy to Ireland, where we serviced

[ 1147 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

the 34th Division while it trained for the landing in North Africa.
Our hospital unit thereafter served where it was needed, spend-
ing long periods in England taking care of the Eighth Air Force
B-17 groups, and later in an area where most of the armored
divisions paused on their way to Normandy. Transfers and pro-
motions took place occasionally and V-J Day found me a lieu-
tenant colonel and chief of surgery in a large general hospital
near the staging areas around Rheims, France. I had been over-
seas a total of thirty-seven months but within a few days of the
end of hostilities, the point system and the green plan picked
me up and whirled me to Wilmington, Delaware, where I crept
off the plane to be told that I was to be separated from the Army.
Within a few weeks I was back in harness as Dr. Meigs’ assistant
and thereby resumed my interrupted civilian medical career.
Since then I have not left the Massachusetts General Hospital and
Vincent Memorial Hospital (the latter is geographically within
the former and constitutes its gynecological service). Officially I
would be catalogued as a part-time member of the faculty of
Harvard Medical School, with my efforts distributed between
private practice, teaching of medical students and postgraduate
students, administration and clinical research, In July, 1955, I
was appointed chief of the Vincent Memorial Hospital to succeed
Dr. Meigs. My appointment at the Medical School was a promo-
tion to clinical professor of gynecology on the same date. This
change in status shifts the major emphasis to my administrative
and teaching responsibilities, At the same time I carry on the
private practice from which most of my income is derived and
supervise and guide the activities in a busy and well-known re-
search unit. I have been the author or co-author of a number of
articles on medical subjects and of one very successful book
called, An Atlas of Pelvic Operations. I revel in the feeling of
security and comfort which surrounds my present situation for
I know that J can devote the years between now and my death or
retirement without distraction to the job of making this the best
gynecological teaching service in the world.
We have four children, all boys, and all born at considerable in-
tervals from each other. This system has its obvious disad-
vantages but I suspect that the advantages more than outweigh

[ 1148 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

them and I think the children themselves may have profited by
this arrangement. The eldest is within a few credits of graduation
from Harvard, as of the Class of 1955, after interrupting his
college career to complete his military requirements. He has
earned my permanent respect and envy by doing this the hard
way, via paratroop school. The second boy is at Exeter and the
two postwar additions to the family are still very definitely in
rimary school.

I think I have more interests in non-medical subjects than the
average doctor and I have tried to read leisurely and extensively
in biography, science and philosophy. I have enjoyed inordi-
nately a number of hours that I have spent trying to produce
recognizable watercolor paintings. My summers speed by in
Duxbury and find me out-of-doors as much as possible fishing,
sailing or golfing, and doing all three equally poorly.

EDWARD SEYMOUR UNDERWOOD

HOME ADDRESS: 32 Station St. Sharon, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston University Junior College, 688 Boylston St., Boston,
Mass.

Born: Nov. 16, 1909, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Charles Marshall Under-
wood, ’oo, Dora Hobart Seymour.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932; A.M., 1939; ED.M., 1948;
ED.D. (Boston Univ.), 1954.

MarrieD: Anne Mathews, Sept. 6, 1939, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN: Charles
Marshall, zd, Aug. 27, 1941; Edward Seymour, Jr., Oct. 30, 1943; Anne
Maynadier, Sept. 1, 1945.

occupation: Professor of communications, member board of examiners,
Boston University Junior College.

MEMBER OF: American Psychological Association; Massachusetts Psycho-
logical Association; Phi Delta Kappa; Boston University F aculty; Har-
vard Varsity Club.

THE summer of 1932 found me attending summer school at the
School of Education. The results were happy enough to permit
me to return to Middlesex as an apprentice teacher. I am sure
I learned more that year than any of my students. After four
years at Middlesex, I returned to Cambridge, combining tutoring

[ 1149 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

and coaching tennis and squash with my first period of graduate
work. Accomplishments in 1939 included receiving the A.M.
degree, being appointed as a teacher in Lake Forest, Illinois, and
marrying Anne Mathews of Dedham. Needless to say, these ac-
complishments are in their chronological order rather than in
order of importance. The four years we spent near Chicago
were intcresting and happy ones. Chuck, our eldest, was born
while we were spending the summer of 1941 at Lake Geneva,
Wisconsin.

Most of the nearly four years of military service were spent
in San Antonio, Teddy and Nancy were born in military hos-
pitals there, One of our Texas friends remarked, as a result, that
although Anne and I were not Texans, we had the good fortune
to be related to Texans. Upon release from active duty in Feb-
ruary, 1946, I had a second semester appointment at Trinity
University which I left about a month later because of my
father’s illness, I returned once again to Cambridge to direct
his school and to begin another period of graduate work. Part-
time graduate study coupled with full-time work makes for long
hours, I am advising all my children to complete their graduate
work before raising their families. In 1949 1 was appointed to
the Boston University faculty and am still continuing with the
sane line of endeavor; ie. improving the reading skills of our
freshmen,

Our family is growing up. Chuck is a third classer at Middle-
scx and hopes to be a member of Harvard ’63. Chauffeuring him
to various tennis tournaments this summer was a pleasant duty,
and his performance was gratifying, especially in the doubles.
Ted and Nancy are in the Sharon schools and a whirl of activ-
ities is always in progress when they are home. We have been
season ticket holders at the Harvard football games for the last
ten years and have formed a solid block of five loyal rooters
over the period. Summers on the Cape or in New Hampshire
have been frequent. Life remains busy. To supplement pro-
fessional pay, I have done teaching at night and served as psy-
chological consultant to various public and private schools and
to a limited extent in industry. I have continued with the Air
Force Reserve and have been connected with the educational

[1150]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

guidance staff in the Boston area. Relaxation takes the form of
reading, bridge, tennis, and occasional attendance at sporting
events. All five of us eagerly await the days of the Reunion.

IRVINE FROST UPHAM

HOME ADDRESS; 1639 WV. Craig Pl., San Antonio, Texas.

orricg aporess: Alamo Paint & Wallpaper Co., 1119 W. Commerce, San
Antonio, Texas.

poan: March 11, 1910, Evanston, Ill, parents: Burt Frost Upham, Alice

Irvine.
XCUPATION: Business.

DONALD CHARLES URRY

OME ADDRESS: 6540 N. 14th St., Phoenix, Ariz.

FICE ADDRESS: Phoenix Newspapers, Inc. 120 E. Van Buren St., Phoenix,
Ariz.

aN: June 19, 1910, Brantford, Ontario, Canada. Parents: Charles Henry
Urry, Charlocte Loma Burbank.

EparED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

“AR$ IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1032.
arniep: Audrey Glenn, mM.v, May 28, 1938, Kalamazoo, Mich. cHILD:

Philip Glenn, July 29, 1950.
“UPATION: Editorial page editor, The Phoenix Gazette.
ICES HELD: President, Phoenix Community Council, 1954-56, member,
Military Manpower Section, Army Advisory Committee.
MBER oF: Arizona Press Club; Phoenix Press Club.
wicaTions: Occasional articles in Popular Mechanics, Farm Journal, edi-
tor and publisher of various trade magazines, contributor of annual
article on Arizona in American Peoples Encyclopedia Yearbook, since
1950.
mid-October as I write, the oranges in our grove are taking
their first pale coloring, the swimming pools are still busy, and
town is recklessly trying to overtake Los Angeles in size.
m May through September, one puts on a tie and coat to have
iotograph taken or to have dinner among the newer sophisti-
s who are lamentably changing the old order, Now and then
ve a twinge of nostalgia for the gorgeous seasonal differences

sew England. But it passes quickly, The summer heat 1s

[1151]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

tempered by refrigerated homes, offices and autos. The winters
are, as Bernard DeVoto might have put it, divine.

I may be the only Roxbury Latin grad who is doing exactly
what his class prophecy said he would — writing editorials for a
daily paper. A classmate at Roxbury Latin School said I had a
“pounding style.” During ten years here, with the help of my
colleagues and the citizenry, I have had a part in pounding out
some governmental reforms in this city and county; I have
pounded out the daily grist with a fortitude that could have come
only from the daily themes of Byron Hurlburt’s English com-
position course,

My first “job” was a fantastic three months apprentice teach-
er, for a free daily lunch, while I collected magazine rejection
slips in a Cambridge rooming house. In order to eat, I took a job
as clerk in a Detroit insurance office. They are still finding
policy cards that I misfiled. I devised a newspaper feature column,
took it to a daily publisher in Monroe, Michigan, and got a job
as cub. (The column never saw print.) In a year I was city
editor and the candle was burning freely at both ends.

One evening my dinner hosts took me to visit an accident victim
in a local hospital. A young woman doctor came in, I am still
happily married to her, We went to Kalamazoo where she had
taken over a practice, As it does most newspaper men, the green
fields of advertising tempted me. 1 worked with a national agency
for three years before I learned that no news story is as dull as
writing copy for gas wall heaters, dog food, or ice cream cartons.
The war had started in Europe and the F.B.1. was looking for
more agents, I tried, but they decided against it — wisely for
both of us. We wound up in Fort Wayne, Indiana, where I
worked nights for a morning paper and spent the days raising the
biggest tomatoes in Indiana and the most angelic English bulldog
that ever hid from a burglar.

The Army took me in 1943. Our office boy had already been
commissioned in public relations so I had high hopes. But a
Counter Intelligence Corps scout learned that I could speak some

French, and I went thataway, to the full hush-hush treatment in
the Chicago school and training camps of assorted nightmares.
Civilian clothes, hotel living, and requisitioned chateaux in Eng-

[1152]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

land and on the Continent made up for our shameful rank. I was

a corporal on the payroll when I had to baw] out a full colonel

in charge of a troop ship for a security infraction. Thanks to an
officer who used my French for collecting souvenirs and trading
off silk pajamas, I rose finally to technical sergeant. If we accom-
plished anything, it was in rooting out some hiding Nazis in
Germany after the surrender. If I was in any danger, it was
from crossing the Atlantic five holds down in a troop ship, from
riding in jeeps, or from climbing Jacob’s ladders on tankers and
Liberty ships. |

A prewar vacation in Denver had set our sights on the West.

My wife used the war years to become a specialist in anesthesi-
ology. Her best opportunities seemed to be in Salt Lake City and
Phoenix; we looked at both and chose Phoenix without hesitation.
She has been practising here ever since, except for a recent period
of illness, and was the first anesthesiologist in Arizona to become
a diplomate in that field. Two weeks after our arrival I got a job
on the newspapers here. We built our ranch house in a citrus
grove eight years ago when Phoenix was still almost small. Six
years ago our only child was born, a wonderful redheaded boy
with the heartbreaking handicap of a serious congenital heart
defect. Last summer, successful heart surgery in Los Angeles
lifted the fear under which we had lived and gave him the chance
of a fairly normal life.

We are both too busy professionally to have need of hobbies
— or time. We like to cook in the backyard; we swim when the
temperature gets above one hundred; we do a fair amount of
entertaining. An acre and a half of highly irrigated Arizona desert
made me give up golf some years ago. We don’t belong to coun-
‘ry clubs because the newspaper has its swimming pool and
‘ecreation area. Politically, we are independent voters. My wife
s an Episcopalian and, once in a while, so am I.

J. DEAN VAIL, JR.

OME ADDRESS: 573 Earlston Rd., Kenilworth, Il.
FFICE ADDRESS: Sidley, Austin, Burgess & Smith, 11 S. LaSalle St., Chicago 3,
Ill.

[1153 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

BorN: April 28, 1911, Goshen, Ill. Parents: J. Dean Vail, Mary Cornell.

PREPARED AT: New Trier Township School, Winnetka, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: AB. magna cum laude, 1932; J.
(Northwestern Univ.), 1936.

MarkiED: Barbara Adella Emerson, May 4, 1940, Highland Park, Ill. cuipren:
J. Dean, 3d, April 1, 1942; Robert Emerson, Sept. 6, 1945.

occuPATION: Lawyer; partner in firm of Sidley, Austin, Burgess & Smith.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of directors, Burgess Battery Company, Burgess
Cellulose Company, Gardner-Vail Inc., T. F. Washburn Company, vice-
president, Kenilworth Citizens’ Advisory Committee; member, Kenil-

worth Zoning Board of Appeals; member, Scholarship Committee, Har-
vard Club of Chicago.

MEMBER OF: Chicago, Illinois State and American Bar Associations; Legal
Club of Chicago; Law Club of Chicago; Executive Club of Chicago;
Harvard Club of Chicago; University Club of Chicago; Kenilworth

Club.

MANY plans of varying degrees of importance were postponed
or abandoned during the year 1932 in consequence of a wide-
spread shortage of money. These included my plans to commence
the study of law. A year later, in September, 1933, I entered North-
western University School of Law, financing this project through
a combination of scholarships, student loans, and part-time em-
ployment which had been made possible largely through the
advice and assistance of Dean Leon Green who had intervened
at a propitious moment to revitalize my stalled ambition to prac-
tise law. I received my J.D. degree from Northwestern in June
of 1936 and since that time have been continuously engaged in
the practice of law in Chicago. I have been associated with the
firm of Sidley, Austin, Burgess, and Smith since 1942 and have
been a partner in the firm since 1948. In modern law practice,
some degree of specialization is inevitable. I find myself in-
creasingly concerned with corporation law in general and with
corporation income tax law in particular.

In 1940 I succeeded in persuading the lovely girl I had been
pursuing relentlessly since 1937 to marry me. We have two
sons, aged fourteen and eleven, who have added immeasurably
to our happiness. Since the day the eldest of our two southpaws
struck out his first batter, my hobbies have been exclusively
“Little League” in character. My golf clubs gather dust in the
attic, but each autumn I have a wonderful time coaching a small
boys’ football team and each spring I have an equally wonderful

[1154]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

time coaching a Little League baseball team. Last year I held
the exalted position of ‘‘commissioner” of a baseball league com-
posed of fifth and sixth grade boys. I have reason to suspect that
the dismal showing I had made as a manager the preceding year
had much to do with my promotion. If I can talk my way into
another appointment as manager, things will be different this
year.

HOGHLAND VanNORDEN

HOME ADDRESS: 610 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 345 E. 46th St., New York, N.Y.

BorN: March 5, 1909, New York, N.Y. parents: Ottomar Hoghland Van
Norden, Jeanie Belle Duncan.

PREPARED AT: Gunnery School, Washington, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; PH.D. (Columbia Univ.),

19§2.

UNMARRIED,

OCCUPATION: Special assistant, Foreign Policy Association.

OFFICES HELD: Hanover Bank, 1932-35; broker, Pease & Elliman, Inc, 1935-
42, Charles Clark & Company, 1945-48; lieutenant commander, U.S.

Naval Reserve, 1942-45.
MEMBER OF: Racquet & Tennis Club; Holland Society; Sons of the Revolu-
tion; Academy of Political Science; American Historical Association.

I SHALL not attempt the altogether disturbing task of offering
a blow-by-blow description of my activities since graduation in
1932. Suffice it to say that I have remained a bachelor and a Re-
publican, that I still enjoy reading good books and the feel of a
cocktail glass in my hand.

But here are a few more details. From the time I left college
until 1948, with the exception of four years on active duty with
the Naval Reserve in the late war, I was engaged in business here
in New York City. Since then my principal interest has lain
within the field of education and historical research.

At present, I am furthering the efforts of the F oreign Policy
Association to increase the awareness of the American public of
the importance of the many questions of foreign policy confront-
ing them.

[31155]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

LEWIS WILLIAM VARADY

HOME apprEss: 960 Grove St., Elizabeth, N.J.

BORN: Dec. 1, 1909, Perth Amboy, N.J. parents: Louis Stephen Warady,
Mary Stuz.

PREPARED AT: Carteret High School, Carteret, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

HENRY BABCOCK VEATCH

HOME apprEss: 606 S. Park Ave., Bloomington, Ind.
oFFicE appress: Dept. of Philosophy, Indiana University, Bloomington, Ind.

BORN: Sept. 26, 1911, Evansville, Ind. parenrs: Henry Babcock Veatch,
Daisy Flower.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. Sura cum laude, 1932; AM.
19333 PHD. 1936.

MARRIED: Mary Jane Wilson, June 24, 1939, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Jane Sessions, Oct. 29, 1941; Elizabeth Wilson Flower, July 26, 1946.

occupaTion: Professor of philosophy, Indiana University.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, Trinity Episcopal Church, Bloomington, 1946-52;
faculty fellowship, Ford Foundation, 1952-53; member executive board,
Indiana Civil Liberties Union, 1953-55; president, I.U. Chapter, Ameri-
can Association of University Professors, 1956-57: Aquinas Lecturer,
Marquette University, 1954.

MEMBER OF: The American Philosophical Association; Metaphysical Society
of America; Association for Realistic Philosophy; American Association

of University Professors, Fraternity of Phi Gamma Delta, American
Civil Liberties Union.

PUBLICATIONS: Intentional Logic, Yale University Press, 1952; Realism and
Nominalism Revisited, Marquette University Press, 1954; also mis-
cellaneous articles and reviews.

NOT so many years ago, as I understand, some archaeologists
who were conducting an excavation somewhere in the Tigris-
Euphrates region came across a rather curious inscription. Loosely
translated, it read something like this: “Verily, a man’s vanity
giveth the surest access to his generosity.”

At first, the investigators were somewhat puzzled to know just
how and why such a strange sentiment should have come to be
expressed at so remote a period and in that particular region.
But happily, it was not long before further researches cleared up
everything. It seems that at one stage in the history of the people

[1156 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in question, the priests and temple officers were confronted with
a most serious problem: the people of the area had grown ap-
pallingly lax in the payment of their regular tithes and in their
provision for special offerings and temple sacrifices. As a result,
the temple had fallen into grave disrepair and the priests and of-
ficers were in danger of being reduced to starvation. And then
suddenly one day, as the chief officer of the temple was perform-
ing his usual devotions, the heavens opened and the god himself,
using a strange and archaic language known only to the priest-
hood, spoke the words of the inscription directly to the officiating
riest.

Naturally, so unmistakable an occurrence of divine revelation
was not to be passed over lightly and a hurried conclave was
called of all the priestly officials for the purpose of determining
just how the divine advice might best be implemented. The plan
devised was this. At the next great festival when all the elders
and leaders and the people were supposed to come to the temple
with their gifts and offerings, they were to be invited not merely
to come with gifts, but also each man was to be urged to stand
up and before all the others to review his lifetime achievements
and accomplishments. The results were utterly unprecedented
and of a kind to be expected only when human beings entrust
themselves completely to divine guidance. Suffice it to say that
from then on, the bounty of the laity was such that the priests,
though not exactly living happily ever after, at least lived and
did not die of starvation. ‘. |

Of course, this queer tale might seem to be utterly irrelevant,
were it not for the fact that I have it on good authority that right
within the inner sanctum of the Harvard Fund Council, in the
very room, in fact, where the Twenty-fifth Reunion strategy is
decided upon, there is a secret plaque. Its words, to be sure, are
not identical with those of the ancient inscription, but the sense
is unquestionably the same: Once again, as it would seem, vanity
is held to be the key to generosity. Indeed, I doubr not but that
future anthropologists, coming across this same Harvard plaque,
may well wonder whether it represents a truly remarkable in-
stance of roundabout cultural diffusion, or is simply to be as-
cribed to what anthropologists call “independent invention.”

[1157]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

JOHN VanVECHTEN VEEDER

HOME ADDRESS: 755 Park Ave, New York, N.Y.

BORN: July 23, 1910, Staten Island, N.Y. PaRENTs: Van Vechten Veeder,
Margaret DeWitt.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933. DEGREE: A.B., 1932 (33).
occuPaTION: Oil business.

ROBERT KNOX VINCENT

HOME ApprEss: 6 Puritan Lane, Dedham, Mass.

OFFicE AppREss: Kendall Co., 140 Federal St., Boston 10, Mass.

Born: Aug. 13, 1909, Baguio, Philippine Islands. parents: Frank Walter
Vincent, Frances Graydon Knox.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: S.B., 1932; M.B.Asy 1934.

MaRRIED: Eleanor Buttolph Sherman, Sept. 16, 1939, Winnetka, Ill, cHILDREN:
Roger Sherman, April 24, 1942; Robert Knox, Jr. April 23, 19453
Richard Buttolph, June 4, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frank Walter Vincent, Jr., ’36.

occupation: Director of raw material purchasing, Kendall Company, manu-
facturers and distributors of textiles and surgical dressings.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant treasurer, Kendall Company, since 1953; secretary,
Oakdale Cub Scouts, 1950-55; president, Oakdale P.T.A., 1953-54.

MEMBER OF: Northern Textile Association; New York Cotton Exchange;
Harvard Varsity Club; Dedham Country and Polo Club.

A QUARTER of a century sounds like a long time, but it has
slipped by unbelievably fast. In retrospect, seven years of bache-
lorhood seem rather vague. Two of them were spent at the Busi-
ness School; the remainder found me putting in some solid licks
for the Kendall Company.

The Business School convinced me that there was a future in
purchasing, while my first employer, the Kendall Company, con-
vinced me that I should not stray from their fold. After tours of
duty in Walpole, Massachusetts, and Chicago, I am now located
in the staff office in Boston, as director of raw materials purchas-
ing. My responsibilities involve the coordinating of policies for
our eastern, southern and midwestern divisions on the procure-
ment of cotton, synthetic fibres, yarn, cloth and rubber. In ad-

[1158]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

dition, I attempt to establish the economic climate for both short

and long-range company planning.

Flashing back to 1939, the road of my life made the right turn
when Eleanor Sherman and I started out together from Winnet-
ka, Hlinois. Now, three children and almost eighteen years later,
we can recall a lot of work and many a happy moment.

A physical problem kept me out of World War II, but I kept
pusy at our Bauer & Black Division helping out with the produc-
ion of shell tape, battle dressings and surgical supplies. Local
.C.D. work took care of any spare time left over from tending
wee husky boys.

When we moved east in 1950, the youngsters were all attend-
g school, so I became involved in Cub Scout and P.T.A. pro-
ams, as well as Red Cross and Community Fund activities. As
> offspring grew older, they revived my hidden talents (?) in
eball, touch football, soccer, tennis and, most recently, skeet
oting. With them around one just has to keep young. As to
rbies, Elly and I have found that the children have taken up
t of our time, both planning and playing. On occasion, how-
, we have been able to enjoy our favorite pastime of golf.
has been great fun to look back twenty-five years. We are

ing forward to the next twenty-five.

ERNEST JAMES VOGEL

oppress: 70 Columbia Rd., Arlington 74, Mass.
ADDRESS: §1 Brattle St., Cambridge 38, Mass.
.ug. 18, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Ernest John Vogel, Margarct

» aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 19323 M.D., 1936.

Anne Louise Foley, Sept. 5, 1940, Boston, Mass. cumtpren: Anne
yaret, Sept. 30, 1941; Jean Louise, Sept. 1, 1943 (died April 14, 1939);
s Edward, July 17, 1946.

N: Physician, internist.

LD: Senior physician, 1946-51, since 1955, chief of medicine, 1951-
ssigned), Cambridge City Hospital; assistant in medicine, Tufts
al School, 1948-1952; chief of medicine, Holy Ghost Hospital,
3; consuleant in medicine, Symmes Arlington Hospital, Holy
Hospital; staff physician, Dept. of Medicine, Mt. Auburn Eos-

[1159 ]

_————— L_

e

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

pital, Little Company of Mary Hospital, member courtesy staff, Medical
Department, St. Elizabeth’s Hospital.
MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; American College of Physicians
(fellow); American Board of Internal Medicine (diplomate).
pusLications: “Recent Advances in Antibiotic Therapy,” 1951; research
thesis on “Nitrogen Mustard Therapy in Miscellaneous Malignancies.”

CONSTANT daily activity for fifty-two weeks a year leaves
little or no time for recording one’s progress in life. Now that I
am with my back to the wall so to speak, I find that taking time
out in 1956 to review the past twenty-five years is a good thing.
Quo vadis!

The four years after leaving Cambridge passed all too quickly
in the quiet pursuit of the facts of medicine. Some very astound-
ing revelations were heaped upon us during this time — we
learned, for example, in the study of obstetrics that babies are
born (a) living, or (b) dead. Then came the years of hospital
routine, sleeping little or none at all and wondering what hap-
pened to all our vast knowledge gained in medical school. I re-
member distinctly in the pharmacology class the teaching was
one teaspoon of chloral hydrate for treating acute alcoholism;
and then when confronted with such a case, I found that the
“drunk” never knew of that proper dosage and that he was sup-
posed to quiet down after it. Indeed, he was mean enough to
need ten times that amount in order to sleep a couple of hours!
For the first time the security of the hallowed halls of learning
was gone and the seriousness of life was taught from experience.
It was in these years also that the most heretical observation of
all was made: that non-Harvard men could practise medicine,
too!

In 1940 I married the best girl in the world, just as most men do.
About this time a mustached paranoid in Europe was making it
necessary for us to go to war; so finally, in 1942, three of us—
Anne was with us at this time — set off for Florida; I, as a member
of the Air Force and my family as morale boosters, There we
lived amid the “hardships” of Miami Beach, its swanky hotels
and its playground atmosphere. This incongruous situation has
never been well digested by me — real hardships in one place and
pomp and circumstance in another during the period of active
warfare. Anyway, after spending four years in helping to make

[ 1160 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

this world what it is today (don’t blame me entirely), I came
home to settle down as physician, husband and father. The Air
Force I left completely to the birds.

By this time there were two additions to our family, another
girl and a little boy. It was during these early postwar years that
my two daughters, of real Yankee blood, attracted attention
with their typical southern accent; the damnyankees had cer-
tainly absorbed their early environment. The little fellow started
his training in football and baseball about this time —I am just
waiting for the headlines in 1963, ’64, etc.

With all these mouths to feed I set out in earnest to practise
medicine right under the shadow of John Harvard amidst the
confusion of Harvard Square. The days have become quite full
with the high pressure of practice and teaching. Since the first
surgeons were barbers — just look at the red barber pole with
the spiral bandage around it —I felt more than technical ability
was indicated in helping the vast majority of sick patients. Con-
sequently, I narrowed my medical field to internal medicine
which is highly gratifying in stimulating the gray matter, but
poorly rewarding in the folding stuff. |

Then one day without warning sickness overtook my middle
child and she died despite all medical efforts. Naturally the impact
was severe and the wound deep. It has created a very closely
knit family group which, under the guidance of a kind and watch-
ful wife, has become a very wonderful monument to our little
one.

For a while as chief of the Medical Service in the Municipal
Hospital in Cambridge, I took a verbal swing at the city poli-
ticians in an attempt to improve the professional department under
my jurisdiction. Needless to say I came out second best, but the
political education so derived was far greater than any previous
formal one. I learned that city officials are determined as to the
facts they will believe and the opinions on which they will act.
So I returned the chiefship to the Indians — they were here first
anyway. Now I find a little time to grow up with my children
and watch them develop. With their sailing, swimming, skating,
football, baseball and studying, their lives are as active as mine.

There have been many changes in the practice of medicine in
this short expanse of time. The only step I am waiting to see, and

[ 1161 ]

L

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

I hope I never do, is for the government to tell us how to prac-
tise medicine, where to practise medicine, and how many
patients to see, Mind you, all of this is “free” (that’s what the
man said)! When that time comes, I shall throw away the teach-
ing of Thomas Jefferson, find a pleasant desert island, and await
our Fiftieth Reunion.

FELIX ALEXANDER VOGEL, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 3106 Robinhood St., Houston 5, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pan American Prod. Co., Esperson Bldg., Houston 2, Texas.

BoRN: June 5, 1906, Florence, Wis. parents: Felix Alexander Vogel,
Gertrude Dodge.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932.

OCCUPATION: Business.

CHARLES YOUNG WADSWORTH

HOME ADDRESS: Sandy Pond Road, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFIcE appRESS: Hill, Barlow, Goodale & Adams, 53 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 16, 1911, Winchester, Mass. ParENts: Lewis Lumber Wadsworth,
’03, Vera Young.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 19323; LL.B. 1935.

MarrieD: Virginia H. Dorr, June 18, 1938, Newport, N.H. CHILDREN:
Christopher Dorr, Feb. 16, 1941; George Dorr, Jan. 29, 1943; Anne D.,
Dec. 1, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lewis Lumber Wadsworth, Jr., ’30, LL.B., '33.

occupaTion: Partner, Hill, Barlow, Goodale & Adams, law firm.

OFFICES HELD: Currently, Class Secretary, Harvard Law ’35; president, New
England Alumni Association, Phillips Exeter Academy; trustee, Fenn
School; director and treasurer, Dorr Woolen Company; director,
Aeolian-Skinner Organ Company, Barnstable Water Company, Edgar-
town Water Company, Franklin Management Company, Crowell Tube
Company, Pepperell Braiding Company; Gear Systems, Inc., Geartronics,
Inc. Formerly: president, Winchester Taxpayers Association; director
and secretary, Winchester Hospital, member, Winchester Finance Com-
mittee, Wayland Finance Committee; chairman, Wayland Republican
Committee; president, Wayland Community Chest.

MemazeR oF: Union Club; City Club Corporation, Boston Chamber of Com-
merce; Harvard Varsity Club.

[ 1162 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PUBLICATIONS: Assistant to editor, Gray’s Rule Against Perpetuities; co-editor,
Hall’s Landlord and Tenant, editor, Tax Chapters, Newhall’s Settlement
of Estates.

“LIFE after graduation” — that’s the subject for the day. Some
will have an exciting story to tell. Others will have experienced
little excitement to interest classmates. I hasten to say that I fall
into the latter category and consequently advise classmates to
move on to other biographies.

Graduation was followed by a summer in Europe — sea trans-
portation in the Old Rotterdam (steerage class — the smell vivid-
ly remains with me); land transportation on bicycles with a
train here or there. Then there followed three years in law
school. This meant only one thing — work, interesting work to
be sure, but endless amounts of it. Seventy-two hours a week
was regular. Why not? You thought it meant your future, and
in any event everyone else was doing it.

The law degree led me to Hill, Barlow, Goodale & Wiswall,
and there I’ve been ever since — steady as the well-known rock
with not even the war taking me away, unless it can be said
that encampments of the State Guard were “away.”

Marriage. That came three years after Law School. What
an important event in life and what good fortune to acquire such
an extraordinary person. It wasn’t a matter of judgment. This
writer was hors de combat as far as that attribute was con-
cerned. I continue to thank my lucky stars for that June, 1938,
event. And also for the resulting three small events now grown
to disturbing size: the first boy, larger than myself, at Belmont
Hill School, the second, very nearly as large, at Fenn School,
and a pretty little daughter; all that could be asked for on all
scores.

A word should perhaps be said of civic activities. Although I
am convinced that a lawyer should partake of such activities
rather strenuously for, shall we say, business purposes, I think
my own activities have, in part, at least, been influenced by a
sense of duty. This led me into the Taxpayers’ Association and
Finance Committee in Winchester and the secretaryship of the
Winchester Hospital; then again the Finance Committee in Way-
land, and the chairmanship of the Wayland Town Republican
Committee during the 1952 landslide. It sometimes has seemed

[ 1163 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

that with the frequency of the evening demands of these ac-
tivities, together with what seems to be necessary night office
work, my home has been a late bedroom. Since moving to
Lincoln in 1955, I have corrected this situation and have for
the present anyway avoided time-consuming civic duties. How-
ever, the night office work continues, and I expect will con-
tinue at least until I arrive at that distinguished status known as
“senior partner.”

When I think back at the accomplishments of the twenty-
five years since graduation, I derive the greatest satisfaction and
pride from the editorial work I have done as an extra-curricular
activity. For seven years after law school graduation I assisted
Roland Gray in the fourth edition of Rule Against Perpetuities,
a legal textbook used quite generally in common law countries.
Subsequently, with my partner, Faneuil Adams, ’19, I edited
Hall’s Landlord and Tenant, a strictly local textbook on the
subject indicated. And finally, I have assisted Guy Newhall,
"98, in his fourth edition of Settlement of Estates. He has
honored me with the suggestion that 1 undertake the next edition
for him and that I plan to do, life and energy holding out. By
our Fiftieth we shall see.

HUNT TILFORD WAGSTAFF

HOME appress: Mt. Farm Road, Tuxedo Park, N.Y.

OFFicE apprEss: Woodland Farm Dairy Co., Monroe, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 3, 1909, New York, N.Y. parents: David Wagstaff, ’o5, Isabelle
Tilford.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932. |

MaRRiED: Ellen Comly Mears, May 1, 1935, Tuxedo Park, N.Y. CHILD:
Michael Mears (stepson). cranpcHitp: Michellen Mears.

OCCUPATION: Real Estate; general manager, Woodland Farm Dairy Company.

OFFICES HELD: Fire Commissioner; Republican Committeeman; Deputy
Sheriff; Game Warden.

MEMBER OF: Racquet & Tennis Club; Tuxedo Club; St. Nicholas Society;
Edgartown Yacht Club; Reading Room (Edgartown), Lorillard Lodge
858, F. & A.M.; Moskeeter Gun Club; Green Isle Club.

AN unimportant life— but pleasant— mostly hunting, shoot-
ing, fishing — Scotland, Florida, Martha’s Vineyard (Mass.).

[ 1164 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I wish to add that if the Board of Overseers of Harvard sees
fit to hire a traitor to the United States as a professor and lec-

turer of “Ethics” — our colors should be changed from Crimson
to “Dink. >)

EUSTIS WALCOTT

HOME ADpDRESS: Farm Street, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Policyholders’ Insurance Co., 209 Columbus Ave.,
Boston 17, Mass.

BoRN: Sept. 16, 1908, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Charles Walcott, ’92,
Martha Eustis.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932.

marrigp: Penelope H. Perry, June 6, 1934, |, Wellesley, Mass. CHILDREN:
Penelope, Aug. 10, 1935; Eustis, Jr.. Nov. 22, 1937; Diana, Oct. 1, 1941;
Peter Wyman, Aug. 23, 1946.

HARVARD SON: Eustis Walcott, Jr., ’6o.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles Folsom Walcott, ’26, M.v., ’31; Richard Walcott,
°34-

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, American Policyholders’ Insurance Company, a
casualty insurance company.

OFFICES HELD: Member of corporation, Northeastern University; member
advisory committee, Y.W.C.A.; trustee, member auditing committee,
Institution for Savings in Roxbury; trustee, chairman membership com-
mittee, Museum of Science; member, town finance committee, High-
way Commission, auditor of Historical Society, chairman of School
Committee, Town of Dover; moderator, trustee and chairman building
committee, Dover Church.

MEMBER OF: Owl Club; Institute of 1770; Back Bay Luncheon Club (presi-
dent).

DUE, perhaps, to being an unimaginative New Englander, I have
remained since college with the same group of casualty insurance
companies in Boston. My position has advanced from salesman
for the American Mutual Liability Insurance Company in 1932,
to vice-president of the American Policyholders’ Insurance Com-
pany. It is quite possible that the only thing of importance I
have learned about casualty insurance in the last twenty-odd
years is that there must be an easier way to make a living.
With my exposure to a college education behind me, and the
“business world by the tail,” as a cub salesman for American

[ 1165 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Mutual, in 1934 I married Penelope Perry of Dover. We took up
our residence in an old remodeled farmhouse in Dover, where
we lived for ten years. Since then, due to the increase in the
size of our family, we have lived in a slightly larger house in
Dover.

Life in this small New England town has been both interesting
and busy. I have worked for the community in various capacities,
some of which are: Town Finance Committee, Highway Com-
mission, auditor of the Historical Society, chairman of the School
Committee, moderator and trustee of the Dover Church and
chairman of its Building Committee. This latter job has taken a
large part of my time over the period of the past two years: first
in helping to raise funds for a new religious education building
and, second, in working with the architects and members of
the church in seeing that a building was designed and constructed
which would adequately meet the needs of the parish. With this

work completed, I am trying to duck further jobs in the town
as I find that I have little time or no time to spend with my
family.

To balance my Dover activities, in Boston I am a member of
the corporation of Northeastern University, a member of the
Y.W.C.A. advisory committee, trustee and member of the audit-
ing committee of the Institution for Savings in Roxbury (one
of the oldest mutual savings banks), and trustee and chairman
of the membership committee of the Museum of Science. This
fabulous place is something that all out-of-town Reunioners should
visit. Brad Washburn, the director, has seen to it that the museum
lives up to its slogan, “Science is fun.”

I suppose that some mention of my family i is in order. With
typical New England thoroughness and interest in planning all
details in advance, we arranged to start our family of four with
a daughter, Penelope, called Wendy. There followed in normal
sequence, with appropriate intervals for recuperation of both
family finances and my wife’s health, Eustis, Jr., Diana, and Peter
Wyman.

Time flies! Wendy is now a senior at Smith College, having
just completed her junior year abroad at the University of Mu-
nich. Eustis, Jr., is a freshman at Harvard. He tells me that

[ 1166 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

things have changed a lot in the last twenty-five years. Diana
is studying hard at the Winsor School in Boston. Last, but by
no means least, Peter is at the Charles River School in Dover
and appears to be progressing normally for a ten-year-old boy.
He hates homework, loves animals of all kinds, tree houses, TV,
and my workshop. The latter is, I am sure, very good for him,
but has the opposite effect upon my tools and temper!

In regard to recreation, our vacations have recently been
spent at Squam Lake in New Hampshire, where my family climb
mountains, play tennis and swim, while I fish hopefully in the
lake. We have also made three trips to the West Coast over the
years and two to Europe.

What with my job, which amounts to being general manager of
an insurance company, my family and my aforementioned com-
munity activities, life goes on at what seems a rapid pace. We
are looking forward to attending the Reunion with our children,
and Pen and I hope to see you all, as we are in charge of registra-
tion.

ERIC ARTHUR WALKER

HOME ADDRESS: 777 W. Park Ave., State College, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pa.

BorN: April 29, 1910, Long Eaton, Derbyshire, England. parents: Arthur
Walker, Violet Elizabeth Haywood.

PREPARED aT: Wrightsville High School, York County, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 19323 S.M., 1933; SD.
1935+

MarRieD: Lena Josephine Schmeiser, Dec. 20, 1937, Medford, Mass. CHILDREN:
Gail Haywood, Oct. 30, 1943; Brian Keith, March 25, 1947.

occupPaTION: President, Pennsylvania State University.

OFFICES HELD: Member, State College Borough Council, 1948-50, since 1956;
vice-president, American Society for Engineering Education, 1950-52;
member, Naval Research Advisory Committee; chairman, Committee
on Undersea Warfare, National Academy of Sciences; member, Army
Scientific Advisory Board.

MEMBER oF: American Society for Engineering Education; American In-
stitute of Electrical Engineers; Acoustical Society; American Physical
Society; Institute of Radio Engineers; Cosmos Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Many publications in the fields of acoustics, electronics, edu-
cation and engineering management.

[ 1167 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Colt’s Firearms Company, General Electric, Westinghouse, Ben-
dix, Koppers and IBM. Work of this nature has been rewarding
in more ways than one.

I have always found it desirable and indeed pleasant to accept
committee assignments in all of the organizations to which I be-
long, and although this keeps my secretaries inordinately busy,
it does give one a feeling of having contributed in more than
a monetary manner.

My family life has left nothing to be desired. After a late start,
I have accumulated a family of four. After several attempts to
build a satisfactory house which the war on two occasions led
to something less than perfect, Jo and I recently culminated fif-
teen years of planning by building a house which has everything
we could want. Now unfortunately, we have to give it up for
what is euphoniously called the “Presidential Mansion.”

Because many of my dealings are with military men who seem
to retire inordinately young, I begin to see people of my age
retiring, Occasionally I give the matter some brief thought and
now know that I could retire and still remain completely busy
on jobs which would pay me nothing but yield a tremendous
amount of satisfaction. Perhaps that is a sufficient goal for the
next twenty-five years.

ROBERT WARREN WALKER

HOME apprEss: 75 Kilburn Rd., Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: Butcher Polish Co., 183 Commercial St., Malden, Mass.

BoRN: Feb, 26, 1907, New York, N.Y. PareENTS: Guy Warren Walker, Alice
Louise Prouty.

PREPARED AT: St, George’s School, Newport, R.L.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Hobbs, May 2, 1936, Boston, Mass. cumin: Christine, Dec.
28, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Guy Warren Walker, Jr., ’20.

occupation: Accountant, Butcher Polish Company.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Cost Accountants; Veterans Association
of the First Corps of Cadets; Belmont Tennis Club; Eastern Yacht Club.

AS you might expect, the two most important things in the last
twenty-five years have been family and work, and both of them

[1170]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have kept me on my toes. One of the highlights in the summer of
1933 was a Mediterranean cruise with Eddie Orlandini. In ad-
dition, I traveled over much of Europe and England by myself
and had a magnificent time.

From February, 1944, to September, 1945, I was in the Army
and instead of getting a rough deal, I had a Private First Class
tour of the United States. When I was discharged, I received
the usual “fruit salad’ —the Good Conduct, American Theatre
and World War II Victory Ribbons.

After the war, on the advice of Augustus P. Loring, Jr., Har-
yard, ’08, I took two years off from work to study accounting.
‘ went to the Bentley School of Accounting and Finance and
rraduated in 1947. For the last six years, I have been the ac-
‘ountant for the Butcher Polish Company, a small but growing
janufacturer of floor wax.

WILLIAM CRAIG WALLACE

ME ADDRESS: 704 E. Sixth St., Cameron, Texas.

FICE ADDRESS: Box 268, Cameron, Texas.

2N: Jan. 2, 1911, Rockdale, Texas. parents: Eugene Aldrich Wallace,
Daisy Laura Smith.

PARED AT: Chateau de Bures, St. Germain-en-Laye, France.

.RS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

2R1ED: Norma Anne Panyk, Dec. 17, 1944, Espiritu Santos, New Hebrides.
CHILDREN: John Craig, Dec. 31, 1945; Eugene Aldrich, Jah. 2, 1948.

JPATION: Lawyer.

ces HELD: Member board of trustees, Cameron Independent School Dis-

trict, 1947-50, 1952-55, Cameron Public Library, since 1954, president,

Milam County Bar Association, since 1952.

(BER OF: Milam County, Texas State and American Bar Associations;

Cameron Country Club; Rotary Club.

VING checked the calendar to verify that twenty-five
s had actually elapsed, I took pen in hand some weeks ago to
2 this report. From the samples furnished, I gathered that
thing decorous was desired, like an obituary; but with color,
he confessions of a snuff-dipper.

hen I got out of college I began studying law in my father’s
, and got a license two years later. I then started in to prac:

[1171]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

tise, or at least I was willing to practise. Eventually I learned
enough to get into court without being thrown out on a general
demurrer; and in 1940, I ran for State District Attorney in the
Democratic primary. There weren’t any Republicans in the dis-
trict at the time. Actually, I had no use at-all for the New Deal,
and I recall that during the campaign I made a speech at a country
school house about the restricted powers of government under
the constitution. ] got one vote in that box, a relative with strong
family pride.

Then the war came on, and towards the end of the summer
of 1942, I found myself in the hold of an old Dutch ship out in
the Pacific. We ended up in New Zealand. I was in an outfit
whose job it was to look for dirty old spies and saboteurs. Find-
ing nothing around Auckland except warm ale and staunch fol-
lowers of King George, we went up to Noumea, New Caledonia,
where at least there were some Petainists and a few Kanakas,
however harmless. While there I received word of the death
of my younger brother, shot down off the coast of New Guinea.
He had graduated from the American Academy of Dramatic
Art only shortly before the war, and I was very proud of him.

In the early part of 1943, I went up as officer-in-charge of a
counter-intelligence unit at Guadalcanal. The days there were
spent mostly acquiring an atabrine tan around the foot of Mt.
_ Austen, and the nights whiled away looking at distant Jap bomb-
ers from the corner of a bunker. Eventually, I was transferred |
to Espiritu Santos, in the New Hebrides, which was a consider-
ably more congenial spot. There I met and married my wife,
an Army nurse.

Returning home at the end of 1945, I resumed the practice of
law with my father and began to learn something of the tranquil
joys of domesticity. By 1950, we had two sturdy but rowdy
boys, and my golf game was under eighty. I was a reserve offi-
cer, but inactive; and it therefore came as somewhat of a shock
when I was called back to the Army in October of that year.
My uniform fitted badly, and I had seen enough of the Orient.
As it turned out, I was not assigned to duty overseas, and after
seventeen months | again returned home and undertook to coax
back some clients. |

This afternoon I was playing football with my two sons

[1172 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in the backyard. As I backed up to pass, the elder let loose with
a flying tackle. Picking myself up off the turf, I felt the absence
of the elasticity of youth, and knew then that twenty-five years
had indeed passed.

JAMES S. WALLERSTEIN

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 1133 Fifth Ave., New York 28, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 25, 1910, New York, N.Y. parents: Max Wallerstein, Helen
Scheuer.

PREPARED AT: Ethical Culture High School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: S.B. summa cum laude, 19323, A.M.
(Columbia Univ.), 1938.

MARRIED. CHILDREN: Ronald Paul, Jan. 5, 1946; Thomas James, Oct. 29, 1947.

occupaTion: Research biochemist and writer, director, Overly Biochemical
Research Foundation.

OFFICES HELD: President, Sarah S, Ollesheimer Foundation, since 1939, Randen
Foundation, since 1946, Alba Foundation, since 1952; director, Osborne
Foundation, since 1950; chairman Pack Committee, Cub Scout Pack
No. 369, B.S.A.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Chemists (fellow); Society of American
Bacteriologists; American Society of Brewing Chemists; Chemists’ Club,
City Club (New York); Association of Chemists and Chemical En-
gineers; New York Friends Center; American Ethical Union; National
Humane Society.

PuBLIcaTIONS: The Demon’s Mirror, a fantasy, 1949; Tommy end Julie,
juvenile adventure story, 1951; “The Cactus Wildcat,” play, 1954;
“Johnny Aladdin,” 1956; “Windigo Island,” 1956, “Bobby and the Time
Machine,” 1956; “Raymond and the Monster,” 1956, juvenile plays; also
some forty scientific publications and twenty patents,

AFTER graduation I became a research biochemist, specializing
in enzyme and food technology. In 1937 I became vice-president
of the Wallerstein and Bosco companies and served in this ca-
pacity until 1955, at which time our family sold its interest in
these companies. Since 1940 I have acted as director of the Over-
ly Biochemical Research Foundation. During and after the war
we carried out research in food spoilage and disease prevention
for the Quartermaster Corps of the Army and the Surgeon-
General’s office. Under a War Production Board grant, we also
developed methods for producing fermentation glycerol and for
the salvaging of organic wastes.

[1173 |

_ hanson einnanes nb seacentnasaataMliatad, L

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

I directed the Randen Foundation Crime Survey which re-
ceived quite a bit of publicity around 1947. We sought to de-
termine to what extent “respectable, law-abiding citizens” com-
mitted acts which would legally constitute a crime. The pro-
portion was quite considerable.

In my early years I was active in a number of “causes” de-
voted to remaking the world. For example, I was a delegate to
“The Liberal Congress,” which a newspaper described as “the
greatest collection of crackpots since the Tower of Babel.” In
retrospect, I am almost inclined to agree with them, But it does
seem unfortunate that there is no comparable intellectual ferment
today. Later, I confined my efforts to seeking legislative re-

forms in the field of correction. But here, too, success has not
been impressive.

Philosophically, I am still inclined to the doctrines of Josiah
Royce: that the world of the senses is not the final world. That
the true reality is of the nature of Mind. And that there is an
Ultimate Mind with which our greater self can somehow become
at one. I have taught my children faith in a Divine Being and
in a Life-to-Come, without, however, becoming identified with
any traditional creed.

_ I wrote and produced several motion pictures, including

“Scotty’s Corners.” I still think they were good, but they were
a financial flop. I also wrote a number of books, plays and
children’s stories and have dabbled in amateur theatricals.

I have two fine sons, Ronnie, aged ten, and Tommy, aged nine.
They are rough and ready and I’m beginning to find it a bit
hard to keep up with them. In summer, we have gone camping
and mountain climbing. In winter, I have run a Cub Scout Pack.
You read many articles nowadays about how American youth is
getting soft. But, judging from my own experience, the con-
trary is true. They're a tougher breed than ever.

In short, I have lost some hair, a tooth, and a few illusions.
But I am still an optimist. [ think democracy, religion and cap-
italism will survive and grow stronger and American genius and
ingenuity will find a way to meet whatever problems may con-
front us.

I think the future is going to be all right!

[1174]

we

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

NICHOLAS LONGWORTH WALLINGFORD

HOME apprEss: P.O. Box 701, Naples, Fla.

BORN: June 19, 1909, Cincinnati, Ohio. pareENts: Buckner Ashby Walling-
ford, Annie Longworth.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930.

MaRRIED: Elizabeth Winters, February, 1942, Cincinnati, Ohio. camp: Kay
(by previous marriage), July 16, 1935 (7. Thomas Upson, 1954).
GRANDCHILD: Deborah Upson, 1955.

AFTER leaving Harvard at the end of my sophomore year I had
a brief fling at the steel and food business. In 1937 I was one of
the co-founders of a mortgage banking business in Cincinnati and
held the position of secretary-treasurer of that company until
this year, with three and a half years’ time out during the war.
In 1942 and 1943 I served as an A.F.T.D. flight instructor at an
Army Primary Flying School in Stamford, Texas. In 1943 I
left Stamford to become a flight instructor with the War Train-
ing Service of the C.A.A. and was based at Lafayette, Louisiana,
and Fort Worth, Texas, where I remained until 1944. I then
transferred to American Flyers as an instrument flight instructor
at Fort Worth, where we had contracts to train pilots for various
airlines in the U.S. and abroad. At the end of the war I returned
to Cincinnati to resume my real estate and mortgage loan work,
where I stayed until this summer.

At the present time I belong to no clubs or social organiza-
tions. I am a member of the American Institute of Real Fstare
Appraisers and a senior member of the Society of Residential
Appraisers.

In July, 1956, my wife and I decided to move to Naples,
Florida, where we are currently building a house. Our plans
here are to do a lot of loafing, a small amount of speculative
building and enough real estate appraisals to keep us moderately
busy but not too much to interfere with our fishing. I also have
a weekly radio program where I indulge in my favorite hobby
of playing Dixieland music and expounding on same.

[1175 ]

cx a tnssoceneananansaicarsteiinttelnestit,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

ROBERT ROE WALLSTEN

HOME AppREss: 171 E. 62d St. New York 21, N.Y.

porN: March 3, 1912, New York, N.Y. PaRENTs: Leonard Michael Wall.
stein, Olive Roe.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School for Boys, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

maraieD; Cynthia Rogers, Aug. 21, 1954, Nice, France.

HARVARD BROTHER: Leonard Michael Wallstein, Jr., ’30.

OCCUPATION: Writer,

PUBLICATIONS: Fiction in most national magazines.

ONE look at the boy of twenty on the left, another at the man
of forty-five on the right, and I am convinced of what I find
it hard to believe —that twenty-five whole years have passed
since 1932. The realization is made more difficult by the fact
that I don’t feel very different. I feel younger if anything. Per-
haps this is the proof of maturity.

For the first ten years after graduation I was a professional ac-
tor—in work, out of work, moderately successful, featured
finally in two Theatre Guild productions, the last one of which
I left in midstream at the nudge of my draft board. From 1942
to 1946 I was a naval officer (which in many ways seemed just
another kind of performance, before backdrops of Louisiana,
Australia, New Guinea and intervening waters). All this time
I had been writing plays and stories. With demobilization, what
had been a subordinate interest became a full-time occupation
and my acting days ended with tears on neither side of the
footlights — though there is a fitful recall when a television
casting director proves to be both desperate and old enough to
remember that once upon a time I was an actor.

Now life — professional life-—-is a succession of free-lance
writing jobs, fiction in most of the national magazines, television
plays and films on most of the dramatic programs—a good,
satisfying, even exciting state of affairs that was finally rounded
out on August 21, 1954, with the one thing that had been lack-
ing. It was on that date, in Nice — after a protracted, exhausting
and nerve-racking encounter with French red tape that in retro-
spect is a blur of blood tests, X-rays, translators, consuls, lawyers,
policemen, officials of every kind, ancient buildings, antique pro-

[ 1176 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

cedures, dominated by the figure of the mayor himself, perspiring
a little but resplendent in a pale blue satin sash — that Cynthia
Rogers and I were married. Though for this reason tender about
France, the fact remains that our love is Italy, where we have
spent one year in the past two, and where we plan to return as
soon as Current commitments permit.

I grant you that it was dull-witted of me not to have recog-
nized till I was in my fortics what Noah knew when he was mak-
ing up the passenger lise of the Ark. Most of my contemporaries
knew it too — with the disquieting result that we frequently find
that we have been married a shorter time than many of their
children. Pfowever — rather late than not at all; and one com-
pensation is the feeling I have that, however tardily, | am —
at last — learning how to live.

JOHN AUGUSTINE WALSH

Home apoasss: 41 Perham St. West Roxbury 32, Mass.

omen apoarss: Dept. of Public Utilities, State House, Boston, Mass.

soan: Jan, 18 1981, South Boston, Mass. pARENTs: James Augustine Walsh,
Theresa Mackin.

purpartD at: English High School, ‘Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 19:8-1932. DEGREE: A.B, cum? laude, 1932.

Manrairo: Doris Gertrude Therese Hines, June 22, 1940, Boston, Mass.
cuiuparn: John Augustine, Jr, April 25, 1941; Peter James, May 23,
1943; Thomas Aquinas, Nov. 19, 1944; James Mackin, Jan. 5, 1946; Paul
Henry, 1949-

occupation: Investigator of fraudulent securities, Department of Public
Uaulines, Strate of Afassachusetts.

LAWRENCE GORDON WALTERS

HOME aporess: 501 Hardee Rd., Coral Gables, Fla.
OFFRCE ADDRESS; 1120 Ponce de Leon Blvd., Coral Gables, F la.

poan: Aug. 5, 1999, Ben Avon, Pa. parents: Lawrence E. Walters, Jane E.
Clary.

puepareD aT: Shady Side Academy, Fox Chapel, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: 8.B., 1932.

Maaraiep: Roxburgh Martin Lewis, Sept. 7, 1938, Coral Gables, Fla. CHILDREN:
Lawrence Gordon, 2d, March 1, 1943; Ann Rutherford, Oct. 23, 1949.

[1177]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

occuPATION: Insurance agent, life and general.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Coral Gables Junior Chamber of Commerce,
1940-41, Country Club of Coral Gables, 1941-42, Coral Gables Exchange
Club, 1947-48; president, Southern Aviation Enterprises, Inc., 1941-43,
Dade County Federation of Civic Associations, 1949-50; commander,
Seminole Airport Squadron, Civil Air Patrol, 1942; adjutant, personnel
officer, pilot, Coastal Patrol No. 7, 1942; pilot, Eastern Airlines, 1942-
43, National Airlines, 1944; Production Control Department, Engine
Overhaul, Military Air Transport Service Command, 1945; pilot, assist-
ant dispatcher, AAXICO, 1946; sales department, General Engineering
Company, 1946; co-owner, Walter Paper Company, 1947-48; member,
Coral Gables Zoning Board of Appeals, 1947-55; commander, Miami

Group I, Civil Air Patrol, since 1953; associate, McEmber & Montgomery
Insurance, Inc., since 1954.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston, New York and Miami; Country
Club of Coral Gables, Riviera Country Club, Delta Upsilon Fraternity;
Greater Miami Aviation Association, AOPA; AFA.

FOR the life of me, I cannot believe that anyone in the Class of
1932 would be interested in an account of my life since gradua-
tion. However, as a somewhat duplication of the Fifteenth An-
niversary account, here it is for what it’s worth.

Unfortunately for my family, my worldly endeavors have not
been very lucrative—although we do manage to get along
some way or other. As for the spiritual, family and civic parts of
my life, they have been most fortunate, indeed.

It seems to me (although I shall never attempt to persuade
people to agree) that there is a great need for a rebirth of people’s
minds in the world. Everywhere one travels, the materialistic
side of life seems to predominate. In 1935, while in Europe, I
came to the conclusion that war was imminent, and that the
French people were not up to the coming struggle. They were
much too greedy, among other things.

In 1936, it seemed time to occupy the house in Coral Gables,
which had been bought in 1934. So the move from Winchester,
Massachusetts, was made during the next two years, especially
after September 7, 1938, when I was married. My family con-
sists of my wonderful, red-haired wife who has sparks in her
lovely brown eyes; a son who, at thirteen, seems slated to being
a larger (6'1”) and decidedly more successful man than his dad;

and a daughter who is a living doll, and will probably rule the
roost in her family.

[1178]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The past twenty years have been busy ones — soul-satisfying
years to a certain extent in that we have a couple of children of
whom we are very proud; my wife has entered her eleventh ycar
of civic work in Red Cross at the Veterans Administration }los-
pital in Coral Gables, for which she has been greatly honored
by her co-workers and commended by her family; and I have
kept busy with various groups: Riviera Property Owners Asso-
ciation, Junior Chamber of Commerce, Exchange Club, Coral
Gables Zoning Board of Appeals, Dade County Federation of
Civic Associations, Civil Air Patrol, Air Force Association, and
the Greater Miami Aviation Association.

The past few years, however, saw the return to the insurance
field for one who has dabbled in same in Boston from 1933 to
1938. Consequently, very few opportunities exist in which to
continue with a variety of civic endeavors — have dropped most
of them.

Somehow or other, I have maintained very few contacts with
former classmates. Although air travel has brought places closer
together, men’s minds do not seem to be able to bridge the gap.
Along with thousands of others, I am attempting to obtain the
answer to it all—therein have I failed?

WALLACE TEAGUE WARD

HOME ApDpREsS: Olcott, N.Y.

BORN: May 22, 1910, Olcott, N.Y. parents: J. Carl Ward, Ann Teague.
PREPARED AT: Lockport High School, Lockport, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929, 1930-1933. DEGREE: A.B. 1932(33).

STORER PREBLE WARE, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 3045 Poplar Lane, Roanoke 14, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Storer Ware & Co., Boxley Bldg., Roanoke, Va.

BORN: Sept. 8, 1909, Hingham, Mass. parents: Storer Preble Ware, ‘e:, FE) ue
beth Upton Kinsman.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.; Phillips Freter Neadeins,
Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGRFE: A.B., 1932.

[1179]

—— L—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

MARRIED: Elise Anderson Ferguson, April 8, 1939, Newport News, Va.
CHILDREN: Elise F., July 10, 1943; Storer Preble, 3d, Dec. 18, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Nathaniel Ware, '34; Abbot Kinsman Ware, 36.

occuPATION: Proprietor, Storer Ware & Company.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary and assistant treasurer, North Carolina Shipbuilding
Company; British Vice-Consul, Wilmington, N.C.; regional director,
Boy Scouts of America; director, Roanoke Chapter, American National
Red Cross.

MEMBER OF: Fly Club; Harvard Club of New York; Shenandoah Club,
Roanoke; Richmond Society of Financial Analysts.

IF I had had a small crystal ball back in 1932, I would have saved
myself a couple of side trips off the beaten track of the financial
world. Between eight years in the canyons of Wall Street and
my own investment firm in Roanoke lie the war years, which
included an assistant-treasurer’s job with a shipyard, a British
Vice-Consul post in Wilmington, North Carolina, and a hitch
in the Marine Corps. After a postwar interlude back in New
York, I migrated to the southern tip of the Shenandoah Valley.
Suffice it to say, the investment business seems to have a fatal
fascination for the Wares, as both my brothers are in it too.
Life here in Roanoke is pleasant and busy, too. Year round golf
and tennis, plus occasional ice-skating on mountain ponds. It
looks as if I’m always out trying to raise money for church,
Y.M.C.A., or Community Fund—a challenging pastime in a
Scotch-Irish community. I get mixed up in politics also. Roanoke
has the beginnings of real two-party system in a dominantly one-
party state. As of now, we have a Republican Congressman —
all of which goes to show that this “ain’t the deep South.”

HOYT LANDON WARNER, JR.

HOME appress: P.O, Box 209, Gambier, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kenyon College, Gambier, Ohio. .

BorN: May 22, 1911, Cleveland, Ohio, parents: Hoyt Landon Warner, ’o3,
Caroline Fay Wheeler. ,

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932, DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1932; A.M., 1941; PH.D,
1951.

Marrizp:; Charlotte Collins, Oct. 27, 1934, Cleveland, Ohio, CHILDREN: Hoyt
Dinsmore, Nov. 9, 1938; Charles Collins, June 19, 1942.

[ 1180 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD SoN: Hoyt Dinsmore Warner, ’59.

occuPaTiION: Professor of history, chairman of Department of History,
Kenyon College. °

OFFICES HELD: Director, Mt. Vernon (Ohio) Community Concert Associa-
tion, 1948-50; vice-president, Ohio Academy of History, 1956-57.

MEMBER OF: American Historical Association; Mississippi Valley Historical
Association; Ohio Academy of History.

PUBLICATIONS: Book reviews in Mississippi Valley Historical Review and
Obio Historical Quarterly, occasional articles in Obio Historical
Quarterly.

AS an historian I would much prefer to dig into another’s past
rather than my own. But I yield to the occasion and will remi-
nisce in unhistorical fashion about my own experiences since
1932. In retrospect, my career seems to have taken some unex-
pected turns. Upon graduation I was able to get a job — not my
first choice — but a job in the family coal company. There I
remained for the rest of the depression years, first at the main
office in Cleveland, later at the mining operations in West Vir-
ginia. During this period, I married and started my family.

But business, I decided, was not for me. In September, 1939,
I returned to Cambridge to enter the Graduate School to study
history, primarily American history. The general subject had
been an old love but my decision to specialize in the United
States was a direct response to the impact of the depression and
the New Deal. Both phenomena upset conventional thinking
about long-accepted values inherited from America’s past. I
was one of the many searching for the “why” and “how” an-
swers to contemporary problems.

In retrospect, it seems a strange time to be changing one’s
career —the very month Hitler marched into Poland. But I
have no regrets. The group in history at Harvard, both faculty
and students, was unusually fine. I was able, before war once
again altered my life, to satisfy most of the requirements for
the Ph.D. degree. Not until the spring of 1942 did I wind up
an assistantship in History 5, pack my notes, and enter the U.S.
Navy as a reserve officer. Since my war experiences are covered
in the Class Fifteenth Anniversary Report, I shall not repeat them
here.

After separation from the Navy in November, 1945, I plunged
into research on a dissertation on the Progressive Movement in

[ 1181 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Ohio. (I proved to the surprise of some of my fellow Ohioans,
that the state really was progressive once!) The following
fall I began teaching at Kenyon, where I have remained con-
tinuously since. ,
Kenyon, set on a hilltop in a park of trees (the village of Gam-
bier is hardly more than a crossroads), has the air of an idyllic
retreat, particularly in the lushness of spring or the brilliance of
fall. Wintertime is another matter, but few outsiders visit then.
All who come are either envious of or appalled by our seeming
rustic quiet. We tell them not to be deceived by surface appear-
ances. For Kenyon is no exception to the rule that academic
communities are lively, provocative, argumentative, busy, and on
occasions boisterous. It is the kind of life that most of us would
not exchange. We could wish, however, that the pay were
better. For more pointed remarks on this subject I refer you to
President Pusey’s recent report on the needs of the Harvard
faculty!

In politics I am a Democrat. I was weaned away from the
Republican faith of my parents in the early days of F.D.R.,
and have not felt impelled to change my allegiance since then.
Although I was not “madly for Adlai” last November, I liked
Ike less because of the company he keeps and joined the Steven-—
son eggheads.

I have two sons, the younger a freshman at Western Reserve
Academy (in nearby Hudson, Ohio); the elder, a sophomore at
Harvard and a mathematics major (a subject which always mys-
tified me). Like many of the rest of you with sons in college, I
am experiencing vicariously through my elder boy, again, the
pleasures and pains of undergraduate life. He has forgotten that
I once was a college student and writes of each experience as
though it were unique to him, oblivious of the way history re-
peats itself from one college generation to the next. But his
tales of life in Cambridge do cause twinges of nostalgia and a
sneaking desire to do college over again — this time better, with
the advantage of hindsight!

[ 1182 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM SKINNER WARNER, JR,

HOME ADDRESS: Apartado 447, Maracaibo, Venezuela.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Disema C. A., Apartado 447, Maracaibo, Venezucla.

BorN: April 12, 1910, Milton, Mass. parents: William Skinner Warner, ‘o:,
Edith T. Bouve.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931, 1932-1933. DEGREE: S.B., 1932 (33).

MaRRIED: Elizabeth Parsons, March 23, 1935, Hartford, Conn. (divorced
1944); Natalie Daniels, June 24, 1946, New York, N.Y. cautpers:
Mark, March 14, 1936; Lucy, June 30, 1940; Judith, May 7, 1948.

occuPATION: Technical superintendent of Dique Seco de Maracaibo CA,
a drydock and repair basin.

WHILE the rest of the Class was sweating out the senior year,
I took a year’s leave of absence and sailed as third mate on the
Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute’s ketch, Atlantis. We cov-
ered most of the central North Atlantic, West Indies, and east
coast U.S.A. collecting data. During the summer of 1932 I went
back to run the coastwise boat and returned to Harvard to do
my senior year. After graduation in 1933 I sailed as mate on the
Wanderbird, a small German brigantine, carrying a paying crew
to North Sea and Channel ports, returning by way of West
Africa and the Caribbean to Boston. With jobs very scarce |
decided to go back to sea and signed on with the Bay State Fish-
ing Company trawler fleet as ordinary fisherman. I sailed on
about ten different trawlers, both steam and diesel, until my fine
marriage in 1935. After working ashore as a boilermaker, me-
chanic, painter, net builder, and at ice making, I graduated to
pushing carts on the Boston Fish Pier and barrcling fresh fish

Then I got into cost accounting, fish packing, and ‘finally Ww ith
this company as assistant manager of their Vinalhaven, Maine,
packing plant. Home was first in Boston, then Marblehead on a
small schooner, then Milton, and by schooner to Maine where
we bought and fixed up a small farmhouse. As the fish plant
was sold and torn down, I stayed in Vinalhaven and worked as
a ship’s carpenter in a small boatyard building small fishing bears
and yachts. Here I met George Owen, adviser to the owner,
T. S. Ross, whose Linzamershin we built. He persuaded me t>
take his course in naval architecture at ALLT. during the fal

and winter of 1938. When I returned to Vinalhaven, things were

[ 1183 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

supermarket as a retail outlet, After two years here this com-
pany was combined with other Rockefeller food companies, and
I was left without a job at the end of 1956. I have just accepted
a job as technical superintendent of a drydock and repair yard
in Maracaibo, Venezuela.

Since graduation I haven’t had much time for hobbies or sports
but amuse myself with playing the recorder or guitar. For the
last six years, I have done all the skindiving I could get time for
and recently took up water skiing. Whenever I can, I go off on
some kind of a boat or explore the back country. My family
has had to put up with a lot of shifts of scene and as a result my
daughters’ education is mixed Spanish and English. In spite of
all my wanderings, I have seen very few of my 732 classmates.
As for the future, I expect I can be found somewhere along
some waterfront, busy at something, and perfectly happy.

HOWLAND SHAW WARREN

HOME ADDRESS: 409 Nahant Rd., Nahant, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Old Colony Trust Co., 1 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Feb, 2, 1910, Cambridge, Mass, parents: Joseph Warren, ’97, Con-
stance Martha Williams.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 19323; LL.B. 1935.

MARRIED: Fanny C. Homans, 1934 (divorced 1938); Margaret Holyoke
Turner, Feb. 9, 1946, Cambridge, Mass. cuttpren: Deborah, Nov. 9,
1946; Sarah, March 6, 1948; Howland Shaw, Jr., May 16, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Joseph Warren, 728, M.B.A., °31, LLB. 738; Richard
Warren, '29, M.D. '34.

oocuPaTION: Vice-president and counsel, Old Colony Trust Company,
Boston.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, New England Conservatory of Music, 1950-56,
Harvard Alumni Association, since 1954, Thompson Academy, Boston,
since 1955, Boston Bar Association, since 1956; trustee, Children’s Hos-
pital, Boston, since 1950; treasurer and vice-president, Retina Founda-
tion, Boston, since 1951; member of corporation, Massachusetts Eye and
Ear Infirmary; town counsel, 1954-55, member Board of Appeals, since
1955, Lown of Nahant, moderator, Nahant Village Church.

MEMBER OF: Boston and Massachusetts Bar Associations; Harvard Club of

[ 1186 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Lynn (Mass.); Nahant Dory Club; Somerset Club, Boston; Sons of the
Revolution, Boston; Appalachian Mountain Club.

IN the fall of 1935, after finishing with Law School and Bar ex-
aminations, I became a junior associate of the law firm of Herrick,
Smith, Donald & Farley, where I remained until early 1941, when
my bachelor status (my first marriage having by then ended),

lus the chance of drawing of my number from the Selective
Service goldfish bowl, brought about my draft into the Coast
Artillery and my later transfer into the Army Air Corps. At
the end of 1941 I was released to inactive duty which enabled
me, after the declaration of war, to apply for and secure a dis-
charge for the convenience of the government in order to accept
a commission in the Navy as lieutenant (j.g.), U.S.N.R. During
the next four years (1942-1946) my technical specialty was anti-
torpedo and anti-submarine nets used in harbor and anchorage
defense. I was not particularly interested in this type of work
in training and so it was fortunate, at least from my point of view,
that in my position as an Advanced Base Officer in North Africa
and in Palermo, Sicily, in 1943 I was not called upon to install
any complicated defenses. Subsequently, I was assigned aboard
a net tender, a kind of large tug with two “horns” projecting
over the bow for use in hauling steel nets, and thereafter aboard
a net cargo vessel, in which assignments I served as Navigation
Officer and Deck Officer. Most of my sea duty was in the Pacific.
I preferred this duty greatly to advanced base work.

Upon my release from service in 1946, I married again.
In the space of five years our family increased to its present
constituency of two little girls and a younger boy in addition to
ourselves. After three years in Boston, we converted a summer
house in Nahant into a year-round dwelling. It is directly on
the ocean. As Nahant is a peninsular community, which occa-
sionally in bad storms is temporarily isolated from the mainland,
we are able to combine the advantages of a forty-minute com-
mute to Boston and the sense of remoteness of living on an island.

During the entire postwar period I have been an officer of
the Old Colony Trust Company, in a legal advisory capacity.
I have also served on a number of institutional boards. These
activities have not prevented vacations abroad and to the West

[ 1187 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Indies. Our recreations include camping, walking on White
Mountain trails, considerable sailing, and visits by day to a
tumbledown ex-farmhouse which I have owned in New Hamp-
shire for the last fifteen years.

ROBERT HENDERSON WATSON, JR.
SEE Appendix.

ROBERT STEVENSON WATSON

HOME ADDRESS; 20 Woody Brook Rd., Windsor, Conn.
OFFICE AppRESS: Blue Hills Hospital, 51 Coventry St., Hartford, Conn.

BorN: March 22, roto, Milton, Mass. parents: George H. Watson, Margaret
Williams,

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1032. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MarkigD: Margucrite Frances Holbrook, Nov. 6, 1943, Tunica, Miss.
occupation: Member, Commission on Alcoholism, State of Connecticut.

THE summer after graduation, our Classmate, Tom Wilson, my
other roommate, Vic Haughton, ’33, and I took a quick tour of
Europe. We tried to see as much as possible before our meager
funds ran out (remember the depression?) so ‘all we could do
was give it the once over lightly, But we had a lot of fun, and
at least learned there were people who lived differently than
we did.

After spending two years at the factory across the river,
known as the Harvard Business School, I worked for the next
eight years as a salesman for various companies. I first confined
my efforts to my hometown of Boston, but in 1941, I came to
Connecticut.

_In early 1941 I had been classified 4F by Uncle Sam, but by
the middle of 1942, he didn’t seem to be so fussy whom he got,
so in October of that year away I went to spend the next three
years all over this country and Europe with the Army Air
Forces (the Ninth). Just before going, however, I had met a
girl in Waterbury, Connecticut, who was from St. Louis, but

[ 1188 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

then living in New York City. The upshot of this was that we
were married in Mississippi, while I was stationed in Tennessee
in 1943- (Confusing, isn’t it?) So when I came out of the service
in 1945, I went to New York to live.

I continued my efforts as a salesman and sales manager for a
few years, but in 1950 decided to make a change. I returned to
Connecticut to work for the Connecticut Commission on Alco-
holism, where I still work as I write this. This was a welcome
change for the little woman too, as she was fed up with the
hurly-burly of New York after ten or twelve years. To say
why I made this change might be contrary to Tradition eleven,
which is part of the most important thing in my life for the past
nine years, and I hope always will be. (I’m sure some of you
know what I’m talking about, and to those who don’t — it
doesn’t matter.)

With the wife working full time also, I find that taking care
of the house and yard, and a meeting once or twice a week, take
up most of my spare time. To all intents and purposes, I sup-
pose you would say we are a typical suburbanite business couple.

+ FRANK WATT, II

poan: Sept. 1, 1910, Chicago, Ill. parents: Frank Watt, Annie Biddeford.
parpareD at: New Triet Township High School, Winnetka, Il.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933. DEGREE: A.B., 1932 (34).

marrieD; Catherine B. Watt.

pip: Killed in action, Aug. 30, 1944, in the North Channel.

AFTER graduation Watt entered the firm of Alfred R. Watt
& Company, investment counselors. In 1937 he went to work
for Container Corporation of America, and at the time he entered
the Navy, in 1943, was associated with Sears, Roebuck & Com-
pany in Chicago. While in the Navy he was commissioned a
lieutenant (j.g-) and given duty in the Armed Guard. He made
a trip to South America on the S.S. Chipana as commander of
the Naval Armed Guard Crew and then transferred to the U.S:S.
Jacksonville, a tanker This ship was torpedoed in the North
Channel. He was survived by his wife.

[ 1189 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

ROBERT HURLEY WATT

HOME ADDRESS: Apt. 14G, 8 Peter Cooper Rd., New York 1o, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Rogers, Slade & Hill, 551 Fifth Ave., New York 17, N-Y.

BORN: Feb. 22, 1911, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: William Colcord Watt, Mary
* Hurley.

PREPARED AT: Iona School, New Rochelle, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 19323 MBA. (New York Univ,),
1936. .

marrieD: Aldoran V. Nelson, Dec. 23, 1949, New York, N.Y.

HARVARD BROTHER: William John Watt, ’37.

OCCUPATION; Senior marketing consultant, Rogers, Slade & Hill, management

consultant firm.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Troop Committee, University Club Scout Troop,
1946-49; treasurer, St. Augustine’s Men’s Club, 1946-48.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Business School Club,
Squadron “A” ex-members’ Association; Shenorock Shore Club;
American Marketing Association.

MY business career started with four years in finance, working

in New York and Buffalo with the investment banking firm of

Harriman Ripley. In 1939, I joined the Birds Eye Division of

General Foods as a salesman and was assigned successively to

Indiana, Illinois, lowa and Nebraska, before returning to New

York in a sales management capacity.

Early in 1942 I joined the Army Air Force, spent a year train-
ing on the Pacific Coast and Montana, six months in Florida,
and two years with the Eighth Air Force in England — most of
the time as an adjutant, with greatest interest in my work as
defense counsel of the base special courts martial. While in
England I made several trips on leave or special assignment,
and made many friends, some of whom I revisited during the
summer of 1948.

Back from the Army, I spent another year and a half with
Birds Eye before making a change which brought me to the
National Biscuit Company for four years. Here I was product
manager of such items as Ritz, Triscuits, Oreo, etc., and had
the responsibility of coordinating sales, production, promotion
and advertising. Late in 1953, I joined the management engineer-
ing firm of Rogers, Slade & Hill, as a senior marketing consultant.
Here I have an interesting time analyzing the marketing opera-
tions of a diversified list of companies, advising them on their

[1190 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

product line, their personnel, and new fields they might move
into.

That takes care of the business career. The family side came
late in 1949. Aldoran and I met in Philadelphia, in December,
1948. She had just moved there from Minneapolis, and was de-
lighted to find that I knew Minneapolis was in the eastern half
of the country and that the natives were no longer being scalped
by Indians. We quickly discovered that we both loved the
theatre, dancing, music, reading, good conversation — and each
other, and married in December, 1949. We lived in Center City,
Philadelphia, for a year, on a storybook street where the lamp-
lighter came every night to light the gas lamps outside our
windows. Then we moved to New York City, where we live on
the fourteenth floor, looking across and up to the East River —
with one window looking towards the Empire State Building.

We like living in the city —eating at favorite restaurants —
seeing plays both off, and on, Broadway — and friends who drop
in from far places as well as close by. We keep our car outside
our back door, and use it a lot — mostly for zipping out to West-
chester weekends — but quite a bit in town, too. We both love
to travel. My business trips take me all over the country, and
Aldoran joins me as often as possible. Not as often as we'd like
the past two years (though we have managed California and
Florida), since she went back to writing advertising copy — this
time at Benton & Bowles. But she loves writing —and people
—and she’s happier working.

I still manage to keep my squash racquets and tennis going,
but play the piano less frequently. Until recently, I was active in
community affairs and took courses at New York University.
But the pressure of business and the extensive traveling have cut
these activities down. In church affairs, Aldoran is more active
than I am. She is on a committee of her Christian Science Church,
but I find only an occasional moment for any activity in my local
Catholic parish. All told, we lead an active life and always hope

we shall get more time for real leisure.

[1191 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

WILLIAM WHYTE WATT
HOME ADDRESS: 126 Reeder St., Easton, Pa.
OFFICE appRESS: Lafayette College, Easton, Pa.

BORN: Nov. 18, 1912, Watertown, Wis. parents: Homer Andrew Watt,
Effie Margaret Whyte.

PREPARED AT: East Orange High School, East Orange, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 19325 A.M., 1933} PH.D.
(Yale Univ.), 1935.

MARRIED: Sidney McGiffert, Aug. 14, 1937, Easton, Pa. cHILpREN: Robert
McGiffert, Aug. 28, 1938; Barbara Jean, Oct. 13, 1940; Katharine Whyte,
Oct. 13, 1949; Eloise Shilton, Jan. 19, 1954.

occupation: Professor of English and head of the department, Lafayette
College.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, Pennsylvania Chapter, College English As-
sociation, 1951-52.
MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association; College English Association,

American Association of University Professors; Sigma Alpha Epsilon,
Foreign Policy Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Co-editor, Biography: Varieties and Parallels, 1941, English
Literature and its Backgrounds, 1949; co-author, A Dictionary of English
Literature, 1945; An American Rhetoric, 1952, revised edition, 1957;
numerous verses in New Yorker, Saturday Evening Post, etc. pro-
fessional articles,

AFTER graduation I stayed on at Harvard for one of those one-
year A.M.’s that everybody was acquiring at the time and then
decided that I needed a change of elms and ivy. I transferred to
New Haven where 1 got my academic union card two years
later. Several months before June, 1935, I got a job teaching
elementary literacy at Lafayette, an institution which I should
probably identify for the latest George Apleys as a smallish
college of arts, science and engineering in Easton, Pennsylvania,
some three hundred miles southwest of Quincy. Except for a
two-year stretch as a communications officer in the Naval Re-
serve and a summer session at Lehigh (Bethlehem, Pennsylvania),
I have taught at Lafayette ever since.

I teach a little of everything — including elementary literacy
—and spend a good deal of time throwing my weight around
on committees and in cabals in an effort to keep the college on
my idea of the true course. These are the times that try the
souls of us secular missionaries in education. The pressures —

[1192 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

both intra — and extra-mural — are mostly against us. Too many
people want literacy without literature; technological miracles
without scientific foundations; training without education, know-
how but not know-where, know-whence, know-whither, or
know-why. They want higher education fitted for all without
considering that all may not be fit for higher education. They
want the colleges to turn sows’ ears into silk purses that will au-
tomatically fill with gold on graduation. They want good teach-
ing from men and women who are underpaid, under-respected
and misunderstood. They want their children to dwell in marble
halls. All this and winning football too. It’s a rough crusade,
but the fight’s worth winning, and I rather enjoy my role as a
minor league Canute trying to hold back the waves of Philistines.

After more than twenty years in college teaching, I am some-
what chagrined at not having published one genuine learned
journal article. But I have written or had a fist in four textbooks,
two of which have been widely adopted. Although this isn’t the
approved method of getting ahead in the academic life, I can per-
haps be forgiven the pleasure I take in counting my readers and
my royalties. Textbooks have made it possible for me to make
a respectable bourgeois living by teaching without degenerating
into a dean or a president. I have also, in my time — which
doesn’t seem to be at present — written and sold many feet of
light verse: great gobs of it to the Saturday Evening Post and a
smaller amount of higher calibre to the New Yorker. The
verse machine began to run down when I found myself talking
to too many women’s clubs. I am not, as many English teachers
are, a serious creative writer manqué. But I suppose if I have a
hobby — outside of talking, reading, going to the theatre, sports,
politics, and walking around the golf course —light verse is it.
(I really don’t like the word hobby; it smacks too much of ec-
cupational therapy to keep the businessman from going berserk.)

Rough notes to save space for more distinguished members
of the Class:

Family? One wife, four offspring (boy 18, girls almost 16,
almost 7, almost 3). Wife went to Vassar in the days of liberal
education and seems to have survived: with no pain and strain
she has taught herself to do all the useful things that colle:re

[ 1193 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

sence of these. “My” church seems at present more concerned
with promoting a kind of spiritual rotarianism than with propa-
gating the faith. Sunday Schools teach everything but the Old
and New Testaments (ask any teacher of literature). Which
brings me back to education — a good place to begin or end.

ARTHUR GARFIELD WEBSTER, JR.

HOME AppRESS: 105 Lighthouse Rd., Edgewood Hills, Wilmington 3, Del.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Engineering Dept. E. I. duPont de Nemours & Co., Wil-
mington 98, Del.

BORN: Dec. 21, 1909, Farmington, Maine. parents: Arthur Garfield Webster,
Helen Batten Whitehorne.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 19323 S.M. IN C.E. 1033.

MARRIED: Helen Ruth Pearson, Sept. 13, 1930, South Salem, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Arthur Garfield, 3d, Feb. 8, 1941; Susan Webster, Aug. 15, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Senior engineer, Consultant and Development Section, duPont
Engineering Department, for architectural and civil design.

OFFICES HELD: Membership chairman, Delaware Section, American Society
of Civil Engineers; secretary, Home Owners of Edgewood Hills, Inc.;
program chairman, Parent Teachers Association.

MEMBER OF; American Society of Civil Engineers; Delaware Engineering
Association; Harvard Engineering Society; duPont Country Club.

FOR my poor memory twenty years is a long time to go back,
but the two previous reports help a lot. They remind me that
engineers weren’t worth a dime a dozen in thirty-two or in
thirty-three either, after a postgraduate year. It is pleasing now to
see that the price went up a little. Three years with the Texas
Company until 1936, saw me married to the girl my friends in
Cambridge all knew.

The 1936 floods in Massachusetts made it a necessity to rebuild
a few bridges. This required a few engineers and resulted for
me in a very pleasant association with J. R. Worcester & Com-
pany, in Boston (now Thomas Worcester, Inc.). In 1938 things
looked bleak again with the bridges all built, but good old nature
did it again in the form of hurricane. That got us going and
we were busy right up to the war when we promptly got busier.
Never say the weather isn’t on the side of the engineer, After

[ 1196 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

that we steamed on through the war designing Army camps,
airports, naval installations and a million other things. At the end
of the war, in early 1946, I joined the Engineering Department
of the duPont Company. Since then I have had a hand in build-
ing plants for the production of “Better Things for Better Living
thru Chemistry.” These eleven years have been fascinating, al-
ways different and most challenging. Lately I’ve been involved
in the development of new building materials.

Our two children, Gary and Susan, now approaching college
age, are both wonderful, of course, but direct opposites in per-
sonality. They have kept us busy for years and doubtless will
continue to do so.

Hobbies seem to be cyclical. Photography came, went and
now is back again in the thirty-five-millimeter form and bids
fair to become a major sport. Bridge was minor, got serious in
the duplicate tournament variety and has virtually died out again.
We're saving the revival until, when the “kids” get into college,
it may be lonesome around the hearth. The most persistent effort
has been “do-it-yourself.” That can be vicious and I warn all
who have escaped it thus far to beware taking it up too seriously,
Having just finished a five-year plan (the complete installation
of two bedrooms and a bath), I speak from experience. The
second plan, now developing, is remodeling and renovation.
There’s no limit once you discover how much you can do with
a little trying. ,

Vacation for the last five years has been spent consistently in
New England; the last three and the coming summers at Mere-
dith, New Hampshire.

LEONARD JOSEPH WEINER

HOME appress: 500 Cushman St., Three Rivers, Mich.

OFFICE appRESS: 374 N. Main St, Three Rivers, Mich.

BorN: Aug, 1, 1910, Athens, Mich, parents: Abraham Weiner, Fannie
Tugender.

PREPARED AT: Three Rivers High School, Three Riversy Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1930. DEGREES: AB. (Univ. of Michiyant, tre
(ibid.), 1934.

[1197 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Maraiep: Jane Elizabeth Pauli, March 23, 1943, Portsmouth, Va. cHipaEn:
William Pauli, May 15, 1947; Mary Elizabeth, March 13, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

oFFices HELD: City Attorney, Three Rivers, 1940-42, 1947-56.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; Michigan State Bar Association; St.
Joseph County (Mich.) Bar Association; Three Rivers Lodge 47,
F, & A.M.; Three Rivers B.P.O.E.; DeWitt Clinton Consistory, Saladin
Temple, A.A.O.N.M.S.; Sauganash Country Club.

AFTER attending Harvard, I returned to the University of
Michigan and was graduated from the literary college and later
from the Michigan Law School in 1934. I returned to my home
in the midst of the depression and, after passing the Michigan Bar,
opened my own law office in Three Rivers, Michigan. I have
been continuously engaged in the practice of law since that
time except for the years 1942-46, when I was in the Army. I
served as an A.A. officer and was transferred to the J.A.G.D.
and served in the C.B.1., being discharged as a captain in 1946.
While in the Army, I married my wife, also from Three Rivers,
and our two children were born after we established our home
following the war.

My hobbics consist mainly in golf and reading and most of my
free time is spent in matters pertaining to local city government,
which is non-political.

Notwithstanding the opinions of city dwellers, life in a small
midwest community is full, complete, and satisfying. It is a
splendid place to raise a family, and the pleasure of family life
and intimate friends more than replaces the possible social ad-
vantages that might be offered to people in the larger cities. I,
for onc, am more than happy that the depression forced me to
shift for myself at home, rather than permit me to be employ ed
in a big city law office.

LOUIS WEINER

HOME ApnrEss: 4205 Kaywood Drive, Mc. Rainier, Mad.

orrice aporess: Federal Reserve Board, Washington 25, D.C,

BorN: Nov. 4, 1910, Malden, Mass. parents: Morris Weiner, Jennie Wald-
man.

Preparep at: Afalden High School, Malden, Mass.

[ 1198 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 19323 A.M, 1934-
margiep: Pearl Weiner, Aug. 20, 1939, Boston, Mass. cuitp: Jane Deborah,
Oct. 23, 1950.
occupanion: Economist; chief, National Income, Flow of Funds and Labor
Section, Division of Research and Statistics, Federal Reserve Board.
MEMBER OF: American Economic Association; American Statistical Associa-
tion; Institute of Mathematical Statistics.
peaticarions: A few articles on economic topics.
MY life has been a quiet one, on the surface. Since graduation
I have been engaged in the study and practice of economics
and statistics, first as a research assistant to Professors Frickey
and Leontief at Harvard, as a teacher of statistics at the Bentley
School in Boston, then as a Statistician-Economist with the U.S.
Bureau of Labor Statistics in Washington, and since 1947 as an
economist with the Federal Reserve Board. One of my main
conclusions about my profession is that I shall never know
enough, even though somehow or other I keep learning all the
time. Unfortunately, the rate of forgetting is not too far from
the rate of learning.

As for family, I can see that I am getting mature — or old —
when I can affirm that the best thing that ever happened to
Pearl and me was the birth of Jane Deborah. Over the years,
my main hobby has been reading in a great variety of fields. All
in all detective stories have probably lapped the rest of the field
ten times. Card-playing has been another persistent interest, and
we still manage to play a fair amount of bridge (strictly social).
I've played at golf for a decade, but not much in the past couple
of years. Every year or two some friend or other can inveigle
me into a game of chess.

As for travel, we did drive to California and back some years
ago and I’ve been back there a couple of times. My main travel
now, though, is getting up to Boston and Cape Cod once a year.

DAVID REID WEIR

HOME aporess: R.R. 3, Shaker Blvd., Chagrin Falls, Ohio.

OFFice appress: Highland View Hospital, Harvard Road, Cleveland 22, Ohio,

BORN: June 12, 1911, Cleveland, Ohio. Parents: William Hawksley Weir,
Marjorie Roslyn Campbell.

[ 1199 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

PREPARED AT: Hawken School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.D., 1936.

marrigD: Arria Morison, March 8, 1940, Boston, Mass, CHILDREN: David
Reid, Jr, July 25, 1941; Nathaniel Morison, Oct. 7, 1946 (died Jan. 5,
1947); Arria, Oct. 5, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Corsane Weir, 31, M.D., 735; James Campbell
Weir, 30, LLB., °33.

occuPATION: Physician; associate professor of medicine, School of Medicine,
Western Reserve University; director of Medical Services and chief of
medicine, Highland View Hospital; assistant physician, University Hos-
pitals of Cleveland.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-chairman, Cleveland Health Council; chairman, Re-
habilitation Committee, Welfare Federation of Cleveland and Cleveland
Health Council; director, Infertility Clinic, Maternal Health Association
of Cleveland.

MEMBER OF: Central Society for Clinical Research; American Society for
the Study of Sterility, Society for Experimental Biology and Medicine,
certified by American Board of Internal Medicine.

pusLications: Author or co-author of twenty-four publications in medical
literature reporting research done chiefly in fields of blood disease and
human infertility.

ALTHOUGH I had had eight years at the College and Medical
School, it still seemed necessary to spend an additional five and
a half years to complete my medical education. I spent the first
two years as resident in pathology at the Boston City Hospital
and Massachusetts General Hospital. I then returned to Cleve-
land for three and a half years’ training in internal medicine at
the University Hospitals. My plans to enter private practice early
in 1942 were interrupted by the war. I found myself a member
of the Fourth General Hospital, the unit affliated with Western
Reserve University Medical School. As was true in the first
World War, the Fourth was the first general hospital unit to go
overseas, on both occasions, being just a little bit ahead of the
Harvard unit. We spent two years in Melbourne, Australia,
followed by fifteen months in New Guinea and ending up in
Manila where we landed the night of V-J Day. My most pleasant
recollection of the war was skiing at Mont Tremblant during
terminal leave. I continued in the Active Army Reserve until
the spring of 1956, when I resigned my position as command-
ing officer of the Fourth General Hospital, U.S.A.R.

In the spring of 1946, we finally settled down again in Cleve-

[ 1200 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

land where I began the practice of medicine with part-time ac-
tivity in teaching and research at Western Reserve and its affilia-
ted hospitals. I became interested in diseases of the blood, par-
ticularly the leukemias, and have continued to study experimental
leukemia in mice. Another of my interests has been human in-
fertility. At our clinic, we believe we may be dispelling the
myth of the barren woman. The man seems to be more often at
fault, which is good for our popularity poll among the female sex.

As the years passed, multiple responsibilities and an expanding
practice made life seem full of endless frustrations. In 1953, 1
accepted my present positions at Highland View Hospital and
gave up private practice entirely except for very limited consul-
tation work. Highland View is a county institution affiliated with
the Western Reserve Medical School for teaching and research.
It is a fully-e quipped general hospital for the care of long term
illness, “The increasing importance of chronic illness was recog-
nized by the Cleveland community and Highland View is a major
step made by this community to deal wtih it more effectively.
Necessarily, I have become involved with the health and welfare
activities in the community as a whole and am particularly inter-
ested in the problem of providing continuity of medical care to
the individual patient with long term illness for the duration of
his disease in whatever environment he may be found.

In 1940 I was married to Arria Morison, better known as Bab-
ette in Boston. I recall certain reservations one of her older
cousins. had about a Clevelander marrying one of his favorite
Bostonian relatives. His immense relief was evident as soon as
he learned that 1 was a Harvard graduate. Except for the war
years, when Babette lived with her parents in Boston, we have
made our home in Cleveland. In 1954 we settled down on seven
acres in Hunting Valley, a suburb of Cleveland. We like to think
that we lead the country life and both have considerable en-
thusiasm for tennis and skiing. Each winter we manage to get
off to the snow country for a week or two and so far have
broken no bones. She and the children spend a good part of
the summer at her father’s house in Peterborough, New Elamp-
shire, where I join them for several weeks. We generally find
our classmates, Elting Morison, Jack Appel and Beek Poot.

[ 1201 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

in that neighborhood. Elting has introduced us to a furiously
competitive brand of croquet, which I think is an ideal sport
for those entering the older age group, provided they can stand
the tension, Having played touch football last week and being
just able to hobble about, I can recommend croquet.

Our fifteen-year-old son, David, has just entered Exeter. I un-
derstand from him and from some of my younger friends that
things are different at school nowadays. Apparently one has to
work hard to survive. Ele seems interested in going to Harvard
but feels under no compulsion to do so. Our eight-year-old

daughter, Arria, is still in that happy state where major decisions
do not have to be made.

CLINTON HARBICK WEISERT

HoMe Appaess; 1819 Harvard Drive, Louisville, Ky.

BORN: Sept. 27, 1911, Louisville, Ky. parents: John Jacob Weisert, Laura
Krog,

pRepareD AT: Louisville Male High School, Louisville, Ky.
YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1928-1932, DEGRFE: A.B. cu laude, 1932.

CHARLES DAVIS WELCH

vote aporess; Mariner Motor Inn, 555 E. Main St, Falmouth, Mass.

orice avoress; Mariner Motor Inn, Box 488, Falmouth, Mass.

worn: May 27, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Ralph Waldo Welch, Mary
Elizabeth Bruce.

prevarep At: Browne & Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YRARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932, DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

ararriep: Olga Novella Beers, Aug. 31, 1935, Boston, Mass. cHiLp: Ralph
Waldo, ad, June 23, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHER: Elbridge Bruce Welch, °32.

occupation: General manager, Mariner Motor Inn; food service consultant.

OFFICES HELD: Former vice-president, secretary and treasurer, Harvard Club,
Taunton.

I HAVE been in the life insurance business, industrial food
service industry, a food service consultant and have designed and
supery ised construction and installation of various large feeding
units, 1 am now the general manager of the largest ‘and finest
motor inn on Cape Cod, Massachusetts,

[ 1202 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ELBRIDGE BRUCE WELCH

HomME aporess: 68 Richland Rd., Cranston, R. I.

orrice aporess: Church of the Messiah, 10 Troy St., Providence, R. I.

pours: Sept. 22, 1907, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Ralph Waldo Welch, Mary
Elizabeth Bruce.

purpareD at: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.; Browne and Nichols
School, Cambnrdge, Mass.

VEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; B.D. (Episcopal Theological
School), 1938.

maanniep: Charlorte Ethel Myers, May 12, 1934, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Charlotte Afyers, Feb. 27, 1940; Jonathan Bruce, Aug. 7, 1942.

Manvarp BroTHER: Charles Davis Welch, ’32.

ouocupaTIon: Rector, Church of the Messiah, Providence, R.I.

AFTER graduation in 1932, I entered the business world al-
though I had for some time been contemplating the Christian
ministry. By 1935 my mind was made up. I was accepted as a
candidate for Holy Orders by the Protestant Episcopal Bishop
of Massachusetts, and entered the Episcopal Theological School
at Cambridge, Massachusetts, in September, 1935. Upon gradua-
tion three years later, I became curate of St. Stephen’s Episcopal
Church in Lynn, Massachusetts. Then, in February, 1941, I
became rector of the Church of the Messiah in the Olneyville
Section of Providence, and have continued here for what is now
sixteen years.

As for points of view, asked for in our questionnaire, I might
say simply, that the older I grow, the more convinced I am of
the reality of God. I have, during my ministry, seen so many
evidences of that reality in so many lives. I have felt it often
in my own.

FRANCIS MINOT WELD, JR.

HOME apprEss: P.O. Box 192, Guilford, Conn.

BORN: Dec. 16, 1909, New York, N.Y. PARENTS: Francis Minot Weld, ’97,
Margaret Low White.

PREPARED AT: Ridgefield School for Boys, Ridgefield, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Alfred White Weld, ’30; David Weld, 34.

[ 1203 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

occupation: Retired.

MEMBER OF: Union Club; Harvard Club of New York; Sachems Head Yacht
Club, Guilford, Conn.; Ausable Club, St. Huberts, N.Y.; Cercle
Francais, Harvard University; John Barnard Associates.

CHARLES HUEBENER WELLMAN

HOME aApprESS: 44 Marmion Way, Rockport, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 56 MacDougal St., New York 12, N.Y.

BORN: June 6, 1911, Newton, Mass. Parents: Charles Phelps Wellman, Jr.,
Maud Huebener.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy and Dickinson High School, Deerfield,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.
UNMARRIED.

MAYBE I seem taciturn, etc., but ['d welcome letters. Or any
friend may .call ORegon 4-0189. :

MACKEY WELLS, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 3259 N. Summit Ave., Milwaukee 11, Wis.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Reliable Paper Co, 255 E. Erie St., Milwaukee 2, Wis.

BORN: Sept. 25, 1909, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Mackey Wells, ’08, LL.B., °11,
Alida M. Carter.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931.

Marriep: Olga Wirin, Jan. 21, 1939 (divorced 1945); Jane Pierce, Feb. 21,
1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Carter Wells, ’34.

occuration: Accountant and general office manager.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, The Film Circle (a social organization for the
exhibiting of foreign films and American films no longer shown to the
general public).

MEMBER OF: American Legion.

IN college the English course I had to take was a chore; I couldn’t
write worth a darn and today I still have the same trouble.
Many authors have filled their books and stories with mediocre
people and described mediocrity for all to comprehend, but how
does one who lives a mediocre life suddenly whip up a vignette
full of interesting pictures for all the world to see.

[ 1204 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

On leaving college, I came back to Milwaukee to help build
portable incinerators, 1931-33, and assisted in the manufacture
of seamless tubing, 1933-35. I was associated with a firm that
manufactured and sold lace curtains in New York, 1935-40, and
during that time was married to my first wife. I sold the same
incinerators in Chicago, 1940~42, until I received greetings from
Uncle Sam.

I enjoyed most of the experiences I endured in the Army
Air Force, where I learned about meteorology as a weather
observer. Though I was never sent overseas, I did help “fight
the good fight” in the California desert for two and one-half
years and observed the weather in a land where it was hot (!)
and nothing came ’round but the dust, 1942-45. After I left
the Air Force, I was divorced; then followed three years in a
department store here in Milwaukee during which time I re-
married, I ran a sweeping compound business and lost my shirt,
1948-51. From 1951 on, I have been working in the accounting
field and find that at last I can settle down and enjoy the hectic
life of an accountant.

I am not much of a traveler and so I leave the traveling to my
wife. I have never been much of a party goer, but with a fun
loving wife I need less and less urging. I vote Republican, but I
do not side with the isolationists out here in the Middle West.
The Army life I endured in my thirties has made me an advocate
of Universal Military Training. I am not a church-going Chris-
tian, but believe in the Golden Rule and endeavor to follow it
to the best of my ability. I have a few hobbies — enjoy some
music, am an amateur philatelist, play a fair game of bridge, and
still enjoy observing the cloud formations which the Air Force
taught me. I am enjoying the life I live because I have finally
found that accounting is the work for which I am best fitted.

EDWARD EATON WENDELL

HOME ADDRESS: 1384 Canton Ave., Milton 86, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Hunneman & Co.,, Inc., 19 Congress St, Boston g, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 10, 1909, Milton, Mass. PARENTS: George Blunt Wendell, Lucy
Eaton,

[ 1205 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass. .
YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MakrRiEpD: Jeannette Frances Manning, June 18, 1936, Newton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Lucy Grosvenor, Dec. 23, 1937; Edward Eaton, Jr. Oct. 26, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Blunt Wendell, ’25.

OccUPATION: Vice-president, treasurer and director, Hunneman & Company,
Inc.; trustee of various real estate trusts.

OFFICES HELD: Town Meeting Member, Wellesley, 1943-45, Milton, since
1947; vice-chairman, Milton Chapter, Red Cross, 1956-57; member
executive committee, Milton Academy Graduates Association, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; St. Botolph Club; Milton-Hoosic Club,
Boothbay Harbor (Maine) Yacht Club; Holland Society of New York.

THE cold statistics above tell of marriage, children, business
and civic interests. They also suggest a New England provin-
cialism — but one year we took a week and went way out to
Chicago for a national real estate convention, another year we
got down to Williamsburg, Virginia, on a vacation and last sum-
mer the four of us, plus Rambler station wagon, toured the Con-
tinent and England.

After college my first business venture was pushing door-
bells trying to sell electric “ice-boxes.” Sales were few and far
between — and pay was strictly commission. In the fall of 1933,
Franny Martin told me he was going into the rum business be-
cause he couldn’t make any money in real estate and his job with
a Boston firm was open. I applied, got it, and continued not to
make any money but in excellent company — including Bob
Livermore and Fred Grinnell of our Class and Ted Francis of
*31, After a while Fred went to New York, but Bob, Ted and
I with Carl Hunneman, ’21, as the “old man” have been the
proprietors of a still-growing business for a number of years.

Beyond this, there’s not much to say. The usual average life
in a New England town. Various civic, charitable, church and
social committees and member of the local auxiliary fire depart-
ment.

WILLIAM LORD WEST

HOME AppREss: 706 Fairmount Ave. St. Paul 5, Minn.
OFFICE apprEss: % Torit Manufacturing Co., 292 Walnut St., St. Paul 2,
Minn.

[ 1206 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Oct. 26, 1909, St. Paul, Minn. parents: William Lord West, Frederica
Sommers. .

PREPARED AT: St. Paul Academy, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.B.A., 1935.

MARRIED: Joan Vosberg, June 8, 1940, St. Paul, Minn. cHipren: Presbury
Burton, July 2, 1942; Frederick Sommers, Nov. 10, 1944, Curtis Charles,
Dec. 14, 1950; David William, May 12, 1953.

OccUPATION: President, Torit Manufacturing Company.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, St. Paul Aviation Club, 1936-38; director, 1939-54,
president, 1941-50, St. Paul Gallery and School of Art; director, Little
Theatre Company, 1940-42; director, since 1942, vice-president, 1948,
1949, president, 1950, 1951, treasurer, 1956, Family Service of St. Paul,
vice-chairman, Council of Leisure Time Agencies, 1954-56; chairman,
Scholarship Committee, since 1945, president, 1952, Harvard Club of
Minnesota; trustee, 1952-54, chairman, board of trustees, 1953, 1954,
Unity Church (Unitarian).

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club of St. Paul; American Dental Trade Association,
St. Paul Chamber of Commerce; St. Paul Athletic Club; Minnesota
Club; Somerset Country Club; Harvard Club of Minnesota.

I DOUBT if Grandmother could have foreseen the depression
of the thirties but her European bred idea of a Reisejabr, luckily
supplemented by adequate finances, made it possible for me to
thumb my nose at the American economic scene and spend the
first year after graduation in France and Germany. It was a
memorable and richly rewarding experience.

A year of travel was followed by two in the Business School
and then back to the home town seeking an eager employer —
which they weren’t. After a year with a paper box manufacturer
and two years with a small investment house, I joined a small
(five employees) electrical manufacturer in 1939, buying an in-
terest in the firm. The company manufactured a line of float
switches and pressure operated switches for the automatic control
of large industrial and municipal water works and sewage sys-
tems. We prospered and grew, doing Navy contract work dur-
ing the war, and I fought the war of priorities. I served as
treasurer of that company, Automatic Control Company, until
1945 when I became president. In 1954— we had grown to
seventy-five employees — my associates and I found ourselves
of different opinions and I departed from them selling my interest.
Fortunately, an elderly gentleman of another firm decided at
the time to sell out and retire. He was immediately accom-

[ 1207 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

modated and as of July, 1954, I became controlling stockholder,

president, and general headacher of Torit Manufacturing Com-
pany, a medium-sized manufacturing firm some forty years
of age. The company manufactures two diverse lines of products,
its original line of equipment for dental laboratories and its off-
shoot which is now the major activity, a line of industrial dust-
collecting machinery.

Leisure time is a phrase we hear in social work, and seems to
constitute a problem to many people. To those who find it
so I recommend raising a family of four boys. The demands of
the little ones (now three and six years of age) are almost more
than two healthy parents can keep up with. And as the older
two (twelve and eleven) develop new interests, there are now
skiing weekends, camping trips, and hunting expeditions to be
added to the current projects such as the shack in the back yard,
baseball and football practice. Such a life doesn’t permit much
contemplative reading (besides Reader’s Digest condensations),
but that indulgence must wait for the boys’ matriculation. Such
an active family also takes the place of hobbies in the usual
sense, of which I presently have none. There have been different
interests through the years, and it’s interesting to note how they
have changed.

Before marriage my main outside interest — or hobby — — was
private flying, through which I met my wife. Aviation became
displaced by war contract work and the requirements of a fam-
ily life. Then came a period of dedication to our struggling local
Art Institute, helping to pull it up out of war-time doldrums with
but moderate success. Now the main interest or activity is the
Community Chest. For the last fifteen years I have been asso-
ciated with one of our larger social agencies, Family Service,
Inc., serving in various capacities as board member and officer.
This involves one naturally in the financial drives and other
activities of the Community Chest and has resulted in my be-
coming chairman of one council and member of several com-
mittees and study groups. One of the studies was a detailed
analysis of every recreation facility, public and private, in this
country and lasted for eighteen months. Because of the
knowledge I presumably gained from that, a job ona city bond

{ 1208 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

advisory committee followed, and so it goes. It all requires a
considerable amount of time and effort and it’s rather a puzzle
to explain the motivation. I suppose each of us has our little
crusade, and mine is a deep belief that voluntary (as opposed
to governmental) social agencies banded together in the Com-
munity Chest are the epitome of the American way of life and
must be strongly supported as a bulwark against crecping social-
ism.

Virtually my whole career has been spent in small business
which has been exciting, interesting and rewarding. Personally,
I don’t understand those who mourn that small business oppor-
tunities are a thing of the past, as I believe they still exist aplenty.
True, the tax laws do penalize the growing company and make
the financing of a small business more difficult than formerly,
but the creative satisfaction of seeing a firm grow and create
more and better jobs is well worth the struggle. I often wonder
why so few business school graduates go into smaller firms.. They
can have the big ones! As for me, give me the liberty, freedom,
and initiative, along with all the headaches, of a smaller firm!
It’s been my life and I love it!

ROBERT LEWIS WESTHAFER

HOME AppREss: P.O. Box 33, State College, N. Mex.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New Mexico College of A. and M.A, State College, N.
Mex.

BoRN: March 16, 1911, Amherst, Mass. PARENTS: William Rader Westhafer,
A.M., ’o9, Bessie Frances Parrett.

PREPARED AT: Wooster High School, Wooster, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929. DEGREES: A.B. (Coll. of Wooster), 1932; a.“
(Harvard Univ.), 1934; pH.p. (Ohio State Univ.), to4t.

MARRIED: Roberta Meade Brittle, Sept. 6, 1938, Emporia, Va.

OCCUPATION: Professor of mathematics, New Mexico College of A. and MIA.

OFFICES HELD: Director of Admissions, College of Wooster, 19i4-3¢s 11-
structor of mathematics, Hastings College, Hastings, Nebr. toigety,
assistant in mathematics, Ohio State University, 1937-41; profesor of
mathematics, New Mexico College of A. & M.A,, since 1946.

MEMBER OF: American Mathematical Society; Mathematical Associanen of
America (secretary, 1951-55, Chairman, 1955-56, Southwestern Section,
Society of the Sigma Xi; American Veterans Commuttce.

[ 1209 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

MY single year as an undergraduate at Harvard in 1928-29 now
seems very far away and long ago, although I presume that it
qualifies me as a one-quarter member of 1932. I returned to
Harvard in 1932 and earned an A.M. degree in mathematics.
Later I finished my professional training with a Ph.D. from Ohio
State, Since then I have professed mathematics at various insti-
tutions, including the U.S.N.R., settling ten years ago in south-
ern New Mexico at the State’s Land Grant University.

Expecting to lead a prosaic existence, I discovered that I was
in the midst of an exciting scientific environment and that our
“cow” college is now one of the leading collegiate institutions in
rockct development. Next year our mathematics program will
be broadened to include doctoral training. It is somewhat ex-
hilarating also to suddenly discover that the profession of math-
ematics is now a highly respected business and that we, as prac-
tising members, are in short supply!

My relationship with the Harvard Class of 1932 is rather
tenuous. In fact I had not spoken to a member of the Class,
to my knowledge, until this summer when I had the opportunity
to talk very briefly with Garrett Birkhoff after hearing him
lecture at Holloman Air Development Center. However, I have
maintained my interest in Harvard: proud of her successes, dis-
tressed when she has been attacked; supporting her in what small
way I can; and always happy that I can claim a partial member-
ship in Harvard ’32.

HARRY WEXLER

HOME aporEss: 204 S. Lee St. Falls Church, Va.

oFFice appress: U.S. Weather Bureau, Dept. of Commerce, Washington 25,
DC,

BoRN; March 15, 1911, Fall River, Mass. PARENTS: Samuel Wexler, Mamie
Starr,

PREPARED AT: B.M.C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: S.B. magna cum laude, 1932; ScD
(Mass. Inst. of Technology), 1939.

MarrieD; Hannah Paipert, Dec. 3, 1934, Chicago, Ill. campren: Susan Carol,
Aug. 30, 1944; Libby, Feb. 6, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles Wexler, '27, A.M. °29, PH.D., "30; Raymond Wexler,
36
3 ee

[ 1210 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Director of meteorological research, U.S. Weather Bureau; chief
scientist, U.S. International Geophysical Year Antarctic Program,

OFFicEs HELD: Assistant professor of meteorology, University of Chicago,
1940-41; research executive, Weather Division, US.A.F., 1943-45
(captain to lieutenant colonel); chairman, Geophysical Research Panel,
Scienufic Advisory Board to Chief of Staff, US.AF., 1952-55; vice-
president, American Meteorological Society, 1953-55; chairman, Meteor-
ological Panel of Committee on Biological Effects of Radiation, National
Academy of Sciences, since 1955. ,

mamaza or: Royal Meteorological Society; American Geophysical Union;
American Academy of Arts and Sciences; Washington Academy of
Science; American Veterans’ Committee; American Meteorological
Society.

peauicarions: Author of some fifty papers on “Synoptic and Dynamic
Meteorology,” “Solar and Terrestrial Radiation,” “Anticyclones,” “Up-
per Atmospheric Physics,” “Climatic Variations,” “Polar Geophysics.”

I AM writing this on the verge of departure to the Antarctic.
An explanation of how I got into this particular situation twenty-
five years after leaving Harvard might serve also as a partial
account of my life since graduation and even before.

During my newspaper carrier days in the Highlands section of
Fall River, I looked forward to the challenges of rugged weather
in delivering papers in good condition and on time to my cus-
tomers. This early interest in meteorology lapsed when I entered
into the hothouse atmosphere of Cambridge, although I remem-
ber well skating to Watertown on some cold glorious nights
when the Charles was smoothly frozen.

Then, in March, 1932, while facing an appetiteless future,
came the turning point—a boyhood friend of mine studying
meteorology at M.1.T., introduced me to Professor C. G. Rossby,
a transplanted Swede, who brought modern meteorological
methods to this country in the mid-twenties. A five-minute talk
was enough even if Rossby had been a professor of classical
Abyssinian philology I would have wanted to study under him.
Thus the torch for research meterology once lit, has continued
to glow. Entering the Weather Bureau in 1934, I helped intro-
duce the new Scandinavian techniques. During 1940-41, I joined
the newly-formed Institute of Meteorology at the University
of Chicago to train meteorologists for the rapidly growing de-
fense program. :

With the threat of war closer, I began to chafe at academic

[ 1211 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

life, returned to Washington in October, 1941, to assist the

Bureau in its rapidly increasing defense activities, then got into

uniform in November, 1942, with a request to get overseas as

soon as possible. Of course, my first assignment was teaching —
two classes each of nine hundred aviation meteorological cadets
— at the Civic Auditorium, Grand Rapids, Michigan. It took me
nearly a year to escape and with orders in hand to take me to the
China-Burma-India Theatre, I foolishly dropped in at the Pen-
tagon to bid farewell to some friends, whereupon my orders
were promptly changed and I found myself as “research exec-
utive” of the newly formed weather division, Headquarters,
AAF. Thus I spent the war as a desk man in Washington and
Asheville, North Carolina, while my former academic colleagues
visited all the war fronts as “expert consultants.” Apart from
an airplane flight into the eye of the “Great Atlantic Hurricane”
of September, 1944, which sank several destroyers and wrecked
the million-dollar Steel Pier at Atlantic City, there was very
little opportunity to satisfy my (declining) desire for adventure.

After the war I returned to the Weather Bureau as head of
its meteorological research activities and entered into fulfillment
of the G.I. dream — new house, new car, new baby.

In 1950, a distinguished scientist at a party in a Washington
suburb proposed that all nations of the world get together in
1957 and 1958 and hold a Third International Geophysical Year
— seventy-five years after the First Polar Year and twenty-five
years after the Second Polar Year. These “years” are periods
when most nations pool their resources to study mankind’s physi-
cal environment. In the Second Polar Year of 1932-33, I assisted
by taking meteorological observations at Harvard’s Blue Hill
Observatory and participating in its total eclipse meteorological
expedition of August 31, 1932, to Bowdoin College, Brunswick,
Maine. These were peaceful, instructive experiences so that when
in 1953 I heard of the plans for the Third International Geophysi-
cal Year of 1957-1958, I thought that it would be a somewhat
enlarged repetition of the 1932 year. But how quickly that com-
fortable feeling evaporated when I began to be carried along
by an increasing current of national and international planning
for the new International Geophysical Year. In early 1954, bend-

[ 1212 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing over a map of Antarctica, I pointed out some places where we
ought to establish scientific stations — little dreaming that I would
be asked to accept the position of chief scientist for the United
States, IGY Antarctic Program to help carry out the program
I so innocently suggested.

In connection with planning for the IGY I have attended
five international congresses in two years (Rome, Brussels, Stock-
holm, and two in Paris), two of which were exclusively devoted
to the Antarctic. Talking to scientists from other countries at
these meetings and also at the Geneva Atoms-for-Peace Con-
ference in August, 1955, has been an exhilarating and broadening
experience.

Although the IGY does not begin until July 1, 1957, it has
already started for the Antarctic since scientific parties can only
be placed in their stations in the austral summer, that is during
the Northern Hemisphere winter, 1956-1957. So, in a few weeks,
burdened with heavy polar clothing and gear, I leave. After
visiting as many of our six stations in Antarctica and those of
other nations that I can get to, I'll return in late spring of 1957
ready for a good thaw at our Twenty-fifth.

RICHARD THOMAS WHARTON

HOME ADDRESS: Riverbank Road, Stamford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: DeCoppet & Doremus, 63 Wall St., New York, N.Y.

BoRN: Sept. 5, 1909, Islip, N.Y, parents: Richard Wharton, Helena Johnson
Parsons,

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Mara di Zoppola, June 25, 1945, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Stephanie Helena, May 26, 1946; Richard Thomas, Jr., March 3, 1949:
Lucie Elizabeth, May 1, 1950.

occuPATION: Limited partner, DeCoppet & Doremus, odd lot security dealers.

MEMBER OF: The Brook Club, New York.

AFTER graduating, I spent two months vacationing in Europe
with Pete Whitman. I returned to New York in September
and landed a job with Abbott Hopkins & Company, a brokerage
firm in Wall Street. I spent a year in all the various departments,
learning the business, and in January, 1934, I became a member

[ 1213 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

of the New York Stock Exchange as an independent broker,

In 1936 I became a partner of Abbott, Proctor & Paine where ]

remained until March, 1941, when the Navy called me to active

duty.

Pa ordered to Washington, D.C., in the Bureau of Personnel.
This was a great disappointment as I had hoped to be sent to
sea, having had ROTC training at Harvard. Shore duty came to
an abrupt end right after Pearl Harbor Day. I was sent to
Kearney, New Jersey, to commission a new destroyer called the
Duncan, We shook down in Maine and then did some convoy
duty in the South Atlantic to Panama.

Our next orders were to escort the South Dakota through the
Canal to the New Hebrides, where we were detached to join
the Wasp carrier group. I saw her torpedoed in September on a
clear afternoon. We picked up over 500 survivors and took them
back to our base. On the night of October 11-12, we were sent
on a special task force to run up the “Slot” to Guadalcanal in
order to intercept Japanese cruisers which were coming down
from the North every night to land reinforcement troops on
the island. About midnight we picked up six cruisers and their
destroyer escorts on our radar, with which they were not
equipped. Having that advantage, we were able to cross the
famous “T” and, in less than an hour, sank or seriously damaged
their entire force. Unfortunately, my destroyer (being in the
lead) ran into a salvo from a Japanese cruiser at about 2000
yards or less and that was the end of that cruise.

It was necessary to abandon ship, so a long night was spent
in the drink and by good luck most of us were picked up the
next afternoon by one of our own destroyers which was de-
tached from our task force for that- purpose. We were taken
to Auckland, New Zealand, and finally by hospital ship to San
Francisco. After several weeks’ convalescence, I ended up in
Newport, Rhode Island, until the war ended.

While there, I married and lived for the next four years. I
am now a special partner in DeCoppet & Doremus in Wall Street
and am living in Stamford, Connecticut, with three children,
ages ten, seven and six.

[1214]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HENRY LEIBEE WHEELER

HOME ADDRESS: 42 Saybrook PL. Buffalo, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Buffalo Aeronautical Corp. Buffalo Municipal Airport,
Buffalo, N.Y.

BoRN: Nov. 10, 1909, Buffalo, N.Y. parents: Maxwell Stevenson Wheeler,
94, Gertrude M. Leibee.

PREPARED AT: Nichols School, Buffalo, N.Y.: Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B, 1932.

mMarrIED: Lucy H. McCarthy, 1932, Buffalo, N.Y. (divorced 1952); Hilda
Boelke, 1956, Buffalo, N.Y. camp: William L., June 4, 1933.

occupation; Vice-president and treasurer, Buffalo Aeronautical Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Hall, Cherry, Wheeler & Company, 1936-52;
director, Chapman Oil Company, 1946-54, Inland Manufacturing Com-

pany, since 1947.

MEMBER OF: Aero Club of Buffalo (past president); Wings Club, New
York City; Mid-Day Club of Buffalo; Quiet Birdmen (past keyman);
Erie County Sheriff’s Aviation Department (director).

++ STAFFORD MANCHESTER WHEELER

BORN: July 11, 1910, Acoaxet, Mass. parents: Philip Manchester Wheeler,
Sophie Hall.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Fxeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; M.D., 1937-

marrieD: Anne Bolling, July 22, 1933, Paris, France. CHILDREN: Sara Elizabeth,
May 28, 1938; Philip Raynal, May 4, 1941.

piep: April 13, 1945, near Sarajevo, Yugoslavia.

AFTER graduation from Medical School and an internship at
Johns Hopkins, Wheeler was an instructor at Harvard Medical
School until 1942 when he received an appointment as associate
professor at Columbia University Medical School. In May,
1942, he entered the Navy and taught in the Naval Medical
Center at Bethesda, Maryland, until 1944. He was then sent
abroad with the U.S. Typhus Commission to Cairo, and in 1945
he moved to Yugoslavia, where he was killed by a mine ex-
ploding under his car. He was posthumously awarded the United
States of America Typhus Commission Medal, and the Yugoslav
government awarded him the Order of the Yugoslav People,
Second Class, for services to its people. He was survived by
his wife and children.

[ 1215 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

T. AMES WHEELER

HOME ADpREss: Country Club Road, Sewickley Heights, Pa.

OFFICE appress: Allegheny Ludlum Steel Corp., 2020 Oliver Bldg., Pitts-
burgh 22, Pa,

BorN: Oct. 1, 1911, Smithsburg, Md. parents: Carleton Ames Wheeler, ’99,
Elizabeth Towson.

PREPARED AT: Northwood School, Lake Placid Club, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1932; S.M., 1934.

marriep: Alma Lackey Wilson, Jan. 8, 1937, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN: Sue
Elizabeth, Nov. 3, 1940; Sara Ames, Dec. 3, 1942; Laurie Wilson, July 21,
1044.

HARVARD BROTHER: Coburn Towson Wheeler, ’30.

occupaTION: Manufacturer of stainless and other high alloy steels; controller.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Business School Club of Pittsburgh, 1946,
Edgeworth Club, Sewickley, since 1954.

MEMBER OF: Controllers Institute; National Association of Cost Accountants;
Statistical Committee of American Iron & Steel Institute; Harvard
Business School Club of Pittsburgh; Duquesne Club; Edgeworth Club;
Allegheny Country Club; Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club.

FOR the past fifteen years I have been in Pittsburgh learning
the steel business. I say “learning” because the “mature” steel in-
dustry is not only big, but full of change and vitality. It is im-
portant and exciting and it suits me right down to the ground.

In this I consider myself quite forrunate, for looking back, my
course seems to have been as much accidental as planned. Before
Pittsburgh, there were some seven years of banking and financial
work in Detroit. I got to Detroit originally with the idea of try-
ing out my engineering with Chrysler (for $116.00 per month,
not much like the present college grads, is it?). The only rem-
nants of my engineering, incidentally, are a hot slide rule, a gen-
eral prejudice towards orderliness and a do-it-yourself complex,
it would be fun to fool around with a transit again though.

My family, including three daughters, tends to keep me busy
and broke. “Peter” (Wellesley ’34), as current treasurer of the
Hospitality Shop of the Sewickley Valley Hospital, regularly
puts my knowledge of debits and credits to a severe strain in
the monthly balancing of her books. Sue, just sixteen, is now
spending her first year away at school—Rosemary Hall in
Greenwich, Connecticut. She and Sara, fourteen, are among
the better junior tennis players in Pittsburgh, while Laurie, the

[ 1216 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

youngest, would rather ride a horse than eat. All are eagerly
looking forward to the Twenty-fifth Reunion. With our two
dogs and the fiercest tomcat in Western Pennsylvania, we are
enjoying our new home and some five acres of trees and slopes
— which give only too much room for physical exercise and
handyman jobs. As a result, I am long on power tools — shop-
smith, cutter bar mowers, etc. — but so far, still have all my
fingers and toes.

Helping to run the Edgeworth Club in Sewickley takes a fair
portion of my remaining “spare” time and I also lend a hand to
various fund-raising campaigns, such as two years of guiding the
Harvard Business School Fund Drive for the Class of 1934. In
the summer my weekend golf has resulted in a grossly unfair
eleven handicap, while my tennis has sunk to an occasional
game of mixed doubles and squash now seems “too much
trouble.” .

We always get back to Peterboro, New Hampshire, for at
least part of our annual vacation, and sometimes get some Carib-
bean sunshine in winter. In 1957, though, we'll be sure to be
on hand in Cambridge.

MERRIAM WHEELWRIGHT

HOME Appress: Church Street, Yarmouth Port, Mass.

‘ BORN: July 30, 1908, Jamaica Plain, Mass. parents: John Tyler Wheelwright,
26, Mabel deLane Merriam.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

UNMARRIED.

OccuPATION: Farming, corn crops.

MEMBER OF: Boston Numismatic Society.

AFTER graduating in 1932 with an S.B. degree, majoring in
anthropology, I worked for a few months in the Peabody Mu-
seum, classifying Indian pottery and arrowheads. Then I ob-
tained a job as a field man with the Federal Housing Adminis-
tration, which lasted for two years. After that, I was a brokerage
clerk for the firm of Hutchins & Parkinson of Boston.

[ 1217 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

When the Second World War came I enlisted in the USS.
Army and was assigned to the Field Artillery. I served from
August, 1942, to October, 1945, and received an honorable dis-
charge with the rank of corporal.
In 1946 I moved to Yarmouth Port, Cape Cod, and each sum-
mer I raise a number of chickens and also a large corn crop. The
corn output varies greatly as the hurricanes of recent years can
play havoc with it.

I am a Republican and from time to time attend the Episcopal
Church. My hobbies are coin collecting and cultivation of trop-
ical fish. I have collected many interesting varieties of aquarium
fish in the Lake Okeechobee region of Florida, during the past
two winters. It is very interesting work as one never knows just
what one will find in the weedy canals that drain the Everglades.

WARREN LOMBARD WHEFELWRIGHT

HOME ApprEss: Mill Street, Sherborn, Mass.
OFFICE appREss: Wachusett Paper Co., Inc., 45 Brooks St., Brighton, Mass.

Born: April 8, 1909, Boston, Mass. parents: Henry May Wheelwright, ‘94,
Mildred Winthrop Emmons.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

MaraiED: Katharine Throop Goodwin, June 5, 1942, New York, N.Y. (di-
vorced 1950); Helen Hamilton Werthessen, Aug. 17, 1952. CHILDREN:
Warren Lombard, Jr., Oct. 6, 1944; Eliot Goodwin, Jan. 30, 1946; Helen
Anne Werthessen; Nicholas H, Werthessen,; Gregory H. Werthessen ~
(last three, stepchildren), |

OCCUPATION: President, Wachusett Paper Company, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, 1956 Red Cross Drive, Sherborn; chairman and
Commissioner of Cemeteries, Sherborn, 1949-56.

MEMBER oF: Advertising Club of Boston; Boston Club of Printing House
Craftsmen.

1 LEFT Harvard after my first year by recommendation of Dean
Hanford. My studies at summer school did not make up for my
difficulties. The year 1929 was an eventful one. I was working
as a runner in the brokerage office of Tucker, Anthony & Com-
pany. Anyone without a brain was making money up to October
that year. It was very exciting after that — the customers never
smoked their cigars, they chewed them to the bitter end. In

[1218 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

February of the following year, General Motors was selling at
a new low of twenty-five dollars per share.

In June I decided that I was in need of more education and
applied at the University of Michigan Architectural School. In
1934 I finished my formal education there. Those were hard
times. I was very lucky to work for nothing for a few months
in the office of Coolidge, Shepley, Bulfinch & Abbott, noted
architects for some of the Harvard houses. This was not very
remunerative, so I gave it up and rang doorbells selling soap
for Larkin & Company. Then I applied for a job with S:S. Pierce
Company, was accepted at the large pay of sixteen dollars per
week, and spent two years training under one of their very able
managers. Then I was offered a job with the Mead Sales Com-
pany, a selling agent for papers manufactured by the Mead Cor-
poration.

In June, 1942, the draft board was breathing down my neck
and I signed up in the Navy, becoming a boatswain’s mate on a
sea-going tug. For anyone not familiar with one of these ships,
they have a complement of ninety-six men and can tow a battle-
ship at ten knots. In August, 1945, I was mustered out quickly
and went back to the Mead Sales Company. There was little for
me to do, but they found a place for me in Boston. This was
not a very secure position and, in 1948, I became a salesman for
the Colonial Paper Company.

This all became the groundwork for my present occupation,
as the Wachusett Paper Company, Inc., was formed in July, 1956,
and I became president. There will always be a lot of hard work
ahead for me, but at Jeast I am doing it for myself and for its
pleasure.

This completes my formal education with its up and down
tutors, summer school makeups, as well as probation, but finally
completed without any degrees. When it comes to filling out
papers a degree has some prominence, but when it means meet
the customer it has lost its force. I have had one purpose to fol-
low in one industry — the paper industry. It is a basic one, in
which every person is directly or indirectly responsible for
using better than goo pounds of Paper per year, with an annual

increase of five per cent.

[ 1219 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Social and family life have been rough in spots. However, I
live in my own house in Sherborn, which I designed and built
myself, I find it very relaxing to come home and disappear into.
a pine grove, always cool in summer and cozy in winter.

BERNARD DENIS WHITE

HOME appress: 114 Hillside Rd., Watertown 72, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 578 Main St., Watertown, Mass.

BorN: April 20, 1909, Cambridge, Mass, PARENTS: Denis Joseph White, Sarah
Burke.

PREPARED aT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932, DEGREES: A.B., 1932; A.M., 1934.
OCCUPATION: Florist.

EDWARD EMELIN WHITE

HOME ADpRESS: 61 Woodbine Ave. Larchmont, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Spencer, White & Prentis, Inc., 10 E. goth St., New York 16,
N.Y.

BoRN: June 10, 1909, Stoneridge, N.Y. parents: Lazarus White, Marie
Emelin.

PREPARED AT: Columbia Grammar School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREE: 8.B. IN CE. cum laude, 1932.

MarRieD: Muriel Fox, March 17, 1939, New York, N.Y. cutpren: Edward
Emelin, Jr., Oct. 4, 1945; Winifred G., June 28, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Emelin White, °34.

occupaTioN: Civil engineer; executive vice-president, Spencer, White &
Prentis, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, since 1951, Fire Commissioner, Village of Larchmont;
director, American Technion Society; Welfare Fund Employer Trustee
of Rock Drillers Union and Compressed Air Workers Union.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Civil Engineers, Harvard Club of New
York; The Moles; Harvard Engineering Society; American Numismatic
Association; Civil Liberties Union.

PUBLICATIONS: Famous Subways and Tunnels of the World, Random House,

“Subways and Tunnels,” chapter in Book of Knowledge; various articles
in technical magazines.

TWENTY-FIVE years out of college, I find myself a civil

engineer specializing in the fascinating and varied field of sub-
surface construction. It will be a surprise to most Harvard men

[ 1220 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

co learn that Harvard has been preeminent in this new and grow-
ing branch of civil engineering called “Soil Mechanics and
Foundation Engineering,” having two of the world’s outstandin
men on the faculty—-Dr. Karl Terzaghi, reputed to be the
father of this field, and Dr. Arthur Casagrande, also an outstand-
ing expert. As executive vice-president of Spencer, White &
Prentis, one of the few companies in the world specializing in
difficult foundation work, underpinning of buildings, pile driv-
ing, and other forms of underground construction, I have been
fortunate to have worked on many interesting projects.

After graduation I was an engineer on the construction of the
Sixth Avenue Subway in New York City, a seven-mile rock
tunnel section of the Delaware Aqueduct, and navigation locks
and dams on the upper Mississippi River. During World War
II, I was chief engineer on construction of a huge naval drydock
at the Norfolk Navy Yard, assistant to the manager of a ship-
yard where T-2 tankers were built at Mobile, Alabama, and
project manager on installation of torpedo nets and repairs to
the locks at Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan. Since the war, I have
worked on numerous projects such as the underpinning and
subsurface work in the reconstruction of the White House, and
the deep foundations of the Jordan Marsh Store in Boston. Last
summer our company was called upon early one Sunday morn-
ing to make the emergency repairs to the Lexington Avenue
subway which was washed out by the water used in putting out
the Wanamaker fire. It was estimated that subway service on
this vital New York City line would be interrupted for thirty
days to the consternation of New Yorkers, but we were able
to get the trains running in four days. Would that the Sucz
Canal worked out that way!

I am a Westchester suburbanite, living with my wife who is
working for her Ph.D. in anthropology, and son (age eleven)
and daughter (age four) in Larchmont, New York, where |
have been caught up in community affairs as a result of my run-
ning for the position of Village Trustee on the Democratic ticket
in 1951. I lost, as could be expected, in this overwhelmingly
Republican area, by a three to two vote, but shortly after that,
received a Republican endorsement to fill a vacancy in the inter-

[ r221 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

est of bi-partisanship and I have been a Village Trustee for the
last five years, being presently also the Fire Commissioner of a
Volunteer Fire Department. In November, 1955, I ran un-
successfully for Councilman in the Town of Mamaroneck on
the Democratic ticket. I am one of those unsung citizens, repre-
senting either the Republican or Democratic party, who are
trying to keep a two-party system operating in an area domi-
nated by one party. This political role is something I never
believed would have been mine twenty-five years ago, but it has
proved to be rewarding and stimulating.

Apart from my political and business life, I have written a
book (1953) for children, ages ten and up, in collaboration with
my wife, entitled, Famous Subways & Tunnels of the World,
published by Random House. Our book has sold over 11,000
copies and people are still buying it. I have also contributed a
chapter on “Subways and Tunnels” for the Book of Knowledge,
as well as technical articles for periodicals, and am now writing
a chapter on “Underpinning” for a new technical book called
Foundation Engineering, to be published by McGraw-Hill.

I find the longer I live the more interests I pick up and am now
collecting United States coins and Nineteenth Century Ameri-
can paintings. I have become interested in the history of early
construction, collecting books and prints on this subject, being
probably one of the few people in the world in the market for
this material, While such items are hard to find, they are not
too expensive, and I do not have the competition of other col-
lectors. I enjoy swimming and sailing and still manage to play
tennis, doubles only.

One of my current ambitions, probably never to be fulfilled,
is to underpin the Tower of Pisa and save it from the collapse
which is inevitable in the next fifty years unless remedial meas-
ures are taken soon. I also wish I had more time and energy
to write another book on the romance of construction and to
interest more young people in civil engineering as well as to
improve training for them in the United States.

[ 1222 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANK OWEN WHITE

HOME aAppREss: 88 Stockbridge Rd., Scituate, Mass.

OFFICE ADDREsS: Boston Insurance Co., 87 Kilby St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 14, 1909, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: Frank Owen White, ‘gg,
Myra Hall Nichols.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1032. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

marRIED: Flora Alice Davidson, May 26, 1939, San Francisco, Calif. cx-
DREN: Charlotte Nichols, June 13, 1940; David Alexander, March 23,

1943-
HARVARD BROTHERS: Edward Peirce White, ’28; Hayward Peirce White, 736.
occuPATION: Senior liability examiner, Boston Insurance Company.
OFFICES HELD: Trustee and treasurer, Allen Memorial Library, Scituate, Mass.

MY business has been in the field of casualty claims handling. In
December, 1932, I went to work for the Liberty Mutual Insur-
ance Company in Boston, worked there and in Lynn, Massachu-
setts, until 1935 when I was transferred to San Francisco.

My eyesight prevented my joining any branch of the military
or naval service and in 1944, with a wife and two children
acquired in California, I moved back to Boston. In the fall of 1955
I left the Liberty Mutual and joined the Boston and Old Colony
Insurance Companies, where I am now employed 1 in the home of-
fice as senior liability examiner.

I find life with my family in an old house in Scituate most en-
joyable and rewarding in all aspects. My leisure time is largely
spent in reading, fishing and in commiserating with Dave French
over the annual misadventures of the Harvard football team.

GEORGE WHITE

HOME appress: 16 Charlotte Rd., Newton Center, 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 43 Bay State Rd., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 25, 1911, Lawrence, Mass. Parents: Samuel White, Anna
Krasnow.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932, DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.D. (Tufts Univ. Medical
School), 1936. |

MarrieD: Helen Simonds, Nov. 19, 1939, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Robert Alan, Jan. 29, 1948; Susan, July 16, 1951.

occuPATION: Physician, radiologist.

[ 1223]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Deland Society; vice-president, Massachusetts Bay
Lodge, B’nai B'rith.

MEMBER OF: Charles River Medical Society; Massachusetts Medical Society,
American Medical Association; New England Roentgen Ray Society;
Radiological Society of North America; American College of Radiology;
Pendergrass Associates; Deland Society; New England Cancer Society,
Massachusetts Society of Examining Physicians; Greater Boston Medi-
cal Society; M.I.T. Faculty Club; Harvard Club of Boston.

THE condensation of twenty-five years to several paragraphs

should be no task to a product of English A — and it is! Medical

school was followed by five years of hospital training to qualify
as a radiologist, This training was interrupted momentarily to
initiate my first hobby — marriage. My three years of army serv-
ice in Africa and Europe seemed endless. My friends think that I
have seen much of Europe. But I moved about in a constant
vacuum — clothed, fed, and cultured in khaki. Then came re-
union in Brookline, and the start of a family and the practice of
radiology. Much of my time is devoted to radiation therapy in
cancer, which at this moment remains a most frustrating disease.

We have two children, a boy and a girl, who have provided
for us a whole spectrum of emotions. Life is full of daily work,
mectings, conferences, committees, short lunches, occasional
publications, insufficient vacations, and vexing problems. Hobbies
are few, and less strenuous as time goes on. The eighteen holes
of golf dwindle to fourteen, twelve and nine. Reading (non-
medical) is still a favorite form of relaxation. I have even started
my “coronary library,” consisting of good books that have been
purchased but unread.

Many things are still left undone, And perhaps that’s the way
it should be, because I should hate to accept my Twenty-fifth Re-
union as a time period of “settling down.”

ROBERT RAYMOND WHITE

HOME aporess: 13 Elmwood Hill Lane, Rochester 10, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 277 Alexander St, Rochester 7, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 6, 1910, New York, N.Y. parents: Joseph Jocelyn Whi
Evelyn Harniet Kelley, y ms
PREPARED AT: Dwight School, New York, N.Y.

[ 1224]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.D. (Univ. of Rochester),
1937:

margieD: Carolin Lindsay, June 22, 1937, Rochester, N.Y. (died Aug. 3,
1952); Margaret Howe, Nov. 27, 1953, New Haven, Conn. CHILDREN:
Lindsay, June 14, 1940; Robert Raymond, Jr. Oct. 9, 1954; William
Allen, Jan. 14, 1956.

oocupanion: Assistant professor of surgery, University of Rochester School
of Medicine; consultant in pediatric surgery, Stcong Memorial, Munici-
pal and Rochester General Hospitals, attending surgeon, Genesee Hos-
pital.

orrxxs HELD: Director, 1946-56, president, 1956-57, Harvard Club of
Rochester; director, New York Agricultural School, 1949-53, Planned
Parenthood Association, 1953-56; member board of trustees, 1949-55,
secretary, 1955-57, Rochester Academy of Medicine.

mMemMagg os: American Medical Association (fellow); American College of
Surgeons: American Academy of Pediatrics (affiliate fellow), Ameri-
can Board of Surgery (diplomate); Genesee Valley Club; Country
Club of Rochester; Harvard Club of Rochester.

PUBLICATIONS: Various medical publications dealing chiefly with the surgery
of infancy and childhood.

AFTER medical school, surgical training and the war, I settled
in Rochester, New York. My chief endeavor has been and is the
surgical care of children. I have a wonderful and devoted wife, a
fine son (now a fifth former at St. Paul’s), two sons under two,
a black Labrador and a home we all love. My hobbies include poor
golf, old man tennis and fishing during our summer vacation in
Nantucket. Peggy, Pete and I are looking forward to the Twenty-
fifth Reunion.

THOMAS RAEBURN WHITE, JR.

Home aporEss: Morris Road, Penllyn, Pa.

OFFicz appress: White, Williams & Scott, 1900 Land Title Bldg., Philadelphia
10, Pa.

porn: Aug. 29, 1910, Philadelphia, Pa. PARENTS: Thomas Raeburn White,
Elizabeth Wilson.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929. DEGREES: S.B. (Haverford Coll.), 1933; LL.B.
(Univ. of Pennsylvania), 1936.

MARRIED: Charlotte Gerhard, Nov. 19, 1937, Philadelphia, Pa. CHILDREN:
Thomas Raebum, 3d, Aug. 18, 1938; Albert G., Dec. 17, 1940; Charlotte
E., May 18, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Wilson White, ’27.

[ 1225 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

occuPATION: Attorney; partner in charge of litigation.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Judiciary Committee, Philadelphia Bar Association,
1950; director, North Pennsylvania Railroad; member, Committee of
Censors, Philadelphia Bar Association, 1955-57.

MEMBER OF; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and American Bar Associations;
Sunnybrook Golf Club; Penllyn Club; Rittenhouse Club; Caveat Club,
Juristic Society; Wissahickon Skating Club.

I ATTENDED Haverford College for four years and the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania Law School for three years, graduating
in 1936. I was an associate editor of the Law Review. Imme-
diately following graduation I went into the then firm of White
& Clapp, my father’s firm, where I have been ever since, except
during the war. I am specializing in insurance litigation and gen-
eral trial work.

In May, 1942, 1 was commissioned a lieutenant, (j.g.), in the
U.S.N.R., and was legal officer at the Philadelphia Navy Yard
and the U.S. Naval Air Station, Willow Grove, Pennsylvania.
In July, 1944, I was transferred to Naval Air Transport Service
and was stationed at Stephenville (Newfoundland) Air Base for
the last fourteen months of the war. In October, 1945, 1 was
discharged as 4 lieutenant commander and returned to the prac-
tice of law.

I have lived continuously at Penllyn, Pennsylvania, since 1940,
except during the war. My elder son is now a freshman at Wil-
liams, Class of ’60. My younger son is in the eleventh grade
at Chestnut Hill Academy and my daughter is in the eighth
grade at Springside School.

THOMAS WHITESIDE

HOME ADDRESS: 230 Walnut St., Newtonville, Mass.

OFFicg appRESS: Chace, Whiteside, West & Winslow, 24 Federal St., Boston
10, Mass.

Born: April 7, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Alexander Whiteside, ’95, Ethel
Stockton.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

Marriep: Christiana Bartlett, May 19, 1934, Wellesley, Mass. (divorced
1956); Ruth Fairchild Williams, Oct. 6, 1956, Dover, Mass. cHILDREN:
Judith, Dec. 17, 1946, Thomas Jr., Jan. 23, 1949; Janet, Nov. 16, 1949;

[ 1226 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Edward Cary Williams, Jr. (stepchild), May 14, 1934; Jane Fairchild
Williams (stepchild), June 1, 1936.

HARVARD BROTHER: Howard Stockton Whiteside, ’34.

OCCUPATION: President, Chace, Whiteside, West & Winslow.

MEMBER OF: Thursday Evening Club; Tennis & Racquet Club, Dedham
Country & Polo Club.

AFTER graduation I spent a year at Law School, where the

authorities took less than an enthusiastic view of my efforts. In

the fall of 1933, I was fortunate to find a job (at minimal pay)

in the investment business in Boston. My subsequent career,

such as it is, has been spent in that erratic and fascinating field.
I am rather proud that my own firm, established with several
friends, has been in existence for twenty years. Often a tenuous
way to make a living, it has been on the whole a satisfying ex-
perience, and has brought rich rewards in nationwide friendships.
I have been a member of the District Committee of the National
Association of Securities Dealers, a governor and president of
the Bond Club of Boston, and a long time editor of the club’s
famous sheet, the Boston Booze Bureau. On a broader scale, I
have been chairman of the New England Group of the Invest-
ment Bankers Association, a national governor of that organi-
zation, and a member of a number of its committees (currently
the national committee on Small Business).

Partly through these jobs and from frequent attendance at
conventions and meetings, our firm is quite widely known, and I
have been rudely described as having achieved national notoriety
in the trade.

Because of reservations by the medical authorities, my war
record was strictly local. I did, however, enjoy serving in the
Massachusetts State Guard, in various capacities and in every
rank from private to captain.

Over the years, I have been involved in a large number of
extracurricular activities, and am or was on the standing com-
mittee of St. Paul’s School, assistant treasurer of the Convalescent
Home for Children, vice-president of the Shaw Fund for Mari-
ner’s Children, president of the trustees of the Chapel of the Good
Shepherd, and as president of Trinity Neighborhood House,
East Boston. I have raised money for almost everything, ranging
from the Republicans to the Heart Association, Red Cross and

[ 1227]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

the Community Fund. For the last, I have solicited on every
level from door to door to chairman of the Industrial Division,
Currently, I am a member of the very interesting Community
Fund Division. I have been a director of the Greater Boston
Chamber of Commerce, and on various of their committees. My
last assignment was a difficult and stimulating two-year effort
as chairman of a committee to investigate United Fund money-
raising for Greater Boston. In many of these efforts, I have
worked with a number of classmates, and I know that 1932 has
a proud record of accomplishment in various lines.

For over twenty years I lived in Medfield, where I served as
a vestryman of the Episcopal Church, as a member and chairman
of the Library Board, on committees involving such things as
zoning and water supply, and on the town Finance Committee, a
stimulating activity not designed for the timid.

For six years during the war, we had the privilege of raising
two fine English boys, and subsequently adopted three wonder-
ful children. A new marriage has lately added two adult step-
children. .

I have played spasmodic tennis, and a good deal of atrocious
golf. Some grand Maine cruising, a little fishing, and a good deal
of hunting from New Brunswick to South Carolina have added
considerable variety from time to time.

For a number of years, I have had the good fortune to work
on various class activities with our Boston group. No job which
I have ever undertaken has proved to be more interesting, amus-
ing or rewarding than being chairman of our Twenty-fifth Re-
union. Without the help of a number of devoted staff members,
the occasion would not exist as we will see it. My particular
personal thanks go to Miss Ruth Mahoney, whose persistent
efforts make this report possible, to Arthur Trottenberg,
whose shrewd and genial hand guides our very existence and
makes possible our wonderful stay in Cambridge; and especially
to Mrs. Ruth Rintels, who as the Reunion Secretary, applies her
fine mind, courteous manner and quick wit to the tactful guid-
ance of successive groups of eager and uninformed teams who
have the privilege of planning and implementing the program.

To our classmates, and equally to the wives, my personal

[ 1228 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

thanks are unbounded as I contemplate the completely generous,

enthusiastic effort which has gone into the making of one of the
truly great experiences of our lives. I am in a unique position to
have observed the universal cooperation which creates a Har-
vard Twenty-fifth, and thus I can honestly express my gratitude
to you all.

MALCOLM DOUGLASS WHITMAN, JR.

LAST KNOWN appreEss: Oldhouse, South Yarmouth, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 12, 1909, New York, N.Y. parents: Malcolm Douglass Whitman,
’99, Janet McCook.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

MALCOLM WHITMAN has been carried as a “lost” man on
our records since 1956.

PETER MORTON WHITMAN

HOME aApoRESS: Bedford Hills, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Johnson & Higgins, Inc., 63 Wall St., New York, N.Y.

BORN: Nov. 19, 1909, New York, N.Y. parents: Clarence M. Whitman, ’99,
Eleanor Motley.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MaRRIED: Elizabeth Blodget, April 27, 1934, New York, N.Y. cHiLpREN:
Eleanor M., Nov. 6, 1936; Elizabeth T., Aug. 19, 1938; Peter Morton,
Jr. July 1, 1943; Claire S., Feb. 15, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Clarence Whitman, 2d, ’27, M.B.A., ’29.

OccUPATION: Vice-president, executive supervision of accounts, Johnson

& Higgins, Inc., insurance.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; The Lunch Club, New York City;
Bedford Golf & Tennis Club; Fishers Island Country Club.

THERE has to be a beginning no matter how insignificant.
Mine was in the real estate management field with Brown,
Wheelock at no salary i in the fall of 1932. The boss put me on as
a rent collector in an East Side slum district where you learned
to become a clever broken-field runner or returned to the office
in a maimed condition. At last, after three months I got on the

[ 1229 ]

_ HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

payroll, enough to have sandwiches and carfare; but I was being

paid and a great satisfaction it was. Time passed swiftly and I]

traveled the streets of old New York, renting and selling build-

ings of all kinds, placating irate tenants, soothing bankrupt land-
lords and administering balm to the money-bag mortgagees.

Before I could realize it eight years had elapsed and I took a

good look at the future. I decided that I needed something new
and more stimulating and, of course, a future with rosier mone-
tary horizons.

My career with Johnson & Higgins, international insurance
brokers, started in the fall of 1940. In certain respects I had to
begin again, night school, a new business language, new associa-
tions but a bright future. I made a lucky choice. I am with the
greatest insurance organization in the world and I love the in-
surance business itself. From the small individual family to the
massive industrial empire, insurance is our economic shock ab-
sorber when catastrophe strikes. At present, I am vice-president
in charge of several large industrial accounts enhancing all types
of insurance. The future—who knows? Insurance covering
industrial uses of nuclear energy in our atomic age is a monstrous
problem.

In 1933 I met a girl who told me she always wanted to live
on top of far hill alone with a parrot. I fell for the trap and
Betty and I were married in 1934. After moving about a few
times due to the preservation of the race, we have settled down in
an old colonial house near Bedford Village, Our family of three
girls and one manchild keeps us in a state of utter exhaustion.
Susie arrived in 1936, now at Vassar. Lisa soon followed, also
now at Vassar. Finally along came Pete, Jr., who is off to board-
ing school next year, which leaves us home alone with Claire
who is eight. We have come to regard our house as sort of a
terminal or filling station. There seems to be a constant chain
production of clean clothes, suitcases in and out, and a mad
scramble for weekend supplies.

We have a small flower garden which, when things get tense
around the house front, is my refuge. Digging in the dirt sort of
restores the blood pressure and blankets the temper. We have
been to Bermuda twice, but our favorite vacation spot is a small

[1230 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

camp in Quebec, Canada. Here we spend two or three weeks
each year flyfishing, with no telephone and no modern con-
veniences — just an Indian guide, plenty of big trout, and an
old canoe to carry you on the sparkling Canadian lakes. Un-
fornately for me, Betty now holds the record catch.

It has been a very full and fast twenty-five years. My one
ambition for the future is to have more time for fishing and
camping in Canada. “Lord suffer me to catch a fish so big that
even I in telling of it on our Fiftieth will have no need to lie.”

CORNELIUS WENDELL WICKERSHAM, JR.

HOME AppRESS: Woodbury Road, Huntington, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Y United States Attorney, Federal Bldg. 271 Washington
St., Brooklyn 1, N.Y.

porn: April 2, 1910, Lawrence, Long Island, N.Y. Parents: Cornelius
Wendell Wickersham, ’06, Rosalie Neilson Hinckley.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; LLB. magna cum
laude, 1935.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Terry Savage, Dec. 12, 1936, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Cornelius Wendell, 3d, Sept. 2, 1937; Theodore Savage, April 30, 1939;
Barbara Terry, Oct. 19, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Woodward Wickersham, 2d, 35.

occuPATION: Lawyer; Chief Assistant U.S. Attorney, Eastern District of
New York.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Child Education Foundation, 1937-39, East Woods
School, 1948-49; president, 1942, 1946-47, New York Young Republican

Club.
MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; New York State Bar Association;

Federal Bar Association; Federal Bar Associations of New York, New
Jersey and Connecticut; Cold Spring Harbor Beach Club; Down Town

Association.

WITH a name like mine, it was natural that I should go to the
Harvard Law School and then to New York for the practice
of law, which I did. I first became associated with the law firm of
Davis, Polk, Wardwell, Gardiner & Reed, where for four years
I worked on corporate matters and large litigation; then in Jan-
uary, 1940, I became associated with my father’s and grand-
father’s law firm of Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft at 14 Wall
Street, New York. There I had a more varied practice but tended

[1231]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

to concentrate on large litigated matters. At the end of 1940

I was taken into the partnership.

When Tojo so rudely interrupted our peace on December 7,

1941, I endeavored to obtain a commission in Naval Intelligence,
After being turned down for a naval commission because of
poor eyesight, I joined the Army under the V.O.C. program
as a private in June, 1942, and did basic training including “KP”
in Upton and the finest hotels in Miami Beach (which, despite
what the advertising men say, is far from my idea of an ideal
summer resort). After going through Officer Candidate School
I was commissioned a second lieutenant in the Air Force and was
sent to the Air Intelligence School at Harrisburg, Pennsylvania,
for a six weeks’ course. From there I was assigned to the Fifth
Air Force in the Southwest Pacific where I served twenty-six
months, first as an intelligence officer in the 89th Bomb Squad-
ron (L) in New Guinea and later in the Headquarters of the
Fifth Bomber Command in New Guinea and the Philippines.

My job was to plan combat operation and to assist in making
our attacks most effective. I take great pride in the fact that in
eight months in the squadron we did not lose one man in combat
in more than 600 sorties.

After recovering from an attack of jaundice I came back,
thanks to the efforts of my friends, arriving in this country Me-
morial Day, 1945, to serve in the Headquarters A.A.F. under the
direction of General Trubee Davison in the Special Projects
office which was working on plans for the postwar Air Force.
Immediately after V-J Day 1 was separated as a captain and re-
turned to New York where my wife and I were fortunate in
finding a most charming house and five acres of land which we
purchased in Huntington, Long Island.

I thereupon resumed practice of the law at Cadwalader, Wick-
ersham & Taft until July, 1953, at which time I resigned to
become Chief Assistant U.S. Attorney in Brooklyn, where I
have been ever since. My duties involve administration of the
office, trial work and appellate work. The variety and importance
of the work is equalled by no other office of which I know, and
presents a source of long hours and exciting detective stories.

My selection for this position was the result of a long interest

[ 1232]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in politics, starting in New York Young Republican Club in the
late 30’s where I worked up to become president in 1942, a posi-
tion to which I was re-elected on my return from the military
service in 1946. I continued my political activity thereafter both
in New York City and in Huntington, where in 1952 I headed
the Huntington Citizens for Eisenhower Committee, but until
sworn in my present position I held no public office.

Civic affairs have always held an attraction for me and in addi-
tion to the foregoing I have held the usual share of duties in
schools, various Republican organizations, Boy Scouts, etc., and
am now president of the Federal Bar Association of New York,
New Jersey and Connecticut, as well as 1957 Fund Chairman of
North Suffolk Chapter of American Red Cross.

On the domestic front I was fortunate in persuading Elizabeth
Terry Savage, the daughter of a Presbyterian minister, to be-
come my wife on December 12, 1936, and she has presented me
with two outstanding boys, one of whom is now in Hobart, and
the other in his graduating year at St. Mark’s School, from which
he hopes to go to Harvard. After the war we had a girl who 1s,
of course, the apple of her father’s eye. My wife has been ac-
tive in the community, serving on the board of the local Visiting
Nurses’ Association and the Planned Parenthood Committee, as
well as being a first-rate companion, mother and housewife. Few

men have a family of which they could be more proud than
I am of mine.

JOHN BURT WIGHT

HOME ApDpRESS: Cambridge Turnpike, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: Brandeis University, Waltham, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 3, 1911, Wayland, Mass. Parents: John Burt Wight, Myrta
Louise Wemple.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; ED.M., 1948; ED.D. 1952.

MarRIED: Barbara Stuart Thomas, Aug. 13, 1945, New York, N.Y. ctuto:
Anne Adele, Jan. 26, 1952.

Occupation: Assistant professor of English, Brandeis University.

FROM 1936 to 1942 I taught Latin in secondary school (The
Cambridge School, Weston, Massachusetts). As I became more

[ 1233 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

familiar with the general problems of education, Latin began to
seem a rather esoteric subject, and in 1941 I began graduate
work in English at Harvard with the idea of changing over to
teaching in that field. This work came to an end in June, 1942,
when I was drafted into the Army. Until January, 1946, I
served in the U.S.A.A.F. Training Command in various capac-
ities and in various places (Texas, California, Alabama), ending
up as an English instructor to Chinese air trainees. The highest
rank I held was buck sergeant. This I attained in August, 1945,
at which time I was, to the best of my knowledge senior cor-
poral in the Training Command (twenty-six months). In the
same month I was married. This may conceivably be taken as
evidence to support the view that good things do not happen
singly. On January 10, 1946, a day that I will be a long time
forgetting, | was discharged from the Army.

In February, 1946, I began work at Harvard again, but this
time in the Graduate School of Education rather than Arts and
Sciences. The reason for the change was that I had become
attached, perhaps excessively, to three meals a day and I had been
offcred a fellowship at the School of Education. In 1950 I began
teaching at Brandeis University where I still am. I suffer from
the common complaint of teachers — having to pay last month’s
bills with next month’s salary —and also enjoy the very great
immaterial rewards of teaching.

My life has been uneventful but I like it that way. Nor do
I have any very startling thoughts to offer the Class of 1932.
One advantage of a classical education is that it can save you
from the delusion that you're an original thinker.

JOLIN SHERMAN WILBOR

HOME apprEss: Weston Road, Lincoln, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 171 Newbury St. Boston, Mass.

BORN; Sept. 7, 1910, Swampscott, Mass, parents: Rufus Littlefield Wilbor
Kate Wells. ,

prepared aT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932.

[ 1234]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marmip: Anne Fowler, Sept. 17, 1937, Englewood, N.J. (died Nov. 22,
1955). cuiLp: Jonathan Wells, May 13, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alexander Wells Wilbor, ’30.

oocuparion: Manufacturers’ representative.

ALEXANDER GORDON WILCOX

HOME aDoress: 331 Main St. Conyngham, Pa.

orricz aporess: Pennsylvania State University Center, Hazleton, Pa.

porn: Feb. 26, 1909, Revere, Mass. paARENTs: Robert Holland Taylor Wilcox,
Annie MacLeod.

parpareD at: Marlboro High School, Marlboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; A.M. (Univ. of Iowa), 1950.

maagieD: Kathleen M. Lappin, Aug. 4, 1949, lowa City, Iowa.

occuPaTION: Instructor in English.

mMemBeR oF: American Association of University Professors; National
Council of Teachers of English.

RETURNING to the ivory tower after fifteen years (and finding
it not wholly devoid of the distraction of an information booth),
I took a Master’s in English on the financial strength of P.L. 346
and a graduate assistantship, and under the stimulus of the Uni-
versity of Iowa’s real gone English and Classics departments,
in both of which I gladly taught and learned. At the same time,
I managed to keep writing some music; in fact, my graduate
study and subsequent reading or re-reading put me onto some fine
stuff for musical treatment, as certain kinds of folk music and
jazz have suggested stylistic and structural possibilities to be
explored.

Going back to college after such an interval, and now teach-
ing at one, has the effect of bringing one up short with a sense
of what changes a generation has wrought, pedagogically speak-
ing. As far as it goes, my experience confirms the general im-
pression of an increased preoccupation with methodology al-
most for its own sake, and an inattention to, if not a downright
lack of interest in, the substance of thought. Not that this view-
point has gone unchallenged, but it does tend to set at nought
the heart of one’s study, and to foreclose prematurely a student's
unrealized potentialities. After all, to encourage and help a
student to become aware of and develop the full powers of his

[1235 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

intellect is the whole point of teaching, as watching the dawn
break in another’s mind is its reward.

The whole point of composing, my unpaid career, is less easy
to state, but may perhaps be hinted at: the power of giving ut-
terance offers a mode of experience that can be intense and go
deep without risk of injury or destruction, and in the end brings
calm through understanding. In any case, these works of the
last few years have assumed encouraging shape: a woodwind
septet movement, the first movement of a string symphony, three
choruses and a solo song on poems by James Stephens, a song on
a medieval Crucifixion poem set to Howard Mumford Jones’
translation, and the voice score of an opera on Synge’s Riders to
the Sea. There is, besides, a good two or three years of work in
progress. Whatever its worth turns out to be, such work is, with
my marriage, one of the things that puts my life at one with itself.

FREDERICK FESSENDEN WILDER |

HOME ApprEss: 1060 Great Pond Rd., North Andover, Mass. -

OFFIcE appRrEss: Brooks School, North Andover, Mass.

BoRN: July 5, 1910, Arlington, Mass. parents: Frederick Gilson Wilder, ’07,
Ethel Fessenden.

PREPARED AT: St. James School, Washington County, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-32. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1932.

marriep: H. Merrill Bunce, June 25, 1941, Chestnut Hill, Mass. CHILDREN:
Nicholas Fessenden, June 24, 1948, Henry Lee Bunce, Sept. 11, 1949.

OccuPATION: Schoolmaster.

OFFICES HELD: Senior master, Brooks School; trustee, Pike School; vestryman,
St. Paul’s Church, North Andover, Mass. .

AFTER Commencement (at which my father celebrated his
Twenty-fifth Harvard Reunion) I enrolled in the Harvard Grad-
uate School of Education and continued teaching English and
history at Buckingham School, Cambridge. My career as a
schoolmaster started in earnest in 1933 when I joined the faculty
of Brooks School. In those days when the school was in its
infancy, it was incumbent on a new master to teach four or five
courses and to exert his surplus energies in many activities out-
side the classroom. In addition to teaching English, I coached
football, hockey, baseball, and dramatics, and “advised” the

[ 1236 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

editors of the school magazine. In 1936 I was appointed senior
master, a position which through the years has meant more and
more administrative work and less and less actual teaching. I
cannot honestly say that the gradual shift from the schoolroom
to the school office has been completely according to plan or
desire, although my present duties, which range from directing
admissions, alumni affairs, and public relations, to teaching and
preaching the Gospel, are absorbing and enjoyable. If my in-
tellectual interests have broadened, I still value occasional solitude
as much as ever. Each summer prior to my marriage I traveled
or studied either in this country or abroad. At no time have I
ever felt very keenly the restrictions so often ascribed to the
schoolmaster’s life. If, then or now, I have been living “in a rut,”
I have been happily unaware of it.

In June, 1941, I was married to Merrill Bunce of Chestnut
Hill. We left Brooks in March, 1942, when I took a job in
Boston assisting the Navy to procure specialized key personnel
directly from civilian life. Two months later I was commissioned
by the Navy, and my career as a reserve officer, which started
auspiciously under salty instruction at Indoctrination School,
terminated without any intervening sea duty whatsoever in 1945
at Bupers in Washington, where for two years I had the job of
selecting students for V-12 and N.R.O.T.C. duty. All that frantic
activity occurred over ten years ago and I am not sure I can
account for the flight of years in between.

Nick Wilder appeared on the scene in 1948, and his brother,
Henry, the following year. The former, not yet nine years old,
is an outsize brunette, sensitive, preoccupied, hard-working, in-
tuitively wise, book-loving, athletic but as yet physically unco-
ordinated; the latter, a blonde, is somewhat small for his age,
phlegmatic, closely attentive, hard-playing, intuitively witty,
averse to books, unathletic but exceptionally well-coordinated.
With them around there has never been a dull moment for their
mother or me, either at Brooks to which we returned with en-
thusiasm after the war or at our summer place which we pur-
chased in 1950 on an island in Maine. Last January the Brooks
trustees awarded us all a half-year’s leave of absence and a grant
making a trip abroad possible. We spent the winter in a lovely

[ 1237 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

villa high above the Bahia de Palma, and the spring in a thatched
cottage in the Cotswolds, not far from Oxford. Not only did we
learn the blessings of relaxation and leisure, but also the joys of
study in foreign lands in which we traveled extensively, found
several old friends and met countless new people. Although
our memories of people and places may fade somewhat in the
next twenty-five years, we look forward to the time when we
may take a similar trip again. In the meantime we are back at
Brooks School and I find myself teaching, among others, the sons
of several Harvard classmates.
My political convictions, though not necessarily inflexible, have
invariably been Republican. My social and religious convictions,
seldom realized in practice, are in the New Testament.

** JAMES JOSEPH WILKIE
BORN: June 9, 1909, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: Francis A. Wilkie, Ellen
O’Connor.
PREPARED AT: Boston Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: AB., 1932.
piep: March 31, 1951, Concord, Mass.
sIsTER: Mrs. Ruth Wilkie Calkins, 96 Glades Ave., Mattapan, Mass.

WILKIE was associated with the Metropolitan Life Insurance
Company and with the Addressograph-Multigraph Corporation
of Cleveland before being called up for Army service. As a
Reserve officer he went on active duty on February 13, 1941,
as a captain and spent two years with the 18th Field Artillery at
Fort Sill, Oklahoma. He went overseas with the Fifth Armored
Division and returned from the E.T.O. in 1954 with the Bronze
Star and five stars on the E.T.O. ribbon. After a short stay at
Fort Bragg, he was assigned as transport commander of the
US.A.T. Thomas H. Barry, carrying troops and Army depend-
ents from New York to Leghorn, Italy, and to Bremerhaven,
Germany. He held the rank of major. He was survived by a
sister, Mrs. Ruth Wilkie Calkins.

[ 1238 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LEBARON SANDS WILLARD, JR.

HOME ADpRESS: 212 E. 62d St. New York 21, N.Y.

OFFICE appress: Commercial Credit Co., 100 E. 42d St., New York 17, N.Y.

BorN: Dec. 7, 1909, New York, N.Y. PARENTS: LeBaron Sands Willard, ’os,
Anabel Gardiner Van Nostrand.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MarrizD: Elizabeth Chew, Jan. 1, 1937, Scarsdale, N.Y. cHmpren: LeBaron
Sands, 3d, Feb. 27, 1939; Thomson Chew, Dec. 10, 1942; Elizabeth Van
Nostrand, Oct. 12, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Bank Relations Department, Commercial Credit
Company, Baltimore, Md., sales finance company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, American Credit Indemnity Company of New York,
Mark Cross Company, New York City.

MEMBER OF: University Club; Society of Mayflower Descendants, Cloud
Club; Devon Yacht Club, East Hampton, N.Y.

AFTER four enjoyable and relatively carefree years at college,
I came upon what I assumed to be an eagerly awaiting world in
June of 1932. Seven months of futile job hunting later, I landed
up as a laborer cleaning stills and furnaces in an oil refinery in
New Jersey. I was quite convinced of the world’s indifference
to my talents, —a view which was further substantiated by my
unimpressive earnings of forty-six cents per hour. Not being a
Tech man, my future in an oil refinery was limited. After a
year of this uninspiring occupation, I transferred to sales develo
ment work with the same company in New England. Selling
appealed to me; so much so, in fact, that in 1937 I left the oil
business entirely to join Classmate Tom Whiteside in his newly-
established investment business in Boston. My attempt to sell
stocks and bonds was, I am afraid, distinguished only by its lack
of success. Though an instructive and pleasant experience, it was
in no way profitable either for Chace, Whiteside & Company or
for Willard.

In 1941, therefore, I left Whiteside to get along as best he
could without me and joined Commercial Credit Company of
Baltimore, as their financial representative in New England. I
have been with this company ever since, except for three years
during the war when I graced the U.S.N.R. with my presence
at Naval Supply Depot, Clearfield, Utah, I shall not recount in

[ 1239 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

detail my years as an old sea dog. Suffice it to say that I never
saw a ship and the closest [ came to the ocean was the Great
Salt Lake.

On my return from the service, Commercial Credit Company
transferred me to New York where I now live in that fast dis-
appearing anachronism —a private house in Manhattan. Four
flights of stairs keep me fit, but if I have any energy left 1 enjoy
squash racquets in the winter and golf in the summer. Speaking
of stairs, I hope by the Fiftieth that I can report I have an
elevator, or at least an escalator.

JOHN SEVIER WILLIAMS

HOME ApprEss: 506 N. 74th St., Omaha, Nebr.

BORN: March 25, 1910, Chicago, Ill. parents: Ambrose Sevier Williams,
Dorothy Koerner.

PREPARED AT: Omaha Central High School, Omaha, Nebr.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1931.
occuPATION: Hardware Buyer.

SCHAFER WILLIAMS

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Shaftsbury, Vt. (Postal Address: RF.D. 1, South -
Shaftsbury, Vt.).

porn: March 4, 1910, West Pawlet, Vt. PARENTS: Ellis Hugh Williams, Jane
Williams.

PREPARED AT: Utica Free Academy, Utica, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929, 1930-1933. DEGREES: A.B., 1932 (37); S.T.By 19373
A.M., 1939; PH.D. (Univ. of California), 1951.

MarrizD: Ruth Barrett Wellman, June 22, 1935, New York, N.Y. (divorced
1943); Jean Clark, Nov. 20, 1943, Winnetka, Ill. cHiLpren: Christopher,
April 19, 1946; Gwyn, Sept. 1, 1947; Suzanne, Nov. 4, 1948; Nicholas,
Oct. 6, 1950; Anne, Oct. 17, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Farmer and historian.

MEMBER OF: Medieval Academy of America, American Historical Associa-
tion; Institute of Research and Study in Medieval Canon Law (elected
corresponding member).

pusLications: “Geoffrey of Monmouth and the Canon Law,” Speculum,
XXVII, 1952; “The Pseudo-Isidorian Problem Today,” Ibidem, XXIX,
1954; “Hoffman Atkinson: Translator of La Florida del Inca,” Inter-
American Review of Bibliography, IV, 1954; “The G.R.G. Conway

[ 1240 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Collection in the Library of Congress: A Checklist,” Hispanic American
Historical Review, XXXV, 1955; also reviews in: American Historical
Review, United States Quarterly Book Review, Speculum, and Inter-
American Review of Bibliography.

THE request of our Secretary for an “informal” narrative to em-
brace the momentous quarter-century since graduation is, in
itself, an editorial encumbrance. Since it is requested and re-
quired, Ich kann nicht anders tun! But my Calvinistic back-
ground permits me only to view twenty-five years of life as a
portion of the alloted span between the cradle and the grave,
while my historical training compels me to relate it to the area
in which it has been spun out.

Dr. Arlie Bock once pointed out to the Board of Freshman Ad-
visers that no scientific tinkering can alter the butterfat content
of milk. This observation, coupled with long experience in a
multitude of environments, can be applied likewise to Harvard.
Arriving at that institution full of zeal for learning —a Welsh,
family conditioning —I soon found to my utter confusion, a few
brilliant, humane teachers (the butterfat) and the remainder
(the 95.4%, skim milk) a compound of time-servers, knaves
and fools. My interests in classics and philosophy led me into
theology and the Divinity School, where I found the central
interest of my subsequent study: church history. Church his-
tory caused me to specialize in the development of the adminis-
tration and law of the church and to center my attention on the
development of legal institutions from Roman antiquity to the
beginning of the modern nation state. After my theological train-
ing and an A.M. in medieval history at Harvard, I took my Ph.D.
at Berkeley, at the University of California, before that insti-
tution was devastated by the oath-quake. I continued my work
at the Faculté de Droit and Ecole des Hautes Etudes at Paris.
My publication and reviews have treated problems in the history
of medieval canon law and books on historical and manuscript
matters. In 1955 I was elected a corresponding member of the In-
stitute for Research and Study of Medieval Canon Law, an in-
ternational organization purposing to systematize and publicize
the monuments — mostly forgotten — upon which most modern
jurisprudence is founded. When I applied at Harvard (it is in-

[1241 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

teresting to record) to the then professor of Roman law for in-
struction, I was turned down flatly with, “I’ve no time for be.

ginners.” And it was the same story when I sought to learn

paleography.

But these intellectual pursuits flowed and developed not on a

smooth curve but on a severely broken-line graph. The restrain-
ing hand of poverty interrupted my college career as a sopho-
more; again after graduation; and continued to dog my pursuit of
“divine philosophy, where no crude surfeit reigns” throughout
my academic career. To study and eat regularly, I worked in
many branches of American industry — at railroad building, as
a sailor, lumberjack, restaurant hand, preacher, bartender, teacher,
canvasser, and what have you, but always at a low level. The
bombing of Pearl Harbor, when I was an instructor at Stanford,
caused me to enlist in the Infantry and after much shifting about,
the Army took me to New Guinea and return. My thirty-eight
months as an enlisted man in the Army confirmed the butterfat
dictum.

Last year we bought a small negelcted farm in southern
Vermont and are in the process of turning it into a berry farm.
The work during the growing season is hard but my wife and
children prefer this to urban and suburban life. My writing in the
history of canon law and medieval church history continues and
we find that the isolation, that many of our friends feared would
overtake us, does not exist.

I cannot conclude this chronicle without recording my increas-
ing pessimism over the decline, in this country, of the liberal
attitude, a diminution quite patent since the end of the world war.
In the century and a half of our national history no greater moral
error was committed than to use the atomic bombs in the Far
Fast. Our national fear and insecurity now causes us to lay out
annually thirty billions for defense and our friends abroad wonder
daily at our pointless yammering on matters of security. Our
national moral bankruptcy, untempered by any truly liberal, fore-
word-looking ideals, lands us squarely in policies of expediency
to the confusion of our potential allies. Internally, an administra-
tion composed of a military man abetted by midwestern capitalists
can point to increased steel and carloading indices as gains while

[1242]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

on every side security-minded individuals and officials point with

terror at possible communistic sentiments in the most innocent,

Christian attitudes. And to top it all, this land, crammed with self-
laudation for its system of educational opportunity, must
whimper at the great scientific and technological advances of the
U.S.S.R. Having lived through two world wars, a great economic
collapse, ten years of cold war and general insecurity, I must
conclude with a late Roman, “Ultima felicitas non sit in hac vita,”
and gird my moral loins for the three decades perhaps remaining.

SYDNEY MESSER WILLIAMS, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Middle Hancock Road, Peterborough, N.H.

BorN: Aug. 5, 1910, Wellesley, Mass. PARENTS: Sydney M. Williams, ’94,
Mary P. Hunnewell.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932.

MARRIED: Mary Washington Hotchkiss, May 28, 1938, New Haven, Conn.
CHILDREN: Mary W., April 26, 1939; Sydney Messer, 3d, Jan. 31, 19413
Francis H., Oct. 28, 1942; Elizabeth W., Aug. 4, 1944; Charlotte B.
July 2, 1946; Jane H., Sept. 8, 1949; Stuart H., Dec. 2, 1951, Willard
P., May 31, 1952; George W., Sept. 12, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Arnold Hunnewell Williams, ’39.

OCCUPATION: Sculptor.

SEVERAL years after I left college I started going to drawing
classes given in Boston by George Demetrios. Later I joined
his sculpture class, which was the first sensible thing I ever did,
as there I met my wife, whom I married in 1938. That was the
second sensible thing I did. We then went to live in Peter-
borough, New Hampshire, which was also a good idea. Since
then I have had nine more ideas of which I am extremely proud.

As a sculptor I have done mostly portrait heads of children.
The rest of my time is spent as mould maker, carpenter and
janitor for my wife’s rubber toy business, which employs five
people working in a shed behind our house. Towards the end
of the war I became a Pfc. in the so-called ski troops.

Country living has blurred the line between recreation and
work and so has my occupation. So I’m not sure if [ ever really

[ 1243 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

work at all. Most of all I enjoy skiing with the children. This
year seven go with me, and we go at every o
life has no story but it’s certainly pleasant.

pportunity, My

JOHN CUNNINGHAM WILLIS

HOME AppREsS: 30 Rangeley Rd., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fitchburg Gas & Electric Light Co., 89 Broad St., Boston,
Mass.

BORN: July 6, 1909, Brookline, Mass. parents: Arthur Willis, Sara Miller
Cunningham.

PREPARED AT: Rivers Country Day School, Brookline, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

marrigeD: Deborah Hall, April 7, 1934, Boston, Mass. cHILpREN: John
Cunningham, Jr., June 28, 1936; Edith Deborah, Sept. 14, 1938; Dudley
Hall and David Hall (twins), June 25, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Arthur Willis, Jr., ’35.

occupation: Public utilities; executive sales manager, directing the sales,
promotion and advertising activities of six utility companies.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman of Solicitation, Winchester United War Fund, 1943;
secretary, Appliance Study Committee, 1945-46, chairman, Sales Di-
vision, 1948-50, director, 1953-55, New England Gas Association; di-
rector, Brockton Taunton Gas Company, since 1948; trustee, since
1951, chairman, board of trustees, since 1954, Winchester Public Li-

brary; chairman, New England Membership Committee, Public
Utilities Advertising Association.

MEMBER OF: Bach Cantata Club, 1935-37; Society of Colonial Wars; Society
of Mayflower Descendants.

REMEMBER the stock and bond business in the early thirties?

It was tough all over! I found out the hard way by serving time

in a brokerage house for a few years after graduation. When
the customers lost money, the firm lost money and my checking
account vanished, it suddenly dawned upon me that I wasn't
supporting my wife in the manner to which she was accustomed.
Accordingly, I made a quick switch into the public utility field,
where J started punching a time clock as a student engineer.
Strangely enough, I liked the work and have liked it ever since.
Gas and electricity are rather important in the home and I became
fascinated with the problem of how to make Mrs. Housewife use
more of these services, Eventually this interest led me into the
sales, promotion and advertising end of the business where I stil]

[1244]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

labor happily for the six utility companies in this system. During
the war I headed the War Activities Committee for our companies.
This entailed the procuring of critical materials necessary in our
operations as well as a variety of other duties relative to the war
effort.

In 1934 I married the girl who is still my present and loving
wife. First came a son, then a daughter, and finally to our great
surprise, twin sons. From left to right their ages are twenty,
eighteen, fifteen and fifteen. Recently we acquired a “fixed”
Dalmation bitch. The two oldest children are in college and the
youngest two are in high school.

As a family, we are mixed up in the usual community affairs.
I have served our town in various capacities, as a member of the
Finance Committee, Building Committee and, during the last four
years, as chairman of the Board of Library Trustees. We have also
participated in Boy Scout activities, and I am proud to report
that our twin sons became Eagle Scouts when only fourteen.

Religious affiliation — Episcopal. My twin sons are expert
acolytes and can intone the responses as well as the vicar himself.
Regarding hobbies, I used to sneak off to play squash early in my
married life, but have given that up in favor of boating, swimming
and other less strenuous activities. Spare time is devoted chiefly
to civic affairs, working around the garden in summer and paying
bills the year round.

JOHN B. WILSON

HOME ADDRESS: 2815 Chelsea Circle, Durham, N.C.

OFFICE appress: Wright Machinery Co., Holloway & Calvin Streets, Durham,
N.C.

BORN: Jan. 3, 1909, Boston, Mass. paRENTs: Andrew Thomas Wilson, Julia
Gertrude Murray.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1929, 1930-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MaRRIED: Rose Walker Page, June 19, 1937, Washington, D.C. cHworeN:
John Page, Aug. 16, 1945; Thomas Morgan, April 10, 1947; Celeste Rose,
Jan. 29, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Paul Lincoln Wilson, °36.

OccuPATION: President and general manager, Wright Machinery Company,
Division of Sperry Rand Corporation.

[1245 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Business School Club of Washington,
1939-40, Harvard Club of North Carolina, 1956-57, United Fund of
Durham, 1954; chairman, Durham District, Boy Scouts of America,

MEMBER OF: Hope Valley Country Club, Durham, N.C.; Harvard Club of
New York.

ATTENDED Harvard Business School during 1932-33, and
then when jobs opened up I became a statistician at the Hood
Rubber Company in Watertown, Massachusetts. With a money
and banking background in college and interest in finance at
the Business School, I joined the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission as a statistician, when it opened up in 1934. After three
years I transferred to the U.S. Treasury Department in Wash-
ington, as an economist. In 1940 | moved to New York and
joined the Sperry Corporation and have spent all my time since
then associated with Sperry in various subsidiaries. In the course
of time I became secretary and treasurer of Sperry Gyroscope
Company, Inc., and in 1949 I transferred to another Sperry sub-
sidiary, Wright Machinery Company, Durham, North Caro-
lina, as president and general manager.

In common with many, I find more and more demands on the
little time that is left from operating the business because prac-

tically all my spare time is taken up with such extra-curricular
activities as the Boy Scouts, etc.

THOMAS EVANS WILSON

HOME AppRESS: 109 Wellington Ave., Short Hills, N.J.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Thomas J. Lipton, Inc. 1500 Hudson St., Hoboken, N.]J.

BoRN: Aug. 5, 1909, Phoenixville, Pa. parents: Harry Wayne Wilson, Mana
Montgomery Evans.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

MarrieD: Elizabeth Forrer Ellis, Sept. 2, 1940, Buffalo, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Sarah Howard, Feb. 26, 1946; Thomas Montgomery, April 9, 1948.

occupation: Purchasing agent, Thomas J. Lipton Company, food packers.

OFFICES HELD: President, Glenwood Association of Short Hills; member,
Fathers’ Committee, Cub Pack No. 1, Boy Scouts of America, Short
Hills; trustee, Racquets Club of Short Hills.

MEMBER OF: Racquets Club of Short Hills.

[ 1246 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PROSPERITY was just around the corner in the summer of 1932
according to President Hoover. However, no employers were
beating a path to my door so I joined Robert S. (“Red” Bob)
Watson, ’32, and Vic Haughton, °33, and sailed for Europe
(hoping there would be some jobs left when I returned in Sep-
tember). Our trip covered six thousand miles by rented car
through France, Switzerland, Germany, and the low countries,
and England. Prices were at their lowest — both steamer fares
and living on the Continent — but that was relative, my funds
were the same. The search for employment made the fall and
winter of 1932-33 pass quickly even though unprofitably. In
March, 1933, a Pennsylvania Republican invaded the New Deal.
For the next four years I held various positions in Washington
with the National Recovery Administration, even though NRA
was invalidated by the Supreme Court after two years, an eco-
nomic analyst was apparently invaluable in winding up its affairs.
I then optimistically headed for New York only to find that a
full-blown “recession” was on hand to complicate employment
opportunities. By diligent use of the employment facilities of
the Hlarvard Club of New York, I obtained a wealth of varied
experience in a short time — Macy’s basement as a section man-
ager, some free-lance advertising (foot work), and Mr. Whalen’s
New York World’s Fair of 1939. In the fall of 1939 I joined
Thomas J. Lipton, Inc.— tea and food packers — where I have
happily spent the last eighteen years, except for three years with
Uncle Sam (1942-45). The World’s Fair of 1939 offered the
finest exhibits from all the world, but 1 found an employee of
one of those exhibits of far more personal interest. “Bee” and I
were married in September, 1940. In 1942, considering my Mil.
Sci. 1. training and the nation’s need for men, I offered my serv-
ices to the commanding general of the Brooklyn Army Base.
After one interview I found myself a lieutenant. Their need was
great! Assignment to a Port of Embarkation (Mobile) found
us “staging” in Boston where we really enjoyed a whirl — while
it lasted. Then to Scotland, northern Ireland, and England for
two years; the last year in London assisting in the planning of
the “Overlord” invasion of the Continent,
After release and return to Lipton’s we settled in New Jersey

[1247 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

where our family was rounded out — Sally, 1946, and Tomm

. ; y
two years later, Ours is a small, suburban community where we

follow the usual commuter pattern, trains are met, children
“car pooled” to school, dancing class, swimming and skating,
not to forget Girl Scouts, choir practice, and Cubs. (I married
one of the best chauffeurs and Den Mothers in the state.) Hob-
bies after that! P.T.A. and local civic affairs still allow time for
bridge and social activities at the Racquets Club. The theatre
and an occasional weekend in New York, without children, are
eagerly anticipated. I look forward to more time for golf —
and a better game! Vacations were spent at a cottage perched
beside a small Adirondack lake until progress in the form of a
new highway made its sale imperative. Last year we tried a

Vermont lake where we saw much of Lois and Warren Child,
a roommate in 1929-30.

ARTHUR ALEXANDER WINDECKER

HOME ADDRESS: 102 Coleman Ave., Chatham, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Equitable Life Assurance Society of the US., 393 Seventh
Ave., New York 1, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 14, 1910, Oak Park, Ill. parents: Arthur Alexander Windecker,
Flora Mary Stephens.

PREPARED AT: Oak Park High School, Oak Park, Ill.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: AB. magna cum laude, 1932.
Marrieb: Beatrice Barbara Bickford, Sept. 15, 1934, Auburn, Maine, CHILDREN:

Arthur Alexander, 3d, March 27, 1937; Richard Chase, Oct. 20, 1941.
HARVARD SON: Arthur Alexander Windecker, 3d, 59.

occupaTIoN: Manager, Underwriting Department, Equitable Life Assurance
Society of the United States.

OFFICES HELD: Editor, Home Office Life Underwriters Association, 1956-57:
MEMBER OF: Society of Actuaries (fellow); Home Office Life Underwriters
Association; American Pension Conference; New York Actuaries Club,

Chatham Fish and Game Association.
I SHOULD have written this account back in early September
when I first received the request for it from the Class Secretary.
Then my family was getting ready for our elder son to return to
Harvard for his sophomore year. Now, six weeks later, he has
given up college (temporarily, we hope) and is making plans to
find a job in South America or some such place, I spent last

[ 1248 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Monday (October 15, 1956) in Cambridge to appraise the situation
and as I was leaving South Station I ran into Paul Reardon.
Naturally he asked me if I was planning to attend our Twenty-fifth
Reunion and — just as naturally —I indicated that at that point
there was considerable doubt as to our plans.

After college I spent a year in law school and then gave up
trying to extend my formal education because of lack of funds.
In July, 1933, I started to work for the Prudential Insurance
Company and settled down to become an actuary. I completed
the actuarial examinations in 1942. Then in 1943 I joined the
Navy and spent a year in Washington and another year in Hawaii.

Following the war I returned to the Prudential which a few
years later began to decentralize. As each new regional home
office was named, men were chosen to go out from New Jersey
to staff it. Eventually my turn came in 1953 and I was given a
choice of Chicago (my home town) or Jacksonville. However,
by this time my future prospects with the Pru did not look par-
ticularly attractive and, while I probably would have stuck with
“the rock” if they had let me remain in New Jersey, there didn't
seem to be any percentage in traversing blind alleys in Chicago or
Jacksonville. Accordingly, I left the Pru and poined the Equitable
where I am now. The fact that Equitable’s present board chair-
man, Ray Murphy, is a Harvard man had absolutely no bearing
on my decision!

It was in the spring of 1948, I believe, when my wife appeared
on a radio quiz program and won a washing machine and a stove.
During some of the preliminary questioning she was asked, “What
is an actuary?” She replied that an actuary is the brains of an in-
surance company. It is not surprising that the president of the
Actuarial Society, at its next meeting, remarked rather pointedly
that Mrs. Windecker had done more for the actuarial profession
than her husband had.

In 1950 we built a little cottage on Lake Pocasset in Wayne,
Maine. My family has wonderful times there during the summer,
but the place has two serious drawbacks: Wayne is a long way
from Chatham, and IJ can’t take all summer for vacation.

In 1942 I became Clerk of Session of our local Presbyterian
church, This turned out to be a rather unhappy experience be-
cause during most of my three-year term a militant group of

[ 1249 ]

bene o scheoriatl

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

members was trying to get rid of the minister. It is amazing how
unpleasant church controversies can become.

During the winter of 1952-53, I finally decided to take up
skiing. I shall never be an expert at the sport, but I get a tre-
mendous kick out of it, As a matter of fact, my interest in skiing
was one of the “straws” in my decision not to go to Jacksonville,
I took up skiing at least partly to provide my wife with some
winter weekend vacations from our children. However, she has
now discovered how much fun it is and she insists on going with
us whenever she can. Last Easter she sprained her ankle on the
slope at Mount Snow near Wilmington, Vermont, so now she is
riding a bicycle to get in shape for the skiing season this coming
winter.

I have been writing this account to the strains of “Be-Bop-a-
Lula.” The phonograph is in one corner of the house and I am as
far away from it as I can get; still the sound comes through. I
wouldn’t mind so much if it weren’t for the fact that this must
be the hundredth time that that record has been played today!
Yes, there are some incidental advantages in having a nineteen-
year-old son away at college, But this is where we came in... .

HERBERT WILLIAM WINER

HOME appress: 84 Evelyn Rd, Waban 68, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Market Basket Stores, Inc., Everett, Mass.

BORN: June 1, 1911, Cambridge, Mass. paRENTs: Samuel Winer, Dora Jacobs.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: AB, cum laude, 1932.

MarRIED: Anita Lenore Freeman, Nov. 30, 1939, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Jean Augusta, Feb. 13, 1941; David Mark, May 5, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Morton John Winer, M.B.A., 37, Myron Seymour Winer,
Law 5., 1939-40.

oocuPATION: President and general manager, Market Basket Stores, Inc.,
grocery food chain.

orrices HELD: Director, Elm Farm Foods Co., 1932-47, Temple Shalom
Brotherhood, 1953-54, Waban Baseball Associates, since 1955; president,
Market Basket Stores, Inc. since 1947; trustee, Temple Shalom of
Newton, 1952-53; secretary, Waban Improvement Society, 1954-56,

IMMEDIATELY after graduation I entered the family business,
[ 1250]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a food store chain; started as an inventory taker, became a store
~ supervisor, and then sales and personnel manager. About ten
years ago a great change took place in my business career. My
brothers and I left the security of the large, successful food store
chain to start out on our own with a nucleus of twelve small
stores. We now have only three of the original twelve but have
since opened seven new and larger units. Having weathered the
storms of the first ten years in business, we are looking forward
to the challenge of the future in a highly competitive field, fur-
ther complicated by trading stamp plans, sales taxes, give-aways,
“lucky bucks,” and all the merchandising gimmicks still to come.
Although both home address and mortgage payments haven’t
changed in fifteen years, the sounds and sights within our house
have. The exuberant voices of teenagers brought in by my
sixteen-year-old daughter and thirteen-year-old son resound
night and day. I sometimes play piano duets with Jean and have
trouble keeping up with her since she is an accomplished pianist.
David and I share an ardent enthusiasm for all sports, although
I spend most of my time in the role of spectator. I have a firm
conviction in the future of Liberal Judaism and have actively
participated in the establishment of a new congregation in our
community, serving on the board of trustees and singing regu-
larly in the choir. My civic activities include: the Waban Base-
ball Associates, the Waban Improvement Society, and various
philanthropic fund drives. I enjoy a weekly bridge game with
my cronies, shoot a wild game of golf sporadically, keep busy
around the house with gardening and the simplest do-it-yourself
projects. My wife and I spend our summer vacations at Edgar-
town on Martha’s Vineyard. Its tranquillity and charm have
made it our ideal haven from the pressures of our off-island life.

GROVER ROBERT WINN

HOME ApprEssS: 584 Shore Rd., Cape Elizabeth, Maine,

OFFICE AppREss: Gulf Oil Corp., Portland, Maine.

BORN: Oct. 26, 1909, Somerville, Mass. Parents: Charles Henry MM. Winn,
Ellen Laura Connors.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

[1251 ]

mir on

et a BO,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933. DEGREE: $.B. IN MECH. ENGIN, cum laude, 1932 (33).
acarrieD: Marion Foster, Oct. 12, 1940, Beverly, Mass, CHILDREN: Jean
Foster and Joan Blanchard (twins), June 4, 1947.

occupation: Assistant district manager, Gulf Oil Corporation.
OFFICES HELD: Recording secretary, Maine Oil Industry Information Com-

mittee; member Standing Committee, First Parish Church (Unitarian),
Portland.

MEMBER OF: Essex Lodge, AF. & A.M. Salem, Mass.

EVER since graduation I have been associated with the Gulf Oil
Corporation. I married my college sweetheart, took some time
out going overseas during World War II, and then returned home
to start a family. We have twin daughters, nine years old, who
are already fine athletes, tiring me out just to watch them.
Inasmuch as our home is by the sea at Cape Elizabeth, Maine,
we have a summer home at North Wolfeboro, New Hampshire,
in the mountains for contrast, but we feel happier near the ocean.
In addition to rearing a family, my wife and I find some time

for civic and social duties and consequently are very happy in
Vacationland.

HENRY DAVENPORT WINSLOW

HOME abprEss: 15 Coolidge Hill Rd., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE aDpRESs: Winslow & Winslow, 84 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 24, 1910, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Henry Joshua Winslow,
‘02, Grace Coolidge Davenport.

PREPARED AT: Rivers School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; LL.B. 1935-

Marriep: Katharine Nichols, June 30, 1934, Monument Beach, Mass.
CHILDREN: Henry Nichols, July 8, 1938; Philip Nichols, Nov. 15, 1940;
Katharine Gerry, Dec. 10, 1943.

HARVARD SON: Henry Nichols Winslow, ’60.

occupation: Lawyer; partner, Winslow & Winslow; director, Cambridge
Trust Company (elected 1945).

OFFICES HELD: Member, Cambridge City Council, 1938-41, Massachusetts
House of Representatives, 1941-50 (member Rules Committee, four
years); delegate, Republican National Convention, 1952; president,
Cambridge Bar Association, 1950; director, Middlesex County Bar
Association, 1950-56, member Legislative Committee, Massachusetts
Conveyancers Association, director (three years), clerk of student
loan fund, Cambridge Rotary Club, one of the legal advisers to regis-
trants of Selective Service Board 17 during World War II, Boston Bar

[ 1252]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Association; member, 1951-57, president, 1954-57, Shady Hill School;
member of corporation, Rivers School, 1937-43; trustee, Avon Home,
1944-55; director and clerk, since 1944, Prospect Union Association,
chairman and treasurer of trustees, 1950-53, Y.W.C.A.; former director
and former clerk, Y.M.C.A.; director, Cambridge Tuberculosis &
Health Association, 1948-50; former director, Cambridge Red Cross;
member of corporation, Norfolk House Center; deacon, 1947-50;
treasurer, Paine Fund, since 1952; trustee, Ministerial Fund, since 1937;
member, Standing Committee, General Counsel to The General Al-
liance, since 1955, Unitarian Church.

MEMBER OF: Economy Club (president, 1950-51); Cambridge Club (secre-
tary since 1942); Massachusetts S.A.R.; Massachusetts Bar Association.

MY family, legal practice, Republican politics, civic activity, and
summers on Cape Cod, Massachusetts (mainly sailing) have filled
my last twenty-five years. Like a typical New Englander who
never leaves the valley in which he was born, I find myself still
living in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in the city of my birth (al-
though I lived at nine different places within its bounds).

I married Katharine Nichols of Newton, Massachusetts, one
year before my graduation from Harvard Law School. With the
more settled life that followed, and with the elimination of the
weekly trips to visit her at Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs,
New York, my marks reached an all-time high (for me — that
is). Ever since then I have been practising law with my father,
Henry J. Winslow. With the banking connection of this office,
my practice is chiefly in the fields of real estate, probate, trust and
related areas. The only regret that I have for these years of
practice, is that I have reached that ripe age when others call me
“Sir.”

We have three children: — Henry Nichols, now a freshman at
Harvard; Philip Nichols at Belmont Hill School, who hopes to be
a member of Harvard ’62; and Katharine Gerry, at Shady Hill
School, with six years to go before college.

Politics took my early interest, but a man cannot serve two
masters. Since law was my profession, I quit the political arena
after four years in the Cambridge City Council and ten years in
the Massachusetts Legislature, fortunately never having been de-
feated. Strange as it may seem, it was harder to quit than it had
been originally to enter politics, The climax of this experience
came when I was elected as an Eisenhower Delegate from Massa-

[ 1253 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

chusetts to the 1952 Republican Convention, an experience which

I never shall forget and with a rewarding result, beneficial, |

believe, both to his country and to the world.

My political experience has given me a practical understanding

of government and of people. I feel that such knowledge enables

one to have a constructive, rather than solely a critical point of

view of the administration of our public institutions.
Of recent years, as an overseer of Shady Hill School (now
president), my interests have developed in the field of the ad-
ministrative problems and the financial needs of the elementary
schools. The elementary school is the forgotten child of public
charity. It has to scratch for its help from parents, but cannot
get outside aid. Yet an adequate basic training is necessary to
meet the increasing demands made at the college level. Ways
must be found to provide it more financial aid, if for no other
reason than to make certain that its teachers will receive adequate
salaries to maintain educational standards. Gifts of endowment or
buildings should seep down to these schools. A lawyer finds his
charitable-minded clients directing their attention to universities
and, perhaps, to preparatory schools, but never (well hardly ever)
to the elementary level.

Summers find the Winslow family on Cape Cod. My wife's
family summered at Monument Beach and my parents at Province-
town, which, although at both ends of the Cape, had a certain
consistency. But where is the spare time to enjoy it to its fullest
extent? Perhaps some of you other members of 1932 can find a
lot of spare time, but the law doesn’t seem to offer it to me, Law
has been said to be the field of one dead-line after another, meet-
ing the demands of your clients who must get a will drawn before
they sail for Europe for three months’ vacation. However, with-
out them the Winslows couldn’t send their sons to Harvard, so
come one, come all. .

In Lowell House, in 1931, President Lowell was showing an
honored guest the Library. All students were deep in the couches
with their feet on stools, He commented on the fact that a Har-
vard man had to raise his feet to cause the blood to flow to his
head. All feet came with a thud to the floor. He chuckled
loudly, Since then, blood in the head or no, my feet have been on
the ground with little time to rest on the stool, but I have no com-

[1254]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

plaint, and with a happy family and a profession that has provided
for our needs, I look forward to our Twenty-fifth Reunion and
our Fiftieth yet to come.

FRANK McNEILL WITHAM

HOME ADDRESS: 1910 Brisbane St., Silver Spring, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: U.S, Civil Service Commission, Washington, D.C.

BORN: Sept. 22, 1911, Cleveland, Ohio. parenrs: Harry Elmer Witham,
Hattie M. McNeill.

PREPARED AT: Wheatridge High School, Wheatridge, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929. DEGREE: A.B. (Univ. of Colorado), 1933.

MarriED: Mildred F. Hutchison, April 18, 1942, Washington, D.C. cHILprEN:
Mary Jane, May 14, 1947; Barbara Jean, July 29, 1956.

occuPATION: Program Planner, Federal Personnel Administration.

MEMBER OF: Kappa Sigma Fraternity; Society for Personnel Administration;
Federal Club.

JUSTIN R. WOLF

HOME AppREss: 3100 Aberfoyle Pl., N.W., Washington 15, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1625 K St.. N.W., Washington 6, D.C.

BoRN: April 17, 1911, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Harry A. Wolf, Clara
Bernstein.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Omaha, Nebr.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; LL.B. (Univ. of Nebraska),
1936; LL.M. (Harvard Univ.), 1937.

MARRIED: Silvia White, Jan. 23, 1937, New York, N.Y. cHitpren: Judith W,,
Feb. 13, 1940; Laura W., Nov. 23, 1943.

occupation: Attorney at law.

OFFICES HELD: Director, H. A. Wolf Company, Inc., Overland Investment
Corporation, Omaha, since 1950; president, 1954, member executive
committee, since 1955, Federal Power Bar Association; vice-president,
Brandeis University Club of Washington, D.C., since 1955; president,
Tau Chapter, 1931-32, supreme secretary, 1955, Zeta Beta Tau Fraternity.

MEMBER oF: District of Columbia, Nebraska State, Federal Power and
American Bar Associations; Independent Natural Gas Association of
America; Engineers Club of Dallas, Texas; American Jewish Com-
mittee; B’nai B’rith; Brandeis University Associates; Brandeis Uni-
versity Club, Washington; Harvard Club of Washington; National
Press Club, Washington; Society of Liberal Arts, Omaha; Highland
Country Club, Omaha; Indian Springs Country Club, Washington,

[1255]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932
National Capitol Democratic Club, Washington, Zeta Beta Tau Fra-
temity.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Independent Producer and the Federal Power Commis-
sion,” Sixth Annual Institute on Oil and Gas Law Taxation, 1955,
Southwestern Legal Foundation, Dallas, Texas; “Current Decisions
and Problems in the Regulation of Independent Natural Gas Pro-
ducers,” Second Annual Rocky Mountain Mineral Law Institute,
1956, Rocky Mountain Mineral Law Institute, Boulder, Colo.

AFTER graduation in 1932 (what a year to remember), | spent a
year in the real estate and building management business in Omaha,
Nebraska, Thereafter and until June, 1937, I studied for and ob-
tained LL.B. and LL.M. degrees at the University of Nebraska
and Harvard Law Schools, respectively.

In January, 1937, I married, happily then, and even more so
now, with two delightful daughters to add to the enjoyment of an
altogether felicitous union.

Since 1937, I have lived and worked in Washington. My legal
career, both in government service and private practice, has been
devoted to that specialized branch of administrative law dealing
with the regulatory problems of the natural gas and oil industries.

From 1937 to 1941, 1 was a member of the legal staff of the
Federal Power Commission and the next three years served as
Assistant General Counsel of the Petroleum Administration for
War. From 1944 to 1946, I was in military service, serving as an
officer in the U.S, Navy. In 1946 I opened my own office for the
practice of law and, except for a year’s service as General Counsel
and Assistant Deputy Administrator of the Petroleum Administra-
tion for Defense during 1950-51, I have been at it, enjoyably ever

since. Additionally, I concern myself with family business in-
terests in Omaha.

CYRUS WOOD

HOME ADDRESS: 9 Prospect Hill Rd., Lexington 73, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Raytheon Manufacturing Co., 138 River St., Waltham, Mass.

BorN: April 24, 1910, Arlington, Mass. parents: William Blake Wood, Mabel
Adams.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass. "
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932; M.B.A., 1937; C.P.A. (Massa-
* chusetts.)

[ 1256 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mMarriED: Dorothy Tabor, July 6, 1940, Lewiston, N.Y. cHitpren: Ralph
Tabor, Dec. 17, 1941; William Nelson, Aug. 14, 1943; George Blake,
June 14, 1945; Virginia, Oct. 8, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Winthrop Adams Wood, 719 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Assistant treasurer, manager, Financial Accounting Department,
Raytheon Manufacturing Company, manufacturers of electronic equip-
ment.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Parish Committee, Unitarian Church, 1949; director
of budget, National Pneumatic Company, Inc., 1954-55; president,
Junior High School, P.T.A., 1956-57; Town Meeting Member.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Society of Certified Public Accountants, Boston

Chapter, N.A.C.A.

LAST week I was fitted to my first pair of bifocal glasses, which
certainly add new zip as well as confusion to life. For the benefit
of those not yet in this category, it is absolutely impossible to look
at a well-turned ankle without lowering one’s head to the point
of obvious indiscretion. Otherwise, bifocals enable me to put the
more distant things into their right perspective, while the “im-
mediate” things fall into focus more readily, too.

Looking through my distance lenses (and back over my
shoulder), I see again that fateful interview I had in the alumni
placement office in 1934, where I sought advice, due to the fact
that I was rather upset about by future in the insurance business.
The words still ring in my ears, ‘““Wood, you are too old at twenty-
four to look for a place in business without specialized training!”
That crisp sentence sent me across the river to the Business
School for specialization in finance and accounting. To catch up
with the M.B.A. billing, I have since been through steps in public
accounting, management consulting, budget director and adminis-
trative work and treasurer’s office assignments.

During this period, much of my non-business time and energies
has been devoted to raising a family, starting a little late by com-
parative Class of ’32 standards, but quantitatively up to average
family size, nationally. Realizing that our children should have
exposure to Sunday School, Dotty and I have been brought
nearer to church activities and a better spiritual life in the Uni-
‘arian Church in Lexington.

When I was on the Parish Committee (and its chairman), we
Jebated many interesting topics about church administration and
iscal policy. As president of the Men’s Club, I found it a practical

[1257 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

challenge to discover for what subjects such a group of fellows
will show enthusiasm. Together, Dotty and I were vice-president
of our Couples Club, a fun activity with a variety of interesting
people in the group. Dotty, herself, has been chairman of several
hospitality committees, and she has extended a warm and friendly
hand to many people.

As I write on, I find my eyes no longer look squarely through
the distance lenses, but rather start shifting to the reading lenses.
I am at Raytheon, as assistant treasurer and manager of the Fi-
nancial Accounting Department. Thus, at the office I find myself
working with millions while at home I am brought face to face
with the domestic realities of budgeting and financial planning.
With three boys and Ginny, all of whom we hope will go to
college, the planning problems loom large. The boys have not
been spared the financial facts of life, and we are proud of the
three newspaper routes they run, plus two sub-contractors they
have engaged. Also, they find occasional jobs in the neighborhood
to swell their own expense funds, gift money and savings.

Concerning hobbies and general family interests, winter ac-
tivities consist of lugging the children to Boy Scouts, dancing
school, band practice, Little League practice and games and the
like, Meanwhile, Dotty and I go our way to P.T.A. council and
school meeting, Town meetings and frequent weekend evenings
of suppers, followed or not by contract with friends, Oc-
casionally, we dance but, alas, even in the Hub of culture, we
take only limited advantage of the theatre, symphony or opera.
During summertime, we are prone to have more “family” activi-
ties, such as fishing and rowing, walking and picnicking together.
Swimming, now that Ginny has mastered the skill, is one sport
that we all thoroughly enjoy as a group.

We are striving to provide an environment of educational, re-
ligious and social values suitable for the well-rounded develop-
ment of the children, You may judge our success for yourself,

except for seeing Ginny who is too young, in June at the Twenty-
fifth.

[1258]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM BARRY WOOD

HOME apprEss: Chittenden Lane, Owings Mills, Md.

OFFICE appREss: The Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, 601 N. Broadway,
Baltimore 5, Md.

BORN: May 4, 1910, Milton, Mass. parENTs: William Barry Wood, ’ 02, Emily
Niles Lockwood.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1932; MO.
(Johns Hopkins), 1936; tu». (Temple Univ.), 1956.

MARRIED: Mary Lee Hutchins, July 2, 1932, East Edgecomb, Maine. crttoren:
William Barry, 3d, Feb. 19, 1938; Margaret, Aug. 15, 1939; Peter
Hutchins, May 1, 1943; Jonathan Fairbanks, Aug. 14, 1946; Jean, Nov.
25, 1948.

HARVARD SON: William Barry Wood, 3d,’ 59:

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Henry Wood, ’35.

occuPATION: Physician and teacher.

OFFICES HELD: Professor of medicine, Washington University School of Medi-
cine, 1942-55; vice-president, The Johns Hopkins University and The
Johns Hopkins Hospital, since 1955; professor of microbiology, Johns
Hopkins Schools of Medicine and Public Health, since 1955, president,
Central Society for Clinical Research, 1952, American Society for Clini-
cal Investigators, 1951-52; secretary, Association of American Physicians,
1953-55; Consultant to Secretary of War on Infectious Diseases, 1941-
48; member Board of Overseers of Harvard College, 1949-54; member
board of trustees, Rockefeller Foundation, since 1954.

MEMBER OF: Association of American Physicians; American Society for
Clinical Investigators; American College of Physicians; Society of
American Bacteriologists (and other professional societies); Harvard
Clubs of St. Louis and Baltimore.

PUBLICATIONS: Scientific articles published in various medical and other
scientific journals and textbooks.

WHILE in high school I was certain that I'd become a teacher.
In college I decided to become a doctor. In medical school I re-
solved to become both. Although this may sound a little like try-
ing to have one’s cake and eat it too, it really isn’t for the doctor-
teacher is an accepted hybrid of the medical profession. To be
sure, he is occasionally accused by his practising colleagues of
living in an ivory tower, but if he happens to be ina clinical field,
as I have been until very recently, he is inevitably drawn into many
of the everyday problems of medical practice. His unique op-
portunity lies in his daily contact with students and in his chance
to pursue research.

[1259 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Medical students are an extraordinary group of people. Care-
fully selected and highly motivated, they become deeply absorbed
in their exacting and fascinating work. To be associated with

them in study and teaching is to be constantly subjected to a most

potent kind of stimulus. As for medical research, it is difficult to
conceive of a more gratifying form of human endeavor. In its
modern scope, it not only encompasses all of the natural sciences
but of recent years it has begun to involve the social sciences as
well. Its humanitarian possibilities are forever beckoning, some-
times at a distance and sometimes very close at hand. _

I have had the good fortune to be engaged in medical teaching
and research since graduating from medical school, That my tour
of duty has already spanned a considerable number of years is
apparent to me, not so much because of this Twenty-fifth Reunion
as because I am now referred to in the confines of the family
circle as the “graying, groping professor.” The three words in
this expressive triumvirate appeared individually in a magazine
account of an address I made a number of years ago at a medical
meeting. They were promptly pounced upon by my children
and were synthesized into this rather dubious title of distinction.
The fact that my offspring number five and are not discouraged
in such pursuits by their mother puts me at a definite disadvantage.
My chief recourse is to keep up with them on the tennis court
and stay at least one jump ahead of them in their homework.
Needless to say, I am already slipping fast, for Bill is majoring in
college chemistry and is out for the varsity tennis team, Margo's
reading speed exceeds mine by at least a factor of two, and Peter’s
Latin is getting tougher every day.

But what talents our children possess are, of course, due pri-
marily to the efforts of their mother. After graduating from
Vassar, she enrolled in the Johns Hopkins University School of
Hygiene and Public Health, while I attended medical school.
Having completed her doctorate in bacteriology, she turned all
of her energies to raising a family, to supporting her local schools,
and to contributing in various other ways to her community. Now
that she has fewer children to read aloud to each night, she is
beginning to plan once more to return to her professional work.

Last year, after having been at the Washington University
Medical School in St. Louis for thirteen years, we came back to

[ 1260 ]

_ 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Johns Hopkins. My faculty appointment is in the Department
of Microbiology (modern term for bacteriology) in the Schools
of Medicine and Public Health, Although the new job also in-
volves administrative duties relating to all of the Johns Elopkins
Medical Institutions, its greatest appeal is in the opportunity it
affords us to continue university teaching and research in our
field of common interest.

EDWARD HASKELL WOODBERRY

HOME AppRESS: 211 Mott Rd., Fayetteville, N.Y.

OFFICE appRESS: Lamson Corp., Syracuse 1, N.Y.

BORN: June 20, 1909, Beverly, Mass. parents: Charles Dane Woodberry, ‘99,
Amy Bowden Haskell.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

Marrigep: Margaret Louise Wood, March 31, 1934, Albany, N.Y. cup:
Dana, Dec. 22, 1937.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Dane Woodberry, °35, LL.B., 38.

occupaTionN: General division manager, Lamson Corporation, conveying
equipment manufacturers.

PUBLICATIONS: Miscellaneous trade magazine articles on conveyor application
and automation.

SINCE I was exempt from English A, I don’t recall who wrote,
“The best laid plans . . . ,” but I’m sure he had me in mind, My
college goal was to become a manufacturing executive while my
roommate argued that sales was the only legitimate profession.
So... ended up as a division manager via the field engincer,
salesman, sales manager route, and the roommate (yes, you guessed
right) is a plant manager.

It all happened this way. Back in ’33 (as we can all remember)
jobs for fresh young graduates were rather scarce, and having
found one, I wasn’t too particular. The salary was low, but as a
field engineer the expense account helped a lot—in fact, so

-much that Peg and I were married about six months later. The
plan for both of us to live on expenses and barnstorm the country
worked fine for two years until the stork made his inevitable ap-
pearance.

Then the job changed to sales of a specialized product with my

[ 1261 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

territory covering anything east of the Mississippi. Finally, in
1941, we got back to Boston, ready to settle down, but Mr. Hitler
had other ideas. In 1943, as a naval officer, I took command of an
LMD (large mahogany desk) for the duration. The rest is routine
— product manager, then to the home office as sales manager and
recently division manager.

In the meantime, my family remained the same, and our
daughter is now a college freshman, Frankly, having seen her
fight through prep school and “sweat out” college applications, I
wonder how I ever got into Harvard. Times must have been
different.

With Dana away at school we thought we would have time on
our hands, but it sems to work like money —the more you have
the more you spend. I still travel a lot and love it. Peg often
comes along. At home we seem always to be behind schedule —
gardening, golf, fishing trips, church choir, bridge, skiing, reading,
etc,

I suppose it would be trite and perhaps artificial to suggest that
the last twenty-five years have passed at an accelerating pace, but
I dare you to look back to 1932 and recall your thoughts about
the Class of 07 then having their Twenty-fifth. Don’t take it too

seriously, and Ict's agree to show '57 that there’s a lot of future
in ’32.

FRANCIS WOODBRIDGE

HOME ADDRESS: 42 Parker St., Newton Center, Mass.
OFFice aporess: F, W, Lafrentz & Co., 80 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

Born: Oct, 12, 1911, New York, N.Y, parents: Francis Woodbridge, ’98,
Eleanor Baker Taft.

PREPARED AT: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: S.B. 1932(33): M.BAy 1935.

MarRieD: Marion White, July 22, 1940, Wakefield, Mass. cHILDREN: Francis,
Dec. 10, 1941; Monica Joan, July 10, 1943; Edmund Baker, Aug. 23,
1947 (died Sept. 13, 1947), Timothy James, Nov. 9, 1948.

occupaTion: Accountant.

DURING the major part of the past ten years I was chief ac-
countant for two Sylvania Electric Products plants, first in
Boston and then on Long Island. More recently, I was cost

[ 1262 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

accountant for a small firm outside of Boston, engaged in electro-
mechanical and electronic manufacture; and still more recently
I have been back again in public accounting.

Concurrently, I was recalled to active Army duty for a year
and a half or so, spending a third of the time in Virginia, a third
in Tokyo and a third in Korea.

MARK WOODBURY, JR.

HOME aporess: 127 Haverford St., Hamden, Conn.

orrice apoarss: The American Brass Co. 414 Meadow St, Waterbury, Conn.

poaw: Nov, 18, 1909, Avon, Mass. parents: Mark Woodbury, Alillia Lee
Rose.

paeparep AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

marniro: Maxine Wentworth, April 21, 1935, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Mark, 3d, May 9, 1940; Linda Fay, June 4, 1943.

occupation: Auditor of disbursement, American Brass Company, manu-
facturers of copper, copper alloy and aluminum mill products.

OFFICES HELD: President, 1948-49, vice-president, rgso, Harvard Business
School Club of Waterbury; auditor, United Fund (Community Chest),
Waterbury, 1951-55; captain, Building Fund Drive, Spring Glen Con-
gregational Church, Hamden, 1955-56; regional captain, Harvard Busi-
ness School Fund Drive, 1956; captain, Southern New England Wright
Cup Tennis Club.

MEMBER OF: Hlarward Club of Connecticut; Harvard Business School Clubs
of Waterbury, Bridgeport and Washington; Discussions, Inc., Water-
town, Conn.; High Lane Club, Inc.; Hamden Republican Club.

HIAVING majored in German, my father suggested that I go to
Munich to study. However, I fele that, with funds available for
only one year of further education, a year at Harvard Business
School would be more advantageous.

After a year’s stint “across the river” I found a job with an in-
vestment banking firm in Boston. A firm member’s son and I
roughed it in a lower Beacon Street brownstone walk-up for over
a year. We learned that there was not much of a living to be made
in stocks and bonds at least for a “few” years. The Securities Ex-
change Act really hurt business and the outlook was poor indeed.
My roommate returned home to Providence to work in an in-
surance office, and I went to work in New Haven, as a sales

[ 1263 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

trainee for the tabulating machines. The velvet-collared Chester-
field gave way to a gabardine trench coat.
In April, 1935, a month after going to New Haven, I returned
to Boston and married Maxine Wentworth in Trinity Church.
We then returned to New Haven where we found the going,
financially speaking exceedingly rough. However, my efficiency
surveys and experience led me to the American Brass Company
in Waterbury for a survey. Here I failed to dislodge my com-
petitor’s equipment, but was asked to “write my own ticket”
and come to work for them in their cost accounting department.
I have been with them ever since, After revising some of their
cost accounting procedure, I was advanced to the treasury depart-
ment in 1938 where I took over the monthly preparation of six-
month forecasts of sales and the manifold production require-
ments involved. In 1940 I was elected auditor of disbursements by
the board of directors, Since then I have added patent and licens-
ing details to my duties. My work is not too monotonous and the
monthly estimates are always an exciting challenge.

On May 9, 1940, Mark, 3d, arrived, followed three years later
on June 4th by his sister, Linda Fay. Mark, 3d, is presently study-
ing at Phillips Academy in Andover. He has performed quite
successfully on the varsity tennis team for the past two years.
He also has played football in the fall and basketball each winter
on the J.V. team. Linda Fay skates, rides and dances with equal
proficiency. Frankly, however, I hope some night to watch tele-
vision without hearing the distant strains of some of the current
bop records.

In our section of Hamden, there has been a need for a larger
Congregational Church. I have considered it a privilege to work
on the building fund committee. A wing has been in use for
several years. We expect the main church to be built next year.
] have been active in Community Chest work in Waterbury each
year. Over the years I have been just fairly active with Har-
vard Business School Clubs in Waterbury, Bridgeport and Wash-
ington, also finding time to attend the Harvard Club of Con-
necticut on football smoker nights.

I still play tennis at our local club, the High Lane, where I
have served on the tennis committee for many years. We like

[ 1264 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to feel that our annual Connecticut State Junior Tennis Cham-
pionships attract the strongest field and are as well run as any
tournament in New England. Our tournament attracts players
from as far away as Florida and the Midwest. It certainly has
helped cause a tennis boom in local surroundings. As you may
gather, tennis is my uppermost hobby, although I am still rooting

for the Red Sox.
Our social life hovers around our club where we swim, dance

and play badminton. We also join the duplicate bridge group
every year and have been pretty lucky quite often. Our vacations
have been family affairs — Williamsburg, Washington, Canada
and Maine.

I don’t doubt that putting twenty-five years in a “nutshell”
has been a difficult job for all of us. It certainly has for me. It is
a rather frightening thought that one can cover so much time
with such unexciting, routine notes. However, on each birthday
to the amusement of my family, I still claim to be thirty-nine,
so I may manage to accomplish another twenty-five years with-
out too much trouble. To my regret, though, one thing I shall
never be able to do—relive those wonderful years I enjoyed

at Harvard.

RICHARD HORACE WOODWARD

OME ADDRESS: 46 Prospect St., Belmont, Mass.

7FICE ADDRESS: Pickard & Burns, Inc., Needham, Mfass.

RN: Dec. 31, 1908, West Orange, N.J. parents: Horace Arthur Wood-
ward, Helen Lee Schiedt.

EPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

-ARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933. DEGREES: S.B. cunt laude, 1932; SM 1933; SD.
1935.

arRiED: Millicent Parker Cox, July 3, 1944, New York, N.Y. cniupren:

Richard Morris, June 22, 1947; Alan Cox, Feb. 3, 1949.
2VARD BROTHERS: John Arthur Woodward, ’36,; Theodore Woodw ard,

3
4I.
SUPATION: Physicist; vice-president and director, Pickard & Burns, Ine.

MBER OF: Institute of Radio Engincers.
tications: Loran, Long Range Navigation, Volume 4 of the Radiatuen

Laboratory Series.
<E thousands of Harvard men before me and countless gen-

[ 1265 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

erations to come, I approach the task of writing a simple biog-
raphy with the trepidation of a final reckoning. In the light of
youthful aspirations and enthusiasms, with John Harvard and his
host of learned sons looking over my shoulder, I sit in judgment
of my own endeavors over the past twenty-five years and of
myself as I am today. It is a sobering process, one that strength-
ens an innate resistance to the pleas, goads and threats of the
chairman of our Class Report. Had it not been for the untradi-
tional and unsporting tactic of appealing for support to the
feminine sex, I should have withstood their valiant efforts and
the universal temptation to appear in print — almost indefinitely.

Twenty-five years ago the assignment I set myself seemed
modest enough. I did not aim to startle the fellowship of learned
men, but merely to add some little contribution to the store of
scientific knowledge. When I could not find employment, my
father supported my graduate study of cosmic rays under
Professor Curry Street. Those were precious well-remembered
days—geiger counters and ionization chambers, preparations
for a trip to Peru, a thunderstorm and St. Elmo’s fire on Mt.
Evans, and finally, after strenuous resistance, a report on the
scattering of cosmic rays,

There followed a long and dreary geophysical survey for oil
and gas through Texas, Louisiana and Arkansas, through the
second half of the thirties.

The threat of war brought a welcome call to the newly or-
ganized Radiation Laboratory at M.L.T. There, among others, I
assisted Professor Street in the development of a new system of
radio navigation called “Loran.” Like radar, Loran measures
distances by the time radio signals require to travel from one
point to another. The first loran equipments were installed
along the Atlantic coast in the fall of 1942. It was gratifying
to watch the development and acceptance of the system and
its rapid spread first along the Atlantic Seaboard for the anti-
submarine campaign, then over the North Atlantic and Pacific,
and later by the Royal Air Force and American Air Force in
the European Theatre for the bombing of enemy targets and
the bombers’ safe return home through fog and blackout.

Now in the postwar but still uneasy world my efforts are

[ 1266 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

directed towards the solution of some of the many military prob-
lems of radio communication and navigation.

Our family consists of two staid Republicans and two unbe-
lievably energetic cub scouts. Millicent, who used to ski and play
tennis with me when I was a graduate student and she a Radcliffe
history student, has traveled to Punahou in Hawaii, around the
world to Barnard and back to New England to be dean of women
at Middlebury College. Now while she is not singing with one
choral group or another she sits in town meeting or leads a den of
wolf cubs. In our spare time we have completed a summer cot-
tage with a beautiful view of Gull Pond in Wellfleet.

WILLIAM TOWERS WOODWARD, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 3102 N. Hackett Ave., Milwaukee 11, Wis.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wisconsin College of Music, Milwaukee, Wis.

BORN: Jan. 5, 1910, Montclair, N.J. PARENTs: William Towers Woodward,
Viola Brown.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

OCCUPATION: Music.

AFTER graduation I got a Master’s degree in Music at the Cin-
cinnati Conservatory of Music. During World War II, I was
overseas three years with the 82d Airborne Division and later
with a branch of O.S.S. Since the war I have made several trips
to Spain and North Africa, which I’ve enjoyed immensely.

For years I’ve been in music, chiefly as an accompanist and
vocal coach and am at present on the faculty of the Wisconsin
College of Music.

JOHN BECKFORD WOODWORTH

HOME ADDRESS: 981 Concord Ave., Belmont 79, Mass.

BORN: June 22, 1909, Rochester, N.Y. PARENTS: George Loomis Woodworth,
Ruth Smith Beckford.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. cue laude, 1932.

MarRRIED: Margaret Wellman, July 7, 1934, Waltham, Mass. ciipar~:
Carol, Sept. 2, 1937; Janet, June 13, 1940.

[ 1267 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

HARVARD BROTHER: George Wallace Woodworth, °24, a.M., ’26.

occupation: Organist and choir director, Arlington Street Church, Boston;
accompanist, coach and private teacher of piano and organ.

OFFICES HELD: Member, executive committee, Massachusetts Chapter, Ameri-
can Guild of Organists, 1949-51; president, New England Choir Di-

rectors’ Guild, 1950-51, Religious Arts Guild, American Unitarian
Association, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Chapter, American Guild of Organists, New Eng-

land Choir Directors’ Guild; Religious Arts Guild, American Unitarian
Association.

MUSIC is my profession and music has shaped my life and that
of my family. While still an undergraduate I was spending all
my time outside academic work at music. I was one of the ac-
companists of the Harvard Glee Club for all four years and was
organist at the First Parish in Cambridge for three of them. Dur-
ing the college summers I attended the Concord Summer School
of Music and it was there that I met my future wife. It was also
the influence of that school that led me to try teaching music at
the secondary school level. After a year in the Graduate School
of Arts and Sciences at Harvard, I was offered a position at Mil-
ton Academy. There I grappled with the problem of exposing
adolescent boys to good music. I shall always be proud and
grateful for my thirteen years associated with that school. Un-
der the great leadership of Mr. W. W. Field as headmaster and
Mr. Abell, as head of the music department, Milton Academy
was recognized by colleges and private schools throughout the
country as an example of what can be done to acquaint young
people with the best in music.

During the war years, when other masters were called into
service, I was deferred because of my family and did my bit
in civil defense work and extra duties at the school. Also, in
1942, the organist of the Arlington Street Church in Boston
being called into service, I was asked to come to that church as
organist and choir director. After the war, with the return of
a full faculty at Milton, it seemed best for them to find a young,
unmarried teacher in music and for me to move on. I have con-
tinued to teach organ there when there were boys able to cope
with that instrument which, in some cases, seems to have a fasci-
nation for young performers on the piano.

Very soon after leaving the cloistered life of a private school

[ 1268 ]

2§$TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

community I had the opportunity to become a studio accompanist
for Ruth Streeter, a singing teacher in Boston. This job intro-
duced me to an area of music with which I had almost no pre-
vious acquaintance. The hours of daily accompanying sharpened
my technique and I have found the whole approach to that music
very rewarding both as an educational process and as an artistic
expression.

I have to mention one other phase of my experience because
I stated at the beginning that music shaped my life and that of
my family. Since the summer of 1948, my family and I have
spent our summers at Star Island, one of the Isles of Shoals off
Portsmouth, New Hampshire. On this island, each summer for
ten weeks, are held religious and educational conferences. I have
had charge of the musical programs for these conferences, play-
ing for their services and directing a chorus of young people who
do the work in the hotel operated for the guests. The other
members of my family have all worked there in one capacity
or another each year. Since my wife is also a pianist she has
taught piano in our home and so my daughters could not escape
learning to play the piano. In fact, my elder daughter is even
now trying to decide whether she will major in music at An-
tioch College, where she is a sophomore.

When we left Milton ten years ago we bought a house 200
years old in Belmont. My free time, if any, is spent keeping
this house looking as well as we can. In religion and politics,
I consider myself a liberal, that is, a Unitarian and a Democrat
until Eisenhower shows that he can work a miracle with the

Re publican party.

ORLANDO VALENTINE WOOTTEN

Home aporEss: Laurel, Del.

OFFICE appress: Shore Maid Ice Cream Co., 126 Camden St., Salisbury, Md.

PREPARED aT: Mercersburg Academy, Mercersburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932.

MaRRIED: Jean Barber, Aug. 22, 1943, Morehead City, N.C. cnitp: Dorothy
Robin, Nov. 15, 1944.

occupation: Manufacturing.

[ 1269 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

PHILIP WYCKOFF WRENN, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: Sneden’s Landing, Palisades, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New Yorker Magazine, 25 W. 43d St.. New York, N.Y.

Born: Jan, 1, 1910, Dedham, Mass. parents: Philip Wykoff Wrenn, ’94,
Mildred Demmon.

PREPARED aT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.,; Noble and Greenough School,
Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929, 1930-1932.

MARRIED: Virginia Taylor (died 1938), July 21, 1932 (divorced 1946); Lee
Myers, Jan. 8, 1953; New York, N.Y. cxttpren: Philip Wyckoff, 3d,
Sept, 12, 1934; Abigail, May 8, 1936 (7. Joseph Lawrence Hyde, 1955).
GRaNDcHiLD: Anne Tonetu Hyde, Sept. 26, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Lawson Wrenn, 2d, ’20.

occcpaTion: Writer and editor, New Yorker Magazine.

MEMBER OF: Racquet & Tennis Club, New York City; Coffee House Club,
New York City; Rockland Country Club, Palisades, N.Y.
PUBLICATIONS: Sports, verse, fact pieces.

IN my senior year I got a job as a reporter and night rewrite
man on the Boston Herald. I was carrying only three classes
at the time, so that wasn’t as arduous as it might sound. Six
months later, I married Virginia Taylor and we headed for Paris,
where I spent a year working sporadically for the Paris Herald
and attending lectures at the Collége de France on the influence
our revolution had on France’s. On returning to Boston, I went to
work for the Evening Transcript, covering the murky doings in
City Hall for a couple of years. When it became obvious that
the Transcript was in its final throes, I transferred my loyalties to
the Worcester (Mass.) Telegram & Evening Gazette. I did
mostly general reporting but was referred to as the financial and
labor editor. I have no idea why. In November, 1938, I left
Worcester for a New York public relations outfit. Very high
pressure type place. The head man proclaimed, incredibly, that
I was a lobbyist. After six months, he changed his mind and
suggested that I might be happier elsewhere. He was right.
Three hours later, I joined the staff of the New Yorker, and ex-
cept for the war period, I’ve been with it ever since in a variety
of capacities, all of them pleasant.

I spent four years in the Army. For the first seven months
I edited an Air Force newspaper in Miami Beach called —no
fooling —To Keep ’Em Flying. Then I went to the Armored

[ 1270 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Force OCS in Fort Knox, and later to an intelligence school in
Maryland. Because of my training in tanks, I suppose, I wound
up with the Second Infantry Division, a regular Army outfit in
which I was virtually the only non-Texan. However, they were
very kind to me. After V-E Day, I captained a CID group in
North Germany for a few months before returning to Fort Dix
and civilian life. The work was sordid but relaxing.

My daughter, Abigail, as stated above, is married to Joseph
L. Hyde of Sneden’s Landing. It does not state above that he is
a Cordon Bleu (Paris) professional chef, nor that he happens
to be my landlord, the youngest and most affable one I’ve ever
had. There is probably no significance in any of this last. In
September, 1956, I acquired a farm in the Willamette Valley re-
gion of Oregon. My wife and I plan to move there in the fall of

1957:

BARNARD ABRAHAM YOUNG

HOME AppREsS: 360 Cabrini Blvd., New York 33, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1650 Broadway, New York 25, N.Y.

BORN: June 28, 1911, Lawrence, Mass. parents: Charles Michael Young, Ida
Davis.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. magna cut laude, 1932; LL-B.. 1935.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Morris Nathan Young, a.M., °31.

occuPpaTION: Chairman of the board, National Juke Box Music, Inc.; Ferris

Records, Inc.; songwriter; music publisher.

MEMBER OF: A.F. & A.M., Lawrence, Mass.; Phi Beta Kappa; American So-
ciety of Composers, Authors & Publishers (publisher member); Music
Operators of America.

PUBLICATIONS: Hundreds of popular songs including: “Big Wig in the
Wigwam,” “You Mean So Much to Me,” “Tonight Be Tender to Me.”
“Stairway to the Moon,” “Daddy from Georgia Way,” edited several
song lyric periodicals; editor and compiler, “Songs of the American
Colleges,” “Songs of the American Women’s Colleges.”

HAVING been thoroughly permeated with legal thinking at
Harvard Law School, I undertook to wade through the reputed-
ly vexatious currents of the popular music industry. In the tu-
multuous years that transpired, the excellent law training served

[1271]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

well. Musical America thrashes around amid legal complexities
and uncertainties. The song world is ever changing, in keeping
with the tastes and entertainment habits of the public. Scientific
advances everywhere have been accompanied by a fantastically
rapid growth of such musical performance media as radio, talk-
ing pictures, juke boxes and television, to say the least. Each

of these has been a virgin soil requiring the development of a

proper relationship with the society with which it can conflict.

At one time or other, through various corporate bodies, |
have been associated with A.S.C.A.P., B.M.I., and the National
Juke Box Music, Inc. Aside from this, I have been encouraged to
author hundreds of songs for use in this giant industry. The
road has led me to the operation of song publishing firms, re-
cording companies, musical copyrights licensing services, song-
book and periodical publications, radio, moving picture and T'V
productions and talent handling . . . all necessary instruments
in general promotion of the songs.

Anything can happen the next day in a field such as this. What
brings in the bread today is very frequently relegated to oblivion
by tomorrow’s vigorous competition. Constantly plaguing the
entire scene are issues to be decided in court battles, appearances
before congressional committees and rounds of oratory. In the
meantime, spadework has to be carried on among those who
may be tempted by each fledgling project. |

Here and there. I have wedged in a little time for pampering
a hobby of gathering together old English language songsters
and popular music. It’s a far yodel from Cambridge to being fea-
tured for better or worse in The Billboard, Variety, or Cash
Box magazines wherein again the present is an intrusion on the
ever-ebullient future. The past? Best left to the whim of his-
torians who will find their way into it somehow.

[1272 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDMUND ZACHER

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Pilgrim Rd., West Hartford 7, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Zacher’s, 141 Asylum St., Hartford 3, Conn.

BORN: Sept. 17, 1910, Hartford, Conn, parents: Louis Edmund Zacher,
Marie McLean.

PREPARED AT: Kingswood School, West Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932.

MARRIED: Priscilla Spalding, Oct. 14, 1939, Lowell, Mass.

PAUL MAURICE ZOLL

HOME ADDRESS: 261 Brookline St.. Newton Center, 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 330 Brookline Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: July 15, 1911, Boston, Mass. pareNTs: Hyman Zoll, Mollie Homsky.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. Summa cum laude, 1932. M.D. 1936.

‘MARRIED: Janet F. Jones, Oct. 28, 1939, New York, N.Y. cuitpren: Ross
Holman and Mary Janet (twins), Aug. 21, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Herbert Zoll, ’28

OCCUPATION: Physician; medical research, teaching and private practice in
internal medicine and cardiology.

OFFICES HELD: Research fellow in medicine (1941) to assistant professor of
medicine (1954), Harvard Medical School; associate in medical research,
1939, chief of Cardiac Clinic, 1947, visiting physician, 1954, Beth Israel
Hospital, Boston, associate editor, Circulation, 1956.

MEMBER OF: Various medical societies.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in professional journals, mostly on coronary heart
disease and external electric stimulation of the heart.

AFTER graduation I was kept occupied and largely protected
from the depression by medical school, internships and medical
research. Then came five rather dull years in the Army. After
the war, cardiac research, teaching, private practice and fi nally
assisting at editing the heart journal have kept me busy at an in-
creasingly dizzy pace.

There was time, however, to get married and be very happy
and, in 1947, to have the tremendous good fortune to acquire
a pair of assorted twins who have managed to keep me hopping
since then with excitement, joy, pride, dismay and anguish, and
to end boredom forever.

[ 1273 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Appendix

The following biographies were received too late for inclusion
in the body of the book.

MICHAEL JOSEPH ADAM ADLIS

HOME AborEss: 455 Chestnut St., Lynn, Mass.

orricg appress: Lincoln Cafe, Lynn, Mass.

porn: June 21, 1909, Lynn, Mass. parents: Mathias B. Adlis, Eva Meskinis.

prepareD at: Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

marriep: Dorothy Wendell, Kittery, Maine. cyto: Eva, June 4s 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Michael Adlis, °37.

occupation: Owner, Lincoln Cafe; educator and distributor, Food Supple-
ment.

MEMBER OF: Lithuanian Club; Mantle Club; American Legion; Veterans of
Foreign Wars, National Health Federation, Natural Food Associates.

TO narrate in the first person confronts the ego with a moral
challenge — to strike a happy balance between pride and hu-
miliry. This reluctant author pursues such a happy balance so
that the reader may know “I am what I am.”

Perhaps, before going into the general picture, it would be
wise to interpolate the thought that a quarter century has not
been sufficient time to accomplish any extraordinary achieve-
ments that merit acclaim. Indeed, the next time you walk the
beach, use care lest you step on that grain of sand—all 260
pounds of me—resting in pleasant anonymity and serving in
God's plan.

Well, to begin the story — it startled everyone to hear that I
qualified to enter Harvard. May God bless Mr. Pennypacker!
He didn’t know how much of a peasant I used to be. One
anecdote can illustrate only a degree of it. Pll never forget that
Fletcher Flynn, ’32, and his brother (Class of 1931) directed
me to a roof-high door of the dingy Boston Elevated Power-
house as the entrance to the Bursar’s office. I’m still laughing
at their joke, but I'll always love the Flynn boys for that intro-
duction to Harvard.

[ 1275]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

Some four years later, with a Harvard-broadened perspective,
the hay in my hair was gone (I hope). Notwithstanding this,
opportunities in five fields panned out a great, unequivocating
zero. A trying home and financial problem foreclosed on plans
for medical training even before starting. Although I was ready
to fight for fame and fortune, no one seemed anxious enough to
manage a Harvard heavyweight. One taste of nastiness in politics
cut short my aspirations in that field. Academic teaching lacked
the factor X to motivate me. Research was out, because it was
joo miles away from home. .

After such soul-trying considerations it was easy to drift into
a cafe business under a family arrangement. As a “filler-in”
until something better came along, it became quite a “‘filler-in.”
I've continued to steward the operation since 1934. Worse yet
—I must confess, I wasn’t even a good member of this bar,
financially or technically, probably because of a plaguing ob-
session that there are more important needs in the world than
money and drink.

Somewhere along the way, through the happenstance of being
a very sickly asthmatic arthritic or an even worse arthritic asth-
matic, various circumstances combined to inspire me to pioneer
in health improvement through natural, organic food supple-
ments. Mirabile dictu, | am now enjoying the best health I ever
had.

In the quest for Abundance (everyone wants that), I found
Dorothy, a “gal true blue” who “my heart with rapture filled”
and still does. The gentle and charming beauty of her spirit
sufficed to overcome even parental objections. The fruit of this
union is limited to one little girl, Eva. But what a girl! When
four years old, on her looks alone, Eva opened a charge account
at the corner drugstore and it seems she treated every kid in
Lynn to ice cream before her Daddy discovered what was going
on. Puddles, the black cocker spaniel, and Blinky, the chirping
parakeet, complete the menage. These home folks never fail
to provide comfort and inspiration.

Because of a call to defend the freedoms of our country, |
served as an airplane mechanic on the B-29’s stationed on Guam.
My rating was buck sergeant.

Almost anything that challenges me serves as a hobby. For
[ 1276 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the most part, I relax in the rdéle of a home handyman, at the
piano, or with a violin.

It is too evident that the world is in a sad plight. Everyone
wants the human race to improve, but Harvard has not yet found
the formula. To improve the mind is not enough. The spirit
of free inquiry must never negate God, nor moral responsibility,
nor the dignity of man. It is my cherished hope that Harvard will
show leadership in the field of ethical principles — in practice as
well as teaching. We all need more of the grandest rule of all
rules—the Golden Rule: “Do ye unto others as ye ‘would
choose others to do unto ye.”

EDWARD HARRY ADZIGIAN

HOME ADDRESS: 140 Summer St., Stoneham 80, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Regional Office, Veterans Administration, 1 Beacon St,
Boston, Mass. .

BORN: Nov. 25, 1909, Stoneham, Mass. parents: Dirasser Harry Adzigian,
Zarouhi D, Chakarian.

PREPARED AT: Stoneham High School, Stoneham, Mass.; Huntington Prepara-
tory School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; LL.B. (Georgetown Univ.),
1940; LL.M. (Northeastern Univ.), 1954.

MARRIED: Bess Alice Drake, Oct. 12, 1942, Stoneham, Mass. cuitp: Joy
Sandra, May 12, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Herant John Adzigian, 36.

OccuPATION: Attorney-at-law.

OFFICES HELD: Deacon, member board of trustees, 1950-53, First Congrega-
tional Church, Stoneham; member, Social Action Committee, Wobum
Conference of Congregational Churches; chairman, Advance and Special
Gifts Committee, Stoneham Red Feather, 1952-56; member, Stoneham
Junior High School Renovation Committee, Stoneham Community
Council; member board of trustees, Stoneham Public Library.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts and Middlesex Bar Associations; American Le-
gion; National Association for Armenian Studies and Research (Estab-
lishment of Chair of Armenian Studies at Harvard University).

THIS business of recollections brings mixed feelings of pleasure
and regret: pleasure in some one or two things completed rea-
sonably well and regrets for many things only partially done or
not done at all. But “what’s done is done” and what is not done
may still be done.

[1277 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

such men and those who support them and may our prayer,
that such efforts culminate in complete success in our time be
heard and be answered by the Almighty.

ALBERT ALLEN

HOME ADDRESS: 34 Crawford St, Roxbury, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 755 Boylston St., Boston 16, Mass.

BorN: April 26, 1911, Boston, Mass. pareNTs: Hyman Allen, Ida Mendel-
sohn.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930, 1931-193}. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932 (33);
LLB., 1936.

UNMARRIED,

occupation: Attomey.

MEMBER OF: Boston Bar Association.

I WENT on to Harvard Law School and became a lawyer, en-
tering private practice in the lean, scraggly years of the 1930's.
With the advent of World War II, the military services rejected
me several times on account of eyesight, then later accepted me.
I served in the European Theatre of Operations, latterly at Head-
quarters Communications Zone located in Paris, France.

Emerging from the Army, I became employed by the Federal
Government, and a few years thereafter resumed private practice
of law. I have remained a bachelor, but readily confess that I
regard it a misfortune to have missed marriage. Time raced by,
and I lost track of it. My hobbies are golf and swimming.

As I try to sight back into the decades that have passed, I
coalesce my thinking about Harvard College and mark my deep
respect for the education in the liberal arts Harvard provided
me. The content of that education developed a flexibility and
expansiveness and a capacity for expansion, though specific
subject-matter of the curriculum dimmed as the years went by.
I commend the present administration of Harvard College for
its concern with the liberal arts educational process, and onl
wish I had more worldly goods to contribute to Harvard,

{ 1280 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HERVEY FOSTER ARMINGTON

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 26 Laurel Pl., Upper Montclair, N_J.

BORN: Sept. 19, 1910, Brookline, Mass. parents: Hervey Foster Armington,
Olivia Clifford Harriman.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; A.M., 1935.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Writer-producer of educational and documentary films.

IN 1935, after one year at the Harvard School of Design and
two years at the Graduate School, I received my A.M. degree.
The next five years were spent traveling all over the world,
studying with Nadia Boulanger in Paris, acting as motion picture
cameraman for the “March of Time” in the Caucasus Mountains,
and so forth. Since none of my family had ever seemed to live
long enough to retire at the proper age, I was determined to do
so, for at least five years, while I was still young and free of
responsibilities. I cannot say that I have ever regretted those
years before World War II.

As 1940 approached, I thought of coming home, settling down
and marrying. When the draft came, late that year, I was one
of the first greeted by a special message from the President of
the United States. My first classification, as a soldier, was aerial
cameraman and map maker. Instead of being assigned in this
field, however, I was placed in the Signal Corps as part of the
Army’s Training Film Program. For the following three or four
years, until I was talked into going to Officers’ Candidate School,
I served as enlisted motion picture script writer, associated with
highly interesting and more or less distinguished talent from
Hollywood, Broadway and Madison Avenue. After finally be-
coming an officer, I became a special motion picture writer on
the staff of the Chief Photographic Officer of the E.T.O. In
1946, after leaving the Army, I found myself fourteen years out
of college without ever having held what most people would call
a regular job.

During the past ten years I have become a reasonably hard-
working member of the educational and documentary filin and
TV world as a self-employed writer-producer. Since 1951, until
continent of Africa. One of these films managed to win a diploma

[1281 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

lately, I have been concentrating on a series of films about the
at a recent Venice Film Festival. For the past few months, I
have been doing more and more work with the “Voice of Amer-
ica” in Washington, where I have a second home.

My travels seem to be tapering off, and I have a very great,
if belated, urge to settle down and enjoy family life. At the
present moment, I am keeping on the alert for an attractive, late
thirtyish or early fortyish widow with five, or six, or seven
needy children. I promise to be a good husband and father!

CHARLES RANDOLPH BENNETT, JR.

HOME ADpRESS: 14 S. Broadway, Irvington-on-Hudson, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: United States Investor, 60 E. 42d St., New York 17, N.Y.

BORN: July 26, 1909, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Charles Randolph Bennett,
Lillian May Hunt.

PREPARED AT: DeWitt Clinton Hebberd School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929, 1930-1932, 1933-1935.

MARRIED: Betsy Tower, Aug. 18, 1945, Marblehead, Mass. CHILDREN: Charles
Randolph, 3d, Nov. 26, 1948; Benjamin Tower, Oct. 30, 1952.

occupaTion: Vice-president and managing editor, United States Investor.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; American Yacht Club, Rye, N.Y.

“THEY will be the best four years of your life. I wish I were
doing it all over again,” an old alumnus said to me as I was
about to enter my freshman year. Certainly those years at college
were among the happiest, spiced with the then customary tri-
umphs over Yale and other traditional rivals, memories of which
have had to serve in good stead in recent years.

Our approaching Reunion brings home the realization that
over half a business lifetime has already been achieved with what
seems like devastating swiftness, But there are other indicators
that confirm this besides the gray hairs which I see in my mirror
while shaving. One is my business activity as managing editor
of the United States Investor, a sixty-six-year-old weekly publi-
cation serving banking, insurance and investment interests, with
which I have been associated since I left college.

As this publication covers banking so extensively, I attend
many bank conventions during the year, which are reported in
special editions. Various friends describe this as a corpulent

[ 1282 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

existence and point to my waistline for confirmation, a situation
which has long been under consideration for special attention,
particularly now that Reunion-time is approaching and it would
be gratifying to have various classmates be able to recognize me.
Up until now, sporadic flank attacks have been made but as a
calorie fighter I seem to have been doing too much fraternizing
with the enemy. However, reinforcements are on the way, for
Betsy, my inspiration and guiding spirit, has taken the bull by
the horns and is attacking the problem with every known aid
man has devised. Lest you and/or yours have been engaged in
similar combat, you have no conception of the miscellaneous
approaches to the problem—the sum total of which are a
revelation. |

Betsy was Betsy Tower of Brookline, Massachusetts, whom
I met while in the Navy during World War II and whom I
married on August 18, 1945. She is an alumnus of Sweet Briar
College and the epitome of everything a wife can be. In addition
to rearing our two boys, Charles Randolph Bennett, aged eight,
and Benjamin Tower Bennett, aged four, she is active in various
service and charitable organizations. She even finds time to go
to some of the bank conventions with me. Such extra-curricular
_ activities are good for wives because it tends to anticipate with
first-hand experience any questions they might have regarding
same, |

As yet we do not take “Randy and Benj” on these “junkets.”
“Randy” is engaged in his share of activities, including prepara-
tion for the Harvard Freshman Class of 1970, and “Benj” has his
own peregrinations which we hope will include him in the Class
of 1974. Meanwhile, we expect to introduce them to Harvard
very soon or Harvard to them —I am inclined to believe it will
be the latter!

FRANK ADOLPH BRUGGER

HOME ApprEss: 124 N. Galveston St., Arlington 3, Va.
OFFICE AppREss: National Security Agency, The Pentagon, Washington 25,
DC.
BorN: April 9, 1910, Houston, Texas, PARENTS: Frank Anton Brugger, Emily
_C. Thompson.

[ 1283 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. Cu? laude, 19325 A.Mo 1933.

marrieD: Helen Gertrude Shaughnessy, Nov. 25, 1937, Belmont, Mass. cun-
DREN: Nancy Helen, April 4, 1942; Frank Anton, Nov. 6, 1945; Mary
Elizabeth, June 16, 1949.

occupation: Research, National Security Agency, Department of Defense,
The Pentagon.

AFTER receiving my Master's degree in June, 1933, I found
that the realization of my ambition to teach was prevented by
the prevailing depression. A variety of positions kept me busy
for the next eight years: work at the Cambridge Y; substitute
teaching in the Boston Public Schools; private tutoring; research
on Sibley’s Harvard Graduates at the Massachusetts Historical
Society; insurance sales for Prudential in Cambridge; German
master at Roxbury Latin School, West Roxbury, Massachusetts,
headworker, Children’s Summer School, Topsfield, Massachu-
setts, modern language master, Interdale School for Boys, Palo
Alto, California. In the fall of 1941, I accepted a position in the
organization which is now known as the National Security
Agency in Washington. Having failed to pass physicals as
agency-sponsored volunteer in Army, Navy and Marine Corps,
I settled down to do what I could as a civilian and have been at
it ever since. My duties are covered by all sorts of security
regulations, so no details, but I feel I have about as fascinating
a job as exists anywhere.

All in all, I feel that the last fifteen or so years have been
very good, and looking back now, even those tough ones after
graduation don’t seem so bad. Helen, the three children, and
I live quite happily in Arlington where, like so many others,
we (all) do homework now. (I am surprised at how much |
remember!) We're planning a move to the Maryland side of
Washington to be closer to the new site of my agency, but just
when we go depends on a slight uncertainty as to whether or
not I have another assignment next summer for a year or two.

The twenty-five years since ’32 have been eventful and inter-
esting ones (in spite of my lack of detail in this thumbnail
sketch). I wouldn’t have missed any of them.

[ 1284 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT JOHNS BULKLEY, JR.

HOME appRrEss: The Mill House, Chatham, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: E. I, du Pont de Nemours & Co., Inc., Wilmington 98, Del.

BoRN: July 11, 1911, Cleveland, Ohio. Parents: Robert Johns Bulkley, oz,
Katharine Pope.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; LL.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Lorraine Warner, March 10, 1933, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Laura Warner, May 29, 1946; Robert Johns, 3d, Aug. 12, 1953.

occuPATION: Public relations adviser to Film Department and Fabrics & Fin-
ishes Department, E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Public Relations Society of America; U.S. Naval Institute;
Harvard Club of New York.

AFTER college the immediate question was whether to start
newspaper work or go to Law School. Since there seemed to be
plenty of time, I went to Law School. Although the third year
was made stimulating and rewarding by Thomas Reed Powell
and Felix Frankfurter, the final decision was for the newspaper.
A week after graduation I began work as a reporter on the New
York Herald Tribune and, except for admission to the New York
Bar, had no further legal career.

Nearly six years of reporting and night rewrite went by at
approximately the speed of light, though I do seem to recall
interminable periods between raises. In my first year of Law
School — during the bank holiday, in fact——I had married Lor-
raine Warner, easily the best single act of my life. I’m not sure
whether New York really was less crowded then, but it was
an exciting place for a young married couple to be.

I stopped work on the Herald Tribune in the small hours of
a March morning in 1941, and later the same morning reported
for active duty i in the Third Naval District. Because of my news-
paper connection I was assigned to public relations, which
through some vagary of the military mind was then a branch of
Naval Intelligence. Fortunately, it was not long before public
relations was brought out from under the veil of secrecy and
established as a separate branch of the Naval establishment. Later
I served on PT boats in New Guinea and the Philippines, suc-
cessively as a boat captain, squadron executive, division com-
mander, squadron commander, commander of a task unit of five

[ 1285 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

squadrons and base force, and operations officer of Motor Tor-
pedo Boat Squadrons Seventh Fleet. I came home with a Legion
of Merit with Combat V and a case of malaria, malignant tertian.
After the war I put in a year in Washington in the Office of
Naval History, and became a civilian once again at the end of
1946. The old sea dog is now a captain on the retired list,
U.S.N.R., and hopes to remain retired.

Postwar readjustment followed. I did public relations and
publicity work for Roosevelt Raceway, a fabulously successful
harness-racing track on Long Island; helped organize and directed
the flight operations of the International Air Exposition for the
opening of New York International Airport at Idlewild in 1948,
and was director of public relations of Colonial ‘Trust Company
in New York. This sturm und drang ended early in 1950 when
I joined the public relations department of the du Pont Company
in Wilmington. Since 1951 I have been public relations adviser
to two of the company’s industrial departments. It is satisfactory
and challenging work, attempting to define the social obligations
of the modern corporation and to fulfill them.

At the end of 1954, Lorraine and I bought an ancient stone
house, much worse for wear, and 17% acres of lush woodland
in Chester County, Pennsylvania, twenty miles from Wilming-
ton. This solved the problem of what to do with our spare time.
Hobbies, of necessity, are brush clearing, landscaping, garden-
ing and do-it-yourself architectural restoration. The latest pro-
ject is a half-acre pond, which we hope will be ready for swim-
ming by summer. .

Pm not sure whether the children keep us young or age us
prematurely, but they are a good influence because they refuse
to take us seriously. Laura, approaching eleven, astonishes us
with her literary output. Rob, three and one-half, is more the
mechanical type, though he is still better at taking things apart
than putting them together. So, I must confess, am I.

[ 1286 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PAUL JOSEPH CATINELLA

HOME ADDRESS: 14 Benvenue St., Wellesley 81, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 520 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 20, 1911, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Benedetto Catinella, Maria
Consiglia Mariano.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932(33); M.D. (Tufts Coll.),
1936.

MARRIED: Betty Jean Poland, March 6, 1943, Taft, Calif. curpren: Carolyn
Ann, May 28, 1946; Sylvia, April 29, 1947; Paul E., May 27, 1948, Mary
Beth, Oct. 15, 19523; Nancy Gale, Dec. 18, 1953, Deirdre, May 24, 1955.

OccUPATION: Physician, specialist in dermatology.

OFFICES HELD: Physician-in-Chief, Dermatological Service, St. Elizabeth's
Hospital, Boston; visiting physician im dermatology and consulting
pathologist for dermatology, Boston City Hospital; assistant clinical
professor of dermatology and syphilology, Tufts University Medical
School; consultant in dermatology, U.S.P.H.S., Long Island, Symmes
Arlington and Lawrence Memorial Hospitals; chairman, Section on
Dermatology, Massachusetts Medical Society; secretary, New England
Dermatological Society.

MEMBER oF: Massachusetts Medical Society; American Medical Association;
American Academy of Derniatology; Society for Investigative Derma-
tology; Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Varsity Club; Wellesley
Exchange Club; Maugus Club of Wellesley; Massachusetts Orchid
Society; Boston Wine & Food Society; Les Amis @Escoffier.

AFTER leaving Harvard I attended the medical school of Tufts
College, from which I received my M.D. in 1936. Following a
rotating internship of one year at the Quincy City Hospital, I
entered general practice. Through a peculiar set of circumstances
I became especially interested in diseases of the skin. Therefore
in 1938, I left general practice for special training in the field of
dermatology. I served consecutively as assistant in dermatology
at the Barnard Skin and Cancer Hospital, St. Louis, Missouri,
and fellow in dermatology at the Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Min-
nesota.

In August, 1941, while at the Mayo Clinic, what had seemed
to be an insignificant decision when I made it in 1938, viz., to
join the Medical Corps Reserve, became tremendously important.
It resulted in my being called to active duty at that time as a
first lieutenant in the Medical Corps of the U. S. Army. My
initial assignment was to the West Coast Flying Training Com-

[ 1287 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

mand. Since they had no need for a dermatologist, I was made
a flight surgeon, which figures. I remained on active duty a little
over four and one-half years, two of which were spent in Eng-
land and France. During that time I served as flight surgeon,
post surgeon, and group surgeon in the Ninth Air Force and
dermatologist in a General Hospital. In March, 1946, I was re-
leased from active duty with the rank of lieutenant colonel. I
returned to the Mayo Clinic until the end of 1946. [then came
back to Boston to enter into the private practice of dermatology
and there I have remained.

In March, 1943, while stationed at Taft, California, I married
Betty Jean Poland of Manhattan, Kansas. We have lived in
Wellesley, Massachusetts, since 1949 and have six children (five
girls and one boy). The three older children attend the Welles-
ley Public Schools. My hobbies include gardening (especially
orchids) and cooking. The latter, of course, includes a personal
and thorough study of the wines which go with the food. As
a matter of fact, I consider my election to membership in Les
Amis d’Escoffier, the chef’s own organization, one of my proud-
est achievements.

Professionally, I am engaged in the private practice of derma-
tology in Boston. In addition, I serve on the staffs of several of
the Greater Boston hospitals and do undergraduate and post-
graduate teaching at Tufts University Medical School and Boston
City Hospital, respectively. I am now physician-in-chief of the
Dermatological Service at St. Elizabeth’s Hospital, Boston, visit-
ing physician in dermatology and consultant pathologist for
dermatology at the Boston City Hospital, assistant clinical
professor of dermatology and syphilology at Tufts Uni-
versity Medical School and consultant in dermatology to the
U.S. Public Health Service, as well as to several Greater Boston
hospitals. This year I am also chairman of the section on derma-
tology, Massachusetts Medical Society, and secretary of the New
England Dermatological Society. In addition, I take part, to a
limited degree, in local community activities through the Ex-
change Club of Wellesley, the Wellesley Maugus Club and the
Wellesley Little League.

Politically and philosophically, I find that the older I get, the
[ 1288 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

more reactionary I become. I began by being a New Deal Demo-
crat right after graduation. Now I am more of an Old Guard
Republican! However, that is due probably to nothing more
than the process of aging. As for the future, I have no special
plans. I trust, however, that my son will attend Harvard. If
he does and benefits even half as much as I feel that I have, in
all respects, I shall consider him most fortunate, indeed.

MARIO CESARE CATURANI

HOME ADpRESS: Rowlands Gill, Durham, England.

BORN: Jan, 21, 1910, New York, N.Y. PARENTS: Michele Gaetano Caturani,
Wilhelmina MacPhail.

PREPARED AT: Westminster School, Simsbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1937;
D.N.By 1938; M.R.CS. (England), u.x.cp. (London), 1947; M.R.C.0.G., 1951.

MARRIED: Nancy Higginbottom, 1947, Stockton Heath, Cheshire, England.
CHILDREN: Michael, June 28, 1950; Sarah, April 29, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: George William Caturani, 734.

occupPaTION: Gynaecologist; consultant, Newcastle Regional Hospital Board.

OFFICES HELD: Civil Defense Officer, North West Durham; surgeon, Emer-
gency Service, North West Durham; assistant secretary, North West
Durham Medical Advisory Committee.

MEMBER OF: Royal Society of Medicine (fellow); North of England Ob-
stetrical & Gynaecological Society; Newcastle Gynaecological Society;
Burnopfield Agricultural Society; Newcastle Medical Institute; Harvard
Club of London.

I FIND myself a dull subject for writing in narrative or any
other sort of style. My career, though not unusual, is simply
the work I like best, which is as it should be. My family is on
the small side, which I regret because I should like to raise the
Class average. Early in 1941 I began to travel in connection with
the war, saw Burma from end to end, went as far as western
China and have not managed yet to get further back than Eng-
land.

I continue to get much satisfaction from history and languages
and have recently taken to cabinet-making with rather indifferent
results. As to convictions, I think mine are generally moderate
and should add, perhaps, that though I have little, if any, claim
to the title, I should like my children to grow up to be Christian.

[ 1289 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

LUTHER CONANT, JR.

HOME ApprEss: Old Hill Road, Westport, Conn.
OFFICE AppRESS: Conant & Co., Public Relations Counsel, Inc., 1 E. 53d St,
New York 22, N.Y.; 1: Commerce St., Newark, N.J.

BORN: Jan. 4, 1911, Washington, D.C. parents: Luther Conant, Margaret
Farnam.

PREPARED AT: Winchester High School, Winchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B, cum laude, 1932.

marrieD: Mary Barrett, Feb. 15, 1938, Newton, Mass. (divorced 1948);
Norma L. Swanstrom, May 15, 1948; Dumont, N.J. cuttpren: Michael
Bradford, Feb. 23, 1939; Sara, Jan. 23, 1942.

OCCUPATION: President, Conant & Co., Public Relations Counsel, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Overseas Press Club.

pusLicarions: Articles published in Life, Reader’s Digest, Look, This Week,
McCalP's, Woman's Home Companion.

THE small print in the 1932 yearbook said journalism, and, until
World War II, this was so. I look back with real warmth to
the years on the old Boston American and, had we known it, to
the last years of the non-antiseptic era of journalism. Then there
was a fine but a brief year with a daily column on the Daily
Transcript, which ended abruptly when the Transcript folded
after 111 years. There was PM in the early war days, followed
by two years overseas in London, Paris, Bad Homburg and
Berlin, most of the time as chief, Press Control Section, SHAEF.
This was a rewarding experience, dealing as it did with the li-
censing of the first twenty-five or so postwar German publishers.

From the viewpoint of 20-20 hindsight, the bridge between
journalism and business were years at Time and Life on a half
editorial, half administrative job as liaison between the editors
and the foreign correspondents. It was Otto Fuerbringer who
made the remark at a recent reunion luncheon that the members
of our Class (like a number of the depression classes) didn’t
start their final careers until fifteen years out. In my own case,
it was more like eighteen years out before I actively went into
public relations — first, out of financial necessity and then, almost
to my surprise, from great delight. In 1954, I opened my own
firm and with mixed feelings of satisfaction and avariciousness
have watched it grow.

My religious convictions have remained unchanged since Har-

[ 1290 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

yard — a non-participating Unitarian. My political convictions
must have taken a radical change, since I voted for Herbert
Hoover in 1932 and I have never voted for a Republican since.

Michael will be going to college in the fall. He leans to a
smaller college than Harvard, but I think he has it in the back
of his mind that he will return to Cambridge for graduate work.

As for home life in Westport, so many people believe that Mr.
Spectorsky wrote the book in more or less his right mind that
it is feeble to argue the point.

CHARLES BERTRAM CURRIER

HOME ADDRESS: 221 Mount Vernon St., West Newton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 79 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 22, 1908, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Bertram Herbert Currier, Olga
Brandenberg.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

MarRiED: Catharine Blake, April, 1934, Portsmouth, N.H. citpren: Charles
Bertram, Jr., Oct. 28, 1935; William Blake, Sept. 24, 1936 (died Sep-
tember, 1952); Jane, March 18, 1939; Robert Blake, May 28, 1941;
Richard B., April 17, 1943; Catharine B., Jan. 30, 1946.

HARVARD SON: Charles Bertram Currier, Jr., ’58.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: President, Chequesset Country Club.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts and Federal Bar Associations; Harvard Club of
Boston; Chequesset Country Club; Massachusetts Society of Certified
Public Accountants (former member).

SEVERAL things stand out in one’s life as he looks back and
surveys the past. I have been very fortunate in many things since
graduation and unfortunate in others. But when one winnows
out the things that are of value from those that aren’t, I know
that I have been very fortunate in being married to a very won-
derful girl. Our life has been very happy and we have had a
very wonderful family of six children. Naturally it has not all
been a bowl of cherries and we have experienced the very bitter
with the sweet, but if I had my life to live over again I could
not ask for more — thanks to her,

The sea has had a very important influence on my life. Our
eldest son was almost born on board our boat during an October

[1291 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

trip near the same spot where almost seventeen years later our
second oldest boy, Bill, sailed away with Steve Horton, ’39, into
the crested waves and blackness of a midnight tropical hurricane,
never to be seen again. The fury and cruelty of the sea is only one
aspect of a mighty force that has always held an overpowering
fascination for me. I have sailed the coast from Nova Scotia to
Bermuda and our summers have been spent at Wellfleet on Cape
Cod, where all the kids had their own boats and learned to sail
and swim at early ages.

Before I close, I would like to present a couple of ideas con-
cerning Harvard undergraduate education as it exists today,
which I hope will be construed as being constructive. Because
we have a son who is a junior at Harvard and a teen-age daughter,
we probably come in contact with more of the undergraduates
than most people. First: the boys all say that Harvard is the
“greatest place” and gives them a wonderful education. Second:
they work a lot harder than we ever did. Third: if it is true
that the guiding principle of an undergraduate education at Har-
vard is intellectual freedom and honesty, what place does a course
like Economics A with its rigid, biased, opinionated New Deal,
Keynesian philosophy have in the undergraduate curriculum?
A basic course in economic theory should teach economics and
not be used as a disguise for cramming into the heads of the stu-
dents a certain political philosophy. To pursue such methods is
not intellectually honest and it is the surest way of discrediting
and destroying scholastic freedom. There was a letter recently
in the Harvard Crimson by W. C. Brady, setting forth these
ideas in greater detail. We knew of one scholarship boy who
dropped economics as his concentration because he said he wasn’t

_going to have the New Deal and the Democratic party rammed
down his throat via a course in elementary economics theory.
Fourth: when I was an undergraduate there was a professor who,
on the final examination, asked what we had learned and how he
had helped us. I remember telling him that I hadn’t learned any-
thing and that I considered the course a waste of time. I under-
stand that the same professor is still asking the same foolish ques-
tion and expecting the same foolish, ego-flattering, dishonest an-
swer about how much he has done for the student. We have

[1292 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

laughed about the situation while we frankly think that man
belongs in some grammar or junior high school. Several years
after graduation, I took a similar course elsewhere and, frankly,
the teacher was wonderful and I learned a lot. This professor is
definitely an exception to the magnificent teachers who make
Harvard University the great institution that it is today. I am
certainly happy and proud of Harvard and all seven of us are
looking forward to the Reunion.

JOSIAH MACY ERICKSON

HOME ADbRESS; Inagua, Bahamas, B.W.L
OFFICE ADDRESS: West India Sales, Ltd., 17 Battery Pl., New York 4, N.Y.
BoRN: Feb. 27, 1909, Swampscott, Mass. parents: Arioch Wentworth Erick-

son, Cecile Rouche Macy.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

DEGREES: S.B., 19323; CERT. (Mass. Inst. of Technology), 1933.

marrieD: Margery Louisa Osborn, June 17, 1938, Garrison-on-Hudson, N.Y.
CHILDREN: Cecile Macy, April 9, 1939; Margery Louisa, Sept. 6, 1941;
Josiah Macy, Jr., May 17, 1943; Aileen Osborn, Dec. 15, 1945; Osborn,

Jan. 21, 1949.
HARVARD BROTHER: Douglas Erickson, ’38.

OCCUPATION: Executive, West India Sales, Ltd.
MEMBER OF: Eastern Yacht Club; Royal Nassau Sailing Club; Mayflower
Society; Loyal Legion; Brook’s Club.

DURING his entire college career I suspect almost every pre-
World War II man considered that he had embarked upon real
Life spelled with a capital “L” — sports, parties, classes (not
too many nor too hard), and everything else that seemed
designed to extol his reasonably good opinion of himself and
blind him to the fair “bump” which lay ahead after graduation.
Nowadays, Life actually seems to begin at college (if not a little
before) and the seriousness with which everything is taken is
a little appalling, even depressing, to one who still believes that
a dash of the Grand Manner in both politics and business is the
yeast that makes bread out of matzos.

In my case, the “bump” was a little delayed because of my
having gone to M.LT. as a special graduate student in the ficld
of business management and corporation law. Properly mixed

[ 1293 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

with this further pursuit of learning was the activity of becoming
a plane pilot which later turned out to be the bite of a bug from
which I have never recovered. To me it is absolutely ideal that
airlines today are so crowded and that it is still important to be
on time for meetings in various distant places. Yes, you have
guessed it quite easily. I still fly and look forward with keenest
anticipation to having jet experience before one foot gets in the
grave. But, to get back....

My awakening was not in the form of a horrible jolt nor
sickening disillusionment; it was simply a moment of sudden
recognition and comprehension when a comic eagle and I found
ourselves staring at each other in what might be termed “mutual
distaste.” The eagle was square, blue and in one foot clutched
a bit of machinery and in the other a bolt of lightning as though
to defy the rules of the hot foot. Within time almost less than
it takes to tell, ] had embarked on an international life of business
to which is attached not a moment of regret.

A company to produce salt and chemicals at Inagua, Bahamas,
was my first endeavor. This was indeed a period of hard work
and slim returns (I almost said colossal outgo) and my admira-
tion remains unbounding for the young girl from New York who
chose to join me as my wife in the third year of pioneering ac-
tivity and make an orderly home out of what had heretofore
been nothing more than a chaotic place in which to hang one’s
hat. In time Inagua grew as did the quips and laughter of our
friends who continually reminded us that if we were slow in
building up salt production, the same could certainly not be said
of our family. Three girls, two boys (pure Victorianism?) in
this age of taxes, surtaxes and supertaxes.

Sooner or later there had to be a steamer in our lives as back
in the cavern of Memorial Hall, as a pre-freshman, I had written
“Shipping” as my intended occupation. This is one of those rare
cases where the deed is as good as the intent and our ships today
do a sizeable business. Lest you have heard otherwise, shipping
can become an all-inclusive term as I rapidly found out on be-
coming executive and then skipper of LSM4 during an unpleasant
period of great endeavor. Prewar I had always liked many
things Japanese, and while this liking took on the color of reverse

[ 1294 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Jend-lease during the war, it was not obliterated and led me to
open an office in Tokyo where I have spent a considerable amount
of time. This reference to “a considerable amount of time” has
undoubtedly more to do with accomplishment in Japan than
almost anything else except, perhaps, patience. As if in a Gilbert
and Sullivan opera, we succeeded so well we were a success and
with it came the offer of a top government post which we finally
declined with most sincere regret because of the unhappy realiza-
tion that our great country has yet to make up its mind as to
how we are to approach “Affairs Oriental.” It is a most interest-
ing problem to which you might give your attention in those
increasing spare moments that are sure to come between the
Twenty-fifth and the Fiftieth.

FERNALD CHURCHILL FITTS

HOME ADDRESS: 28 Broadway, Mystic, Conn.; 2032 Lakeview Ave. S, St.
Petersburg, Fla. "

BORN: Dec. 10, 1908, Boston, Mass. parENTs: Fenton John Fitts, Anna Marie
Fairfield. . |

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1927-1932. DEGREE: M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1937.

MarRIED: Ann Scanlon, 1930, Westerly, R.I. (divorced 1947); Lucille Hunt,
1948, Rye, N.Y. curren: Fernald Churchill, Jr. March 19, 1931 (7.
Helen Davis, June 15, 1954); Michelle F., Jan. 27, 1934 (a1. John M.
Toucey, qth, Sept. 22, 1954); Jonathan F., Jan. 3, 1942; Cynthia F.,
April 28, 1955. GRANDCHILDREN: Michael Fitts, Dec. 5, 1955; John M.
Toucey, 5th, July 29, 1955; Christopher Toucey, Aug. 10, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHER: Roscoe William Fitts, ’23.

occupaTION: Hospital consultant, Connecticut Equipment Corporation.

GEORGE FRANCIS FRAZIER, JR.

HOME appress: The Plaza, Fifth Avenue & s9th Street, New York, N.Y.

BORN: June 10, r911, Boston, Mass. parents: George Francis Frazier, Cathe-
rine Minihan.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929, 1930-1933. DEGREE: A.B. 1932 (33).

MarRigD; Marion Claremont Madden, Dec. 21, 1941, Boston, Mass. (divorced

[1295 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

1952). CHILDREN: George Francis, 4th, Sept. 27, 1943; Jonathan Pepper,
July 5, 1945.

occupation: Writer.

PUBLICATIONS: The One with the Mustache ts Costello, Random House; It’s
About Time (due), Sloan & Pearce; numerous magazine contributions.

I'VE been a writer ever since the now-defunct Vanity Fair took

me away from the brokerage business some twenty-five years

ago by buying, at one lovely swoop, the first three efforts I had
ever submitted to any periodical. Subsequently, I contributed to
most of the big magazines and, for a while, I did a daily column
for the Boston Herald. I quit that in order to take a cushy job
with Life, which I left in order to collaborate with John Steinbeck
on the book of a musical that has yet to win production. I may
be wrong about this, but it seems to me that the most scalding
review given my The One with the Mustache is Costello was
administered by the late Russell Maloney. Oddly enough, I lived
only three doors from Maloney, but met him only a couple of
weeks before his death. I’m afraid that I've made scandalously
little money, but I do enjoy the life I lead. It affords me enough
minor fame and power to be invited along to the opening of
such glamorous inns as the Istanbul Hilton and sufficient leisure
to be able to fly to Montreal whenever I deem The Rocket needs
my moral support. I might say, incidentally, that I was still at
Harvard when I became the first American to write regularly
about jazz. :

In my line of work, I’ve come to know a lot of celebrated
entertainers and I consider it something of an accolade that I
have been received by the likes of Errol Flynn and the late
Humphrey Bogart as a bosom drinking companion. Friends of
mine like Louis Armstrong, Duke Ellington and Joe Glaser ap-
pear to be constantly confounded by the fact that 1 went to
Harvard. Nowadays, my closest association with the college is
a charge account with the Andover Shop on Mount Auburn
Street. I think it’s the best men’s shop in the world.

I’m sorry as hell that my marriage went asunder, especially
since my former wife is a brilliant, witty and altogether charm-
ing girl. She’s now married to a Harvard alumnus — and maybe
I should have listed him as a Harvard brother. That, though, is
the way the cookie crumbles and, in any case, I’m terribly grate-

[ 1296 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ful for two splendid sons. The elder is in the second form at St.
Mark’s, where he’ll be joined in the fall by his brother.

I do wish I had something more interesting to contribute to
this recital, but I daresay my life has, generally, been uneventful.
I live at the Plaza and every few days I bow politely to the
ghosts of Scott Fitzgerald. Unfortunately, though, I’m still un-
successful in my quest of a rich woman whom I would adore.
Any suggestions?

DAVID STRATTON FRENCH

HOME ADDRESS: 35 S. Russell St., Boston, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: OBrion Russell & Co., 108 Water St., Boston, Mass.
BORN: June 12, 1909, Brookline, Mass. parents: Charles Stratton French, 95,
Isabel Rockwood Mauro.
PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.
MARRIED: Beatrice Elisabeth Wallace, Aug. 22, 1936, Bethel, Maine.
HARVARD BROTHERS: John Mauro French, ’29; Nathaniel Rockwood French,

occupation: Insurance.
THE reflection that comes to me most forcibly today is, “How
good it is to be alive and well.” This thought was brought to
me vividly the other day when I visited the Harvard Memorial
Church and saw the names of our classmates who lost their lives
in the war. I realize how fortunate I was to have been “over
there” and to return unscathed. Speaking of being in the service
recalls one of the girls in the office asking if I were in World
War I or II! Frankly, I hope I don’t look that old —at least
I have a few spears of hair left.

To delve back a bit farther into history, I was brought up on
a farm and always despised city life. Even after marriage we
lived in the country, but when Herr Hitler broke up our home,
my good spouse had to support herself (who could live on fifty
bucks a month?) and changed into a cliff dweller. Since then
we've lived in Boston and I must admit that I’ve become recon-
ciled to this way of life. In fact, I’m so housebroken that I ran
for Republican Ward Committeeman and got elected! It was

[ 1297 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

quite a thrill seeing my name in the voting machine, but I have
no further political ambitions. Even though we are city dwellers
we emerge frequently. Our two mothers live at opposite ends
of the pole—one on the North Shore and the other on the
South Shore. When we have free weekends we go on an Audu-
bon field trip by bus. I can recommend this as real enjoyment,
even to my “indoor bird-watcher” classmates!

As far as Harvard is concerned I think I am a pretty good
alumnus mentally and physically, if not financially. I haven't
endowed any buildings or built any water polo stadiums but
I do have season tickets to the football games, get to a lot of the
hockey games and even am among the ninety-nine or so who
attend baseball games.

The door at 35 South Russell Street is always open to class-
mates. Our two dachshunds, Madel and Tony, will announce
your presence, and Betty and I will be most happy to see you.

OTTO ERNEST FUERBRINGER

HOME ADDRESS: Round Hill Road, Greenwich, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Time, Inc., 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N. Y.

BORN: Sept. 27, 1919, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Ludwig Ernest Fuerbringer,
Anna Zucker.

PREPARED AT: Cleveland High School, St. Louis, Mo.

‘YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.

Marriep: Winona Gunn, Sept. 11, 1939, Philadelphia, Pa. cumpren: Peter,
Nov. 5, 1940; Alexis, Jan. 9, 1943; Jonathan, Dec. 29, 1945; Juliana, Oct.
30, 1950.

OccUPATION: Assistant managing editor, Time magazine.

OFFices HELD: Member, Overseers Committee to visit the Department of
Germanic Languages.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Council on Foreign Relations;
English-Speaking Union; Round Hill Association,

IN the fall of 1932, I was hired by the St. Louis Post-Dispatch
to write the Boy Scout news. After a while, I was allowed to
cover conventions, interview celebrities, track down criminals
and, finally, write about city and state politics. The Post-
Dispatch was a good training school because it had exacting
editors and a long tradition of independence. In the spring of.

[1298 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1942, I joined Time magazine as a National Affairs writer, subse-
quently edited National Affairs and other sections, and am at
resent assistant managing editor.

I’m fairly desk-bound, but I’ve managed to get to Europe,
South and Central America, and most of the U.S. I spend my
days reading and arguing, my nights talking and reading, and
still play a fool-hardy game of doubles on my days off.

FREDERICK MATHER GANNON

HOME ADDRESS: P.O. Box 597, Helena, Mont.

OFFICE ADDRESs: Union Bank & Trust Co., Helena, Mont.

BoRN: Oct. 14, 1910, Aberdeen, S. Dak. parents: Fred Hall Gannon, Edith
Elizabeth Mather. |

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Aberdeen, S. Dak.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Shirley Mae Kemp, June 2, 1951, Helena, Mont.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John William Gannon, ’34; Richard Hall Gannon, ’38.

occupation: Vice-president, Union Bank & Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer and director, Montana Physicians Service (Blue
Shield), since 1950; member, Instalment Credit Commission, American
Bankers Association, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Montana Club. _

MY tutor was right! The year 1932 was rather a tough time to
get thrown out into the cold cruel world. It took a couple of
years of looking, plus various temporary odd jobs, before finally
making a permanent connection in the banking business with
the First Bank Stock Corporation of Minneapolis in September
of 1934. They started me on a training program, transferred me
to various of their banks in the Dakotas and Montana, with about
a year in their credit department in Minneapolis.

In March, 1942, I went into the Army as a first lieutenant in
the Finance Department and attended the Army Finance School
at Fort Benjamin Harrison, Indiana. My first station was at Fort
Francis E, Warren, Wyoming, for about a year, and then I was
transferred to the Air Force, training at various stations in
Florida and South Carolina. Our outfit went to England in
November, 1943, where we joined the Ninth Air Force. We

[ 1299 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

moved to the Continent in September, 1944, where I was for-
tunate in being able to get a quick glimpse of France, Belgium,
Holland, Luxemburg and Germany, supervising finance installa-
tions at various Ninth Air Force bases. After V-E Day we
started for Okinawa, but while we were on board troopship,
the Japs heard we were coming, got scared and gave up, so we
changed course and came back to the States. In May, 1946, I
was finally separated as a lieutenant colonel. |
While working in Missoula, Montana, from 1937 to 1941, I
had fallen in love with this part of the country, and decided on
getting out of the Army that I wanted to make western Montana
my home. I took a temporary job with the Federal Reserve
Bank branch in Helena, and then in April of 1947, moved to the
Union Bank & Trust Company, which is affiliated with North-
west Bancorporation, Minneapolis, in charge of the instalment
loan department. I headed up this activity until January, 1955,
when I transferred to head of the commercial loan department.
It took a lot of time but I finally found the girl for whom I
was looking. Shirley and I were married in June, 1951, and I
am glad I waited. She is a designer and interior decorator and
a good one! She, too, loves this beautiful country with all its
outdoor recreational activities, and we are thoroughly enjoying
our life here. She tried to make a skier of me and I introduced
her to fishing, both with equal lack of success. We do, however,
enjoy our horses together and spend most of our spare time with
them, riding with our rancher friends or exploring the back
country. Our work and play, plus our various community ac-
tivities, in a community and country we love, make for a full
life.

CHARLES THOMAS GILLESPIE

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Dublin School, Dublin, N.H.

Born; March 2, 1906, Loughborough, England. parents: Robert Gillespie,
Emily Gertrude Wheeler.

PREPARED AT: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREE: A.B. 1932.

marriep: Harriet Knowles Hauck, June 27, 1936, Watertown, Mass. cnin-

[ 1300 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
pREN: Peter Knowles, Feb. 1, 1939; Susan Marion, July 6, 1944; Jane
Wheeler, May 22, 1946.
OCcUPATION: Senior master, Dublin School.

I'VE been a schoolteacher these last twenty-two years. Dublin
School opened its doors in 1935 with me on its staff, and here
I have remained. To be attentive to some sixty secondary school
boys around the clock and through the week tends towards a
varied and full life, I find. Academically, I’ve been the instructor
in most of the biology, physics and chemistry courses, and some
of the Latin. Otherwise I’m concerned with the many different
aspects of living which are involved in this vigorous population,
whether it be the state of health, the operation of ski tow engines,
or the domestic matters of my dormitory.

Most classmates, I am sure, are as intimate as I with the interests,
drives and developments of one, two, three, or more of these
youngsters of ours: to dwell further on familiar situations is to
compound old stories, interesting, vital and varied as they are.
Therefore I stop with this brief factual outline for this reason
chiefly, but also because to deviate but slightly is to pen the intro-
ductory sentence to a multitude of writings ranging from a
school catalogue to an essay on private schools or on private
school teaching, all of which have other places.

DANIEL CROSBY GREENE

HOME appress: South Road, New Scotland, R.D. Slingerlands, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New York State Dept. of Health, 84 Holland Ave., Albany
8, N.Y.

BORN: March 29, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Daniel Crosby Greene, '95,
Marion Lockwood.

PREPARED at: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; M.D. (Yale Univ.), 1937;
M.P.H. (Johns Hopkins Univ.), 1954.

MarRRIED: Charlotte Dusser de Barenne, June 16, 1937, New Haven, Conn.
CHILDREN: Kate Snellen and Dorothea Rebecca (twins), June 24, t930;
Elise Marie, Sept. 22, 1947; Charlotte Emily, Nov. 16, 1939; Margarica
Marion, July 5, 1955-

HARVARD BROTHERS: Jeremiah Evarts Greene, '30, M.D. °33; Roger Sherman
Greene, ’34.

Occupation: Pediatrician — Public Health Physician; assistane director, Ma-

[ 1301 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

ternity and Newborn Services, Bureau of Maternal and Child Health,
New York State Department of Health.

OFFICES HELD: Staff member, Pittsfield General Hospital, St. Luke’s Hospital,
Hillcrest Hospital, 1940-42, 1946-53; clinic physician, Pittsfield, 1940-42,
1946-53, Richmond, Mass. 1946-53; member board of directors, 1946-
53, president, 1951-53, Berkshire County Tuberculosis Association; mem-
ber board of directors, Berkshire School for Crippled Children, 1950-53,
Family Service Association of Pittsfield, 1949-51; member advisory com-
mittee, Berkshire County Chapter, National Foundation for Infantile

Paralysis, 1947-53, United Cerebral Palsy Association of Berkshire

County, 1953, Visiting Nurse Association of Pittsfield, 1947~53, Pitts-
field Day Nursery, 1946-53.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Albany County Medical So-
ciety; New York State Medical Society; Massachusetts Medical Society;
New England Pediatric Society; American Public Health Association;
New York State Public Health Association; Unitarian Laymen’s League;
National Association for Advancement of Colored People.

PUBLICATIONS: “Recent Developments in Diarrhea of the Newborn,” with
R. M. Albrecht, MD., New York State Journal of Medicine, 55:2764,
1955; “Control of Epidemic Diarrhea of the Newborn in Hospital
Nurseries and Pediatric Wards,” with A. H. Harris, A. Yankauer,

M. B. Coleman, and M. Y, Phaneuf, Annals of New York Academy of
Sciences, 66:118, 1956.

I OBTAINED my medical degree at Yale University, where I
also met and married my wife, Lot, who was then attending the
Yale Art School. After graduation we headed south for Balti-
more, and after a year’s general internship I decided to go into
pediatrics. The next two and a half years I interned in various
hospitals in Baltimore and Boston. In 1940 we settled in Pitts-
field, Massachusetts, in the beautiful Berkshire Hills. By the
time I entered the service in 1942 we had pulled ourselves out
of the financial dumps. The high point of my next four years
with the Army Air Force was my tour in the China-Burma-
India Theatre, including five months in mountainous southwest
China. I still have a strong affection for that country.

Back in the States in 1946 we returned to our haunts in Pitts-
field where both my family and practice grew by leaps and
bounds. To escape the latter for a bit, in the spring of 1950, all
six of us hopped a freighter to Holland, Lot’s birthplace. The
friendly people we met and the quaint and beautiful spots we
visited are still vivid in our memories. Life became more and
more hectic as I combined the “rat race” of private practice with

[ 1302 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

involvement in many community affairs, while family life and
the enjoyments of living became gradually squeezed out.

In 1953 I made a sharp break, took a year at Johns Hopkins
studying public health, and then joined the New York State De-
partment of Health. Here, life has moved more leisurely and I
have time for such hobbies as radio, hi-fi, singing in the Uni-
tarian Church choir and camping out. Girl number five ap-

peared on the scene a year and a half ago and despite all our
dotiitg appears quite as successful as our other four daughters.

At this point I am about to take another public health job with
fewer administrative duties and more clinical work.

LOUIS HANOPOL

HOME ADDRESS: 131 Washington St., Brighton 35, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: MacLeod & Hanopol, Inc., Charlestown, Mass.

BORN: May 10, rg10, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Bernard Hanopol, Elizabeth
Gelfand.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932, 1933-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1932 (36).
MarRIED: Eleanor L. Heckman, March 17, 1949, Boston, Mass.

occupation: Manufacturing engineering, MacLeod & Hanopol, Inc., manu-
facturers of electronic equipment.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Radio Engineers.
PUBLICATIONS: Some contributions to technical trade magazines.

LAWRENCE JOSEPH HENDERSON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 604 Juniper Lane, Falls Church, Va.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Rand Corp., 1625 1 St., N.W., Washington 6, D.C.

BORN: June 11, 1911, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Lawrence Joseph Hender-
son, ’98, Edith Lawrence Thayer.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High & Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1932; LL.B, 1938;
M.B.A., 1937.

MaRRIED: Mary Katherine Britton, June 25, 1939, Wellesley, Mass. cro:
Carolyn Nelson, Sept. 28, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Research executive, vice-president, Rand Corporation,

OFFICES HELD: Member board of trustees, Rand Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Operations Research Society of America (fellow).

[ 1303 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

LIKE many of us, I was affected in a major way by the develop-
ments of World War II. Not in an unhappy or unpleasant way;
— by great good fortune, I found an interest in work hardly
resembling what I thought I might go into while at Law School
and Business School. For one with no scientific training beyond
Chemistry A, Physics D and Meteorology 1, the job of helping
to run a pioneering research organization seems a somewhat
audacious choice.

On finishing Business School, I started work at what was ‘then
the Chemical Bank & Trust Company in New York, and after
the usual training period became assistant to the vice-president
in charge of the bank’s Latin-America division. This job was
both stimulating and enjoyable, in considerable part, I suppose,

because it was my first real experience of work and responsibility.
With the advent of the war, I took a leave of absence from the
bank and moved to Washington where, for a little over a year,
I worked for the Board of Economic Warfare and its successor
agencies. By a rather fortunate accident, in late 1943, the Radia-
tion Laboratory at M.LT. asked me to join a new group they
had established to help with the transition of radar from the
development to the production and operational stages. I stayed
in this work until the end of the war, concentrating on the
operational introduction of new radar equipment into the Army
Air Forces, and serving as a consultant to the Secretary of War.
This included a most interesting and even exciting fourteen
months in the U.K., France and Italy, working in close associa-
tion with many of our Air Force commanders and operations
officers. This wartime experience led directly to the activity I
am presently engaged in, which consists of handling the major
aspects of the very close working relations our research organ-
ization, the Rand Corporation, has with the Air Force. At first,
this activity, which can best be described as long-range planning
research, was started with a small staff at the Douglas Aircraft
Company, which I joined in 1946. In November, 1948, with
financial support from the Ford Foundation, three of us formed
the Rand Corporation as an independent non-profit institution,
set up for the purpose of engaging in research on problems re-
lated to national security. From a small start, the organization

[ 1304 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

has grown to the point where we now have a staff of severa]
hundred professional people whose specialties cover a wide
variety of scientific disciplines, At Rand, I have been here in
Washington as associate director and, since last year, vice-presi-
dent. I find this work stimulating, as Washington jobs go, re-
markably free from frustration and even sometimes quite reward-
ing. The associations with my colleagues and others interested
in our research are a constant challenge. We know that what
we are doing is exciting and we hope and even sometimes believe
it is of real value in these very challenging times.

My wife, M.K., my fourteen-year-old daughter, Carolyn, and
I live in Suburbia (it used to be Exurbia, but the suburbs moved
out to engulf us) —to be specific, we are about ten miles from
Washington in Fairfax County, Virginia, near Falls Church.
We enjoy our house and garden very much, and my principal
hobby is rusticating when I am at home and able to do so. This
is not as frequently as I should like, since I spend a good part
of the time,commuting between my office in Washington and
Rand’s California headquarters. M.K. is all too active in county
affairs —she’s a member of the Board of Zoning Appeals —
and in local politics, and she travels nearly as much as I do, in
connection with Wellesley alumnae activities.

Sometimes we all go to California together, and manage to
stop off somewhere en route for a couple of days. On a few
occasions, we have even been able to get to Europe and, more

recently, to Haiti and Jamaica, both of which we can recommend
highly.

ABRAHAM SIDNEY LEVENSON

HOME AppRESS: 104 Kilmer Ct., Falls Church, Va.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Bureau of Ships, Navy Dept. Washington 25, D.C.

BORN: Jan. 19, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Nathaniel Moses Levenson, Rose
Cohen.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B. 1932; ED.M. (Boston Teachers
Coll.), 1936.

MARRIED: Jeanette Lyon, June 12, 1949, Washington, D.C. cuitp: Ellen Sara,
Dec. 18, 1953.

[ 1305 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

occupaTion: Physicist, direct research and development in torpedo counter-
measures, Bureau of Ships, Navy Department.

OFFICES HELD: Member executive committee, since 1953, 2d vice-president,
1953~55, 1St vice-president, 1955-56, campaign chairman, 1956~57, Wash-
ington Chapter, Muscular Dystrophy Associations of America, Inc.

MEMBER OF: American Physical Society; Association of Senior Engineers of
the Bureau of Ships.

IN April of 1941, I went to Washington, intending to teach in
the public schools. However, I heard shortly that the Navy’s
Bureau of Ordnance was interested in physicists; I signed on as
a contract employee, was initiated into the then hush-hush sub-
ject of Degaussing and sent to Seattle, where I worked in the
various field stations and in the district headquarters. At the
time, I firmly believed that we would not become involved in
the war; but my six months’ contract grew into a five-year
sojourn on Puget Sound, at first with the Navy Department, later
with a Navy-sponsored contract at the Applied Physics Labora-
tory of the University of Washington. Here we worked furi-
ously to perfect a component of torpedoes for issue, but the
Bureau of Ordnance continued to raise the requirements, so the
device never saw service. After the war, we worked on another
type of weapon and on instrumentation for the Bikini tests.

At this time I was able for the first time to take advantage of
the opportunity for enjoyment of the country by joining the
“Mountaineers,” an enormous and enthusiastic outdoor club. I
became acquainted with the mountains by the touch system,
after having viewed them from afar for four years. In the sum- |
mer of 1946, the Laboratory’s contract folded to smaller dimen-
sions, so I left my newly-acquired paradise —the clean, moist
air, the slopes and the inland sea and the classless society of the
Northwest — for Washington, D.C.

I joined the Bureau of Ships where, except for one year at
the National Bureau of Standards, I have been ever since. My
work consists of managing the design, development and pro-
curement of certain types of torpedo countermeasures equip-
ment for the Navy. The work is fascinating, but unfortunately
“indescribable.” Of course there are the minor irritations of the
sort well known in government. Sometimes it seems that for
each man in a laboratory actually performing the necessary re-

[ 1306 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

search, there are three in the Bureaus and other offices: two to
write and rewrite the justification for the work, and another to
review the justification. And there are the quaint impersonalities
of contract regulations. Still, we do make progress. Once in a
while, I manage to go out on a ship to see the results.

In Washington, I met Jeanette Lyon and we were married in
1949. Ellen Sara arrived in January, 1954, at age six weeks, to
be our daughter. All the sunshine of all the fine days I have
ever known before could not equal the warmth of one day since
her arrival.

Living as we do on the Virginia side of the Potomac, we find
ourselves surrounded by painful disputes, open and covert, as
to whether or not the elementary rights of citizenship, such as
equal treatment by the government, and public civility, should be
accorded to all citizens, including Negroes. This is a reminder
that the rights that most of us enjoy were obtained by struggle,
and can be extended only in the same way. However, as an
unreconstructed Yankee, I’m willing to admit that in all other
respects, Virginia is just as charming as the storybooks say it is.

THOMAS LINDER, JR.

HOME AppRESS: 1776 Acres, Canton, Conn.

BORN: Dec. 9, 1908, Hartford, Conn. Parents: Thomas Linder, Helen Way.

PREPARED AT: Westminster School, Simsbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1933.

MarrigD: Martha Studevant, Springfield, Ohio.

occupation: Manufacturing manager, Chandler-Evans Division, Pratt &
Whitney Company.

MEMBER OF: S.A.E.; A.I.M.; various other professional, social and civic or-
ganizations.

TRAVELED and worked at various jobs until joining the Air
Force in 1941. During the World War II years, was assigned to
the group at Headquarters, A.S.C., responsible for converting
military aircraft engine overhaul to line production.

Eight postwar years were spent as director of engineering and
maintenance for Chicago & Southern Airlines, After these years
of Memphis, Atlanta, the Caribbean and South America, returned

[ 1307 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

to the cold, cruel North as manufacturing manager for the
Chandler-Evans Division of Pratt & Whitney Company, Inc.,
making afterburner controls, fuel regulators, fuel pumps and
other accessories for current and advanced aircraft and missiles.

EGBERT STARR NEWBURY, JR.

HOME appREsS: Lowell Road, Concord, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Comins & Newbury, 84 State St., Boston, Mass.

Born: May 20, rgio, Belgrade, Mont. parents: Egbert Starr Newbury,
Alma Beerstecher.

PREPARED AT; Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1032. DEGREES: A.B, 1932; LL.B. 1035.

marriep: Anne Bixby Chamberlin, Nov. 5, 1938, Concord, Mass. CHILDREN:
Nancy A. Nov. 4, 1939; David S., April 8, 1942; Samuel C., April 2,
1945; William K., July 9, 1948.

occupation: Attorney; partner, Comins & Newbury.

OFFICES HELD: Associate, Goodwin, Procter & Hoar, Boston, 1935-47; Town
Counsel, Town of Carlisle, 1940-42; selectman, 1945-51, chairman, 1950-
51, Town of Concord; corporator, trustee and vice-president, Middle-
sex Institution for Savings, director, Middlesex Mutual Fire Insurance
Company; director, vice-president, president, 1953-54, Harvard Club of
Concord; director, president, Fenn School, Concord, since 1954; trustee,
secretary, 1952-54, Emerson Hospital, Concord; incorporator, director,
fund chairman, 1944, Concord Community Chest; director, secretary,
Concord Academy.

MEMBER OF: American, Boston and other Bar Associations; Social Circle,

Concord; Concord Players, City Club; Union Boat Club; Men’s Club,
Concord.

A BRIEF account, in an “informal manner,” covering more than
half of one’s life, would prove a difficult task, I presume, even
for an experienced biographer. Having been largely concerned
as a lawyer, during the past twenty-five years, with wills and
trusts, contracts and mortgages, I might find it easier could I
start off with “Know All Men By These Presents,” to be fol-
lowed by the frequent use of “whereas” and “now therefore.”
But informal it must be.

Having been brought up in the West, I looked forward to re-
turning there after graduating from Harvard Law School in 1935.
As many will remember, however, the offer of a job in that sum-
mer was not lightly turned down, with the result that I started to

[ 1308 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

work in the fall of that year with the firm of Goodwin, Procter
& Hoar in Boston. It was then my rather vague plan that, after
several years of experience here, I would move to Denver. Ir
didn’t work out that way.

The satisfaction of doing some constructive work after so long
a period of preparation, the pleasant associations with others in
the firm and with classmates in other offices, and the gradually-
discovered charm of New England as a place to live changed my
ideas considerably. My marriage in 1938, the arrival of Nancy a

ear later and our move to Concord in 1941 ended all further
thoughts of Denver, with no regrets. We have been very happy
in Concord.

The birth of David, our eldest son, early in 1942, coupled with
a deficient “acuity of vision and of color perception,” resulted in
all three branches of the armed services rejecting me, first as a
volunteer and later as a draftee. So, in 1942, I joined the Massa-
chusetts State Guard, eventually achieving the rank of corporal
in 1945. During these years I found myself becoming more and
more involved in the activities of our town, so many and varied
that “you have one meeting early to arrive at another meeting
late.” The problems of Community Chest, hospital and schools
were succeeded, in 1945, by the affairs of the town as a whole
when I was elected a selectman, serving six years on this govern-
ing board of the town. The demands of the job in a rapidly-
growing community, when piled on top of a busy law practice,
were heavy, mainly at the expense of evening and weekend hours
that rightfully should have gone to Anne and the children. But it
‘was interesting work yielding its own type of reward — defi-
nitely not monetary, as the annual salary ranged from seventy-
five dollars for the chairman to twenty-five dollars for the “other
member.” |

Our family, increased by the arrival of Sam in 1945 and Bill in
1948, has enjoyed doing things together. Sight-seeing expeditions
to New York and Washington, skiing in northern New England
and camping tours in the West and the Maritime Provinces have
been fun during vacations not spent at Annisquam, a small harbor
near Gloucester. Not a great deal of time has been left over for
Anne and me to do many things alone, but we have somehow

[ 1309 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

managed about once a year to have a week without children and
away from home.

Ten years ago I left the law firm with which I had started
practice to form a partnership with Danforth W. Comins (Har-
vard, ’03), a happy association which continues to the present
under the name of Comins & Newbury. Though primarily deal-
ing with wills and trusts, conveyancing and corporate law, we
have, in addition, the interesting variety of cases that come to
every small firm with a general practice.

Looking back over the whole period, I am particularly con-
scious of the part which Anne has played in the success of our
family life and in all that I have undertaken. Her quiet but ready
support and encouragement, her patience and understanding when
business or other activity consumed hours which rightfully be-
longed to her, her courage and steadfastness at times of discour-
agement, her honesty in all things — on these characteristics has
our happiness together been founded.

DAVID HENRY POPPER

HOME ADDRESS: 6116-33d St, N.W., Washington 15, D.C.

orice appress: U.S. Resident Delegation and Consulate General, 1 Rue du
Temple, Geneva, Switzerland.

BORN: Oct. 3, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: Morris Popper, Lilian Green-
baum.

PREPARED AT: White Plains High School, White Plains, N.Y. ‘

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1928-1932, DEGREES: AB. summa cum laude, 1932; AM,
1934.

MaRRIED: Florence C. Maisel, March 8, 1936, Buffalo, N.Y. campren: Carol
Marcia, March 31, 1943; Lewis Michael, Dec. 29, 1946; Katherine Sue,
Sept. 4, 1951; Virginia Sophia, Dec. 2, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Irving Popper, ’37.

occupation: Deputy US. Representative to International Organizations at
Geneva.

OFFICES HELD: Research associate and associate editor, Foreign Policy Asso-
ciation, Inc., 1934-42; director, Office of United Nations Political Affairs,
Department of State, 1954-55.

MEMBER OF: American Political Science Association; American Society for
International Law; American Academy of Political & Social Science;

[1310]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

American Foreign Service Association, Harvard Club of Washington.
pusLications: Numerous reports and other publications of the Foreign
Policy Association.

MY first career was, in a sense, in scholarship. I traveled in Fu-
rope during 1932-33 on a Shaw Fellowship; took a Master’s de-
gree in political science at Harvard in 1934; and then went to
work in the Washington Bureau of the Foreign Policy Associa-
tion, I was a shy and callow soul in the Washington jungle, but
it didn’t matter. The Association is a non-profit, educational
organization that in those days was pioneering in educational
work in the field of international relations. (Today it is solidly
established as an adult education agency.) It featured research,

so for two years in Washington and for six in New York I de-
scribed and analyzed developments in foreign affairs — especially

American foreign affairs —in the staid pages of Foreign Policy

Reports, the F.P.A, Bulletin, Headline Books and similar publi--
cations.

Several generations of college students pored over these pam-
phlets. They filled a gap between journalism and true scholarship;
they were as timely, objective and penetrating as we research
associates could make them in the shadow of looming deadlines.
I personally mourn their passing, though I recognize that they
have given way to other, more readable forms of current infor-
mational literature. Before that happened, I was editing, writing
as a free-lance, and speaking as an “expert” around the country,
to supplement my F.P.A. work and pay. Ona Rockefeller Foun-
dation Fellowship, I made a study tour around South America in
1941, hoping to add new strings to my bow. This venture was
cut short by Pearl Harbor, and by July, 1942, my private em-
ployment had ended — though I didn’t know it then.

There may have been less eventful Army careers than mine, but
there can’t have been many. With my poor eyes, I could only
gravitate from the Chemical Warfare Service to the Military In-
telligence Service. I never left the country, and I finished the war
as a captain in the inner reaches of the Pentagon, anonymous and
bored.

An offer to cross the Potomac to the State Department seemed
a Godsend. It was a new career, an exciting chance to do some-

[1311 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

thing after years of being a bystander. And with all the frustra-

tion and heartache of eleven years of bureaucracy, it has been

challenging and deeply satisfying. Heaven knows there’s no
money in it, and I'd call my progress solid and steady rather than
outstanding. I’ve been occupied almost entirely with problems
related to the United Nations — in the Department, with many
United States Delegations to the annual sessions of the U.N. Gen-
eral Assembly, and now here in Geneva. During 1955-56 I was
privileged to spend a year at the National War College, together
with Classmate Geoff Lewis and a fine group of military and
civilian personnel. Thereafter, | was converted from a Washing- |
ton bureaucrat to a Foreign Service Officer. So, in a way, a third
career seems in the offing. ;

My family life has been happy and fortunate. My children
came late, but they keep my wife and me young. We are just
through with the diaper days — we think — and we use the chil-
dren as excuses for our continued interest in tennis, skiing, squash,
swimming, baseball, et cetera. There’s been no time for the Great
American Games of golf and bridge, but as we slow down I’ve no
doubt we'll get to them.

What about convictions and beliefs? I have a full share. But as
an “objective” writer for the Foreign Policy Association and as
a civil servant, I could not parade them. So I’ve never been a
joiner —no political party, no “causes.” Being a perennial neu-
tral is a price you pay for a career in bureaucracy. Yet there are
things you strive for in this business. The national interest. Hu-
man freedom, as against tyranny — principally Communist.
Avoidance of general war and of particular wars. A better inter-
national society. Improved economic and social conditions. Jus-
tice.

A modest worker in the labyrinthine vineyard of the U.S. Gov-
ernment can’t do much about these things. But he can do some-
thing. He can help others to do something. I'd like to carry on
with the job for another twenty-five years.

[1312 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SAMUEL POWEL

HOME ADDRESS: 1214 National Ave., Rockford, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Burson Knitting Co., Rockford, IIL.

BoRN: Sept. 4, 1910, East Greenwich, R.I. parents: Samuel Powel, ’08, Elsa
Putnam.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: S.B., 1932.

MARRIED: Dorothea M. Seaver, Feb. 4, 1938, New Bedford, Mass. cutpren:
Samuel, Jr., Dec. 8, 1939; John Putnam, April 12, 1942; Robert Seaver,
Jan. 11, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Hare Powel, ’42.

occuPaTION: Manager, Burson plant of the Kendall Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Rockford Y.M.C.A., Rockford Water Power Com-

pany.

MEMBER OF: Rockford Country Club.

SINCE 1949 I have been with the Kendall Company, who pro-
duce various types of surgical goods and textiles. Recently, I
have been manager of their plant in Rockford; previous to that
I was head of the Walpole development department and worked
on a number of studies of management engineering type. Before
that I was general manager of the Utica Willowvale Bleaching
Company, up in New York State, for three years, coming from
a half year in New York as a salesman for the Lonsdale Com-
pany, another textile firm.

I spent two and one-half years in the Navy, as executive and
skipper of a sub chaser, and as executive on a destroyer escort.
Before that I was with the Lonsdale Company in Rhode Island,
for four years as superintendent of one of their plants, previous
to that doing a variety of things. Right after college, I spent a
year and a half as a salesman handling Johns-Manville home in-
sulation products. So much for what brought in the groceries.

Since my work has taken me around the country somewhat,
I have less “moss” than “roots,” but my wife and I have found
that each community we became a part of in turn gave something
to us, so we are all the richer for our roving. Against the possi-
bility that the retirement committee catches up with me before
the Old Man with Scythe, I’ve kept a farm in Massachusetts for
growing onions later on.

[ 1313 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

WILLIAM WATERS QUAY

HOME ADDRESS: 2135 Riverside Ave., Jacksonville 4, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Quay Industries, 2135 Riverside Ave., Jacksonville, Fla.

BORN: Aug. 25, 1907, Southampton, Long Island, N.Y. parents: Richard
Roberts Quay, Elizabeth Flemming Waters.

PREPARED AT: The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

MARRIED: Nellilewis Winger, May 12, 1938, Washington, D.C. (divorced
1955). CHILDREN: William Waters, Jr, Oct. 13, 1943; Edward Lewis,
Oct. 28, 1947; Judy Winger, June 7, 1951.

occupaTIoN: Owner-manager, Quay Industries, manufacturing and sale of
wire rope splicing machines and accessories.

MEMBER OF: U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings; Forty-Plus Club of Washing-
ton.

ASIDE from the war years covered in the Fifteenth Anniversary
Report, pages 303 and 304, I have been engaged in manufacturers’
representative work and running my own business. ‘This has
been a long tough battle — far rougher than the war years. Mi-
raculously, a way does seem to open up if one’s faith is sustained
by the will to seek out and try to understand spiritual values.
This often means the willingness to make radical changes and
readjustments—the move to Florida, where in my type of
work the conditions are infinitely more favorable.

ALLEN DAVID RIEMER

HOME ADDRESS: 409 Oneida St., Denver, Colo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1809 E. 18th Ave., Denver, Colo.

BorN: April 6, 1910, Manchester, England, parents: John Riemer, Anne
Fisher.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1932; M.D. (Johns
Hopkins Medical School), 1936.

Marriep: Reda Berger, Oct. 25, 1942, Denver, Colo. crip: Harold Elliot,
Nov. 24, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Physician, specializing in internal medicine.

OFFices HELD: Formerly, Public Health Officer and medical chief of Civilian
Defense, Suburb of Edgewater; Selective Service Physician; medical
director, Denver Chest Clinic, member executive board, trustee and
chief of medical affairs, Denver Tuberculosis Society; member execu-
tive board and chief, Dept. of Internal Medicine, St. Anthony Hos-

[1314]

ANNIVERSARY REPORT
. Currently, assistant clinical professor of medicine, University of
chool of Medicine; chief, pear Station and Electrocardi-
nthony Ho. tals m nedical ¢ suite ant, Denver anatoriurns
ay Postpradua teach

© General

a

ony Homvital,

link,
to ortial H
eR OF: Rocky Mountain Harvard Club, ae dic al Adv visory Board.
m olorado Fi ety amen an Med
C ern

ation; Colorado Society o ine; “Ameri can
ideau Society; america n College of “Che st t Physi cians; “a
zt Association; American College of Physicians, American Bo ara | of
‘cine

ws: Periodic publications on disorders of ee art a ne tn nes |
cent ee “The mee of a ci

ROBERT SAUDEK

g Northern Ave., Bronxville, N.Y.
The Ford Foundation, 477 Madison Ave. New York 22,

11, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Victor Saudek, Fedora Woltt.
dy High School, Pittsburgh, Pa.
928-1032. DEGREE: A.B., 1932.
Koch, Nov. 2, 1935, Warwick, RI. cipres: Richatd

1, 1939; Christopher Dyer, Oct. 8 1941, Robert Khor,
ry Elizabeth, Jan. 7, 1948; Stephen Low, June 4, 195};

of TV-Radio Workshop of The Ford Foundation,
Ibus,”
sident, American Broadcasting Company, w93j-§\\
Workshop of Ford Foundation, since 1951, executive
,” since 1952; member, 1950-56, prestdent, wy
Bronxville, N.Y; president, Radio and Tels
AW York City, 1951,

of New Yorks Bronxville Mold Chul, Wowrhtors

Club,

hat comsed throvel ou wt nibs ont

1 a, 1 eet fal hat ans ve aed
ito ney ptt m ‘i i I th, \ AN, \

it Well tow v's ue in \

Ht th a hn 7

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

as they draw their black shrouds closer to keep out the chill of

our wake. Now, at length, we are the Class of 1907 — the spectre

at the wedding. Here is the autobiography of one spectre.

After nearly a quarter-century I have lately been involved in
Harvard matters in an altogether enjoyable way. “Omnibus,” the
television program with which I am associated invited the uni-
versity to be the star of a go-minute presentation about the state
of higher education in the mid-century, and Mr. Pusey placed
the resources of Harvard at our disposal for planning, research
and production. Few graduates— probably few faculty mem-
bers—have had the rewarding experience of roaming freely
through the College and the graduate schools, and of inquiring
into the teaching, learning, training and administering of. this
institution. It was a large undertaking, for both content and
technique, which taxed the “Omnibus” staff’s imagination and
ingenuity — not to say budget. Recent interest in reunion plans
and some activity in the Program for Harvard College probably
stem from last year’s rendezvous.

Twenty-five years ago I began writing and editing at KDKA,
the Pittsburgh radio station. Three years later I was married
and began law school at night. Three years after that I left Pitts-
burgh and the study of law for New York and NBC. The first
man-child was born on New Year’s Eve, 1939. The second, in
1941. The third, in 1944 while I was in London for the O.W.I.
After the war I returned to the American Broadcasting Company
as a vice-president, then in charge of public affairs. This re-
opened program activities which I have always liked beyond any
other aspect of broadcasting, and resulted in a series of radio
documentaries on Communism, venereal disease, the Berlin Air-
lift, slums and such topics which took over my work until 1951.
Spare time was devoted to siring our first and only daughter.
When the Ford Foundation was instituted in 1951 I went there
to organize its TV-Radio Workshop and later began “Omnibus,”
a weekly go-minute television program which has now completed
five years on the air, with 128 programs — by all odds, the most
enjoyable work so far. After hours I have served two terms on
the Bronxville Board of Education, and was president of the
Radio Executives’ Club of New York. Child No. 5, yet another
male, made his entrance in 1953.

[1316 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The rest must be unrelated impressions of the last quarter-
century: we have spent summers on the Maine coast for the
past decade or so, where the three eldest boys have become com-
petent sailors, and have even taught this lazy landlubber how to
manage tiller and mainsheet without undue anxiety. I have
crossed paths with certain classmates: Jim Agee who wrote a
remarkable series of films about Abraham Lincoln’s boyhood for
“Omnibus,” and whose close friendship has been an important
part of my life, even since his death two years ago. Barry Wood
became much more than a name to me in the course of the Har-
vard program we did, and we have maintained some contact
since then. The recent reunion committee has brought me into
nostalgic meetings with still others. Phil Cohen was in London
with me during the war. Luther Conant rides the Madison Ave-
nue bus. Eliot Noyes has appeared on “Omnibus” several times
(once, playing with blocks. His youthful face resulted in type-
casting ). |

My sons and daughter are all in school (nursery to high) in
Bronxville and participating in varsity football and baseball,
music, student government, Brownies, homework and finger-
painting. My wife is active in the Wellesley Club of Westchester.
In rearing the brood, gardening, adult courses at Sarah Lawrence
College, the board of the Jennie Clarkson Home, the United
Negro College Fund drives and the League of Women Voters.

This year I am taking the “Omnibus” staff into a new company
devoted to the production of television programs. It is my in-
tention to grow enormously rich. For a progress report, watch
for the 1982 edition of this publication.

FRANKLIN ELIJAH SPEAR

HOME ADDRESS: 637 Chestnut Ave., Towson, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 4810 Roland Ave., Baltimore, Md.

BorN: Feb, 28, 1909, Lisbon, N.H. parents: Franklin Elijah Spear, Maude
Wilmarth Gibson.

PREPARED AT: Tilton Academy, Tilton, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1929.

MarRRiED: Sara Virginia Lewis, 1932, Canaan, N.H. crip: Sandra Ol

[1317]

dhany,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932
April 8 1936 (mm. C, Machen Stoppa), cranpcuitp: Dianna Lin Stoppa,
Feb. 2, 1955.

occupation: Real Estate; Roland Park Realry Company.

MEMBER OF: Reciprocity Club of Towson; Baltimore Country Club.

TWENTY-FIVE years—one wife—one daughter — one
granddaughter. Protestant — Republican — an average suburb-
anite.

Spent five years in Washington, D.C., with Atlantic & Pacific
Tea Company — then went into wholesale produce and poultry
activities in Baltimore, where I remained for fifteen years. A heart
attack in my early forties warned me to slow down. Am now in
residential and commercial real estate and thoroughly enjoying
it. If you come to Baltimore be sure and visit Cambria — granted
in 1702 and now developed as Maryland’s most exclusive resi-
dential area.

Spent a year at Purdue University after Harvard and then
transferred to Johns Hopkins in Baltimore. Operated an insur-
ance agency in New Hampshire, which is still ran by my brother.

My hobbies have been fishing and big game hunting — both
of which have been greatly neglected in recent years. Like so
many of us— The Man in the Grey Flannel Suit has typed us as
a generation. I’m still Yankee enough to feel that we have all
been making a mistake to fall into so easy a pattern. The inde-
pendence and initiative of past generations is often so sadly lack-
ing today. I believe that before us — the next ten years — lie the
Most prosperous and exciting years that Americans have seen in
several generations, we stand on the brink of as great a transi-
tion as occurred between 1890 and 1920 and yet most of us can’t
see the forest for the trees. Let’s wait and see how right I am.
The year 1965 isn’t far away.

My best to all my friends of long ago in Gore Hall.

HENRY EVANS STOWELL

HOME appress: 41 Ruth Ave. Agawam, Mass.
orice appress: P.O. Box 581, 100 Chestnut St., Springfield, Mass,

porn: Feb, 26, 1910, New York, N.Y. parents: Henry Whitney Stowell, "99,
Anita Evans Tebbetts.

[ 1318 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED A tf: Hillhouse High School, New tay n, Conn

IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREE: A.B., 1

fARRIED: Susan Clark, March 23, 1935, Bro olline , Mass. cnirpren: Whim
ark, Aug. 4, 1940 (died May 16, 1950); ‘Sally, Feb. 19483 Janes
6, 8

iy 16, 1948.
UPATION: Sales repre obber, advertising specialties.
4BER OF: Elm Lo odge, ee Fe cAM > West Sprin gfield; Advertising Club
of an Connecticut V; ley Harvard Cl ub.

RED in shadow veh mes bowl bes caped the a
Jaws of old Ei nd fled in the a of John Hares.
mg Breau n I wen t to

'd, leaving in 1933 | n the el y Oo in a sevice vas Compa ny

-e station instruct ring the New England di strict,

salesman and service station supervisor. In 1935, while

tioned in Manchester, New Hampshire, the full conse-

fa wrong telephone number became apparent when,

23d, I married Susan Clark of Brookline, whom 1 had

‘my sophomore year as the result of her calling a

hone number and my answering the entry phone out:

28. I would substitute “re-arranged” for “wrong.”

‘floods of 1937, while I was listening to the great

rvice rendered by amateur radio, a "long- standing
re-awakened and I obtained my amatent radio

se, In late 1937 we were transferred to Notth
lusetts, making our home in Willamstown and
nsferred to Springfield, Massachusetts, living \n
uring the emergency following the hurricane
ved wide-spread recognition for outstanding
ling of communications through out anatent
go I left the Texas Company to enter the
ith the Aetna Lite Insurance Comprny. On

€ were blessed with the birth of ore sw

efense work at Westinghouse, welts, \n
ed leutenant (\0,), USNR, coragletn
Three” when sent for rndoetcinion W

ind a an steer inthe Sanna
ed i the sae ‘ hy the Ma

'

I | fl I Potton voted to Lull Wendewa at

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

transferred to Port Hueneme, California, thence to Matsuyama,
Japan, in late 1945, as assistant port director, experiencing the dis-
astrous Okinawa typhoon en route. The few months I was in Japan
gave me an unusual opportunity to study the Japanese people as
we were the control port for Japanese shipping in the Inland Sea
and worked directly with the Japanese daily. I was very much
impressed with their energy and self-reliance. In early 1946 I
was released to inactive duty after returning home to West
Springfield, Massachusetts, in time for the birth of our daughter
Sally on February 1oth.

Instead of returning to the insurance business I seized upon
what appeared to be a golden opportunity in industrial sales work
covering the Northeast. Unfortunately, circumstances, including
the bankruptcy of a firm I represented exclusively, brought an
end to this activity and J entered the advertising specialty business
in 1948 as a factory representative, later expanding to conduct
my own business in this field.

During our residence in West Springfield I became very active
in Boy Scout and town affairs, serving some six years on various
committees primarily concerned with elementary school con-
struction. On May 16, 1948, our second daughter, Jane, was
born. That fall my wife was stricken with polio. Fortunately,
she made a full recovery, but on May 18, 1950, the Lord was in
such great need of a good boy He took our son, Whitney, from
us at the age of ten, the courageous victim of brain tumor.
Buoyed in the knowledge of Whit’s courage and with Sally and
Jane as mainstays, we progressed through the following few years
with no important changes. In 1954 we purchased our present
home in Agawam, Massachusetts.

Although not now active in amateur radio, for the past year
I have been doing considerable spare time work on the technical
side of commercial radio at a local broadcast station. I am basi-
cally Republican while decrying party labels at the local level,

and Protestant (Congregational) while feeling they are behind

the times. Conservative and old-fashioned, but young in heart,
with the body still keeping up the pace.

[ 1320 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT HENDERSON WATSON, JR.

HOME ADDRESS: 1266 Grayton Rd., Grosse Pointe Park 30, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Love, Snyder & Lewis, 1840 National Bank Bldg., Detroit 26,
Mich.

orN: April 19, 1910, Steubenville, Ohio. Parents: Robert Henderson Wat-
son, ’o1, Mary Sherrard Hill.
-EPARED AT: Detroit University School, Grosse Pointe, Mich.
ARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1932. DEGREES: A.B., 1932; LL.B. (Univ. of Michigan),
1936.
MLARRIED.
UPATION: Lawyer.

ces HELD: Member board of governors, Detroit Chapter, member board
of managers, Michigan Society, Sons of the American Revolution,
reasurer, Detroit Rowing Club; past president, secretary for several
rears, Harvard Club of Eastern Michigan.

sER OF: Michigan Society and Detroit Chapter, Sons of the American
evolution; Detroit Rowing Club; Delta Theta Phi Law Fraternity,
etroit Society for Genealogical Research; Grosse Pointe Community
iorus; Harvard Varsity Club; Harvard Club of Eastern Michigan,
rristers; State Bar of Michigan; Detroit Bar Association.

‘ERED the University of Detroit Law School in the fall
;, and after two years transferred to the Univ ersity of
in Law School at Ann Arbor, Michigan, where I receiv ed
degree in 1936. I took the Bar examination in the fall
formally admitted to practice in Michigan on Novem-
936. I was first associated with the firm of Vandeveer
veer, and in October, 1937, I entered the office of Fred
with whom I practised until 1942.

lication for a commission was rejected in March, 1943,
which I volunteered for the draft, from’ which | was
4-F because of defective vision, and thereafter simi-
ed at six months’ intervals until the draft board got

cessing me. In April, 1942, I joined the legal staff of
Office of Price Administration, although 1 do not

actually on the payroll until May of 1942. I spent
opening up offices in this region and acting as lel
> permanent staff could be appointed. My last jab
chief price attorney in the Grand Rapids district
Office of Price Administration, although during

rvice I was an enforcement ; attorney, Follow in

[ 1321 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1932

my O.P.A. service, I joined the legal staff of Fisher Body Divi-
sion of General Motors Corporation briefly, to work on war
contracts, and then returned to private practice. I practised law

independently until 1953 and since then have been associated
with the firm of Love, Snyder & Lewis.

After I returned to Detroit from law school, I continued my
interest in crew; I coxed in club competition at the Detroit Boat
Club on Belle Isle in 1937, 1938 and 1939. Our season ended
each year with the Canadian Henleys at St. Catherines, Ontario.
I coxed the 140-pound crew which won the Junior Champion-
ship in the 1939 Henleys at a time when I weighed very little
Jess than the bow. I no longer row or cox, but continue to act as
treasurer of the Detroit Rowing Club, which sponsors high school
rowing. My interest in boxing is purely as a spectator.

I was formerly active in Republican party work at the door-
bell ringing stage. I now devote my time to the Detroit Chapter
and Michigan Society of the Sons of the American Revolution,
which seems to give expression to my conservative tastes and
opinions. My enjoyment of music grows, and I sing tenor with
the Grosse Pointe Community Chorus.

I have never married, and maintain a home with my mother,
although I am rarely at home except to sleep. Like the rest of
us, I spend too much time at the office, and the matter of re-
maining a bachelor requires a lot of evenings. I notice that I
spend more time in the summer in the garden learning how my
mother grows roses, so I suppose that will be more of an interest
in the future.

I became secretary of the Harvard Club of Michigan when I
returned to Detroit from law school, and held that post until the
war, at which time I moved up to vice-president and president.
The club is now known as the Harvard Club of Eastern Michigan,
and I find that 1 am one of the older alumni,

[1322]

In Memoriam

* Indicates deaths reported since 1947

Myron Raymond Adams
*James Rufus Agee

Owen Appleton

Harry Eli Barron

Brooks Bartlett
‘John Stark Bellamy
Peter Nielsen Braroe
Lewis Clement Briggs, 3d
Arthur Graham Brinnick
avid Brooks
Alfred Lowrey Castle, Jr.
seorge Burton Christensen
‘ranz Ferdinand Colloredo-

Mansfeld

Villiam Gordon Coogan, Jr.
yhn Phister Cowin
obert Hugh Domesek
hn Edmiston
ginald Fincke, Jr.
irdoch John Finlayson
rl Thomas Floathe
ry Francis F lynn
1es F arquharson Foster
n Tebbets Foster
uislas Pascal Franchot
es Harvey Gaul
ion Gomez-Sierra
‘rt Richard Goodman
“ge F rederick Hamman
an Hayward, Jr.
am Ralph Herzog
ge Hopkinson

Guild Howe
Howland

*Walter Jacobs

*Elwood Livy Johnson
Richard Berthelot Lemann

*Robert Pritchard Lett
Fredric Lewis

Maurice Fred Loewenstein

*John Moulton Lovejoy
Patrick Henry McCarthy
George Amory Maddox, Jr.
*Russell Maloney

*Arthur Livingston Mason

*Edmund Austin Mays, Jr.
Boris Vasil Nagashev
George Henry Nawn
*Henry James Nichols
Potter Palmer, 3d
Ellsworth Kenneth Pierce
Wallace Keating Pinfold

Robert Perkins Post

_* David Louis Roach

*Frederick William Russe, Jr.

Russell Peabody Satterthwaite
*Sumner Everett Shikes
*Edwin Dexter Wadsworth

| Sprague

*Samuel Clarence Steele, Jr.
*John Berry Swezey

Edward Thaw

Nicholas Jarrot Tiffany

Robert Lawrence Tracy

Frank Watt, 2d

Stafford Manchester Wheeler
“James Joseph Wilkie

[ 1323 ]

