Sg tmmemmae

earn ee eer ion Pane E Pee ene : — aa
Hf EPTFE IPAL LL SEE 2 eres sz: a ; aes moms :

fapesgs jo sisisisieezssre FLEE TEATLALTIE EL Ta EF
sa/ecersvesscar. ieee ie di iiesmnii dee ; si aie

—~ ===

ee

ARVARD CLASS

OF 1934
enty-fifth Anniversary Report

 

CAMBRIDGE
Printed for the Class
IQ 59

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1934

Records of the Class

ERNEST GEORGE ABDALAH

 

HOME ADpRESS: % Mrs. George Abdalah, 35 Heron St., West Roxbury, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hq., 17th Air Force, APO 231, New York, N.Y.

BORN: Aug. 13, 1911, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: George Abdalah, Nazirah Haboush.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MarRIED: Lillian Aboumrad, Oct. 26, 1941, Worcester, Mass. CHILDREN: Richard
Keith, April ro, 1948; Sharon Diane, March 17, 1949; Barbara Kathleen,
Nov. 19, 1950. .

OccUPATION: Colonel, U.S. Air Force.

I SUPPOSE there is something to the proposition that my course in
military science in the early ’30s landed me here at Wheelus Air
Base, Tripoli, Libya, North Africa, in the late ’ 50S. At any rate,
here I am and in the service I’ve been these last nineteen years, I
have been with the Air Force, and for the last twelve years more
particularly identified with the Judge Advocate General's Depart-
ment. I’m mighty proud of our Air Force, have enjoyed my assign-
ments and have never regretted an earlier decision to remain with
the military forces on a career basis. The military justice, legal as-
sistance and, to a lesser extent, the military affairs matters in which
I have been continuously engaged may largely be described as

[1]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

human affairs problems of great interest, opportunity and challenge.
Moreover, shifting life in the Air Force has taken me over most of
the U.S.A., and to many countries. Within the last four months,
for example, I've traveled in Morocco, Libya, France, Germany,
Italy, Greece, Turkey, the Azores and Bermuda.

After a late start we have been blessed with three children, each
about one year apart, starting with the first born in Bermuda, the
second in Montana and the third in New York. Of ancient Arabic
stock they are irrepressible, irresistible and mischievous, thereby pro-
viding for never a dull moment, Our duty stations these last six
years have been in moderate climes so we’ve had our share of fish-
ing, swimming, horseback riding, and I keep trying my hand at
that miserable, loveable game, golf. Right now we’re hula-hooping
it round and round! So— we're not getting rich but we’re having
a helluva lot of fun.

Best wishes and a fine happy Reunion to you all. ’'m gonna make

one yet!

ARTHUR LAWRENCE ABRAMS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 132 Eliot St., Brookline, Mass.

OFFiceE appress: Beth Israel Hospital, 330 Brookline Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

BorN: March 15, 1911, Dorchester, Mass. parents: Myer Abrams, Rebecca
Kaufman.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1934; M.D. 1938.

MARRIED: Jacqueline Jane Shiffer, June 16, 1940, Quincy, Mass, cHiLpren: Alan
Victor, June 15, 1942; Paula Lee, April 18, 1948.

occuPATION: Physician; anesthesiologist.

OFFICES HELD: Associate in anesthesia, Beth Israel Hospital; instructor in anes-
thesia, Harvard Medical School, since 1950.

MEMBER oF: Massachusetts Medical Society; Norfolk County Medical Society;

[2]

2§$TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

American Medical Association; American Society of Anesthesiologists,
Massachusetts Society of Anesthesiologists, American Board of Anes-
thesiology.

AFTER graduation, I completed at the Medical School the pre-
medical work I started in college. The four years spent there were
profitable, not only educationally, but also for family reasons, be-
cause it was as a medical student that I met the nurse who was
later to become my wife.

Choice of a medical career meant many years of training after
completion of formal schooling. This training was started in June,
1938, when I became a surgical intern at the Beth Israel Hospital in
Boston. After completion of a two-year internship, I served a third
year there as assistant resident in surgery. I continued my surgical
training as resident in cancer surgery at the Westfield (Mass.) State
Hospital. It was while I was at Westfield that the United States
entered the Second World War, and it was from there that, in
September, 1942, I joined the Army.

My army career separated me from my work and my family for
the next three years. The first year was spent traveling from post
to post in the United States, thirteen stations in twelve months.
November of 1943 saw me landing in Australia and shortly there-
after, I was in New Guinea and,-with the advance of our forces,
in the Dutch East Indies. During all this time, both at home and
abroad, I worked in a dispensary, giving out pills and sending pa-
tients to hospitals where my more fortunate colleagues were able to
practise their medical and surgical skills curing my patients. Toward
the end of 1944, I acquired a disease very common to our troops
then in the tropics — namely * ‘jungle rot.” After several months of
unsuccessful treatment in the field, I was returned to the United
States early in 1945. . |

My army career not only separated me from surgical work dur-
ing my service years, but it also forced me to leave surgery as a
field of specialization. The skin disease I had acquired affected
mainly my hands, it was very stubborn and chronic. It was only
after several months of treatment at the Walter Reed Hospital that
it finally cleared up and I was advised, at that time, not to scrub
(surgically) my hands for at least two years, lest the soap and the
rubber gloves cause an exacerbation of the skin disease.

Therefore, after discharge from the Army in February of 1946,
I started my training all over again. This time I chose the specialty
of anesthesiology which had increased so in importance in the pre-

[3]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ceding ten years. I spent my residency in this field at the New York
Postgraduate Medical School and Hospital, now the University Hos-
ital. .
P The time spent in New York City was a happy one for many
reasons. First, it reunited me with my family which now consisted
of a wife, whom I married in 1940, and a son, born in 1942, who
was three months old when I left home and over three years old
when I returned. Secondly, both my wife and I enjoyed, as far as
our meagre resources allowed, the wonderful opportunities offered
by New York City. Finally, the professional atmosphere was of
the highest quality, something I had sorely missed while in service.
Having left college in 1934, I was finally ready to face the world
and earn my living, so to speak, by the end of 1949. During many
of these years, the loyalty of my wife, her willingness to share
hardships and the lack of ordinary comforts and all luxuries, were
of inestimable help. I returned to my native city, Boston, to enter
the practice of anesthesiology by becoming an attending anesthe-
siologist on the staff of the Beth Israel Hospital. I have remained
there to the present time and I have been content in my chosen
field, my hospital and in its affiliation with the Medical School. The
return to Boston meant also a more normal family life. We have
finally settled in a modest home in Brookline. In April, 1948, a
second child, a daughter, was born. My son Alan is now sixteen
years old and is a senior at Brookline High School. Just recently
he had his interview at Harvard, where he hopes to matriculate next
year, My daughter Paula is now ten and one-half years of age and
her interests are those of her age; her only unusual talent is that of
playing the harp, the study of which she started over two years ago.
Having looked forward, all through the war, to settling down and
“staying put,” I, along with my wife, now look forward to spending
vacations in travel. We started two years ago with a trip to the
West Indies. Last spring we were able to see many interesting spots
of Europe and Africa, on a Mediterranean cruise. This winter we
hope and plan to go to Mexico. Our fondest ambition is to go to
Isracl to see some of the miracles being accomplished there. We
trust that, following the Reunion and following the completion of
the payment of our pledges both to the Program for Harvard Col-
lege and to the Program for the Harvard Medical Center, it will
not be too many years before our exchequer is sufficiently re-
plenished for us to satisfy this ambition.

[4]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEYER HOWARD ABRAMS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 512 Highland Rd., Ithaca, N-Y-

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cornell University, 171 Goldwin Smith Hall, Ithaca, N.Y.

BORN: July 23, 1912, Long Branch, N.J. parents: Joseph Abrams, Sarah Shanes.

PREPARED AT: Long Branch High School, Long Branch, N_J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 1934; AM. 19373

. PH.D., 1940.
MARRIED: Ruth Gaynes, Sept. 1, 1937, New York, N.Y. cupren: Jane, May 24,
1945; Judith, May 19, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Jerome LeRoy Abrams, ’39, LL.B., "42.

OccUPATION: Professor of English, Cornell University.

OFFICES HELD: Editor (Nineteenth-Century Poetry), Pertodical of the Modern
Language Association, 1957-58, member, Supervising Committee, English
Institute, since 1957, Editorial Committee, Cornell Studies in English and
Cornell Concordances.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association; Phi Beta Kappa; English Institute;
American Association of University Professors, Sigma X1, The Johnsonians.

PUBLICATIONS: The Milk of Paradise, Harvard University Press, 1934, The
Mirror and the Lamp: Romantic Theory and the Critical Tradition, Oxford
Press, 1953, reprint, W. W. Norton, 1958; A Glossary of Literary Terms,
1957; editor, The Poetry of Pope, 1954, Literature and Belief, 1958.

C5]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

S. ERNEST ACH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 243 S. Bedford Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sutro & Co., P.O. Box 5360, Los Angeles 55, Calif.

BorN: April 21, 1912, Cincinnati, Ohio. PARENTs: Laurence R. Ach, ’06, Helen
Kramer.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930~1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; M.B.A., 1936.

marRieD: Frances Isaacs, June 23, 1936, Cincinnati, Ohio. cuitpReEN: Margaret,
Oct. 22, 1937; James, July 15, 19405 Laurence, July 27, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Louis Kramer Ach, ’ 39-

ccoupation: Securities analyse and statistician, Sutro & Company, New York
Stock Exchange firm. a

OFFICES HELD: Past treasurer and member board of governors, Los Angeles

. Society of Security Analysis; elected member, Board of Education, Beverly

Hills, 1957 (four-year r term); neighborhood commissioner, Cubmaster, Pack

100, 1950-51, Scoutmaster, Troop roc, 1951-54, Boy Scouts of America.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Business School Club of Southern California, Los Angeles
| Society of Security Analy sts.

FOLLOWING graduation from Harvard Business School i in 1936,
I served a six-year apprenticeship with a small securities firm in
Cleveland, followed by three and one-half years’ service at the hands
of our mutual Uncle, ending up the AAF’s best rank, M/Set. Being
separated from the service at the Santa Ana AAB left me in the
section of the United States my wife and I had always desired to
inhabit. After a “trial” period of some twelve years, I’m firmly
convinced that anyone who lives east of Pasadena has holes in his
head. My productive activities are largely tied up with the research
department of Sutro & Company, a west coast member of the New
York Stock Exchange, where I’m still trying to adjust my sleeping
habits to the fact that we open on New York time (7 A.m.) but
close on western time. .

[6]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My work with Cubbing and Scouting groups led to my election
to the local board of education in 1957, which seems to take up most
of the rest of my waking hours. One of the various rewards of this
time-consuming activity was the opportunity to give my own son
his diploma at last summer’s high school graduation. He’s currently
a freshman at Pomona College, my daughter is a senior at the same
institution and plans to go on to teaching career next year. My

youngest child (age eleven) is still too involved in stamp collecting,
football and scouting to worry about such things as yet.

EDWARD AUGUSTUS ACKERMAN

 

JOME ADDRESS: 2920 44th Pl., N.W., Washington 16, D.C.
FFICE ADDRESS: Carnegie Institution of Washington, 1530 P St. N.W., Wash-
ington 5, D.C.

orn: Dec. 5, 1911, Post Falls, Idaho. parents: August A. Ackerman, Augusta
Anderson.

REPARED AT: Coeur d’Alene High School, Coeur d’Alene, Idaho; Lewis and
Clark High School, Spokane, Wash.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., Summa cum laude, 1934; A.M. 1936;
PH.D. 1939.

ARRIED: Adrienne Desjardins, Sept. 24, 1949, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Helen
Augusta, June 21, 1950; Francis Edward, Dec. 2, 1951; Julia Hardy, Sept.
17, 1953; Justin Kemp, Dec. 17, 1955.

CUPATION: Deputy executive officer, Carnegie Institution of Washington
(privately endowed scientific research organization).

“ICES HELD: Instructor, tutor, assistant professor of geography, Harvard Uni-
versity, 1939-48; professor of geography, University of Chicago, 1948-35;
assistant chief, Europe-Africa Division and chief, Geographic Reports
Section, U.S. Office of Strategic Services, 1941-43; technical adviser,
Natural Resources Section, General Headquarters Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers, Japan, 1946-49; chairman, Committee on River Pro-
gram Analysis, President's Water Resources Policy Commission, 1950-51;

[7]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

chief, Resources and Civil Works Branch, U.S. Bureau of the Budget,
1951-52; assistant general manager, Tennessee Valley Authority, 1952-54;
director, Water Resources Program, Resources for the Future, Inc. (Ford
Foundation affiliate), 1954-58; consultant, Department of the Interior,
Department of the Army, Department of State, Bureau of the Budget and
other federal agencies.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Sigma Xi; Cosmos Club (Washington).

pusLications: New England’s Fishing Industry, 1942; Ten Rivers in America’s
Future, 1951; American Resources, New York, 1951; Japan’s Natural Re-
sources, Chicago, 1953; Technology in American Water Development,
Baltimore, 1959.

I HAVE been fortunate in having a satisfying variety of professional
and personal experiences since I completed my training in geography
at Harvard in 1939. My first intention was to pursue a career of
university teaching and research, specializing in the study of re-
source management. I had only started when the Second World
War came. Even before Pearl Harbor geographers were in demand
for intelligence work, so I joined the Office of the Coordinator of
Information in September, 1941. It later was reorganized into the
Office of Strategic Services. In it I held my first positions in the ad-
ministration of research, and designed and supervised the production
of strategic intelligence studies. In 1943, I returned to Harvard as
an instructor in the School for Overseas Administration, specializing
on the Far East, and undertaking some research on oriental resource
management and technology. The School was charged with train-
ing military government officers for both the European and Far
Eastern areas.

The work at Harvard led to a call to participate in the tasks of
the postwar military occupation of Japan. In my position as tech-
nical adviser to the Natural Resources Section of General Mac-
Arthur’s Special Staff, I assisted in reorganizing Japanese economic
planning and administration of resource management. While still in
Japan, I accepted a professorship of geography at the University of
Chicago, where I remained on the faculty until 1955.

Partly because of my wartime experience, I decided at this time
that an academic career might be most meaningful if it could be
supplemented by the practical experience of public service within
the limits of my specialty. For this reason, my period of service
with the Chicago faculty was also at intervals a period of service
with federal government agencies. I first worked with the Presi-
dent’s Water Resources Policy Commission, then with the Bureau
of the Budget, and finally with the Tennessee Valley Authority. In

[8 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

each I was concerned with problems of organization and planning
in resource management, and the relations of technology thereto.
In 1954 I was given an interesting opportunity to work with a private
research organization, Resources for the Future, Inc., in these same
fields. From there it was a short step to my present position as
deputy executive officer of the Carnegie Institution, where I find
the outlook ideally suited to my temperament and interests.
During the period since graduation I have managed to travel ex-
tensively in Europe and the Far East, which I consider to be an
educational experience of the first importance. I have taken a certain
pleasure in professional writing and have tried to record my thoughts
and observations in published books or articles when I had ‘something
to say. My greatest pleasure in the years since 1949 has been my
family. Throughout a period of change we have been fortunate in
having a stable family life. To a general interest in higher educa-
tion I have now added a particular interest in the education of my
two sons and two daughters. I find the two interests very different!

SAMUEL LEON ALBERT

 

HOME appREss: 85 Montvale Rd., Newton Center, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 40 Central St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 13, 1911, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Morris Benjamin Albert, Sarah HH.
Epstein.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Afass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Phyllis M. Friedman, May 31, 1938, Boston, Mass. cHipren: James
D., Nov. 15, 1939; David M., April 22, 19y2; Richard EF. Feb. 2q raya
Bernard E., Sept. 6, 1945; Alan P., Nov. 30, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Albert, ’26,

[9]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

occuPaATION: General agent, sales manager, Washington National Insurance
Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, Kappa Nu Fraternity, 1933, Supervisors’ Club of Boston,
1952-53, Newton Squash & Tennis Club, 1958.

MEMBER OF: Boston Chapter, Chartered Life Underwriters; General Agents and
Life Managers Association; Boston Life Insurance and Trust Council;
Poetry Society of America; New England Poetry Society; Boston Uni-
versity Faculty (teacher).

PUBLICATIONS: New Poems by American Poets, No. 2, anthology edited by
Rolfe Humphries. .-

THE thing to do is to put a hound dog on my trail since graduation;
and have him sniff at my footsteps sometimes in the sand, sometimes
in the snow, and follow me wherever. I don’t think he’d get too
weary in his pursuit or search, for far I did not travel.

Mostly I have lived in Boston and suburbs, building a business
in insurance and a family of five sons. My wife Phyllis and I are
very happy about this, and if we could do it all over again, I wish
we could.

Mainly, however, this hound dog might have some little trouble
in following another kind of trail I have left — am leaving. I don’t
suppose he could tell too much about what I am thinking or feeling
—norcanl. But u nereastngly t the way is not too clear although the
tirne left is dis tinetly Jess. ae

Some things Farm sure of, though.

hfusic i heard with you was mere than music,

aa bre2d T broke with you was more than bread.
Words, moments and people piove ray é aistence, Bey ond that there
is no point, — |

It is then pechaps amazing ther t this Ro and dog should stay with
me at all. The chase I thrilits may n net be his kind; for his is active,
sweet and “ appa assionata,” and mine may be somewhat of the spirit
(perhaps I should fellow him). |

And now I think Til bless my father and mother; and be thankful
indeed for some guideposts along the way — my school, my wife,
my children, and this good land of ours, called U.S.A.

[10]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

NELSON WILMARTH ALDRICH

  

HOME AppRESS: Peach’s Point, Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Campbell & Aldrich, Architects, 37 Newbury St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: April 6, 1911, New York, N.Y. Parents: William Truman Aldrich,
Dorothea Davenport.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, RI.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934; M-ARCH., 1938; L.H.D. (Tufts
Univ.), 1956.

MARRIED: Eleanor Tweed, June 15, 1934, South Natick, Mass.; Frances Turner,
Nov. 9, 1940, Hampton, N.H. cuitpren: Nelson Wilmarth, Jr, April rt.
1935; Frances Dorothea, Aug. 12, 1942; Abigail, May 23, 1944; Rosalie C.,
Jan. 9, 1950.

HARVARD SON: Nelson Wilmarth Aldrich, Jr., ’57.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Davenport Aldrich, '39, LL.B. *42.

occupation: Architect, partner in firm, Campbell and Aldrich.

OFFICES HELD: President, board of trustees, Institute of Contemporary Arz,
since 1947; chairman of board, since 1952, co-founder, Boston Arts Fes-
tival,; incorporator, Massachusetts Memorial Hospitals, since tos1, Rox-
bury Institution for Savings, since 1955; member, examining committee,
Boston Public Library, 1954; trustee, Boston Museum of Fine Arts, since
1954, Rhode Island School of Design, since 1955, Radcliffe College, since
1957; member, 1954, chairman, 1955, Boston Art Commission; past chair-
man, Planning Board, Town of Marblehead.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts State Association of Architects (director, since
1950); American Institute of Architects, Washington, D.C, (fellow);
Boston Society of Architects; Tavern Club; Somerset Club; Fastern
Yacht Club; Century Association; Rotary Club of Boston.

MY life has been so jam-packed full of absorbing projects over the
past twenty-five years — most particularly in the past ten — that
I find it difficult to pick out the highlights. The first four vears after
graduation were spent at the Harvard Architectural School. In was
a rare time to be there, for I first experienced the teaching of a great

[11]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

traditionalist, Haffner, and then a great modernist, Gropius. A very
thought-provoking training. After a short time in my father’s of-
fice, | went to New York to work for Wallace Harrison. My first
job was helping master plan the Bronx Zoo. Africa in the Bronx!
Quite a challenge.

The threat of war was felt early in our profession, and the U.S.
Housing Authority was a good next move for experience and a
weekly wage. Shortly after December 7, 1941, I shifted to another
branch of the government: the Navy at Quonset Point, R.I., in the
first class designed to breed officers for a myriad of tasks with the
Naval Air Force. Puerto Rico, Quonset, the Southwest Pacific
and Philippines were the locales of much interest, boredom and
experience. Since the war, I have been practising architecture with
a fine partner and a stimulating and eager group of younger asso-
ciates who effectively prevent us from aging too fast.

My non-architectural time has been almost completely occupied
with cultural and educational activity — helping to found and run
the Boston Arts Festival, and trustee work for other institutions —
all time-consuming, but I like to consume time this way. Vacations
are spent cruising in Maine with children and friends in a chartered
yawl. However, two weeks in France last summer with N.W.A.,
Jr., infected me with the travel bug again—a conflict of desires
which will be solved by the pocketbook, no doubt. My somewhat
neglected hobbies are water-color painting, photography and jewelry
making.

Two of our four children are already away from home a lot of the
time. Nelson, Jr., in Paris editing the Paris Review, “Frindee” at
boarding school; Abigail to go next year; but Rosalie, thank the
Lord, will be with us for five years more. Maybe by that time
another generation will be around. The scheme of life is well planned
for us who enjoy our young.

To sum up, let me say that I have been, I think, very lucky ever
since I can remember. I have had “all the advantages” —a good
education, a wonderful wife and family, “freedom from want” in
a modest way — and opportunity has knocked loud enough for me
to hear. I am very fortunate in my friends and hope I have created
no enemies. Since I was fourteen, I have known what my job would
be and this is probably the luckiest thing of all. Architecture, the
main stream, has produced many creeks to explore and all of them
have led to excitement and reward. So far, at least, I have not lost
my paddle. The chance of that happening, I suppose, provides the

[12]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

excitement. The reward is in seeing some dreams come true and the
satisfaction of participating in exciting projects.

JAMES MENDEL ALEXANDER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2335 Addison St., Houston 25, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Battelstein’s, 812 Main St., Houston, Texas.

BORN: Feb. 20, 1913, Toledo, Ohio. parents: David Alexander, Irene Schwab.
PREPARED AT: West High School, Akron, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Anne Rubin, June 7, 1948, Philadelphia, Pa.

OCCUPATION: Personnel director, Battelstein’s, retail specialty store.

FOLLOWING graduation I became associated with the A. Polsky
Company, Akron, Ohio, a department store, where I was fortunate
to receive a thorough training in the field of retailing. Here I got my
apprenticeship in merchandising — salesman, head of stock, assistant
buyer of shoes, assistant buyer of men’s clothing and finally buyer of
boys’ wear. In the fall of 1938, I joined Abraham & Straus, Brookly n,
New York, where I remained until late in the fall of 1941, in the
capacity of assistant buyer of boys’ and men’s clothing.

I then accepted a position as buyer of boys’ apparel with Robert-
son Bros., South Bend, Indiana. I had hardly started on this job when
early in 1942 I went into service. After being assigned to the Air
Force, I took my basic training at Lake Charles, Louisiana, I was
then transferred to Randolph Field, San Antonio, Texas, In Septem-
ber, 1942, I qualified for OCS and received my commission in
December at Miami Beach, I was assigned to the Air Transport
Command, Priorities Division and attended its special training
school in New York. Upon completion of this course, I went on
duty with the domestic division of A.T.C. Early in 1944 I received

[13]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

my promotion to captain. In the fall of 1944 I was assigned to the
London Office of A.T.C., and while overseas I was also stationed at
Paris and Frankfort. In March, 1946, I returned to the States and
following my separation from service, became associated in business
in Houston, Texas, as part owner of the “Columbia” —a retail
clothing store. In the spring of 1957, I severed my relations with
this firm and joined Battelstein’s of Houston and at the present time
am serving as personnel director of this company.
In June, 1948, I was married to Anne Rubin in Philadelphia.

FRANKLIN WILLIAM ALLAN

 

LAST KNOWN ADDR pESS: 44, Emmonsdale Rd, West Roxbury 32, Mass.
BORN: Jan. 5, 1913, Roxbury, Mass. PARENTS: James Allan, Mary Burns.
PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE! A.B. 1934,

OCCUPATION: Insurance.

ALLAN has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since 1955.

[14]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JONATHAN WAIT ALLEN

   

Mh :
ee
Tee .
ab ~ Am %
: ae. %
aay
- ya ae |
~ aahite oe aig
ewe 5

ADDRESS: 1325 S. Hope St., Los Angeles 15, Calif.

BoRN: April 11, 1911, Seattle, Wash. parents: Hugh Allen, Isabel Wait.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932, 1933—1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1934(36).
OCCUPATION: Insurance.

NO questionnaire returned.

JACK J. ALOFF

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 1381 Farrington Rd., Philadelphia 31, Pa.

BORN: Oct. 25, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Samuel Aloff, Ida Plagoff.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B, 1934.

marrieD: Selma Album, Feb. 23, 1947, Philadelphia, Pa. cup: Mindy, Dee. =
1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Abraham Martin Aloff, 29, s.at4 °30 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Owner, Jack Aloff Company, electrical contractor.

MEMBER OF: Har Zion Temple, Congregation Bnai Zwi.

[15]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ALTHOUGH my career is that of electrical contractor, I have been
serving as a consultant to various agencies in the solution of varied
problems affecting the electrical construction industry.

During the war I served from 1942 to 1946, as a captain in the
Intelligence Division of the Corps of Engineers, in the European
Theatre of Operations,

PAUL LEINBACH ALTHOUSE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 15 VV. Church St, Frederick, Md.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Evangelical Reformed Church of the United Church of Christ,
11-13, W. Church St., Frederick, Md.

BORN: May 8, 1914, Reading, Pa. parents: Victor De Witt Althouse, Mary
Elizabeth Yeich.

PREPARED AT: Reading High School, Reading, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1934; B.D. (Yale Univ.),
1937.

MARRIED: Ora Belle Crow, Sept. 1, 1939, Baltimore, Md. cHipren: Mary
Elizabeth, Oct. 18, 1940; Paul Leinbach, Jr., Dec. 5, 1943.

occupation: Clergyman.

OFFICES HELD: President, Frederick County Council of Religious Education,
1946-52, Frederick City Ministerial Association; chairman, National Missions
Committee, 1946-58; chaplain, Independent Hose Company, 1950-56;
member, board of trustees, Hood College, since 1951, General Com-
mission on Chaplains, since 1951; member, Commission on Church and
Ministry of United Church of Christ, since 1955.

MEMBER OF; Columbia Lodge, A.F. & A.M.

SHORTLY after graduation I was told a story that has stayed with
me. It was simply that the mounds of the New England graves were
kept so high because once every few years a Harvard graduate
entered the ministry and the dead promptly turned over in their
graves, I trust that I have not been responsible for earthly upheavals

[ 16 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of this sort, for I have been serving as an ordained clergyman for
the past twenty-two years in the Evangelical and Reformed Church
(now united with the Congregationals), the church of my Penn-
sylvania Dutch ancestors.

This venture resulted partly from an encounter with Dr. Charles
R. Brown, who, after preaching at Appleton Chapel, met me in a
downstairs room, giving me assurance that a year at Yale Divinity
School would hardly upset any undergraduate foundations. Since
the insurance companies in ’34 were not keen for my calibre in the
field of mathematics, I sought the divinity school campus in New
Haven and stayed three years. A summer term at the Massachusetts
General Hospital as orderly on the wards and budding chaplain
gave impetus to search for answers which were not forthcoming.
Why all this suffering? What happens when person meets person?

A student pastorate in Higgaum, Connecticut, gave opportunity
to meet the Yankee in his home, and there I met the girl who later
joined me as wife and co-worker in the ministry. We started in
South Baltimore with a congregation of the laboring class, whose
church had an. insurmountable indebtedness. Finding that my lec-
ture notes of Epistemology B did not satisfy demands of bill col-
lectors, I was fortunate to receive generous assists from two of
Maryland’s Harvard Club, Brad Simmons and Douglas Gordon.
This episode closed three days after the Pearl Harbor incident, when
a voice at the other end of the phone told me to purchase a uniform
and travel at Uncle Sam’s direction.

After brief stops in North Carolina and Tennessee, I took up resi-
dence at the Boeing Air Field, Seattle, where the unit of which I was
chaplain was defending the plant producing the B-17s. A year in
the beautiful Pacific Northwest closed with the summons to take
my first ocean voyage. This separated me from the family for al-
most three years, during which time I was engaged in the run-of-
the-mine duties of a chaplain of an anti-aircraft unit on various is-
lands. I recall one of the saddest tasks was to write to a mother
of a youth killed after V-J Day by a sniper who hadn't been per-
suaded to quit. Mindful of the supreme sacrifice made by others,
I rejoined the family i in St. Louis at the close of 1945. From ‘there we
came to Frederick in the heart of Maryland, where I am serving as
pastor at the Evangelical Reformed Church.

Should I live another twenty-five years and be requested to pen
a sketch, I wonder how much of this “account of mv life since
graduation” would appear significant. Would I carry the same con-

[17]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

victions? Would I be doing about the same things? Would I be
essentially the same person? Will concern with children become
joy over grandchildren? Will freedom be surrendered or change
its meaning?

Having long since pondered the difficulty of stepping in the same
river twice, I accept the inevitability of change, for better, for
worse, depending on the person who is doing the judging. Of this
I feel certain, that I owe a debt of gratitude to the College which
is difficult to express in words. In the meantime, I shall continue
searching and listening for clues and/or answers to questions that
disturb.

JOSEPH AMATO

 

HOME ADDRESS: 184-02 144th Ave. Springfield Gardens 13, N.Y.

errice appress: U.S. Bureau of Narcotics, 90 Church St, New York, N.Y.

BORN: Aug. 5, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Agrippino Amato, Josephine Infan-

tro,

prepareD At: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934.

miakrizo: Helen Gertrude Kennedy, 1939, Boston, Mass.

occupation; Supervisory treasury agent (criminal enforcement), U.S. Bureau
of Narcotics, Treasury Department.

MEMBER OF: Veterans associations and fraternal orders.

pusications: Official consultant on “Traffic in Narcotics — America’s Peril,”
by Laurence Smith; “Mafia,” by Ed Reid (Pulitzer Prize winner); “Brother-
hood of Evil” (at press), by Fred Sanders, Reader’s Digest, “Shame of New
York,” by Ed Reid. |

THE years immediately following college were very difficult for
me. Jt seemed that my training in biochemistry was not consistent
with the economic times, particularly around my native Boston, so

[18 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I reorganized my thoughts and plans for better or for worse. In
1939, | embarked upon a federal civil service career. I must confess
I haven’t done too well financially, but at least my old age is assured.
Since 1941 I have been with the U.S. Bureau of Narcotics, with the
exception of some 30-odd months I spent in the U.S. Army where I
ended up in the Counter-Intelligence Section in the Pacific area.

Not many of my classmates would relish the kind of work I’ve
been doing. I’ve spent the major part of my career fraternizing
with criminal elements in various parts of the country and Europe —
in an undercover capacity. It has been very difficult — just plain hard
work, long hours, with the usual risks. For about ten years, how-
ever, I have been in charge of the Bureau’s International Enforce-
ment program, working out of the New York office, embracing the
illegal traffic of drugs originating from Europe and the Middle East.
I was one of the pioneer agents in laying the groundwork for this
work, having traveled to Europe in 1952 for such purpose. While
there, I also conducted some extensive undercover investigations
among criminal elements in the cities of Frankfort, Hamburg,
Braunschweig (Germany) and in Rome, Naples and Palermo (Italy).
For such work, I was awarded the Treasury Department’s highest
award, the Gold Medal for Exceptional Civilian Service.

One of my better accomplishments has been my probing into
criminal activity by minority groups. I have about ten years’ re-
search on the subject, and with all due modesty am probably the
Treasury Department’s authoritative source on the secret criminal
society referred to as the Blackhand or Mafia. My research has
shown that such an organization does exist in the United States
today. The Bureau of Narcotics is in accord with this view, which
was not shared by other enforcement agencies in the United States
(at least until the discovery of the Apalachin, New York, meeting
in 1947). Because of my peculiar position in this regard, I have
been consultant to various Congressional committees, “particularly
the Kefauver Crime Committee and the McClellan Committee, and
I have given testimony before these bodies as well as others, such as
the New Jersey Crime Commission, New York Crime Commission,
etc.

Obviously, the foregoing is not conducive to a sedentary life.
With the exception of Classmates Charlie Scribner and Dudley Weiss
whom I met by accident in the past recent years, I have not had
Opportunities to settle down to exchange letters with some of mv
other former close classmates, Perhaps, before I retire in 1963, some

[19 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

of them will stop off in my New York office to say hello at least.
If they don’t get to see me by then, they’ll have to come to my
forty -five-acre “farm j in Middleboro, Massachusetts, where I expect
to spend my years after fifty, dabbling in botany and beagles.

DAVID AMES

 

HOME aApprEss: Oliver Street, North Easton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 96 Ames Bidg., Boston 8, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 26, 1912, North Easton, Mass. parents: John Stanley Ames, ’o1,
Nancy Filley.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Motley, Dec. 21, 1940, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: David, Jr.,
Dec. 19, 1941; William Motley, Aug. 10, 1943; Nancy, Nov. 17, 1947; Fred-
erick Lothrop, April 28, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Stanley Ames, Jr., 32, Oliver Filley Ames, ’43, M.B.A.,
"5k.

occupation: Chairman of board, First-Machinists National Bank of Taunton.

OFFICES HELD: Director, 1937-58, president, 1951-58, First National Bank of
Easton, trustee, North Easton Savings Bank, since 1946; assistant vice-presi-
dent, Fiduciary Trust Company, 1947-51; member, 1948-54, chairman, 1952,
1953, Easton School Committee; president, Easton Community Fund, 1948-
49; trustee, since 1949, president, since 1955, Ames Free Library; member
executive board, Squanto Council, B.S.A., 1951; treasurer, Easton Land
Company, since 1952; trustee, Brockton Hospital, since 1952; director,
Massachusetts Hospital Life Insurance Company, since 1952; member board
of managers, New England Home for Little Wanderers, Boston, since 1953;
member, since 1953, chairman, since 1957, Budget Committee, Group V
(children’s agencies), United Community Services; chairman, Easton Citi-
zens Study Committee, 1955-57; director, Ames Shovel & Tool Company,
since 1955; member, American Unitarian Association Investment Committee,
since 1954; director, First-Machinists National Bank of Taunton, 1958.

[20]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Institute of Radio Engineers;.Easton Lions Club; Kittansett Club,
Paul Dean Lodge, AF. & A.M.; Beverly Yacht Club, Somerset Club.

UPON leaving college I spent a year making shovels in Parkersburg,
West Virginia. Then followed two years at the Harvard Business
School. After investing in a small electronics firm in Boston, I
worked for them for about two years, mostly in sales activities.

During the school year 1940-41, I studied radio engineering in
Washington, D.C. Shortly after the destroyer deal with Great
Britain I joined the Naval Reserve as an ensign in communications.
We were mobilized in May, 1941, and I went to work in the code
room of the Navy Department, Washington, D.C. This duty in-
cluded being on watch December 7, 1941, “and decoding the message
from Pearl Harbor describing the damage there. In August, 1942,
I was able to leave Washington and then attended a reserve course
in communications, tactics, etc., at the U.S, Naval Academy, that
lasted five months. Then followed sea duty in the Pacific on a
destroyer (USS Anthony D.D. 515) for about a year and a half.
Then I was assigned to a mine division, commander’s staff, and spent
about five months towing targets off San Diego. Then back to sea
on a destroyer squadron commander’s staff, a brief trip to Japan and
home as a lieutenant commander. |

After the war I was in the trust business for about four years with
the Fiduciary Trust Company of Boston. I did not find this very
stimulating and then decided to become a “country banker” and
wrestle with the problems of small business.

Shortly after becoming president of the First National Bank of
Easton in 1951, we built a new bank building and started to loan
money more actively. While being a “country banker,” I became
active in numerous local affairs. One of the most interesting was the
committee to study the town government of Easton and make
recommendations in connection therewith. This involved practically
all of the functions of the town government. We were fortunate in
that most of our recommendations were voted upon favorably.

On December 1, 1958, the First National Bank of Easton was
consolidated with the Machinists National Bank of Taunton and I
became chairman of the board. This is a larger and more interesting
operation. A large part of my time is spent on investments, trying
to make some money.

In December, 1940, I married Elizabeth Motley and we went to
live in Washington, D.C. We are now the proud and somewhat

[21]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

bewildered parents of four very satisfactory children, ranging in
ages from seventeen to six, who keep us well occupied.

During the summer of 1934, together with classmates Amory
Lawrence and William Ladd, I went on a hunting trip in the Peace
River country of British Columbia, primarily in quest of mountain
sheep. Again in 1937, I went on another trip further north and west,
finally coming out through Alaska.

Before the war I owned a 36-foot auxiliary sloop and used to
participate in ocean races, as well as going cruising. Now I have a
power boat and don’t have too good luck persuading my family to
come along on trips. Maybe I had better take up golf.

This highlights the past twenty-five years which have gone all too
quickly.

+ RICHARD GLOVER AMES |

 

BORN: April 1, 1912, Wayland, Mass. parents: Robert R. Ames, ’o7, Margaret
Glover.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. cus laude, 1934.
DIED: June 19, 1935, at sea.

RICHARD GLOVER AMES was vice-president of our Class during
1931-32 and was Second Marshal of our Class. While at college he
was a member of the University wrestling team, Student Council
and Phillips Brooks House Cabinct. After graduation he spent the
summer sailing and then became associated with the Kendall Com-
pany, textile manufacturers, in their production department in Wal-
pole, Massachusetts, In the spring of 1935 he was appointed to the
graduate secretaryship of Phillips Brooks House. Tle was participat-
ing in a transatlantic yacht race from Newport, Rhode Island, to

[22]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Norway, with his father and brother, when all three were lost in a
gale at sea. He was survived by his mother.

HERBERT HALE ANDERSON

 

HOME AppRESS: Parkwood Manor Apts., State Road & Penarth Avenue, Upper
Darby, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Drexel Institute of Technology, Philadelphia 4, Pa.

BORN: Nov. 6, 1913, Dayton, Ohio. parents: John Bertrand Anderson, Ilo Hale.

PREPARED AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; PH.D. (\fassachusetts Inst. of

| Technology), 1937.

- UNMARRIED,

OCCUPATION: Associate professor of chemistry, Drexel Institute of Technology.

_ MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Association for the Ad-

. vancement of Science.

PUBLICATIONS: Author of seventy-one. papers, chiefly in Journal of the American
Chemical Society.

GRADUATE school, M.L.T., 1934-37; Ph.D., 1937. Year in Europe,
1937-38. Summer trips to Europe, 1954, 1955, 1958 U.S. Army.
1943-46, all in U.S.A., at Argonne National Laboratory, Chicago.
Research associate at Harvard, 1938-42, 1946-47; guest, 1950-51.
Author of thirty-three papers at Harvard.

Specialist in organogermanium and organosilicon compounds. At
Drexel Institute of Technology since January, 1952.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

PHILIP DUTCHER ANDERSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 112 Bacon St., Natick, Mass.
OFFICE AppRESS: John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 5, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: George Pomeroy Anderson, Persis
Greely Dutcher.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: AB, 1034.
markieD: Esther Ellen Wilkins, Aug. 18, 1936, Carlisle, Mass. CHILDREN: Timothy

Wilkins, May 7, 1941; Christopher Detcher; March 7, 1945; Philip Dutcher,
Jr. Oct. 6, 1947.
OCCUPATION: Assistant actuary in charg e of adminis strative and technical aspects

of industrial pension plans. underwritten by the John Hancock Mutual
Life Insurance Company.

oFFrices HELD: Metnber, Natick Personnel Board, 1947-57; Chairman, Cub Scouts,
1950-52, Boy Scouts, 1952-58, Church Missionary Committee, 1956-58.
MEMBER OF: Society of Actuaries; St. John’s Masonic Lodge, Boston, Mass.
PUBLICATIONS: Miscellaneous articles on pension planning for magazines.

I'T is easy to say in retrospect that the country was fighting its way
out of the depression while we were graduating in 1934. At that
particular time, however, we were not blessed with that bit of
historical information and the offer of a job in the actuarial field two
weeks after graduation with the fabulous salary of $20.00 a week
seemed to be the answer to all of my problems.

My entire working life thus far has been with the John Hancock
and has been mainly concerned with the pension end of the business.
The pension field has grown by leaps and bounds especially since
the passage of the Social Security Act and has been tremendously
interesting. As an actuary, I have been essentially an “inside” man
but client problems have taken me out of the office five or six times
a year, This traveling has proved to be just often enough to be in-
teresting and has given me an opportunity to become better ac-

[ 24 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

quainted with different parts of our country, Canada and Hawaii.

Though born, brought up, and employed in Boston, I have fol-
lowed the trend toward the suburbs. Our home is adjacent to the
town forest in a community which is quickly becoming urbanized.
Our location has been a good compromise between rural living and
commuting convenience. We live the life of most suburbanites,
finding our interests and pleasures centering around community
problems and activities.

A few weeks after our third son was born, the direction of our
lives was altered considerably by a bad accident. My wife and I
were in a head-on collision with a drunken driver. She was thrown
through the windshield of our car and sustained numerous injuries.
The events of the next few years seem rather hazy now. I remember
becoming quickly indoctrinated in mixing baby formulas and chang-
ing diapers. This experience was not without some reward, how-
ever. We both gained a better appreciation and understanding of
life. We were both drawn closer to our church in our time of
spiritual as well as physical need. Despite our problems, our
youngsters have grown up and are healthy and well-adjusted.

All of our boys have been interested in scouting and owe much
to this great organization. I was active in scouting as a bov and
didn’t need any prodding to renew my interest. The boys led me
on a merry chase up Mount Washington, Carter Dome, Moosilaukee
and other mountains in the Presidential range in New Hampshire.
I also thoroughly enjoyed pitching tents with them in overnight
excursions throughout Massachusetts and New Hampshire. Tim, our
eldest, attained the Eagle Scout rank and has tackled the rugged
wilderness trail at the National Scout Ranch in New Mexico. He
hopes to enter Harvard as a freshman next September. Chris and
Phil are following in the footsteps of their eldest brother.

Summer vacations have usually been spent at a family camp on
Lake Winnipesaukee. This type of vacation we found ideal in that
it was inexpensive, allowed us to function as a family unit in an
area of common interest, and relieved my wife of the usual home-

-making responsibilities. Now that the boys are older, we are
putting them on their own and are seeking a new vacation pattern.
In the recreational area, I seem to have reversed the sensible ap-
proach. In my early years out of college, I helped to establish the
Boston Commercial Bridge League and spent much time playing in
various tournaments. During the last ten years, I have given up
bridge and renewed my interest in tennis by j joining our local club,

[25]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

While still interested in Harvard, I have been very backward in
my formal contacts with class activities. I hope to remedy this at
our Reunion in June, 1959.

SAMUEL BAYNESS ANDREWS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 354 Beacon St. Boston 16, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: U.S. Civil Service Commission, Boston 9, Mass.

BorN: March 13, 1913, Chelsea, Mass. parenrs: Max Andrews, Gertrude Good-
man,

PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Cheisea, Mass.

YEARS EN COLLEGE: 1930-1034. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; LL.B. 1937.

marrieD: Selma P. Miller, 1988, Breokline, Mass.

eccuPATionN: Government service,

JAMES SEVERY ANGIER

: Pie a
x hi, eee,

 

HOME ApprEss: Baldwin Road, Woodbridge, Conn.

OFFICE ADRESS: Greist Manufacturing Co., 446 Blake St., New Haven, Conn.

BORN: Oct. 31, 1911, New Haven, Conn, PARENTS: Roswell Parker Angier, 975
Genevieve Severy.

[ 26]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
PREPARED AT: Taft School, Watertown, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

marrieD: Anita Edwards, Nov. 20, 1936, Wayland, Mass. cHiLpren: Barbara

Anne, Nov. 16, 1938; Joanne, Jan. 21, 1940; James McNeil, March 16, 1944;
Suzanne, Sept. 9, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Roswell Parker Angier, ’31; Philip Holt Angier, ’37.
OCCUPATION: Supervisor, Finishing Department, Greist Manufacturing Company.
OFFICES HELD: Woodbridge Scout Master, 1945-50; member, Republican Town

Committee, 1954-56; president, B.O.W. Baseball League.
MEMBER OF: Woodbridge Club, Inc.

AFTER leaving college I worked in a gold mine near Boise, Idaho.
We found no gold, so I went to Seattle, Washington, for two years
at the University of Washington. Then east to New Haven in 1934.
Went to Europe in the summer of 1936. Then back home to be
married in November, 1936. Spent two years living in town, but
we got fed up with the bustle. We bought in Woodbridge and
are still there. In 1936 I came with the Greist Company and am still
there.

My time is well taken up with job and family. Not having had
any sisters, with three girls I am being educated to the final degree.
My children live in constant fear of growing up to be as stupid as
their “old man.”

HENRY ARANOW, JR.

 

HOME apprEss: 665 N. Broadway, Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.

OFFICE appRESS; 180 Ft, Washington Ave., New York 32, N.Y. .

BORN: May 5, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: Harry Aranow, Dora Anita
Bittman.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School for Boys, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B, magna cum laude, 1934(35)3 MLD.
(Columbia Univ.), 1938; p.m.s. (ibid.), 1944.

[27]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

marrieD: Doris Elaine Jones, April 26, 1941, New Hartford, Conn. cHILDREN:
Peter Jones, June 12, 1946; Philip Thompson, Oct. 14, 1947; Michael Henry,
May 1, 1951; Robert Bittman, July 14, 1954.

occupation: Physician — internal medicine; professor of clinical medicine, Co-
lumbia University; private practice of medicine, teaching and research at
Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; New York Academy of Medicine;
Association for Research in Nervous and Mental Diseases; Harvey Society;
Horseshoe Club; Clinical Society of the New York Diabetes Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles and monographs in medical books and journals — mainly
on pheochromocytoma, myasthenia gravis, thyroid disease, poisoning.

DURING the four years of medical school at the College of
Physicians and Surgeons, my program and vacations and illnesses
of the house staff of the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center
interlocked in such a way that it was possible for me, prior to grad-
uation, to get almost a full year substituting as an intern. With
experience on four different services I had some background for
an exciting four months of general practice in the Sierra Nevada
Mountains, A day in Yosemite National Park often included bear
bites, axe injuries, falls from horses, and even drownings, conditions
quite different from those which an internist in New York City
is likely to see.

The step downward frora being the physician in charge of the
atient to the lowest rung of the “medical internship ladder at the
Presbyterian Hospital was a hard one; the hardship was lessened
by the presence ce in the Bacteriology Lab (one of the “juniors’ ”
work areas} of Doris Flaine Jones, a cousin of the professor of
bactrericlo ogy. Within a week of my return from California a rela-
tionship started which, more than twenty years and four children
later, continues to be the central one of my life. It was not until
two and a half years later, however, that we were married.

At tne end of my two-year internship in medicine I was granted
the Harlow Brooks Fell owship of the New York Academy 0 of
Medicine. This fellowship provided a stipend for study abroad,
but Hitler’s activities made this prospect seem unrewarding, and I
was able to use it for one and one-half years at the Johns Hopkins
School of Medicine. Although the great bulk of my time was spent
in the Department of Physiology, I managed a few months on the
hospital wards. Doris began to work in the hospital, and for the
next four years continued to provide the major portion of our
support during my period of postgraduate study.

The armed forces declared me 4-F, and I returned to the Presby-

[ 28 ]

oS

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

terian Hospital in 1942, as assistant resident in medicine. The accel-
erated program of the medical schools had begun, and interns went
into the services after only nine months, so that the few available
residents had an enormous amount of clinical work and responsi-
bility. For most of one year, Tom Hunter, ’35, and myself were
the medical assistant resident staff of the Columbia-Presbyterian
Medical Center, a job now shared by no less than twenty-four men.
We did little or no research, but attended a great many ill patients,
and did a lot of teaching. The medical residency the following year
provided more of the same.

At the close of my residency I entered the practice of internal
medicine at the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, and have
continued there on what is called “geographic full time.” The
continued stimulus of teaching medical students, the atmosphere
and daily intercourse with the staff of a teaching university medical
center, and the pleasures and challenges of practice provide me with
a full and interesting life in which, however, one is almost by defini-
tion chronically short of time.

Chance and New York’s current central position in international
politics and travel have given my own particular practice an un-
usual feature. A significant proportion of my patients are from out-
side of the United States. Since histories taken through interpreters
are of limited value, I have had to become fairly fluent in Spanish
and, to a lesser degree, in French. Some of my overseas patients
have become close friends, and we have had the good fortune to
visit them, and to be guided by them through their countries.

Ten years ago we bought the house that David Dudley Field,
elder brother of Cyrus, built for himself on the edge of the Hudson.
We overlook more than twenty miles of the river, have riparian
rights, and a lot of what the tax assessors call “deferred maintenance.”
Central heating was unknown when the house was built, and the
ceilings are high. As a result the words “room temperature” have
a much more British connotation for my sons than for most American
children. The maintenance problems have necessitated a woodwork-
ing shop in the cellar; a photographic darkroom and a hand-loading
bench complete the accessories of my hobbies.

A sudden and asymptomatic illness four years ago gave me a
period of several weeks when I believed my allotted span was
about over, and then seven months in bed. During the weeks prior
to, and the months after, operation I realized anew how Important
are the values for which Harvard stands. With help from Protessor

[29]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Harry Levin, ’33, I undertook a program of reading and study
unrelated to medicine which was so engrossing that I was almost
regretful when it was time to get up and about again.

Travel has provided many of our vacations, and we hope to take
the two elder boys abroad with us next summer. We have had sev-
eral family camping trips, and managed a good deal of time at the
Jones place in New Hartford, Connecticut. There’s room to shoot
and camp, and a place to swim, and we have started a Christmas
tree project on some old pasture land which we hope will help to
defray some of the expenses of educating the four of them.

Although no one can quote Candide’s philosophy with conviction
these days, the past twenty-five years for me have been such that I
can only hope the future may be as kind.

CHARLES COVERT ARENSBERG

 
     
 

‘ eat ‘ !

Fae eT

HOME ADDRESS: 5031 Castleman St, Pittsburgh 32, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Patterson, Crawford, Arensberg & Dunn, 1404 First National
Bank Bidg., Pittsburgh 22, Pa.

BoRN: April 28, 1913, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Charles Frederick Covert Arens-
berg, ’o1, Emily Wright Maynadier.

PREPARED AT: Shady Side Academy, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEAKS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1934; LL.B., 1938.

MakweD: Gertrude Herron Hays, Aug. 24, 1940, Monongahela, Pa. cHILDREN:
Susan Hays, Sept. 25, 1941; Conrad Christian, Nov. 27, 1943; Charles
Shaw, March 24, 1947; Jonathan Maynadicr, March 15, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Conrad Maynadier Arensberg, ’31, PH.D., 34; Walter Eveleth
Arensberg, ’33; James Murray Arensberg, °39, LL.B. 742.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; partner, Patterson, Crawford, Arensberg & Dunn.

OFFICES HFID: Trustce, Ellis School, since 1950; member, executive committee,
1953-54, chairman, Icgislative committee, 1958, Allegheny County Bar
Association, president, Harvard Club of Western Pennsylvania, 1952-53,

[ 30 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club of Pittsburgh, 1957-58; vice-president, Har-
vard Law School Association, Western Pennsylvania, 1958-59.

MEMBER OF: Pennsylvania and International Bar Associations, Junta Club, Har-
vard-Yale-Princeton Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Various law review articles in University of Pittsburgh Law
Review; Temple Law Quarterly, and Dickinson Law Review.

I WAS trying to remember my last day at Harvard College in the
Class of 1934. I do not mean Commencement, because that was not
part of college. Commencement was an event pleasant enough, but
totally unconnected with the four years of friends, classes and work.
The last day is a fog now and I think it was then. I remember being
in Randolph (Adams House), surrounded by furniture and clothing
half- packed, myself and roommate Tom Spencer talking and planning,
not our future life, but our present plans. I think we all thought
so much of the end of college that when it came, we drifted through
it helplessly, resignedly like a canoe rushing down the “White
Water.”

Now the last day of Harvard Law School was different because
I remember jumping in my car, which was already packed, and spin-
ning down the Worcester Turnpike. Despite my superior legal
training, I was —as the inimitable George Key, °3 33. would have
put it— “apprehended by the Cossacks” “and ‘incarcerated in the
local oubliette” until twenty-five dollars was mulcted from me.
This was within one hour after the last class.

Since then, I have practised law in Pittsburgh and enjoved it.
They say that lawyers live well, die poor and go straight to hell.
If being happy in your work is living, well then that’s right. \Iv
wife and four children are the goal of this work. My hobby would
be travel, if I had the time and the you know what. My hobbies are
words (too many of which I’ve used here already) and horses, the
kick of one of which (in the knee) gives me the pleasant leisure time
to write this opus.

[31]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

LESTER ARNOW

 

HOME ADDRESS: 5905 N. Berkeley Blvd., Milwaukee 17, Wis.

OFFICE apprEss: Bache & Co., 229 E. Wisconsin Ave., Milwaukee 2, Wis.

Bow: April 15, 1913, Milwaukee, Wis. parents: Isaac Henry Arnow, Anna
Silberg.

preparep at: Riverside High School, Milwaukee, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 77agnma cum laude, 1934.

Margitp: Edith Grace Aaron, Feb. 21, 1946, Milwaukee, Wis. CHILDREN: Randy
Sue, June 23, 1947; Douglas Ian, April 29, 1951.

orcuPATION: Manager, Milwaukee office, Bache & Company, investments.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Milwaukee.

IT must have been a really perverse or stubborn streak in me that
motivated my desire to enter the securities brokerage business in
1934. I can recall at the time that the investment business in gen-
eral would have without doubt won first prize as the field of en-
deavor icast likely to survive — and this at a time, if you will re-
member, when it was most difficult to envision any profitable
economic activity. In fact, for many years the only sign of progress
ui) my status that I could detect was the change in my title from
customers’ man to customers’ broker to registered representative.
Ail three utles, incidentally, had precisely the same meaning.

However, persist I did, and while frequently most unremunerative,
my work has at all times been most fascinating and exciting. Each
and every day has been a new adventure, I have been wined, dined,
cursed and maligned — entirely dependent on whether the Dow-
Jones Averages have performed according to my predictions, or
perhaps on whether the prices of eggs, wheat, soybean meal, copper,
wool-tops or what have you, have responded in a manner sufficiently
profitable to my clients.

Except for a three-and-one-half-year sojourn with the U.S. Coast

[ 32]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Guard during World War II, I have been associated with Bache &
Company since 1937, and am now manager of their Milwaukee
office. Havi ing been correct (and lucky ) in predicting the amasinaly
phenomenal bull market presently being witnessed, we are currently
riding a wave of great popularity and success. Always, however, we
are restrained by the fact that in the past, large upturns in prices
of securities have inevitably been succeeded by large declines. If
such a decline occurs once more, we hope that we shall not have
been too far wrong in our determination of the peak. However, in
trying to weigh the factor of inflation which seems to be more and
more with us as time goes on, one wonders if such a broad frone
_decline in prices will ever again take place.

In February, 1942, I enlisted in the Coast Guard and was retired
as an ensign in May, 1945, having spent a good part of the time with
the patrol frigate, USS Shreveport. My claim to fame is that Lam
now the oldest living retired ensign in the Coast Guard Reserve.

What with the stock market and raising two very active children,
my wife and I haven’t found much time to do any extensive travel-
ing, or to take any large part in any outside activities other than to
be most enthusiastic supporters of the Milwaukee Braves. In the
past five years, I doubt if we have misscd more than ten games. [4
addition, I have managed to maintain a fairly sustained interest i
puzzle contests. (Must be some psychological connection with the
enigma of the stock market.) While I haven't been too successful
in winning any large prizes, I have acquired some amazing me cs Gf
trivia. For example, did you know that “jockey” is the name for
the color Harvard crimson? Webster's Unabridged says so!

In brief, I've had a wonderfully happy tw enty-tive years and
am eagerly looking forward to the nent lap. See vou at the Reunion’

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

HERBERT LAWRENCE BABBITT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 247 Tappan St., Brookline 46, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 27 School St., Boston 8, Mass.

BorN: March 29, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Abraham D. Babbitt, Charlotte
Lotto.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933, 1934-1935.

MARRIED: Frances C. Saffron, June 23, 1940, Boston, Mass. cHILpREN: Leslie
Helaine, Jan. 14, 1942; Marilyn Jeanne, April 11, 1946.
OCCUPATION: Real estate.

OFFICES HELD: Noble Grand of King Solomon Lodge No. 236, 1.0.0F., 1950-
1951.

‘THERE has been nothing outstanding in my life’s work since I left
Harvard. I dare say this fact could have been foretold twenty-five
years ago, I have been engaged in the real estate business for the
past twenty-three years, concentrating mostly on property man-
agement. I am trustee of three realty trusts and manage to keep busy
most of the time.

Most activities outside of business center around my family. One
exception is my strong interest in fraternal work. This has been a
most rewarding experience and my only regret is that I do not have
more time to devote to it.

Due to a back injury sustained a few years ago I have had to
curtail active participation in sports although I do manage to take
part in a weekly game of volley-ball with some of my contem-
poraries. Even this seems to be taking its toll and if I weren’t so
stubborn I’d quit. I hate to admit that I’m getting older although
constantly reminded of this fact by my daughters. I wonder if all
members of the Class have become as “old-fashioned” as I. I’ve

reached the stage where my recreational activities consist of an oc-
casional game of bridge or pinochle. °

[ 34 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I manage to keep my political convictions to my self and thus am
sought after by both political parties at election time.

LOUIS ANGILL BABBITT, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 179 Penarrow Rd., Rochester, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Eastman Kodak Co., Rochester, N.Y.

BORN: Nov. 18, 1913, Media, Pa. Parents: Louis Angill Babbitt, ‘o7, Marie
Euphemia MacDonald.

PREPARED AT: Harrisburg Academy, Harrisburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; M.B.A., 1936.

MARRIED: Olivia Farrington Chase, Feb. 19, 1938, Rochester, N.Y. cHitp; Bonnie

Jean, April 17, 1942.
occuPATION: Assistant director, Statistical Department, General Office, Eastman

Kodak Company.

MEMBER OF: Rochester Chamber of Commerce; Locust Hill Country Club,
Forecasters Club (New York City); American Statistical Association;
Harvard Club of Rochester; Harvard Business School Club of Rochester,
Textile Analysts Group (New York City).

I WAS never very apt in history as a student and, probably for the
same reasons, I’m not very adept at it as a w riter. Those incidental
details that separate the “A’s” from the “C’s” escaped me then and
they still do today. However, I do recall some of the basic facts and
have scribed them below.

My career has been rewarding from a personal standpoint, but
appears unspectacular on paper. One or another of the assistant
treasurers of the Eastern Kodak Company has been signing mv salary
check ever since I left the Business School in 1936, and I hope this
happy relationship will continue for some time to come, After an
apprenticeship with several departments as a “trainee,” I landed in
the production planning division of our largest manufacturing di-

[35]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

vision, Kodak Park Works. The emphasis that the war placed on
materials procurement problems resulted in the establishment of a
Marerials Department in 1940, and I was given the interesting as-
signment of heading it up and developing its program, objectives
and procedures, World War II transformed us into the Priorities
Department temporarily, but our basic function was to program
materials, supplies and inventories.

In 1952 I was assigned my present job of organizing and directing
an economic and market research group for our man-made fibers,
plastics and chemicals division. The problems are many, involving
the evaluation of many intangible variables and their integration
into answers to questions raised by the management. A surprising
degree of freedom of action is allowed me in this process, so there is
considerable personal responsibility and satisfaction in accomplish-
ment. It has also provided a fair degree of economic solvency.

Our family is almost as small as a family can be. In itself that
creates the problem of providing an only daughter with all the
things we'd like her to have without destroying her sense of values.
I believe we've succeeded reasonably well.

Hobbies? [ve always had plenty of them, probably too many.
One project will be left partly unfinished while I pursue another that
presents some very engrossing problems. At one time or another I’ve
dabbled in photography, cabinet-making, Little Theatre, radio
broadcasting, interior decorating, language study, piano-playing,
sound recording, hi-fi systems, bowling and golf. Ill try anything
that offers a challenge and an opportunity for creative development.
When one becomes work instead of refreshment, I take up another.

Traveling for traveling’s sake holds no appeal. I’m afraid one tall
tree-covered mountain looks like another to me. However, three
compelling reasons have prompted us to spend several weeks each
winter in Acapulco, during the past three years. First, Rochester’s
climate becomes quite wearing along about the end of February.
Second, the climate in Mexico is always delightful that time of year.
Third, we are very fond of Mexico, the Mexicans, of their way of
life, and the contrast they offer to our normal environment. This
is the one place in my experience where I can be contentedly in-
active for hours, even for days.

As for points of view, I suppose I'd be classified as an independent,
and a believer in the rights of others to be independent, too, I have

always preferred planning for the future to study and reincarnation

of the past. In most things I like contrasts — in people, in food, in

[ 36 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

activities. In this age of conformity | often find myself aligned with
the minority. I'd like to believe I have an open mind, perhaps lean-
ing a little on rhe skeptical side — wanting to know w hy.

‘++ FERNAND LOUIS BAEHLER, JR.

 

BORN: Sept. 5, 1909, - New Orleans, La. parents: Fernand Louts Bachlcr, Mary

Theleman.
PREPARED AT: Pawling School, Pawling, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933.
MARRIED.
pieD: May 1, 1953, Burbank, Calif.
wipow: Mrs. Fernand L. Baehler, Jr., 4420 Clyburn Ave, Burbank, Cali.

FERNAND LOUIS BAEHLER, JR., spent three years with ovr
Class. He was manager of the freshman polo team and a member cf
the freshman tennis “team. The Secretary has no information cen-
cerning his life since leaving college except that at one time ke was
in the field of journalism. He was survived by his wife.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

WILLIAM STANFORD EINSEL BAER

 

apprEss: 448 Glendale Rd., York, Pa.

BORN: June 15, 1912, Du Bois, Pa. parents: Paul Wallace Baer, Vista Baum-
gardner.

PREPARED AT: Johnstown Senior High School, Johnstown, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREE! A.B. 1934. °

MARRIED: Evelyn Jane Livingstone, July 30, 1938.

occuPATION: Engineer.

NO questionnaire returned.

CHARLES WESLEY BAILEY

    

HOME AbpREsS: Tuxedo Park, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS; Spartan Mills, Inc., 55 Worth St., New York 13, N.Y.

Born: April 1, 1912, Weston, Mass. PARENTS: Harry Louis Bailey, Helena K, M.
Ravi.

prepaRED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. 1934(35)+ Y. cutt-
MakkieD: Katharine Mortimer Palmer, April 19, 1941, New York, N.Y.

[ 38 ]

29TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pres: Charles Wesley, Jr, May 17, 1942, Katharine Palmer, Feb. 22, sg;

Robert Converse, Sept. 27, 1946.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Henry Ravi Bailey, ’36, Horace Converse Bailey, "37, Vincent

Ravi Bailey, "go.
occupation: Cotton textile manufacturing; merchandising production of mill.
MEMBER OF: Tuxedo Club; Merchants Club, New York City.

TWENTY-FIVE years ago, Harvard College was a most enjoy-
able place to live. The one drawback was the faculty who insisted
that you pass exams. In June, 1934, they “flunked” me on the di-
visional exams, and that failure worried me through the following
winter, I started studying again in the ev enings after work i in an
Alabama cotton mill and « on weekends. In June, 1935, the faculty
passed me, so that now when occasion demands, I can put “Harvard
A.B.,” after my name like the rest of you.

And so, after June, 1935, I stopped worrying and returned to en-
joying life again. My father gave me a congenial boss to work
under with no broad responsibilities in his company. I shared an
apartment with other New York bachelors, playing squash or skiing
in the wintertime. During the summers I became more and more
absorbed in sailing, either racing my own boat on Cape Cod, or
going as crew on a racing twelve-meter, or on long distance races
along the coast and to Bermuda. My greatest disappointment was
that 1 my boss would not let me off long enough to go on the winning
yacht in the San Francisco-to- Honolulu Race. Thus I came to the
end of 1940 without a gray hair on my head.

In the summer of 1940, I became certain that somehow the United
States was going to get into the war, and I intended to be in the
Navy when it happened. At the same time I became determined
to marry the girl who is now my w ife. The w orry of fitting these
two incompatible intentions together was ended in early i941 by
getting married and going on active duty at the naval aircraft
factory. This shore duty prov ed to be a most happy interlude be-
fore my lack of aircraft experience and the increasing pressure for
personnel with sea experience after Pearl Harbor obliged me to
volunteer for anti-submarine duty. This brought on the problem of
how to act like the captain of a newly -commissioned US, naval vewel
(110 feet long), when you have never been aboard a navy ship be-
fore in your life, The masquerade continued through ‘the com-
missioning and operation of two more sub-chasers on cony oy duty
in the Caribbean for two and a half vears, and ended with the post-
tion of executive officer of a new ly commissioned, high-speed troop

[39]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

transport (APD) in early 1945. I became a professional naval of-
ficer by profitably using the trip across the Pacific to improve my
bridge game and “pass the buck” to the captain on any problems
that arose. We were in the first fleet to enter Tokyo Bay after V-J
Day. The rest of my naval career was spent in earnest discussions
of what is the most spectacular way to blow up Japanese midget
submarine bases (chain explosions vs. one big explosion) and how
“the hell” to get home. These discussions ended by Thanksgiving
Day, 1945, and I began to get acquainted with my wife and children.

Nineteen forty-six was the start of a different life, or different
interests for me. My father had retired at the end of the war and
I went to work outside of his old company. In the thirteen years
since the war, my work has become more interesting, and the
-limited successes in recent years which have come along have given
me great satisfaction. ‘There has also been an interest in local com-
munity affairs—the hospital, the church, the school, Boy Scouts,
village zoning board — but in the recent recession I have withdrawn
from these activities to devote more time to business. I look for-
ward with anticipation to the next fifteen to twenty years in business
before retirement.

Relaxation comes from my home and family. Kapie arranges
our social life for both the children and me, and she does it well
so that it is fun for us all, We enjoy most our trips en famille, sight-
seeing to Virginia, New England, or skiing, sailing, etc. My wife
and I art vaguely planning now how to fill the void when all three
children have left home to go their own ways. We hope it will be
filled with interesting work and friends, some traveling, sailing,
golf, but most of all, successful and happy children and grand-
children.

[ 40 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DAVID WELLES BAILEY

 

HOME ADpRESS: South Woodstock, Vt.
OFFICE apprEss: Woodstock Country School, South Woodstock, Vt.
BORN: May 22, 1912, Boston, Mass. pARENTs: Walter Channing Bailey, ’94, Ruth

Perkins.
PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933. DEGREE: A.B. (Black Mountain Coll.), 1935.
MARRIED: Hilda Loram, Sept. 20, 1935, New Haven, Conn. cnitp: Peter Welles,

May 7, 1940.

HARVARD SON: Peter Welles Bailey, ’61.

HARVARD BROTHER: Walter Perkins Bailey, ’32.

occupation: Headmaster, Woodstock Country School.

OFFICES HELD: Former Democratic county chairman, Windsor Councy, Vt.; mem-
ber, governing board, Cooperative Bureau for Teachers, New York City;
director, Woodstock Rotary Club; former president, Woodstock Enter-
prises (woodworking).

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club.

I SUPPOSE I got into the teaching business because I was so ac-
customed to the vacations of academic life. I thought I couldn't
live without them. It turned out not to be a good reason, for school
vacations are consumed in doing things, such as this Report, for
which there’s no time during term.

Also, I thought that by keeping myself perpetually at the level
of the adolescent pupils, I would preserve my own youth. Again
I was wrong, for at various Class Reunions. recently I have dis-
covered many classmates who look and act far younger,

Just because Woodstock is the ideal location for a boarding
school was insufficient reason for starting such a project, but after
ten years of teaching in four different schools, I thought I knew
enough; so in 1945 another innocent and I started the Woodstock
Country School. Something protects and guides the fools who rush

[41 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

in and thus we've staved in business. For the last twelve years I have

been the titular head, All the work is done by others, of course,

including my wife Peggy and Jimmy Dennison’s sister Buffy. There

are even three Elis on the staff at present, so you see anything is
ossible.

Unfortunately, the school has become fashionable. Perhaps the
Harvard-Radcliffe example has demonstrated there are advantages
to coeducation — not all of them explicitly mentioned. Anyway,
we try to distinguish between those parents who seek this school
for genuine reasons and those who are only following a fad. Among
the former I have been happy to have four or five classmates who
have entrusted children to us.

The school is all-engrossing, so there’s not much time for other
activities. The local Rotary Club is fun and I have done some work
for the Democratic party (county chairman for a couple of years),
though I had no hand in the recent miracle of Vermont. Our tastes
and pleasures are simple ones — mostly driving around and admiring
other people’s houses, a little music, an occasional theatre, much
reading. Ay son and I get to a ball game now and then, but un-
fortunately “he’s a Yankee fan as well as a Republican. Peggy, who
was born in Durban, South Africa, still hasn’t accepted the Vermont
climate, so we stay indoors ail winter. Incidentally, she had a tough
time getting her U.S. citizenship because I couldn’t prove mine.
There was no record of my birth and who am I to question the
record?

ARTHUR HOWLAND BAKER, JR.

 

HOME AbpRESS: g29 Ridge Rd., Falls Church, Va.
OFFICE ADDRESS: The Pentagon, Washington, D.C.

[ 42 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: June 6, rg1r, Marshfield, Mass. parents: Arthur Howland Baker, Lena
Edna Campbell.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1934; Maa. (Columbia
Univ.), 1949.

MarRieD: Winifred Margaret Mallett Oct. 2, 1942, Honolulu, Hawaii. CHILDREN:
Mary Margaret, Aug. 19, 1946; Ethel Loring, March 2, 1948, Arthur
Howland, 3d, April 14, 1949; Frances Lea, Nov. 7, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Lieutenant colonel, U.S. Air Force.

AS I reflect on the last quarter-century of my life, I find it difficult
to point to any greater achievement than that of happy survival
despite depressions, inflations and wars, On active duty with the
military since leaving Harvard, I have lived outside the U nited States
— in Africa, Europe, the Far East — for nearly half of these years.
Stateside duty assignments have found me bivouacking in a majority
of the forty-eight states during this time span.

Military life as a bachelor junior officer prior to the war was a
pleasant but uneventful series of garrison drill and field exercises,
interspersed with tennis, swimming, fox hunts and club dances. A
change of station was a stimulating adventure with packing onlv a
minor inconvenience. The acquisition of a wife and children change d
all these aspects of military life completely. Club dances are rare
occasions and all our free time is occupied by the multitude of
routine chores involved in raising the children and keeping the
shelter of the moment from disintegrating. My beautiful and talented
wife and our four children are the | joy of my life at all times except
during the months involved in moving to a new post.

Family routines have barely been established in one location when
the inevitable orders for a move to some distant outpost arrive.
Packing, travel and settling the new quarters is utter confusion and
seems to grow more nightmarish on each successive move as the size
of the family and our baggage train increases. The chaos of each
move is highlighted by the problem of maintaining some continuity
in the education of our four children. Ty pical “of this aspect of
our life is the fact that our oldest daughter is now only a seventh
grader, yet she has been enrolled in almost a dozen different schools.

Looking back from this point halfway through the first hundred
years of my life, and my niche midway in the military” hier, arehy,
the negative philosophic quotation of my father that ‘ ‘life is Ut One
damned thing after another” seems to state most precisely: the major
lesson I have gleaned from the past twenty-five vears.

Nevertheless, hope is not fully extinguished and the chal lenge of

[43]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

raising the children will furnish an incentive to face “the damned
things” to come in the next quarter-century. Our fondest dream is
that some day my son will be privileged to attend Harvard and my

daughters will be enrolled in Radcliffe. That achieved, (ll work to
shoot par g colf consistently.

DAVID BAKER

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 1608 R St., N.W., Washington 9, D.C.

BORN: Oct. 31, 1912, Somerville, Mass. Parenis: Benjamin Baker, Margaret
Germaine Utter. oe

PREPARED AT: Roger Ascham School, White Plains, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932,

MARRIED: Nancy Dedd, 1940, Vermont (divorced 1945); Aurelia Torrey

Griffith, June 12, 1948, New Jeeey- CHILD: + Anthony David, Nov. 23,
1954 (adopted). | .

OCCUPATION: Singer; teacher of singing.
PUBLICATIONS: Lect ures OO music and. interpretation; also songs.

THE imminent mid-year exams of 1932 convinced me that as an
aspiring singer I was in the wrong place. So I left (in good stand-
ing!) and went to Europe for two years where I studied singing
and language in Paris, Salzburg and Vienna. On return at the death
of my father I went back to Boston and continued voice study in
the same tradition started in Europe. A year later —in the depths
of the depression —I ran out of money and also found myself at
a dead-end in vocal technique. Then I met Wellington Smith, a
singer and teacher who had been in Boston all the time but I hadn’t
known it. The next six years were spent climbing out of the eco-
nomic and musical hold into which I had fallen.

By 1940 I was in New York City, married, and on the editorial
staff of McGraw-Hill’s Aviation. In 1943 1 was caught up in the

[ 44]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

war, with no particular benefit accruing either to the Air Force or
to me. I trailed the action through the Philippines, Okinawa and
Korea, and landed to occupy Japan —a most corrosive futility to
the individual. On return, I got a good start in a job with the
National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics in Washington and
became useful for a change. With this encouragement and some
money in my pocket I finally got back into music where I had always
belonged. I married for the second time in 1948 —a girl who had
also studied with Wellington Smith. Since our marriage she has
been doing most of my studio accompanying. In 1954 an important
new element came into our lives with the adoption of our son,
Anthony David—a bright, charming fellow of Hawaiian and
German background. He has just the qualities you would expect:
a keen, orderly mind and a beguiling disposition (most times).

I gave a New York debut concert in 1951 and have since con-
certized and taught very happily in Washington where I have mv
own studio. Teaching here has brought us into close contact with
the long-brewing segregation crisis. I have learned there is a lot
more to it than my northern Yankee tradition told me. I have tried
to help many talented under-privileged students, but time and again
have butted into the simple fact that you cannot help anyone who
does not genuinely want to help himself. As long as there is dis-
crimination with its attendant bitterness and resentment, the offer to
help is often felt as insult. In looking back to my own reactions in
hard times, I think I might feel equally bitter if artificially li nited
in my activity.

So I shall send Tony to a non-sectarian Sunday Schoo! under the
aegis of a very fine Swami where he will learn of all the fine religions
of the world — of their essential community of values and aspira-
tions — and that the first and most pressing frontier is neither world

o
nor outer space, but the vast jungle of man’s inner self.

[45 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

+ EDWARD CARL BALD, JR.

 

porn: Aug. 11, 1912, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Edward Carl Bald, Joan Seeley.
PREPARED AT: Shady Side Academy, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., Cum laude, 19345 A.M. 194I.
pieD: June 23, 1951, Pittsburgh, Pa.

EDWARD CARL BALD, JR., had not been heard from since our
Triennial Report when he wrote that he was in the field of music.

LAWRENCE PERRY BALDWIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 200 W. Elsmere Pl., San Antonio, Texas.
OFFICE aDpRESS;: The Lanier Co., 1113 Navasota St., San Antonio, Texas.

BORN: Jan. 30, 1909, Staten Island, N.Y. parents: Charles Edward Baldwin, ’go,
Marianne Perry.

PREPARED AT: Westminster School, Simsbury, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931. ,

MARRIED: Frances Krohn, June 19, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles Edward Baldwin, Jr., ’26, M.B.A., ’28; Oliver Hazard
Perry Baldwin, ’27.

[ 46 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Office equipment representative, manager, The Lanier Company.
MEMBER OF: St. Mark’s Episcopal Church; Rotary Club of San Antonio.

MY sincere appreciation is extended to the Class Report Committee,
and to John Hurd locally, for their insistent and patient attitude.
This twentieth day of January is the “Swan Song” date, to be sure.
By way of an historical past, I celebrate my twenty-eighth year
out of Harvard, which gives me an age advantage, of a sort, in that
I left you all in 1931 to start in business, for obvious reasons. R. H.
Macy’s Basement was a good bargain during the early depression,
then to International Business Machines for relief. They trained me
in Newark, New Jersey, Endicott and Buffalo, New York, before
opening the second World’s Fair at Chicago. Transferring to Boston
I joined the Universal Credit Company and later, after practically
stealing a few repossessions, I joined Monroe Calculating Machines
Company, who sent me some years later to Washington, D.C., so
Uncle Sam could put his finger on me quicker.

As a draftee I toured the country in training, for a year, before
earning my commission at the Adjutant General’s School at Fort
Lee, just out of Washington, D.C. They ordered me to the Arsenal in
San Antonio, Texas, which then seemed like an outpost. I willingly
left the service as a captain in 1946, married Fran who had been
visiting from Missouri, and selected San Antonio as our home and
watched it grow at the rate of better than 25,000 a year ever since.

The office equipment distributing business continues to serve me
well and the home we have established has a welcome mat out as big
as all of Texas (not excluding Alaska) for all of you who will come
south. Thanks for keeping in touch with me. It promises to make
me more appreciative. Hope to see you all in the coming years.

[47]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ROBERT FRIEDRICH BAMPTON

 

HOME AppRESS: 10 Brookfield Way, Morristown, N.J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Rayonier, Inc., Eastern Research Division, Whippany, N.J.

BorN: April 13, 1913, Tacoma, Wash, parents: Frank Gordon Bampton, Anna
Nachtsheim.

PREPARED AT: Stadium High School, Tacoma, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Helen Margaret Coffman, June 30, 1940, Seattle, Wash. CHILDREN:
Barbara Louise, April 1, 1941; Roberta Lee, May 6, 1942; Elizabeth Rose,
Sept. 2, 1949.

occupation: Research chemist, Group Leader, Rayonier, Inc., manufacturer of
chernical cellulose.

- OFFICES HELD: Member, four years, chairman, one year, School Board, Shelton,
“Mash.

MEMBER OF; American Chemical Society, since 1956.

pupBLications: U.S. Patent No. 2,847,411 and No. 2,762,795; Canadian Patent
No. 554,598.

JUNE, 1934, so long ago, or was it yesterday? With Commencement
behind me, I loaded my trunk, books and a spare five gallons of oil
into the trusty Model A and headed for home, the Pacific Northwest,
via Yellowstone, California and Oregon. After a summer of un-
successful job-hunting — but some mighty successful fishing —
graduate work at the University of Washington looked more at-
tractive than the CCC, so back to the books I went.

About the middle of November, however, Rayonier Pulp & Paper
Company decided a chemist was just what they needed to wash
laboratory glassware, and I had my first job. Advancement to shift
chemist meant odd hours, but provided an opportunity to ac-
cumulate extra vacation time. When the Tercentenary rolled
around there was a whole three weeks available to revisit Harvard
and also help Charlie Foss tie the knot. Back to the Northwest and

[ 48 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fishing, mountain climbing and skiing I went with hardly an east-
ward glance. The Twenty-fifth Reunion — that seemed a million
years away.

In 1939 Helen came into my life. We were married in 1940, June,
of course, and settled down to raising a family. The draft board
found research on rayon tire cord essential enough to keep me
buried in test tubes for the duration. Just what happened to the
period of °45 to 55, I'm not quite sure. Barbara and Roberta grew
into teenagers, Betsy came along, Rayonier expanded and a couple
of not exactly earth-shaking patents issued. Maybe four years of
school board work helped pass the time.

During the summer of ’55, word of the company’s new Eastern
Research Division laboratory under construction in New Jersey
filtered through to the back country. By Christmas we knew we
were on the list to go. Moving, after fourteen years in the same
home, showed how much junk, in addition to a few treasured
possessions, had been accumulated. The trip east, via Oregon, Cali-
fornia and the Grand Canyon (in lieu of Yellowstone) appears close
enough to a complete reversal of my postgraduation journey to
imply, if not permanence, at least a prolonged visit in these parts.
Currently, we find ourselves typical suburbanites, complete with
traffic problems, school problems, split-level, high taxes and mort-
gage.

Perhaps we're slightly addled, maybe it ts just maturing, or possibly
it is the time of life when one gets a little foolish, but in the last two
years we have come to love the East. Of course, being this close
to Harvard is not without its compensations. Although a daughter's
high school graduation will conflict with the Reunion, Ill be thinking
of the Class come June ’59.

[49 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

PHILIP BANCROFT, JR.

 

HOME AND OFFICE apprEss: P.O. Box 695, Walnut Creek, Calif.

BORN: Sept. 20, 1911, San Francisco, Calif. PARENTS: Philip Bancroft, ’03, Nina
Eldred.

PREPARED AT: Mt. Diablo High School, Concord, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., cui laude, 1934.

MarRiED: Ruth M. Petersson, June 30, 1939, Berkeley, Calif. cuttpren: Peter,
June 26, 1944; Nina Ruth, July 30, 1946; Kathy, April 30, 1952.

occuPATION: Farming; operator of pear and walnut orchard.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Contra Costa County Walnut Growers Association,
since 1938, Contra Costa County Taxpayers’ Association, since 1952,
California Farm Bureau Federation, since 1957; member, Advisory Board
for the Promotion of Bartlett Pears, since 1948; member, Program Com-
mittee, California Pear Pro-rate, 1953-57; foreman, Contra Costa County
Grand Jury, 1956-57.

MEMBER OF: Walnut Creek Rotary Club; Friends of the Bancroft Library,
Contra Costa County Historical Society.

DAVID BAND

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1838 Robert St., New Orleans, La.

[ 50 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: Stevens-Band, Inc., 1300 S. Peters St.. New Orleans, La.

BorN: Dec. 20, 1913, Birmingham, Ala. parents: Mannie Band, Flora Friedman.

PREPARED AT: Phillips High School, Birmingham, Ala.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1934.

MarRIED: Dorothy Helen Hiller, Jan. 5, 1943, New Orleans, La. CHILDREN:
David, Jr., May 24, 1945; Ellen, Dec. 14, 1948; Merrie, May 30, 1951; John,
June, 1952; Jean, July, 1953.

OCCUPATION: President, Stevens-Band, Inc., also Stevens-Band Paper Company,
Inc., paper converting and distributing.

FOUR and one-half years (1941-45), Field Artillery, U.S. Army,
first lieutenant.

FRANKLIN FOLLER BANKER

 

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 415 Castle Shannin Blvd., Pittsburgh 16, Pa.

BORN: Oct. 4, 1910, Greenwich, Conn. Parents: Franklin Allen Banker, Grace
‘Tween. |

PREPARED AT: Greenwich High School, Greenwich, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.
occupation; Publisher.

BANKER has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since
1954.

[51]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

BURRILL DEVEREUX BARKER, JR.

 

HOME aDpREss: Harvard Street, Marblehead Neck, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Patterson, Wylde & Windeler, Inc., 4o Broad St., Boston 9,
Mass.

BORN: Jan. 11, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Burrill Devereux Barker, ’o1, Irene

Fitch Shepard.

PREPARED aT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

MARRIED: Jean-Lamont Proctor, May 20, 1933, Concord, Mass. (divorced 1955);
Cynthia Landon (Watts), Sept. 9, 1957, Beverly Farms, Mass. CHILDREN:
Jean-Lamont, Feb. 8, 1937; Burrill Devereux, 3d, Nov. 8, 1938; Jennifer

Watts, Aug. 2, 1950 (stepchild); Priscilla Watts, Nov. 26, 1951 (stepchild).
HARVARD SON: Burrill Devereux Barker, 3d, *60.

OccUPATION: Insurance; general agent and broker; president and treasurer, Pat-
terson, Wylde & Windeler, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Member of corporation, Salem (Mass.) Hospital; director, Boston
Protective Department, Boston Board of Fire Underwriters.
MEMBER OF: Eastern, Pleon and New York Yacht Clubs.

AS I now, at long last, sit down to address myself to the problem
of Bert’s questionnaire, Cynthia aptly says, “Your opening sentence
must be the most difficult!” How true, particularly after rereading
the enlightening accounts which I have penned for previous reports.
I had hoped that these would adequately cover the first twenty years
of “life since graduation,” and perhaps they will, but then again for
good order’s sake a brief summary is probably indicated.

After two years of college residence in uncertain academic stand-
ing, I returned to the other side of the Charles River from whence
I had sprung and entered the general insurance business. The year
— 1933!!! Despite this unpropitious start, I have continued with
the business, becoming a partner of the firm in 1937 and president
and treasurer when we incorporated in 1954. The insurance busi-

[52]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ness can be fascinating and challenging if one takes it as a profes-
sion, and this I have attempted to do. 1 am glad I chose this career
and commend it for consideration by sons of 1934.

My business career was interrupted by a tour of duty with the
Navy from 1941 to 1946. Although unspectacular from the point
of view of enemy action, it was interesting. Starting in mine-
sweepers, I went to coastwise patrol and later escort of convoy.
Although always | in the Atlantic between Greenland and the Carib-
bean, I “did succeed in making one crossing in time to celebrate V-J
Day in London. My naval duty ended with command of a destroyer
escort and the rank of lieutenant commander.

My hobbies have continued to center about ships and the sea—
yacht racing and coastwise cruising principally. During the winter
months I have built several kit boats for the children and for our
own use and am now seriously considering furniture as an alternate.

Foreign travel has been limited to a quick European trip in 19535.
but winter vacations to the South have been frequent of late, as I
have had the good fortune to develop several clients in that area.
To me the Bahama Islands are much more interesting than our main-
land and offer greater recreational opportunities, This year, how-
ever, we are going further afield, to the Leeward and Windward
Islands, so that by the time this goes to press my love for the
Bahamas may have been lost to the Antilles.

A closing observation —in looking over previous class reports,
I paused long enough to read again the Secretary’s Foreword in our
Fifteenth Anniversary Report. It certainly painted a black picture
of our class at that time! We owe a debt of gratitude to our Class
Committee for the job which they have done in restoring the class
unity and reviving the spirit which was ours while in college. Our
Reunion this spring will be the climax of their efforts, and all signs
point to the most successful reunion ever held by a Harvard Class.

[53]

UAW CLE LD J

HARRIS LINCOLN BARNES

 

HOME appRESs: 1548 Noelle Way, Napa, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Berglund Tractor & Equipment Co., Napa, Calif.

porn: Nov. 19, 1911, New Haven, Conn. parents: Lincoln Wade Barnes,
Letitia Harris.

PREPARED AT: Hopkins Grammar School, New Haven, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932. DEGREE: A.B. (Amherst Coll.), 1934.

MarRiED: Martha L. Surface, Aug. 5, 1939, New York, N.Y. (divorced 1952);
Leone L. Schultz, July 9, 1955, San Francisco, Calif. camp: Cherry Wade,
July 4, 1943.

occuPATION: Office manager, Berglund Tractor & Equipment Company, cater-
pillar tractor and equipment distributor.

WHEN I got my CPA certificate in 1941, I thought businessmen
who didn’t or wouldn’t stick to the “simple” distinction between
expense and capital items weren’t doing the right thing. Now, after
thirteen years of helping to make contributions to day-to-day de-
cisions in running the Berglund business, I consider that Ive
learned better, Perhaps it has taken that to relax and smooth down
the once-flinty edges of an overly-self-conscious morality that was
afraid to recognize the propriety of giving oneself the benefit of a
doubt.

A train ride across our country in 1940 and return through the
Canadian Rockies opened my eyes to the immensity of our country
as no amount of reading and study had been able to do before. Two
years ago, Leone and I squeezed a thirteen-day flight to, and around
in, Hawaii into her two-weck vacation from teaching during the
Christmas holidays that made us most happy members of that ever-
growing “club” who want to go back again to the land of the surf-
board, hibiscus and papaya.

Will a broken leg lead to a smarter head? Quien sabe? When I

[54]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

recovered from one a few years ago I started taking lessons in skiing
from an instructor, instead of from myself. On the other hand,
Leone broke her leg while skiing with an instructor who didn't
recognize her weariness, and I found that it was an expensive way
to learn not to adjust safety bindings too tightly.

A night-school course in nutrition for Leone shortly after our
marriage led to a joint, continuing interest in the subject, particu-
larly as explained by Adelle Davis. We are finding we have the
still-unresolved problem of decreasing energy (and increasing
girth), but we are not without faith in our ability to solve it.

We attend meetings of the local unit of the American Fuchsia
Society now and then and putter around the house with projects
inside (hi-fi and storage space) and outside (flower and bush
gardening) in a very modest sort of fashion. I’m still a Republican,
although disenchanted. In the light of Monty’s published comments
on Ike I think I can guess what his private opinion must be of this
unhappy stand-still compromiser who won’t implement his decisions
with action. .

No great church-goer (although I joined the Riverside Church in
New York City in 1941), I’ve been having fun with my religious
beliefs lately. I've worked with and enjoyed various viewpoints in
assessing the nature, function and power of religious belief, such
as the Reverend James Welgos in his Human Engineering Group
and publications, Ron Hubbard in Dianetics and Scientology, the
Reverend Charles Francis Potter in The Lost Years of Jesus Re-
vealed, and even Robert Heinlein’s science-fiction, Sixth Coltern,
currently published as The Day After Tomorrow. Dr. Potter's
story of the Essene communities made me feel a jolt when I realized
I was accepting the man rather than a miraculously-revealed dictum. —
More and more I find myself accepting full and complete respon-
sibility for anything and everything that happens to me. I believe
that there is a self-building power in each of us that most have
only suspected, and few have tapped.

[55]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

EDWARD MALCOLM BARNET

    

HOME ADDRESS: 1723 Livingston St., Evanston, IIl.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Institute for Management, Northwestern University, Chicago
rr, Il.

BORN: May 29, 1912, Brookline, Mass. parents: Lucius Jean Barnet, Stella Kohn.

PREPARED AT: Eaglebrook School, Deerfield, Mass.; Phillips Academy, Andover,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: S.B., cur laude, 1934; M.B.A., 1936; PH.D.
(Columbia Univ.), 1954.

MaRRIED: Orpah Rice Paul, Nov. 26, 1936, Wayne, Ill. cuitp: Holly Jane, Aug.
13, 1947.

occuPATION: Professor of marketing and director, Instirute for Management,
Northwestern University.

OFFICES HELD: Department manager, Marshall Field & Company, 1936-42; major,
Chief of Secretariat, Office of Food and Agriculture Division, Military
Government for Germany, and post exchange officer in Panama, 1942-46;
assistant to president, Saco-Moc Shoe Corporation, 1946-47; assistant pro-
fessor of marketing and management, University of Buffalo, 1947-50;
visiting professor and assistant director, Management Conference, Uni-
versity of Toronto, 1948-50, assistant dean, Graduate School of Business
and coordinator of Executive Program, Columbia University, 1950-54;
consultant in management, Marshall Field & Company, Midland Industrial
Finishes, American Institute of Baking, Rogers, Slade & Hill, Alderson
& Sessions, McKinsey & Company, Illinois Bell Telephone, Motorola;
director and co-conductor, Advanced Management Program, Creole
Petroleum Corporation (a Jersey Standard affiliate), Caracas, Venezuela,
1956-57.

MEMBER OF: American Marketing Association; American Economics Associa-
tion; American Institute of Management, American Association of Uni-
versity Professors; Beta Gamma Sigma; Alpha Kappa Psi.

PUBLICATIONS: “Recent Innovations in Retail Mass-Merchandising,” Ann Arbor
Microfilm Publication No. 8336; “Innovate or Perish,’ Columbia Uni-
versity Press, 1954; “Showdown in the Marketplace,” Harvard Business
Review, July-August, 1956.

[ 56]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HOW pretentious it seems to record for all to see the path one has
trod in twenty-five years. Yet, as Whitehead wrote when we were
in college, “A great society is one in which its men of business think
greatly of their functions.” That has been my mission since I
abandoned poetry and entered service in what some have called the
temple of Mammon. For I am a teacher in the field of business edu-
cation. My aim is not to make it easier for men to become merely
rich, but in the sense that “they may have Life and have it abundant-
ly.” That is why the field of management education—a new
frontier-like pre-school education — excites my imagination. To
see already proven men experience the re-exposure to concepts
drawn from their own experience and their scattered inventories of
knowledge is to see a re-awakening of sensitivity to opportunities;
it is a process of fusing latent potential into ever greater under-
standing in terms of the goals of an enterprise, of individuals, and
of society itself. In our industrial society, our business leaders, at all
echelons of management, are compelled to assume a citizen respon-
sibility that transcends their jobs per se.

How did I get to this state of mind? Having rushed to Chicago to
make the world safe for retailing, under the inspiration of that great
teacher, Malcolm P. McNair, I bumped squarely into the gal who
has put up with me since. She was in the chinaware department at
Field’s and we met over a Wedgwood pot. Through all our wander-
ings, through war and shoe business into teaching, she has always
had the courage of my convictions. It was she w “ho asked, “VW. hy
don’t you do what you say you've always wanted to do?” When 1
asked, “What’s that?” she answered, “Why don’t you teach?”
When I asked, “Do you want to starve to death?” she replied she
did not think that was necessary. A daughter of a Congregational
minister in Iowa, she knew what one could live without. So-o-o, at
the age of forty-two, I completed four years’ work leading to a
doctoral degree. Those were lean years, income-wise, teaching
half-time, deaning, consulting, et al. Our daughter was born three
weeks before I started teaching in 1947, tw ‘elve years after our
wedding and six months after we > seriously started trying to find one
for adoption, Teaching is exciting w hen you can see the hghts go
on in people's eyes as ” bits and pieces of understanding begin to
coalesce into ideas, insights, understanding. It is the jov of opening
windows of the mind. _

Hundreds of students— undergraduate, graduate, executive —
have been the victims of my peculiar views. I hear from them still —

C57]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

from South Africa, Canada, Venezuela, New York City and Kansas.
I answer their letters. I sometimes can help them get new jobs. It
is a rewarding kind of life.

We have a nice seventy-five-year-old home. All three of us make
noises on the piano, the Hammond organ, the radio and the television.
Our thirteen-year-old dog, who found us during a blizzard in Maine,
has traveled almost everywhere we have; although she is French,
she picked up a Spanish bark in Caracas; so did we. Among our
“students” in Caracas, one is now—since the revolution last
January — Minister of Communications, another is head of the
Central Bank; another head of the National Airline, National Tele-
phone Company, etc. ‘The program we started is now continuing in
the Central University under Venezuelan professors in the Spanish
language, after taking it themselves and after a year of indoctrina-
tion at “Northwestern University.

How curious are the orbits of our generation, while we try to
maintain our normal “axis” lives of getting and spending, maintain-
ing life insurance, maintaining cars and income tax payments. In-
terrupted by war service at a critical age career-wise, getting off
to a slow start depression-wise, how wise are we yet now that we
are no longer the coming generation? We are here. Many of my
classmates and their contemporaries have achieved wealth and dis-
tinction in varied fields of endeavor. In this age of sputniks, there 1s
still great challenge ahead for our remaining quarter-century. The
problems of how to make life worth living for those who no longer
die after retirement, is one which promises great opportunities for
new kinds of education and industries. We need not fear boredom
but only the chance to harness our time and energies creatively. It
is my hope that those who can will band together to share their
successes and abilities to further their usefulness as educated and
educating persons. With the shortage of teachers facing the nation,
some who have the skills and resources within themselves should give
thought to partial retirement from money-making and give of them-
selves to the classrooms, night-schools and the like—not merely
write a check of contribution. Most of all, the status image of the
teacher must be restored to a level of respect. This cannot be done
as long as the symbol of automobile brand is the criterion of social
attainment. I take this opportunity to ask my classmates what they —
have done to enhance the prestige of teachers in their communities.

[58]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ARTHUR JOSEPH BARRETT

    

HOME apprEss: Sprout Brook Road, R.F.D. 3, Peekskill, N.Y.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Nabisco, 425 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 4, 1911, Portsmouth, N.H. Parents: Michael Aloysius Barrett,
Alice G. Fagan.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MarrieD: Alice Parker Murphy, April 24, 1937, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Michael A., April 8, 1938; Sheila Parker, Feb. 2, 1943.

OCCUPATION: General office personnel manager, National Biscuit Company.

MEMBER OF; Putnam County Republican Club.

GRIDLEY BARROWS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 24 Ware St., Lewiston, Maine.

OFFICE appRrEss: Alonzo J. Harriman, Inc., 292 Court St., Auburn, Afaine.

BORN: Jan, 29, 1912, Brooklyn, N.Y. Parents: Frank Gridley Barrows, ’06, Mary
Turner Merrill.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934; B.ARCH., 1955.

MARRIED: Mary Sue Laheist, 1950, Boston, Mass. (deceased 1957).

[ 59 ]

LUA JTL

occupation: Architect, head designer, Alonzo J. Harriman, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: First Reader, First Church of Christ, Scientist, Auburn-Lewiston,
Maine.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

IT was somewhere off Panama, after I had stood my first wheel
watch (this was back B.C.— before we had reached Cambridge)
that the first mate of the freighter on which I had signed as an
ordinary seaman took me to the wing of the bridge and asked me to
look astern at our wake — not so much to humble me, but by way
of emphasizing that it was a straight course that was wanted. He *
didn’t mind my signing my name, but — why did I have to go back
and dot my “i P32”

For further emphasis he took me into the charthouse and showed
me a graph on which my deviations had been recorded in red ink
by the gyro compass. A straight line — that was what the company
wanted. “That is what any employer wants,” so said an old friend
of my father’s, an M.I.T. professor to whom I talked when I was but
recently returned from the war in the Pacific. I wanted to go to the
Business School and have a career in business! It would be easy;
after all, I had had only five weeks’ training when the Navy shipped
me off to Guadalcanal — and, anyway, I wanted to have a fresh
start! So many did. Or perhaps, it may have been the two and one-
half stripes. |

When the professor wisely asked me to look back at my wake
and consider not its aberrations but rather its direction, I could
see that it was all in the line of art and architecture. That I could .
have a second chance — that I could resume the career I had chosen
before entering college and for which I had prepared in my under-
graduate years was a breath-taking thought!

But I did— or I should say WE did. Without my wife’s en-
couragement and help, it would have been impossible. It meant
working in an architect’s office in New York and going to night
schoo] at Columbia for four years. It meant returning to Cam-
bridge and working full time at the G.S.D. for three years. But
one day — twenty years after — my thesis was finished and I walked
down the aisle to be awarded my degree in architecture.

Was it worth it? Yes, I feel it was—if only for the qualities
that had to be seen and proved mine in order to make the achieve-
ment possible, to finish something one had started.

The practice of my profession took us to Auburn, from where
my great-grandfather set out to Boston nearly a hundred years ago.

[ 60 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Actually I live on the other side of the river in Lewiston, sur-
rounded by Bates College people who tolerate me only because our
college colors are identical. There is a good skating pond at the
end of the street and a practice ski slope at the top of the hill, at
the bottom of which lives the man who represents us so well in
Congress, despite his party affiliations.

It is appropriate that I conclude by saying that that which has
given meaning and coherence to things for me has been my deepen-
ing interest and study of Christian Science. It has brought me back
on course time and again, At present, I have the privilege of serv-

o
ing the branch church, of which I am a member, as First Reader.

ALEXANDER BARRY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 502 Rock Creek Drive, Ann Arbor, Mich.

OFFICE apprEss: Dept. of Anatomy, University of Michigan Medical School,
Ann Arbor, Mich.

BORN: March §, 1913, Ayer, Mass. PARENTS: Eugene Silver Barry, Rachel Augusta
Osgood.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934; A.M. 19373 PH.D. 1938. —

marRieED: Kathleen L. Miller, Aug. 30, 1939, Providence, R.I. cHmpren: Alexan-
der Eugene, Oct. 6, 1944; Jane Emily, July 27, 1949.

occupaTion: Professor of anatomy, University of Michigan Medical School.

MEMBER OF: American Association of Anatomists; Sigma Xi; American Society
of Zoologists.

PUBLICATIONS: Scientific publications in the field of embryology; chapter on nor-
mal structure of the heart in Pathology of the Heart, edited by S. FE. Gould,
published by Thomas.

AFTER graduation I stayed on at Cambridge continuing the work
I had already started as an undergraduate. For four vears I con-

[61 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

tinued as a graduate student and tcaching assistant, After prying
sufficiently into the functioning of the embryonic heart under Pro-
fessor L cigh Hoadley, I gor my Doctorate in 1938. Following this
[went to the terra incognita of Michigan, where I was an instructor
in the Department of Anatomy of “the University of Michigan
Medical School, The major event during this period was that I
finally got smart enough to be married.

In 1940 I joined the Air Force and spent the next three and a half
vears as an aviation psychologist, running high altitude (low pres-
sure) chambers to test and train Air Corps personnel. Finally I
got in a bit of research at the Aero-Afedical Laboratory at Wright
Field. At long last I was promoted from captain to civilian, and
returned to Michigan. Since then I have continued teaching anat-
omy, especially embry ology, to medical students, done a bit of
research on human embryology; brought up two children; been
promoted through the ranks to full professor; i in general been one
of the fortunate few who are making a living doing what they like
most to do. In spite of the usual irascibility that we all acquire at
our advanced years, I don’t often get too irritated at being a mem-
ber in good standing of the professional group that appears to get
the maximum number of requests for financial donations and the
minimal amount of wherewithal to respond.

As to social, religious and political convictions, they are in gen-
eral flexible, personal, strong and (I hope) untainted with the
missionary complex. I am sure I have found no true overall gen-
eralizations, and am equally sure that no one else has.

FRANK PARKER BARTLETT, JR.

  

Hoste apowbss: Kay Webster Se, Needham, Mass,

[ 62 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE Abpress: F. P. Bartlett & Co., Inc. 130 Jackson Se, Canton, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 6, 1910, Everett, Mass. pareNrs: Frank Parker Bartlett, Bertha
Lennox.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934.

MARRIED: Jane Talmadge Loomis, Aug. 17, 1935. Needham, Muss. crtpers
Frank Parker, 3d, Sept. 23, 1938; David Loomis, Sept. 14. ro41.

occupaTion: Manufacturer of specialty adhesives.

OFFICES HELD: President, Public School Association, B.S.A. Committee, director,
Community Fund, Technical Committee of Adhesive Association, trustee.
Baptist Church, P.S.A. School Salary Committee; member, Rubbish D:s-
posal Committee, High School Building Committee, Future School Needs
Committee, Town of Needham, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Needham Golf Club; Harvard Club of Boston; Boothbay Yacht
Club.

MY grossest error has been not to attempt a re-do of the general
exam which I failed in 1934. But in spite of no degree, I did obtain

a job shortly with Howe & French, researching in lacquers. After
a year at this, I joined Union Paste Company in Medford, gradually
absorbing some of the unknowns of the adhesive business. After
thirteen. years of learning and struggling in this business, I. wich
others, founded F. P. Bartlett & Company, Inc., for the manu-
facture of specialty adhesives. We are sull trving to develop suc-
cessful formulae.

RICHARD BASSETT

5
4
x
anelncthosdt nenay= stall

 

on
#

 

HOME appress: 15 Westfield Sct. Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: The Wright Line, Inc. 575 Boviston Sty Boston, Vliw.

BORN: March 7, 1gt2z, Pittsburgh, Pa. parenes: George Pomeroy Basco Po Va
Bremfoerder.

PrePaRED AT: Shady Side Academy, Pittsburgh, Pa.

[ 63 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

Marriep: Janet Faxon Knight, Dec. 4, 1937, Wellesley, Mass. cHiLDREN: Nancy
Knight, Aug. 27, 1938; Susan Pomeroy, March 21, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Bremfoerder Bassett, ’30.

occupation: Branch manager, The Wright Line, Inc., data-processing ac-
cessory equipment.
MEMBER OF: Dedham Country and Polo Club.

TWENTY-FIVE years are a pretty long time in anyone’s life, but
the years since graduation seem to have passed almost too quickly.
As a whole, they have been fun and they have been good.

Graduating into a depression era brought problems with a mini-
mum of delay. A Harvard education has proved to be an asset but
it did not do me much good at the start. A $25-a-week job, door-to-
door selling coke, looked very fine, but didn’t permit much in the
way j
ber, 1937, and I was married to my one and only wife. This was by
all odds the best thing that could have happened to me.

Then came World War II. My part in this was served in mine-
sweepers from the Mediterranean to the China Sea. Some parts were
pleasant and some not so pleasant, but my experience was something
that I shall always remember and never regret.

Returning to normal life was a wonderful happening but, like
many of us, I found [ had to run fast to make up for the five war
years. Time takes care of a lot of things and seems to have solved
the problem well enough. I am now associated in sales work with
The Wright Line, Inc., a small but growing company manufacturing
data-processing accessory equipment. After several years spent in
New York and Pennsylvania, my energetic wife; two normal
daughters, a neurotic poodle and I (no comment) returned to the
Boston area in 1953. We bought one of the old houses in Dedham
which keeps us busy but which we think is worth the effort. No
major changes since then; same wife, same kids and same dog.

Our children continue to be a source of pleasure — and worry —
to Janet and me. Our elder daughter, Nancy, is a junior at Smith,
while Susan is at Beaver Country Day School and is getting ready to
face the problem of how to get into which college (more worries).

My hobbies are pretty much run of the mill: golf, tennis and
sailing when invited by friends, plus the usual community involve-
ments. Keeping the grass cut and my hair growing might be classi-

fied as projects. I still vote the straight Republican ticket and keep
hoping.

                                                

L 64 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

While I live and work in Boston, I managed to catch a Madison
Avenue ulcer about a year ago. The operation took me out of
circulation for a while but I am better than ever now.

To sum it all up, here’s hoping that the next twenty-five years
will be as good and as much fun as the last.

WALTER BAUMGARTEN, JR.

 

HOME AppREsS: 6335 Westminster Pl., St. Louis 5, Mo.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 3720 Washington Blvd., 1027 Beaumont Medical Bldg., St. Louis
8, Mo.

BORN: March 3, 1912, St. Louis, Mo. PareNTs: Walter Baumgarten, Louise

Knapp.

PREPARED AT: John Burroughs School, Ladue, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931, 1932-1933. DEGREES: A.B. (Washington Univ. Sc.
Louis), 1935; M.p. (ibid.), 1939.

MARRIED: Julia Stevenson Hardin, April 24, 1943, Stamford, Conn. CHILDREN:
Edward Thaddeus Foote, 2d, Dec. 15, 1937; Julia Hardin Foote, June 18,
1940 (stepchildren); Letitia Stevenson, June 12, 1946; Ann Speck, Sept. i,
1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Speck Baumgarten, ’39.

OccUPATION: Physician — internal medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in clinical medicine, Washington University School
of Medicine, 1945-58; member of board, St. Louis Heart Association, since
1948; alternate delegate, American Medical Association, 1952-36; board
member, 1951, president, 1956-57, Missouri Heart Association, board mem-
ber, 1953-58, chairman, Health and Hospital Division, 1955-58 Social
Planning Council of Greater St. Louis; councilor, St. Louis Medical Se-
ciety, since 1956, member, Mayor's Commuttee on Public Health and Hos-
pital Survey, 1955-57; vice-president, University Club, 1932-53.

MEMBER OF: Nu Sigma Nu Medical Fraternity; St. Louis, Missouri State, and
American Medical Associations; St. Louis, Missouri, and American Heart
Associations; St. Luke’s Hospital Staff; St. Louis Internists Club; University
Club; Harvard Club of St. Louis.

[ 65 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

MY farewell to Harvard College in 1933 has not dampened my en-
thusiasm for Harvard nor my support of Harvard College, Through
various activities in the St, Louis Harvard Club my friendships and
associations in Cambridge have continued through the years. At
Washington University in St. Louis I completed my A.B. in 1935
and M.D. in 1939. My hospital training was at St. Luke’s Hospital
in St. Louis, and my medical residency at Presbyterian Hospital in
Chicago was terminated by World War II.

The military-medical service was a very dramatic change from
the cloisters of academic life and hospital work. As flight-surgeon
in the 356th Fighter Group, 8th Fighter Command, I spent two years
in England. During these years my chief duty involved the “proper
care and feeding” of fighter pilots, Fortunately, the “crash strip”
at nearby Woodbridge (Suffolk) and our RAF Air-Sea-Rescue
Squadron of Walrus planes (a biplane amphibian of 1923 originally
designed to “carry four naval officers and their golf clubs”) of
AFB Martlesham Heath gave me interesting medical experiences in
aircraft war injuries and also the survival problem of those men
immersed in the North Sea and exposed to the winds in all weather.
Finally, the bombings, the doodle-bugs and the blackout were over
and my professional life in medicine could begin.

Judy and her two small children joined me in St. Louis in Octo-
ber, 1945, where we have developed our roots and a fine family
of four children (eldest, Yale ’59). |

The practice of internal medicine continues to be a very satisfying
and stimulating profession: both ministering to the sick and stamp-
ing out disease. A related interest has been a most rewarding civic
activity. This has been my part in the development of a more ef-
fective Health and Welfare Council in St. Louis and in the work of
the Mayor’s Committee on Public Health and Hospitals in St. Louis
and the public and professional research work of the St. Louis and
Missouri Heart Associations.

My avocations have remained much the same these past twenty-
five years. Biography and historical fiction have lured me on since
my study under Sidney B. Fay (Harvard) and Roland G. Usher
(Washington). American philately remains a rather spasmodic and
sedentary interest. And lastly, “spectator” music continues to be a
source of great pleasure, though less frequently than I wish.

My professional and social experiences probably combine with
my evaluation of historical movements to make me a political lib-
eral. Tam convinced that Adlai Stevenson could have led us away

[ 66 J

, 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

from the excesses of Dullesism and MacCarthyism. Certainly the
future holds a great opportunity for political greatness in both
domestic and foreign affairs which men like Adlai, with educated

erception, experience, energy and good will, can develop if we will
only elect and support them.

RICHARD SEABURY BAXTER

 

HOME AppREss: Stuyvesant Avenue, Rye, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 15 Broad St., New York 5, N.Y.

BORN: Oct. 23, 1911, New Rochelle, N.Y. parents: Hugh Henry Baxter, Mildred
Eytnge.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; LL.B. (New York Univ.), 1939.

MarriED: Katherine D., Irving, April 6, 1940, Irvington, N.Y. cumtpren: Mildred,
Jan. 5, 1941; David, June 18, 1943; Katherine, Sept. 18, 1947; Hilary, June 5,

1951.
occuPaTION: Law; partner in firm, Duer, Strong & Whitehead.

MEMBER OF: Cruising Club of America; Apawamis Club.

FOLLOWING law school, I spent a year in the office of Donald
A. Gray, 1 Wall Street, New York City. In January, 1941, I went
to work for Duer, Strong & Whitehead, 15 Broad Street, New York
City, and have been associated with that firm ever since. I became
a partner in 1946.

I was in the Navy from January, 1942, to October, 1945, most
of the time in minesweepers. I had the good luck to run into class-
mates Lockwood and Thurber on Guam, where John acted as both
judge advocate for the Central Pacific Area and “custodian” of the
N.O.B. officers club cellar. He managed to Keep us in and out of

trouble.
I have a growing family of three girls and a bey, David is a

[ 67 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

candidate for the Class of ’65. Milly is a freshman at Bradford. M
wife and I find time for golf, and some trout fishing in the Catskills.

Every few years I get into the Bermuda race or some other form of
nautical discomfort.

NORTHROP BEACH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 6821 W. Auto Club Rd., Minneapolis 20, Minn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Nicollet Clinic, 1009 Nicollet Ave., Minneapolis 2, Minn.

BORN: Jan. 11, 1912, Minneapolis, Minn. PARENTS: Joseph Warren Beach, A.M.,
’o2, Elizabeth Northrop Warren.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., cu laude, 1934; M.D. 1938.
MARRIED: Caroline Wiggin, Feb. 2, 1941, Minneapolis, Minn. (divorced 1958).
CHILDREN: Joseph Warren, Dec. 31, 1942; Norris Wiggin, Jan. 12, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Warren Beach, a.M., °47.
OCCUPATION: Pediatrician, associated with Nicollet Clinic.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, 1943-45, president, 1945, Northwestern Pedi-
atric Society; member, Family and Children’s Service Board, 1945-48;
president, Minneapolis Pediatric Society, 1954.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Pediatrics, National Audubon Society.

AFTER graduation I spent four enjoyable years at Harvard Medi-
cal School; had an internship at the University of Minnesota Hospital
in internal medicine and another at Johns Hopkins (Harriet Lane
Home) in pediatrics. It took another year of residency in pediatrics
at the University of Minnesota before starting in pediatric practice.
This work though demanding, I have found very rewarding.

I have lived in a semi-rural area where it is easy to observe birds
without long trips. When able to leave for longer periods, I
traveled to Europe once shortly after the war; shorter trips included
Florida, Mexico and California— welcome relicf from our five

[ 68 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

months of winter. I am the father of two sons, one of whom is
rather an athlete and wit; the other, though handicapped by pohio-
myelitis at the age of three, lets little activity escape him. My motto
is: Courage Pami le diable est mort.

BENJAMIN BEALE

  

HOME ApDpRESS: 247 Nahatan St., Westwood, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Bird & Son, Inc., East Walpole, Mass.

BORN: July 1, 1912, Barnstable, Mass. parents: Arthur Messinger Beale, '97,
Louise Darwin Miller.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Marie Louise King, Oct. 14, 1944, Jacksonville, Fla. CHILDREN:
Eleanore Marshall, Dec. 29, 1946; Susan Miller, April 25, 1949; Benjamin,
Jr., Aug. 20, 1951; Nathaniel M., Sept. ro, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Assistant sales manager, Box Division, Bird & Son, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Wayland Republican Town Committee. 1948-53, Board
of Health, Wayland, 1952-53, Westwood Republican Town Committee,
1955-58, Westwood Finance Committee, 1957, Vestry, St. John’s Episcopal
Church, Westwood, 1958; deputy director, Civilian Defense, Wavland,
1952-54; chairman, Cancer Drive, Wayland, 1953, Everymember Church
Canvass, 1958; adviser, Junior Achievement of Eastern Mfassachusetts, 1956—

57°
MEMBER OF: Drifters Ski Club.

A LITTLE learning is a dangerous thing. What job can I get?
What field should I enter? These were the first thoughts and prob-
lems I had twenty-five years ago, There was also an opportunity to
see parts of Europe, but that would be out of the question unless a
job was obtained first. After a lot of pavement pounding, IT was
hired by Bird & Son at $22.50 a week. It was apparently an excellent
choice, as I am still working for the same concern. Since I did not

[ 69 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

have to report until August rst, it was possible to take a short trip
to Europe, where I spent eighteen days touring France and I'ngland.
Although this trip was brief, I have never regretted the decision to
make the flying journey.

I led the life of a bachelor, worked five days — then always found
something doing somewhere on weekends. It was an enjoyable way
of life. In 1939, Classmate Andy Marshall talked me into joining the
Massachusetts National Guard. His advice was most sound, as a
few months later Hitler marched into Poland and soon we were
federalized and on our way to Camp Edwards. I managed to pass
my “Ten Series” and entered into federal service as a second lieu-
tenant. Five years later I was discharged from service as a major,
having spent four years in the States in the field artillery, guarding
coastlines, and.one year in Hawaii and Leyte preparing for the
invasion which didn’t come off in our case.

During this five-year tour of duty, I met my wife in Oklahoma,
where she was trying to learn how to be an aviation machinist mate
in the Waves. We were married at her base in Jacksonville, Florida,
and Sea Island, Georgia, afforded us, or we it, an eight-day honey-
moon — after which I went overseas for a year and she went back to
work at Bird & Son. Our first child was born in 1946, when we were
living in Bolton, Massachusetts. A year later we bought our first
house in Wayland and proceeded to get mixed up in all sorts of civic
commitments, such as Civilian Defense, Board of Health, Republican
Town Committee, etc. We moved to Westwood five years ago,
vowing not to get so involved in town affairs, but life is as frantic
as ever, if not more so. I am on the church vestry and Town
Finance Committee, with drives for various charities in between.
I’ve given up singing in the choir, the Republican Town Committee
and Junior Achievement, which Andy Ritchie and I started two
years ago in Walpole.

Vacations so far have been exceptional. We are loaded with
generous relatives who live on Cape Cod. This gives the kids a great
break, with plenty of sailing, swimming and tennis. Each summer
my wife and I have been able to do a little cruising, which we both
love. In the winter we do some skiing, mostly local, but we do
belong to a ski club in Jackson, New Hampshire. We hope that.as
the children get older, we shall be using it more often.

I am assistant sales manager of the Box Division at Bird & Son. I
like my job, as it involves dealing with people, interesting products
and challenging problems. I look to the future with optimism. I

[70 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

feel the last war has matured and broadened our nation. Labor
unions have been allowed to proceed unbridled, but in a few years
I am certain they will receive the proper legislative action to bring
them into line in the same manner as action taken on management in
the early 1900's, I don’t feel the world is coming to an end and so I

>
look forward to seeing everyone at our Twenty-fifth Reunion.

JAMES HENRY BEARD

 

HOME ApprEss: Smith Hill Road, Monsey, N.Y.

OFFICE appRESS: Newsweek, 444 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

BoRN: May 28, 1913, New Orleans, La. parents: James Henry Beard, ’03, Gladys
Wheeler.

PREPARED AT: Suffern High School, Suffern, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

MarRiED: Mary Coe Blanchard, Oct. 12, 1937, Suffern, N.Y. cup: James
Henry, 3d, Dec. 15, 1940.

occupATION: Promotion director, Newsweek magazine.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Magazine Promotion Group; Mag-
azine Advertising Bureau.

NOTHING changed since the Twentieth Anniversary Report, ex-
cept for a new job.

[71]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

WILLIAM WAITE BEARDSLEY

 

HOME ADDRESS: P.O. Box 15, Marion, Mass.

BorN: April 14, 1913, Wareham, Mass. parents: William Waite Beardsley, '08,
Flizabeth Hayward Gibbs.

PREPARED AT: Bronxville High School, Bronxville, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

marriep: Charlotte Ten Eyck Newbury, Sept. 7, 1940, Marion, Mass. CHILDREN:
William Waite, 3d, Aug. 17, 1946, Charlotte Ten Eyck, Jan. 3, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Hodge Beardsley, Harvard Business School, 1941-42.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

A FEW months after emerging from the lovely languor of senior
spring at Harvard, I found myself caught up in the maelstrom that
is Macy’s at Christmastime. The entanglement proved lasting, and
several years hence, after weathering this and many other storms
to the end that I acquire the wisdom and hard shell requisite to a
livelihood in the marts of trade, I won my spurs as a Macy buyer.
This was challenging and rewarding work under the best of auspices.

War soon intervened and after a prolonged struggle my deter-
mination to be a naval officer, in keeping with my seagoing ancestry,
finally prevailed over the grinding wheels of Selective Service. An
ensign, at last, after indoctrination at Fort Schuyler, I was assigned
to Local Defense, Fargo, and Charlotte and I were delighted to be
back in Boston. We spent a happy four months living at 9 Brimmer
Street and weekending in Marion after Saturday lunches at the
Ritz. Then followed SCTC and Command School in three summer
months in Miami. I managed top standing in spite of devoting more
time to bridge than to studies, no doubt due to the vast advantage
of a Harvard background. Went through the fascinating bustle
of commissioning, fitting out and shakedown on two ships, taking
off in the second for three months’ light duty (?) in Trinidad and

[72]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Panama, then departure for the Pacific. We were out a year west
of Pearl Harbor and logged out 100,000 miles with short ‘Hawaiian
interludes on each end. The ship was PCS 1429 on Amphib Control
duty in the invasions of Leyte, Lingayen Gulf and Okinawa. Now
that the remembrance of boredom and discomfort have dimmed, the
memories of exploit and escapade are gratifying. We had no op-
portunity for glory but did our job reasonably well and maintained
a high degree of sanity aboard. We always felt that Jap fliers
would be ill-advised to waste bombs on a ship of our insignificance.
I went out as exec and came back as skipper.

After the war I returned to Macy’s. I was transferred to the
Atlanta store as buyer and manager of the furniture department.
Subsequently, I worked as such in stores in Rochester, New York,
Scranton, Pennsylvania, and Phoenix, Arizona.

Now back in New England — we hope, to stay — we are indoctri-
nating Bill, twelve, and Chassie, seven, into the activities, asso-
ciations and environment we knew as children and young adults.
They are apt and interested and we expect to turn out accomplished
sailors, swimmers, skaters, etc. Bill is showing signs of intellect
superior to his father’s, so we feel that he will make it at Harvard
in ’68.

I remain young, active and healthy, thanks to (1) being the parent
of young children, (2) continuing athletic endeavor “assisted by
navy reconditioning, (3) multiple extra-curricular and recreational
activities.

HERBERT WILTON BEASER

 

HOME appREss: 2310 Colston Drive, Silver Spring, Md.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Senate Office Bldg., Washington 25, D.C.
BORN: Feb, 17, 1913, Boston, Mass, parents: Maurice Beaser, Rav Salvin,

[73]

|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. Cu72 laude, 19343 LL.B. 1937-

MARRIED: Bernice Jacobson, Aug. 18, 1940, Melrose, Mass. CHILDREN: Lawrence
Jay, Oct. 30, 1945; Ray Allen, Dec. 5, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Samuel Bernard Beaser, *30.

occuPATION: Legislative assistant to U.S. Senator Ernest Gruening, ’07, M.D., 712,
of Alaska.

oFFIcEs HELD: Member, U.S. Delegation to 6th, 7th and 8th Sessions of United
Nations Commission on Human Rights, U.S. Delegation to 7th Session of
United Nations Social Commission; Federal Security Agency Representa-
tive on State Department’s Interdepartmental Committee on Human Rights
and the Status of Women; legal assistant to Attorney General of Massa-
chusetts; chief counsel, Subcommittee on Juvenile Delinquency, U.S. Senate
Committee on the Judiciary; legislative assistant to U.S. Senator Herbert
H. Lehman; administrative assistant to Congresswoman Edith Green of

Oregon.
MEMBER OF: Senate Secretaries Club; Congressional Secretaries Club.
PUBLICATIONS: Co-author, “The Shame of America,” Saturday Evening Post,
series of five, January-February, 1955, “Standards for Specialized Courts

Dealing with Children,” and other socio-legal publications of the U.S.
Children’s Bureau.

IN 1934 my “twenty-fifth” seemed an eternity away. Now — in
1959 — the intervening years have somehow slipped away as quickly
as a movie “flash back.”. Assessing those years —a task more dif-
ficult than I ever dreamed possible — they have on the whole passed
pleasantly. Generally they have seen me doing what I wanted to do
and what I took great pleasure in doing.

Looking at the balance sheet twenty-five years later, I am blessed
with a wife and two boys who form a loving and cohesive family

.. with a brand new assignment involving the adjustment to
statehood of the Union’s newest and largest State... and with
many pleasant and lasting memories. |

The years go by in kaleidoscopic fashion: three pleasant years at
the Law School .. . a summer stint with the Harvard Legal Aid
Bureau, where “life in the raw” is seen vividly by the fledgling
lawyer . . . service in the Office of the Attorney General of Massa-
chusetts (Hon. Paul A. Dever) with the Bureau of Frauds and
Rackets . . . private practice in Boston . . . service in the Office
of the General Counsel of the Federal Security Agency (now the
Department of Health, Education and Welfare) providing legal
advice to the Bureau of Public Assistance ... as counsel to the
Office of Vocational Rehabilitation ...as counsel to the U.S.
Children’s Bureau . . . as Federal Security Agency Representative
on the State Department's Interdepartmental Committee on Human

[74]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Rights and the Status of Women... “of counsel” to the Mid-
century White House Conference on Children and Youth... as
counsel to the National Council on State and Local Action for Chil-
dren and Youth... member of U.S. Delegations to the United
Nations Commission on Human Rights and to the United Nations
Social Commission ... service on the “Hill” as chief counsel of
the Senate Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Juvenile De-
linguency . . . legislative assistant to Senator Herbert H. Lehman
. . . administrative assistant to Congresswoman Fdith Green of
Oregon, They all form a distinct pattern in the mosaic of the past
quarter of a century.

As is inevitable, my memories are inextricably bound up with
certain outstanding persons and happenings with whom and with
which I have been fortunate enough to be associated . . . Memories:
of the years (1946-52) as counsel to the U.S. Children’s Bureau
when I served as legal adviser to Katharine Lenroot and Martha
Eliot to whom, as chiefs of that Bureau during those years, the
people of America owe much because of their dedicated efforts to
improve needed maternal and child health and welfare services
. . . of the years (1950-52) as one of the advisers to Mrs. Franklin
D. Roosevelt, U.S. Representative to the United Nations Com-
mission on Human Rights, whose work on behalf of the protec-
tion and preservation of the fundamental rights and freedoms of men
and women throughout the world have endeared her to the peoples
of the Free World and have made her truly the woman of this
century ... of service as legislative assistant to former Senator
Herbert H. Lehman, who richly deserved and earned with his
every act and deed the title of “Conscience of the Senate of the
United States”... of the years (1953-55) of guiding the work
of the Senate Subcommittee on Juvenile Delinquency during the
“McCarthy Era” in an attempt to show that a Senate investigating
committee can bring into public view the facts that need the spot-
light of publicity without endangering and treading upon individual
rights and freedoms . . . these are but a few of my outstanding
memories of the past twenty-five years.

On January 3, 1959, shortly after the newest (and biggest) state
was admitted to the Union, I was sworn in as the legislative assistant
to one of the two senators from that State of Alaska, Hon. Ernest
Gruening (Harvard ’o7, M.D., 12). Having a hand in solving the
myriad of legal and legislative problems confronting this “baby”
state looks promising and challenging.

[75]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

I wrote in my Twentieth Anniversary Report: “Reading back
the list of things I have been doing . . . I.can see why I am having
trouble answering the question as to what my diversions are.” That
is still true, although, as my boys grow older, I am hoping to devote
more time to some of the activities which they enjoy . . . or some
of the activities they will be presumed to enjoy, such as “HO”
trains.

ROBERT JOSEPH BECKERMAN

 

HOME apprEss: 448 N. Oakhurst Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Standard Financial Corp., 403 W. Eighth St., Los Angeles, Calif.

BORN: Aug. 21, 1912, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Henry Alfred Beckerman,
Tillie E, Kline.

PREPARED AT: Milford School, Milford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MarRigeD: Jeanelle Zeiger, Aug. 27, 1940, Cleveland, Ohio (divorced 1955).
CHILDREN: Denise Lynn, July 1, 1948; Terry Helene, April 7, 1953..

HARVARD BROTHER: Stanley Marvin Beckerman, ’30.

occuPaTION: Head, Time Sales Department, Standard Financial Corporation,
industrial financing. |

9

NOTHING worth bragging about except that I rose to the rank
of lieutenant (senior grade) in the USS. Navy — spent nineteen
months in the South Pacific, 1943-45.

Iam a Republican because I believe that “the best government is
the least government” — but it’s a lost cause.

[ 76 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT LEE BEHRENS

 

HOME ADpRESS: 2614 Hampshire Rd., Cleveland Heights 6, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Belmar Candy Co., 3148 E. goth St., Cleveland 27, Ohio.

BORN: Aug. 23, 1912, Cleveland, Ohio. Parents: Lee Grant Behrens, Rhoda
Joseph.

PREPARED AT: Cleveland Heights High School, Cleveland Heights, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934.

MARRIED: Celia Sherman, June 12, 1944, Cleveland, Ohio. cHILDREN: Lee Frances,
June 2, 1946; Beth, Jan. 10, 1949; Roberta Jan, Jan. 11, 1952; Sarah Jane,

July 9, 1957.
OCCUPATION: Sales manager, Belmar Candy Company.
OFFICES HELD: Leader, Great Books, 1946, 1950.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Cleveland; Deak Lodge, Knights of Pythias.
PUBLICATIONS: Editorial adviser, monthly columnist, Confectionery Manufacture.

I KICKED at our boxer dog. I missed him. His teeth missed me.
He crept under the bed. I threw the baby in the play pen. As I
locked the three older girls in a bedroom, I warned them deter-
minedly to play with their dolls. Then I turned on my wife:

“IT can’t write this report,” I snarled as I tore up the sixth attempt.

“Nobody ever reads them anyway. They’re printed monuments
to all the floating egos . . . Wasn’t that the word you used in those
courses on Freud?” She smiled patiently as she looked up from her
sewin

“What the devil has Freud got to do with my report? Besides,
he’s old-hat. Everything’s existential today.”

“Pm glad you used that word. That should i impress your class-
mates,” The ashtray hit the lamp near her head. “You're not so
good a shot as you used to be, Tell them, like the others did, that
your vision is growing dim. That’s a riot.”

“Look, Celia, I gotta get out of the candy business. It's drying
up like a lot of wholesale businesses, and I’m drying up with it. I
can’t be fooling around with a report . . .”

[77]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

“It’s embarrassing to admit the necessity for change . . .”

“As a teacher of semantics, where everything in the world is con-
stantly changing, I’m surprised at you. It may be a non-sequitur,
but you've been a good father and husband, and you don’t control
business conditions, particularly in your own business. If your
classmates have any milk of human kindness in them, they'll write
you, and then we can go to the Reunion, and . . . Say what ts a
Harvard man, anyhow?”

“A Harvard man is a state of mind, You remember when we were
talking about God? Will you shut up and go to bed? I’m going to

remain a mailing address.”

CHARLES MAURICE BENNETT

    

HOME ADDRESS: 33 Cochato Rd., Braintree 84, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 263 Summer St., Boston 10, Mass.

sorN; May 16, 1911, Dorchester, Mass, PARENTS: Charles Maurice Bennett,
Lillian Harriet Abbott.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.

MarRieD: Margaret Edith Fields, July 1, 1937, Suffield, Conn. cHILDREN: Peter
Abbott, April 26, 1938, Jane Hunter, April 27, 1939; Charles Maurice, 4th,

July 23, 1941; Margaret Louise, Nov. 15, 1943 (died May 15, 1954); Robert
Fields, June 30, 1953.

occupation: Wool business; secretary-treasurer, Boston and National Wool
Trade Associations.

memuer oF: Harvard Club of Quincy; International Society for General
Semantics.

FATE placed me at the very bottom of the wool business in late

1931. Believe me, one just couldn’t earn less and call himself em-

ployed. The picture gradually changed following the days of the

[ 80 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

alphabetical hocus-pocus and the Rooseveltian recession. In tg3y
and during World War II, world currencies sought refuge in com-
modity markets of which wool is one. This situation affected every-
one in the industry, including me. The years from 1942 to 1955
were spent working day and night trying to prove that the old
adage, “no one is indispensable,” was a fallacy. The bubble broke in
1955 and the air has been escaping ever since. After a five-month
vacation I became employed by the trade association.

During those early years, while the future looked so glowing to
me, I succumbed to the thoughts of matrimony which culminated in
marriage on July ist, 1937. The income tax exemptions came more
or less regularly forthwith. The business of rearing a family seems
to me to be a fairly big job. Our geniuses (this spelling preferred)
confront us almost constantly with either the academic and social
problems of their lives on the one hand or their financial problems
on the other. My education was too short to prepare me for the
contrasting differences of today’s modern living with the con-
servative, dull and restrained years of my youth.

I haven’t traveled anywhere except for a brief honeymoon trip
to Nova Scotia and a vacation trip to Texas and Mexico City. Be-
cause of the nature of the business engaged in during the war period
my firm had me excused from service with the armed forces.

To supplement my education I managed to crowd in four years
of night school at Bentley School of Accounting and Finance. Later
I managed a couple of semesters in-general semantics. Out of
curiosity I did a little studying under an organization called Founda-
tion For The Study of Cycles.

Balancing what otherwise is quite a colorless career, I putter and
enjoy working around our home playing the roles of carpenter,
painter, plumber, electrician and any other performance needed. As
for politics, | imagine I am a bit of a cynic. It appears to me that
this semi-socialistic country of ours is headed for full-scale socialism
at a reasonably slow rate. My present occupation has enabled me to
be in close touch with the legislative world where I obtained the
feeling that we are gradually giving up more and more individual
freedom in favor of government rule.

I have always had a deep feeling of loyalty toward Harvard and
sincerely regret that I felt continuance to graduation and a degree
was not possible. I look forward to renew ing acquaintanceships once
again.

[81]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

DAVID ALBERT BERGMARK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 119 Hancock St., Auburndale 66, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: American Unitarian Association, 25 Beacon St., Boston 8, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 13, 1913, Southbridge, Mass. parents: George Hilmer Bergmark,
Christina Blanche Spring.

PREPARED AT: Charlton High School, Charlton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Janet Roper Eastman, Aug. 10, 1940, Charlton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Julia Ashforth, Oct. 31, 1941; Pamela Spring, March 8, 1943; David Eastman,
NOV. 29, 1947.

occupation: Church administration; Continental Campaign Manager, United
Unitarian Appeal.

OFFICES HELD: Accountant, New York Telephone Co., 1935-43; USNR officer
(ensign to lieutenant), 1943-46; executive secretary, Plymouth Church of
the Pilgrims, Brooklyn, N.Y., 1946-50; treasurer, business manager, Near
East Mission, American Board, Istanbul, Turkey, 1950-55; member, execu-
tive committee, Near East Christian Council, Cairo, Egypt; member, board
of managers, Near East School of Theology, Beirut, Lebanon, Aleppo
College, Syria, American Hospital at Gaziantep, Turkey, American Girls’
College, Izmir and Uskudar, Turkey; member, board of directors, Der-
shane YMCA, Istanbul, Turkey, 1950-55.

MEMBER OF: Plymouth Church of the Pilgrims, Brooklyn, N.Y., since 1940;
First Unitarian Society in Newton, Mass, since 1955.
PUBLICATIONS: Collaborated with others in private publication of A Church in

History, the story of Plymouth’s first hundred years under Beecher, Abbott,
Hillis, Durkee and Fifield.

FAMILY, church and business pursuits have so filled my days since
College Commencement that the years have been winged. I am
astonished to find myself faced with the task of looking so far
backward.

A few years of bachelor life in New York in the beginning was
exciting and fun, but they were as nothing compared to the hap-
piness and satisfactions that came with marriage and family respon-

[ 82 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sibilities. Our two daughters were born in Brooklyn and then we
moved to Washington for a few war years. Next it was back to_
New York for a major career shift to church administration. After
our son was born in Brooklyn and when it appeared that we were
fast falling into ruts of urban conformity, we loosed all ties and
moved to Turkey. We all found it easy to adjust to Eastern ways
and we came to love the Turks. Our home life on the Bosporus
was euphoric. Incidentally, we have an adopted A.F.S. daughter for
the school year 1958-59 Gity Tamadon (born July 29, 1940)
from Teheran, Iran.

The five years in the Near East ended all too soon and now,
settled back in Boston with summers in North Truro on the Cape,
we're Americans once more. It will never again be easy for us to
accept all of the superficiality and useless conformity in ‘the Ameri-
can way. It was good to be far away for a while and it is good to be

back. We're ready for the next twenty-five and, may be, a trip to
the moon.

PHILIP BERGSON

 

HOME ADpREss: 7819 Hampden Lane, Bethesda 14, Md.

OFFICE AppREss: Lyon, Wilner & Bergson, 700 Wyatt Bldg. Washington 5, D.C.

BORN: Jan. 28, 1913, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Harry Bergson, ’oy, Augusta Cooks.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. ct dattde, 1934; LL.B. 1938.

MarRiED: Marjorie L. Copelof, Nov. 11, 1939, Douglaston, N.Y. cHitpre~:
Patricia Louise, June 17, 1941; Peter Ames, Dec. 3, 1943; Philip, Jr, Jan. 28
1947.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Herbert Augustus Bergson, ’30, LL.B., °33; Harry Bergson, Jr,
32.

occupaTION: Lawyer, partner in firm— Lyon, Wilner & Bergson,

[ 83 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

orFices HELD: Chief, Litigation Division, FCC, 1944-46; chairman, Pack Commit-
tee, Pack 204, Bethesda, Md., 1952~54; chairman, Legislative Committee,
Bethesda Elementary PTA, 1954-56, Leland Jr. High School PTA, 1956-58;
member, Schools and Scholarship Committee, Harvard Club of Washing-
ton, D.C. ,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington, D.C. (vice-president); Harvard
Club of New York; Orleans (Mass.) Yacht Club; American Bar Associa-
tion; D.C. Bar Association; Federal Communications Bar Association.

PUBLICATIONS: “State Censorship of Television,” Federal Bar Journal, April, 1949.

WRITING about one’s self is probably the most uninteresting
pastime imaginable — and I am a most unimaginative man. In fact,
my lack of imagination — or perhaps the combined wisdom of
Professors Lyman, Crawford and their associates in the Physics
Department in those distant days — is primarily responsible for the
nature of my present occupation: a Washington lawyer specializing
in the practice of radio and television law. But whatever the cause,
through a series of fortuitous and wholly unrelated events, I find
myself presently engaged in a field which is related to my under-
graduate objective — research physics.

In 1934, as some may recall, the outlook for a graduate fresh
out of college was quite bleak — and particularly so for a would-be
research physicist. Research programs as we know them today
were then beyond the fondest dreams of even the most eminent
scientists, and I certainly was not in that category. In fact, I had
serious doubts about my ability to become even a good “assistant
scientist.” But, more important, I met a young lady whom I hoped
to and subsequently did marry; and as we all know, there’s not an
iota of truth in that old canard that two can live as cheaply as one.
So, with the cooperation of an understanding father and despite
the efforts of a frisky stallion to “bash my head in” during my last
year, { completed three years at the Law School, spent a summer
touring Europe with a law school classmate (a Yale man at that!)
and upon returning became a junior associate in my dad’s law firm
in Boston.

The outbreak of World War II effectively disposed of our plans
for a Bermuda honeymoon; and Uncle Sam’s unequivocal refusal
to ignore the after effects of my disagreement with that stallion in

1937 effectively determined my future status as a civilian. My serv-
ice with the Federal Communications Commission’s War Problems
Division and subsequently as chief of its Litigation Division was
singularly unspectacular, But it did serve to effect a logical com-
bination of my undergraduate and postgraduate studies. After

[ 84 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

three and one-half years of government service I resigned to be-
come a member of a Washington, D.C. Jaw firm and, ” despite the
somewhat drastic changes on the national political scene during
recent years, I am still at it.

Our life has been that of typical suburbanites in a community
where the transition from a rural county to a populous suburb has
created innumerable problems, the most important of which has
been the development of an adequate public school system. Well,
I have served my time as a PTA legislative counsel; and both my
wife and I have tried to do our bits for the various local civic and
charitable organizations. The most demanding and to me the most
rewarding activity, however, has been my participation in the pro-
gram of the Washington Harvard Club’s Schools and Scholarship
Committee, under the inspired and able direction of our classmate,
David Krupsaw. One of the collateral benefits of this activity has
been the continuous and close association with the College and
present- day undergraduate life. This in and of itself, let alone my
own youngsters, is a Stark reminder that time passes all too sw iftly.
My eldest will be ready for college next fall. Which of the “Seven
Heavenly Sisters” will have the good fortune to claim her as its
own remains to be seen. My two sons take great delight in threaten-
ing me with going to Yale or some other such inferior institution,
but I keep my fingers crossed.

Most of our summers have been spent on Cape Cod where we
manage to do some small boat sailing, and I occasionally discover
to my annoyance that the winds and sand traps at Eastward Ho
are still the same. We have traveled little but, now that the young-
sters are grown up and my good wife has learned that the airplane
can provide mobility and flexibility, we look forward to visiting
those places and doing those things of which we have dreamed for
the past twenty years. Meanwhile, reading, bridge and teen-age
parties occupy our “leisure” time.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ROBERT CHARLES BERNER

 

HOME apprEss: 16 Beresford Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Keystone Camera Co., Hallet Square, Boston 24, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 21, 1914, Boston, Mass. PareNTs: Max Berner, Annie Ezer.
PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 7agna cum laude, 1934; M.B.A. CUM
laude, 1936.

MarRiED: Hilda Schwall, Oct. 22, 1939, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Diana Beth,
June 30, 1942; Richard Brian, May 3, 1946.
HARVARD BROTHER: Alvan Samuel Berner, ’46.

OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president, Keystone Camera Company, in charge of
marketing (sales, advertising, merchandising and public relations).

OFFICES HELD: President, 1953-54, lifetime director, Photographic Manufacturers
and Distributors Association, captain, Photo Team, Combined Jewish Ap-

peal of Boston, 1955, 1958; vice-president, Brookline High School Parent-
Teachers Organization, 1957-59.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; University Club of Boston; Boston Sales Execu-
tives Club; Boston Club of Harvard Business School Alumni.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles in photo trade magazines: Photo Dealer and
Photo Trade News.

HALF-WAY through college — made the decision to be a business-
man instead of a chemist at the start of junior year when Dr. Conant
made the point that a student couldn’t work his way through and
also carry a full schedule of laboratory work. Economics seemed
a fascinating field anyway and I made the shift in my major. Going
to the Harvard Business School was the logical thing to do after
graduation, especially when the only job offers available were at
twelve dollars per week and a scholarship and a waiter’s job in the
dining hall made it seem so simple to continue graduate work. Living
in McCulloch on the Charles for two years was more enjoyable than
commuting on the Boston subway and made many more friend-

[ 86 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ships. The only advantage of college commuting was that it gave
time to read the interesting literature assigned by Professors Mat-
thiessen and Murdock in English 33. The Business School was a
good place to harden up the mind, steel the emotions, learn how to
think in business problem terms and condition us to make the
transition from the pleasant surroundings of the Yard to the cold,
depression-ridden business world of the thirties.

My professional career has covered three different and interesting
phases: financial, government service and the manufacturing busi-
ness. It has also covered three interesting and varied cities: New
York, wartime Washington and Boston.

Four years in the financial capital of the world, being a pygmy
rubbing elbows with the financial giants of the country, was inter-
esting and practical. Although this was the end of my financial
career, it later gave me the unique and valuable experience of being
one of the few financially-trained merchandisers.

The year 1940 was the exciting year when we went to war in-
dustrially; Washington called and the Berners went shortly after
our marriage. Wartime Washington, for three years with the
various government agencies, was exciting and thrilling and at the
time I felt 1 was doing something valuable and constructive. Like
other business juniors I was suddenly transformed into an “ad-
ministrator” with the task of building up a large organization over-
night. Being on “the inside” was stimulating, but in watching
great brains grapple with monumental national and international
problems, frequently with ineffective or disastrous results, I was
convinced that no groups of human beings, regardless of how ca-
pable they may be, should attempt to control the lives of other
people any more than absolutely necessary. From that day on I
have been a firm believer that the less government in business the
better.

By 1943 I had enough of the government, including the Navy, as a
civilian; the Army wisely decided it didn’t want me and I went back
to New York and the beginning of a sixteen-year career in manu-
facturing and merchandising. I have been in two growing industries,
the electronics business and the photographic business, and they
have given me many satisfactions. ‘To me, business can be a w onder-
world combining the creativity of the architect, the satisfaction of
the builder, the skill of the strategist, and the thrills of the gambler.
I have found very little in life as exciting as the job of building up
a business: the planning, the traveling, the making new business

[ 87 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

have got to know many of our classmates, especially the Boston
group. This has been an enjoyable experience, and our “‘ittle re-
unions” form a good part of our social life. We're looking forward
to our Twenty “fifth Reunion as something very real to be shared
with lifelong friends,

DANIEL LEE BERNI

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 6001 Pickford St., Los Angeles 35, Calif.

BORN: Sept. 20, 1911, Youngstown, Ohio. parents: Benjamin Harrison Bern-
stein, Elizabeth Schonfield. |

PREPARED AT: Raven School, Youngstown, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931, 1932-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; B.SC.ED. (Ohio State

—_-Univ.), 1938; M.p. (Univ. of Kansas), 1944. -

UNMARRIED, .

occupaTIon: Retired physician and surgeon, as of 1958.

OFFICES HELD: Resident physician, St. Peter’s Hospital, Brooklyn, N.Y., 1944-
45; Health Officer, Luce-Mackinac Counties, Mich., 1945 (resigned); di-
rector, Maternal and Child Health, Kern County, Calif., 1945-47; panel
member, Joint Conference of California Departments of Health and
Education (Fresno, Calif.), 1948, senior physician and surgeon, Modesto
State Hospital, 1949; chief of resident physicians, St. Francis Hospital,
Florida, 1952.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California, since 1949; Elks Club of
Boston, 1954.

pusLications: Contributed (gratis) weekly newspaper articles on Public
Health, Communicable Diseases, Preventive Medicine, Medical Jurispru-
dence, Epidemiology, Sanitation, etc. for St. Ignace News in Upper
Peninsula of Michigan; wrote monthly reports for Kern County (Calif.)
Dept. of Health and Dept. of Education (for two years, having state-wide
circulation).

BALZAC (?) once wrote that the story of any man’s life, if properly
told, would make a great novel. T have been many things in my

[ 90 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

forty-seven years: student, amateur boxer, teacher, lawyer (for
myself) and what not. Unfortunately, except for newspaper articles
dealing with factual material (medical subjects), I have had no
experience in writing since Harvard English courses. So, how can
I write you a little story that will interest such learned men as you?
Is it not true that, as the phrase goes, one can always tell a Harvard
man, but not MUCH! Well, I shall try this task. If the reader be-
comes bored, he can toss this aside for a biography more interesting,
remembering as the idiot box (TV) title states, “You Asked for It.”

To understand what came after 1934, one must know what came
before, At least in my case. I can only give you here the “high
spots.” In 1919 three things happened that shaped my later life:
one, I witnessed our family doctor insert a long needle directly into
my grandfather’s heart; a few minutes prior to the adrenalin injec-
tion the huge 200-pound, 63”, eighty-six-year-old man had died
with a cardiac attack; the doctor brought him back to life. I decided
then and there I wanted to be a doctor. Little did I realize that it
would be twenty-five years before I would receive my medical
license. Lonely and strange, if exciting, years. I was only eight.
But I was stubborn, The second thing that happened was that in
my mother’s 2000-book library I read the life of Theodore Roosevelt.
Teddy (like my father) was, as you know, a man who, if the situation
required a punch in the jaw as the quick solution to a problem, was
not at all averse to using this answer.

I admired both T.R. and Dad, albeit both were at times violent
men. I made a mental note that Theodore went to Harvard and
boxed there. I decided, if possible, to do the same. The third thing
that influenced me as a boy of eight in Ohio was watching my hero,
Jack Dempsey, demolish Jess Willard for the heavyweight cham-
pionship of the world in Toledo, Ohio, an “outing” to which my
Uncle Lou had taken me. Remember, there was no radio or tele-
vision for little boys in those days. If this was a wrong thing for a
little tot to “pick up,” it was a way to entertain a nephew or grand-
son if one had him on his hands in the sweltering Ohio sun forty
years ago.

Oh, I got a good academic education for ten years after that. I
went to a preparatory school that a hundred years ago was the
equivalent of a midwestern college education; ‘if I had it to do
over again, I don’t think I would wish for anything to be ditfer-
ent from what it was. I was serious-minded, but had self-created
fun; true, one got cheated out of six or eight hours of hell-raising,

Cor]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ELIOT LAWRENCE BERNSTEIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 10 Dartmouth St., West Newton 65, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: American Biltrite Rubber Co., Chelsea 50, Mass.
BorN: Dec. 16, 1913, Chelsea, Mass, parents: Frank George Bernstein, Fannie

Lipsky.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. #agna cum laude, 1934; LL.B. CulH
laude, 1937.

MARRIED: Ruth E. Snider, June 29, 1947, Boston, Mass. cHiLprEN: Ellen Gail,
May 22, 1948, Amy Jane, May 4, 1949.
HARVARD BROTHER: Maurice Jacob Bernstein, 1923-1926.

OocUPATION: Vice-president, director and sales manager, American Biltrite
Rubber Company.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Temple Mishkan Tefila, Newton, since 1950, Hebrew
Teachers College, Brookline, since 1951, Chelsea Memorial Hospital, since

1954 (all Mass.); member executive committee, Tanners Council As-
sociates, SiNCe 1953.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Law School Association; Shawmut Lodge, A.F. & A.M.;
Belmont Country Club, Belmont, Mass.

UNTIL about the middle of September, 1934, I was undecided as
to my immediate future. I had been admitted to both the Law and
Business Schools, and at the same time I was toying with the idea of
taking a Master’s degree in history. What prompted me, at the last
moment, to enter Law School], I ‘do not recall, but my three years
there were happy and productive ones.

While I had no intention of practising law in the beginning, I
surprised even myself by getting grades high enough to achieve the
scholastic eminence of being chosen as an editor of the Law Review.
It was, thercfore, easy to convince mysclf that I had a special aptitude
for the law, and that I should practise after graduating. I finally
decided to practise with a small firm in Boston and was admitted to

[94]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the Massachusetts bar in the fall of 1937. I soon found, however,
that the study of law and its practice were two distinctly different
things. Within a year, I found myself trying to decide whether to
continue, when the sudden death of my father made the decision for
me. I entered my family business (manufacture of rubber products)
and no decision that I have ever made has been more satisfying.
The work is interesting, and it has been a great source of pride to
_have helped in building the business to the leadership which it enjoys
in its segment of the rubber industry.

Early in 1942, I applied for a commission in the Navy, and when
my orders finally came through, it was a pleasant surprise to find
myself ordered to report to Naval Training School Harvard, and
to be billeted in Thayer North. Four pleasant months at Harvard
were followed by orders to report as communications officer of a
destroyer (USS Kearney DD432). I spent the remainder of the war
aboard the same ship as communications and finally executive officer.
Our ship had the good fortune to be shunted from one area to
another, so that I was able to see a good deal of the world.

After discharge from the Navy, I returned to the rubber business
where I have been ever since. In June, 1947, I was married to Ruth
Snider (Wellesley, ’46), and have since lived the life of a typical
suburbanite with my life centered around my home and family. I
have not been able to devote as much time as I had hoped to com-
munity affairs, nor have my wife and I been able to travel as much
as we like, but the life is a pleasant one and I hope it continues for
many years to come.

HAROLD WILLIAM BILES

 

HPME ADbRESS: 205 Lovely St., Unionville, Conn,

[95]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934
BorN: May 17, 1911, Brooklyn, N.Y. parents: Horatio Albert Biles, Agnes Jane
Lindsay.
PREPARED aT: Pleasantville High School, Pleasantville, N.Y.; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934. '
MARRIED: Sabina Grape, Sept. 9, 1938, Chicago, Ill. (divorced 1942).
PUBLICATIONS: Ephemeral pieces in small-town newspapers.

GENTLEMEN, if it were not for that motto, “Veritas,” that ap-
pears disjointedly on the Harvard escutcheon (are those three books °
a stack of bibles?), I should hold my peace and hide in decent
reticence behind those sage words: “No report received.” For
some reason, my conscience refuses to allow me that easy out, so
I'll have to make a public confession.

I'm a vagrant, a ne er-do-well, a flitter-to-gibbet, a bum (not,
however, with the Dodgers! ). If I manage to get up enough scratch
to attend the Twenty-fifth Reunion, I believe that my claim to last
place in the procession will be undisputed. I’m quite sure that no-
body, in the Class or out, has accomplished as little as I.

As I look back on a quarter of a century, I’m astonished at my
own naiveté. My father died when I was three years old, and my
mother made many sacrifices to send me through school. At that
time (early ’30s), I was not impressed. While I flattered myself
that I had at least normal intelligence, I was quite content with
“centleman’s grades” (3 Cs and a D). Although I had no money,
no prospects and no saleable talents, I allowed nothing to interfere
with my self-imposed program of bottles, dice, cards and general
merriment. Incidentally, sometimes I stil get silly enough to draw
to an inside straight! The faculty must have been pleased with my
childlike grin. Otherwise, I should never have been allowed to
squeak by, even in Group IV.

After reading over the foregoing effusion, I realize why I feel
constrained to tell the truth. It is because those four years were the
happiest in my life. No family, no responsibilities, no worries (ex-
cept just before examination time), and the companionship of in-
telligent, congenial contemporaries. -Who could want anything
more? And, while I never stood high enough for my head to brush
the hem of a scholar’s gown, there was something in the air on the
banks of the Charles that can penetrate even the thickest of skulls.
I hope there still is!

Because I was one of that doomed but gallant little band known
as “dropped freshmen” in my sophomore year, I probably re-

[ 96 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

member more members of the Class of 1935 than of 1934. Who
remembers the unsung hero (1934) who hurled the grapefruit at
Rudy Vallee from the balcony of the Metropolitan Theatre in
1931-32? I do, and I’m proud to say that I was a fellow-inmate of
Grays Hall in the Yard during that historic year. While I am on
this reminiscent pitch, how many remember Jack Crickard, ’32, the
best collegiate ball-carrier I ever saw? Lots of people remember
Barry Wood and Ben Ticknor of the same great team, but I’ve
seldom heard mention of Crickard.

I presume that many of you serious businessmen will shake your
heads sadly at this exhibition of adolescent nostalgia. I happened
to attend a Class luncheon preceding the last Princeton game (an
unnecessary loss, by the. way) and I was saddened to hear the
brethren prattling about nothing but business. I was unfortunate
enough to run into the same nonsense at a dinner for Exeter alumni
in New York a few years ago. Although I admit business is a
necessary evil, I believe it should be left at the scene of the crime —
not dragged in to cast a pall over what (ostensibly at least) is
supposed to be a social gathering, if not a reunion of old comrades.

Well, enough of this maundering! Let’s get down to brass tacks.
For about seven years after graduation I was a small-town news-
paperman — reporting and editing. Frankly, I got tired of it. Right
after Pearl Harbor, I wanted to climb into a uniform, but various
branches of the service were not eager for my services. I went to
Iran early in 1942, as a rodman in a survey party. This happened
to be a civilian defense project under army control. The outfit
built wharves at Khorram-Shar on the Shatt-al-Arab and a highwav
about 200 miles north through the southern Iranian desert. Ironically
enough, all this was to facilitate transmission of supplies to Russia.

Leaving these monuments to progress in the hands of the Persian
Gulf Command, I returned home in the spring of 1943. I then
shipped out as ordinary seaman in the Merchant Marine. Eventually,
I rose to the dizzy eminence of able seaman (or A.B., as it is known
in the vernacular). I continued going to sea until the fall of 194).
Then, I seized the first small-town newspaper job I could get, and
slaved in it for three years, getting more disgusted every day.

Since this job happened to be located in a village on the south
shore of Long Island, I began playing around with sailboats. When
I couldn’t stand my job any longer, I bought an old clamboat
(power), and went commercial clamming, It was a tough life, but
an independent one. It happened to be my luck that the clams began

[97]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

to disappear in my second year at it. I discovered that I couldn’t
catch enough to make ends meet. So —I sold the boat in 1952, and
since then have been in a downward spiral of occupations: factory-
worker, seaman, rodman, hotel houseman, porter in institutions,
counterman in eating places, etc. I was recently rejected for a job
as sweeper in a factory, so I believe [ve hit the nadir. I can’t even
aspire to the status of an Untouchable. As you may have suspected,
John Barleycorn played an important role in this melodrama. I’ve
left him marooned for years at a time, but I always return to pick
him up again. Somehow, I seem to need his company. For me, it
looks like a hard winter ahead. My esteem for that old fable about
the grasshopper and the ant increases with every year.

As to my convictions (I prefer the terms, “beliefs” or “opinions” ):

Social — Never trust a man who does not drink. Political — By
all means, let us preserve the two-party system, and be careful to
have members of both parties in every governing body. “Set a
thief to catch a thief.” Religious — “Do unto others as you would
have done unto yourself.”

I can’t close without reminding you of some of the great profes-
sors of our time whom I, at least, cannot forget —

Kittredge: “Why are you coughing, gentlemen? I’m not cough-
ing, and I’m doing all the talking!”

Hooton: “Observe my head, gentlemen. A good example of a
brachycephalic of a rather primitive type.” |

Dr. Lake: “Whither thou goest, I will go.”

Merriman: “And I tell you, gentlemen, Catherine of Aragon was
a ———— on wheels!”

[ 98 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOSEPH WARREN BISHOP

 

HOME ADDRESS: 249 Foreside Rd., Falmouth, Maine.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Union Mutual Life Insurance Co., 400 Congress St., Portland,

Maine.
BoRN: April 16, 1912, Brooklyn, N.Y. Parents: Eliot Bishop, Pearl Rogers.

PREPARED AT: Tabor Academy, Marion, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932. DEGREES: A.B. (Colby Coll.), 1935; M.c.s. (Dart-

mouth Coll.), 1937.
MARRIED: Barbara Gerry Kuhn, Aug. 24, 1940, Waterford, Maine. CHILDREN:

James Carpenter, Feb. 3, 1947; Stanley Briggs, April 15, 1950.
OCCUPATION: Insurance; controller — accounting and general management, life

and sickness and accident insurance.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Bangor Chapter, 1949-55, Southern Maine Chapter,
since 1956, National Association of Cost Accountants (now called National
Association of Accountants); treasurer, Maine Republican State Commit-
tee, 1952-58; member, Alumni Council, Colby College, 1958.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Accountants; American Accounting Asso-
ciation; Life Office Management Institute (associate).

PUBLICATIONS: Technical articles in Bulletin of National Association of Account-

ants and Best’s Insurance News,

AFTER a short and academically unhappy stay at Harvard, I took
a fresh start at Colby College, graduating with the class of 1935.
After two years of studying business administration at the Amos
Tuck School, I stayed in New Hampshire as a cost accounting
clerk with the Brown Company — enjoying life in some of the best
skiing, fishing and hiking country ever created. From there to Con-
cord, New Hampshire, where I was chief accountant for the
Public Service Commission when the war came along.

Three and a half years as an anti-submarine warfare instructor
took me to Boston, Key West, Hawaii and points west. I still keep
busy in the Naval Reserve and am now a commander, meeting
weekly with a Naval Reserve Officer School class.

[99 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

When the war ended, an opportunity came along to return to
Colby College to teach. I was chairman of the Department of Busi-
ness Administration from 1948 until 1955 and chairman of the Social
Science Division the last year there. During that time Barbara and
I adopted two boys who are turning out to be better looking and
smarter than anything we could have produced ourselves.

As a teacher J took a turn at just about everything the department
offered — accounting, statistics, human relations, marketing, a fresh-
man survey course, and a business policy course for seniors run on
case method and using Harvard cases. As teacher and department
head I was (and still am) convinced that the teacher of under-
graduates needs to keep his viewpoint broad and to avoid specializa-
tion. I am also ready to argue at the drop of a hat that business ad-
ministration has an important place in the liberal arts curriculum
and that the liberal arts have an important place in a businessman’s
education. In 1955, encroaching gray hairs indicated that I had better
decide whether to be a teacher for the rest of my years or to get
back into business. Business won. In answer to the common
question —I miss teaching but don’t regret leaving it.

Politically I am a conservative, in the general usage of the term.
After six years as officer of the Republican State Committee, I am
always ready to urge that teachers and businessmen take an active
interest in political affairs. As far as the 1958 Maine elections were
concerned: you see, it was this way .

JOHN TATLOCK BLACK

 

ADDRESS: 110 East End Ave., New York 28, N.Y.

BORN: Noy. 10, 1913, Washington, D.C. parents: Otis Fisher Black, Lucy
Tatlock,

[ 100 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Western High School, Washington, D.C.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; ED.M., 19375 A.Mu, 1939; PH.D.

1942.
OCCUPATION: Education.

NO questionnaire returned.

RANDOLPH CHURCHILL BLACK

 

HOME ADDRESS; 26 Eames St., North Reading, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Forbes Lithograph Manufacturing Co., Forbes Street, Chelsea,
Mass.; P.O. Box 513, Boston, Mass. (mailing address).

BORN: Aug. 29, 1910, Coburn, Pa. parents: Alfred Sylvester Black, Hannah M.
Everett.

PREPARED AT: Mount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.

marriep: Norma G. Edkins, June 29, 1940, Melrose, Mass. CHILDREN: Anita
Madeleine, May 30, 1942; Janet Elaine, July 6, 1944; Arlene Linda, Dec. 14,
1947; Paul Randolph, Jan. 24, 1955.

occupaTION: Administrator, Publishing Section, Forbes Lithograph Company,
printing and lithography.

OFFICES HELD: Member, By-Laws Committee, Town of North Reading, 1952;
former captain numerous fund drives; president, Men’s Club, 1953, co-
president (with wife), Couples Club, 1956, chairman, Father & Sons Night
for Men’s Club, chairman, Missionary Committee, Union Congregational
Church.

I REGRET that my stay at Harvard was for only one year, but
being financially bereft, I dropped out of college to pay my bills.
I left with a leave-of-absence and good intentions to return, but the
depression years were my master, and I never found it possible. I
have since managed to secure something of a higher education at
business schools and night schools in various places, but I miss the

Harvard degree sorely.

[ ror ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

I worked two years in the administration office of my old prep
school, Mount Hermon; summers as supervisor of tent headquarters
at the Northfield Summer Conferences; spent a couple of years in
Mason, New Hampshire, chopping and hauling wood; then returned
to Boston for further schooling and another job after a year at
Fisher Business College. The job was at Forbes, but I started as a
secretary and clerk.

I have been at Forbes since 1937; in other words, including the
war years. I was deferred for various reasons, none alone sufficient,
but added together sufficient to keep me out of the service. Mostly,
I was involved somewhat in the printing of maps, charts, etc., for
the Army, Navy and Air Force, as well as invasion currency for
military use (lire, marks, etc.) for the Treasury Department. That
seemed an important task to everyone, despite my minor role. It was
our Forces’ currency plates which the Russians wanted, as related
in the book, Major Jordan’s Diary, but which we returned to
Washington instead for disposal by Morgenthau, Secretary of the
Treasury.

We have been living i in North Reading for over nine years, and
have really lived up there, engaging in church and town activities,
including some service as office holders in town government and
church society. [I also continue to study nights under University
Extension, Boston University and trade association sponsorship. Be-
tween these activities and duties as chauffeur for three daughters, a
wife and son, I have no spare time left!

Meanwhile, I have fond memories, and some include Fair Har-
vard days. I enjoyed especially the geology field trips — the spray
from ocean waves at Beach Bluff, shale outcropping at Squantum,
tossing igneous rock around with Johnny Dean, and the chap who
tossed something softer (grapefruit) at Rudy Vallee in the Metro-
politan Theatre and ad infinitum, It is all a great part of this game
of life!

[ 102 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM PURDY BLACK

 

HOME aAppRESS: 1625 N. Laurel Ave., Hollywood 46, Calif.

BORN: Jan. 17, 1912, Winchester, Mass. parents: Arthur Black, ’03, Frances
Goodwin Purdy. .

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: General Manager (at present between jobs).

MEMBER OF: Jonathan Club; Harvard Club of Southern California.

LOOKING back, the whole thing seems pretty dull with nobody
to blame except you know who. A brief year at the Law School
which proved once again that work is essential for acceptance at
that type of bar. Three years with the First National Stores in
Boston were followed by seventeen years with Lever Brothers during
which the geography of these United States became considerably
clearer. In the middle of the Lever stint, the war came along and
chewed up four years which were spent in the Field Artillery and
included two in Europe. That certainly isn’t the best w ay to see
the country, but it did leave me with a desire to see it under my
own auspices and at leisure.

The years right after the war were hectic ones at Lever and saw
our switch from Boston to New York among other things. In 1955.
I left to come out to California to join the California Avocado
Growers — Calavo. Shortly afterward I became general manager
of this agricultural cooperative and began to have a better under-
standing of Secretary Benson’s problems. After three years, a basic
disagreement between the board and myself on where we must go
ended that association.

I’m still enjoying California and its climate — physical and eco-
nomic — and plan to stay.

[ 103 ]

|
HARVARD CLASS OF 193

I've been active on the Program for Harvard and ain frequ

q
shocked at the lack of response — can’t understand the thinkir
some alumni who make sample gifts or none.

JOHN THOMAS BLACKWELL

 

appress: 7 Bennington Rd., Lexington 73, Mass. .
BorN: Dec. 14, 1912, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Howard Lane Blackwe
Helen Thomas.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.
occupation: Business.

NO questionnaire returned.

+ JOHN BURRAGE BLAKELY

 

eorN: March 25, 1912, Brookline, Mass. parents: David Newton Blakely, Amy
Burrage.

preparen at: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

[ 104 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. 1934.
DIED: June 26, 1948, Brookline, Mass.

BECAUSE of physical limitations, Blakely had lived quietly at home
since graduation. He was survived by his mother and a sister.

WILLIAM PETERS BLANC
(Professional name: Peter Blanc)

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 161 W, 75th St., New York 23, N.Y.

BORN: June 29, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: Edward H. Blanc, 1.B. ’g1,
Martha Elliott King.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1934; LLB. (St. John’s
Univ.), 1938; am. (American Univ.), 1953.

MARRIED: Patricia G. Davis, April 22, 1935, New York, N.Y. (divorced 1945);
Joan Roger, April 28, 1951, Washington, D.C. cxitpren: Michael Peters,
March 9, 1938; Catherine, Nov. 6, 1939; Roger Augustine, Feb. 1, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Artist (represented by the Passedoit Gallery, 121 E. 57th St.
New York, N.Y.).

OFFICES HELD: President, Artists’ Guild of Washington, 1951-53; vice-president,
Baltimore Chapter, Artists’ Equity Association, 1953.

MEMBER OF: Spiral Group (New York City); New York Chapter, Artists”
Equity Association.

pusLications: “The Artist and the Atom,” Magazine of Art, April, 1951, re-
printed in Smithsonian Report for 1951.

SINCE the natural expression of the artist lies in the visual rather
than the verbal field, he is well advised to keep his mouth shut lest
he merely put his foot in it. For this reason, I am tempted to excuse
myself from writing any account of my life since college, but as
the excuse does not altogether apply in my case, since for years
before I became an artist I was engaged in more or less literate pur-
suits, I shall merely write briefly, rather than not at all.

[ 105 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

I have been a lawyer, a soldier, a teacher and an artist. These
occupations overlapped at times, but occurred more or less in that
order. As a lawyer, I experienced the terrors of conflict; as a soldier,
the peace of routine; as a teacher, the complications of human nature
and as an artist, the pain of sp-called creation. I have been most
militant as a lawyer, most peaceful as a soldier, most politic | as a
teacher, and most agonized as an artist. Sometimes I wonder why
the most painful has become my chosen profession. The only —
explanation I can offer is that when I look backwards, my earlier
occupations usually appear to me as a form of game while my
present profession seems always real and always serious. Here, I
suppose, lies the compensation, and no doubt it is for this reason
that the main “social, political or religious conviction” that occurs
to me at the moment stems from a dream I had at about the time
I committed myself to my present path, a dream from which I
awoke sweating and repeating over and over: “The answer to futility
is the imperishable struggle of man.” This was one occasion on
which my subconscious spoke in terms which I have never felt
necessary to question.

RUSSELL ROBERT BLETZER

 

aia ol

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 426 Pine St., Deerfield, Ill.

BoRN: April 5, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: John Bletzer, Marguerite Marie
Dalton.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; S.T.B., 1943.

MARRIED: Ruth Naiman, March 21, 1943, Boston, Mass. cHILDREN: Ingrid Elaine,
Oct. 1, 1944; Jonathan Frederick, Jan. 27, 1949.

occupation: Unitarian clergyman; minister, North Shore Unitarian Church.

OFFICES HELD: Member, School Board, Wilton, N.H., 1944-45, Home Service
Committee, Erie Chapter, American Red Cross, 1947-49, Family Service

[ 106 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Board, Erie, Pa., 1947-49; director, Rowe Junior High Camp, since 1955;
treasurer, Unitarian Ministers’ Association, 1958-60; chairman, Needham
United Nations Day Committee, 1953; currently, board member, North
Shore Mental Health Association, North Shore Human Relations Com-
mittee, member, Family and Child Care Committee.

MEMBER OF: Unitarian Ministers’ Association; Chicago Area Liberal Ministers.

HOW many of our Class, I wonder, feel about the year 1934 as did
the man who directed the lost motorist: “If I wanted to get to
Dublin, I wouldn’t start from here.” For some, 1934 was the year
not to start from. Yet in spite of the stumbling and falling of the rest
of the depression years, we managed to clamber to our feet and
start — belatedly, of course — where we should have been at Com-
mencement time, 1934.

By 1940, having spent six years in a number of none-too-fruitful
endeavors, I was convinced of a number of things. Teaching, my
original goal, was not for me. The ministry, by virtue of my having
discovered liberal religion, via the Unitarian Church, seemed to
offer channels of effort that could utilize my yearnings: toward
teaching, and also some newly-found social concerns and indignation.
Tufts School of Religion was suggested by the minister » of my
church, and that was where I spent the first year of my theological
training. Dean Clarence R, Skinner and Professor Rolland E. Wolfe
were strong influences upon my development, as was also Professor
J. A. C. F. Auer, who served on the faculties at both Tufts and
Harvard. The next year, I transferred to Harvard Divinity School,
where Professor Auer continued to be an intellectual stimulant and
a friend. There were giants in those days! The names of LaPiana,
Cadbury, Pfeiffer, Bixler and Sperry — and Auer, previously men-
tioned — gave the reputation of honest scholarship and unswerving
objectivity to the education of the clergy at Harvard Divinity
School. Without dogmatic persuasion, but with only. the scholar’s
concern for historic facts, these professors tried to steer us along
the path of truth — spelled with the lower case, non-authoritarian
“et. >

The last year of Divinity School brought me a student pastorate,
in Wilton, New Hampshire; it gave me my second Harvard degree,
the S.T.B.; it brought marriage and ordination.

In 1945, 7 was called to the Unitarian Church in Erte, Pennsylvania.
There, during the next four years, I was active in support of the
labor movement, in its struggle to restore the buying power it had
lost with the end of the war and the reduction of overtime pay. By

[ 107 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

1948, there were Democrats in the 28th District of Pennsylvania who
urged me to run for Congress. I decided against making the contest,
but it was a heady excitement that ran through our household while
we talked it over. If it seems odd that a minister in one of the smaller
churches of the city should become known for his views throughout
three counties as a contentious liberal, I can explain that every
Sunday the sermon from our church was broadcast, live, over a
local station.

By 1949, a call came from Suburbia — Needham, Massachusetts,
to be exact — and the next seven years were devoted to a different
kind of ministry from that of a small industrial city. In such
circumstances, the parson works in less glare of publicity, introduces
fewer celebrities, but functions more intensively within the frame-
work of the parish.

Hobbies may sometimes overtake one, rather than be chosen
deliberately: the guppies, for example, that were suggested as a
wonderful live exhibit for our Needham Church School, and became
the first step to a few years of pleasant relaxation as a part-time
aquarist. I can hardly wait to get my hands wet with algae- green
water again, once we stop commuting between Chicago and Rowe,
Massachusetts, for the summer.

And that’s another chapter, too — summer camping. Since 1952,
my wife and I have been counselors and directors of summer camps,
on the theory that our own children get something from the outdoor
life, and that it is a change —even though a slightly exhausting
one — from the allegedly sedentary life of the minister. I haven’t
decided whether it is worse to be a counselor, working for someone
else, or a director, responsible for anything that goes wrong, from a
camper’s allergenic reaction to pollen or diet, to a camper’s assault
upon another with a rock.

And now it is the Midwest, the land of the Great Lakes and the
Chicago Tribune. The Lakes are a plus . . . but need we go into
arithmetic? In 1956, a new group of Unitarians, having launched a
fellowship three years earlier, became eligible for church status. Full
of confidence and enthusiasm, they called a minister a few days
before their church charter was granted, and we have been cultivat-
ing Lake County’s prairie in the hopes of harvesting a crop of liberals.
In the near future, we envision our first building — consisting mostly
of Church School classroom space, with the adults tucked into a
corner somewhere, in a complete reversal of traditional church-_
building procedure.

[ 108 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

And that is how it has been in my quarter-century since Harvard.
The designation of liberal has taken quite a beating in American
culture in my time, and a number of pretty loose definitions have
gained currency and become the fashion. To me, the liberal has a
direction, not a stand; he tries to bring objectivity and even ration-
ality into the solution of human problems. (Example: a liberal does
not accept the proposition that the human race will benefit from
nuclear annihilation, even though the alternative may mean coexist-
ence with a distasteful political system.) I believe human beings
are always going to do part of their thinking with the emotions.
The task for a liberal, for a humanitarian — for a sane person? —
thus becomes the attempt to choose leadership with healthy emo-
tions. The messianic leaders, the spell-binders, the magnetic ones,
the supermen — even the staunch and hearty father-figures — have
given us some bad years, taking the world as a whole. It is my

fervent hope that the day of the eg gg-head may soon dawn... or
hatch.

~! WILLIAM KING BLIGHT

 

BORN: Jan. 18, 1912, Buffalo, N.Y. parents: Albert Arthur Blight, Mazie King.
PREPARED AT: Nichols School, Buffalo, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932. -

DIED: June 7, 1954, Buffalo, N.Y.

WILLIAM KING BLIGHT spent two years with our Class. The
only information the Secretary has of him is that he was preprietor
of Blight’s Drug Store in Buffalo. He was survived by a sister.

[ 109 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

JOHN HOLLIS BLOOMBERGH

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 66 Main St., Rockport, Mass.

BORN: June 27, 1912, Butte, Mont. parents: Horace Deschamps Bloombergh,
Helen Lee Howard.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 1934(35); MD. (Tufts Coll.), 1939.

MARRIED: Jean Bowlen, Dec. 7, 1946, Holyoke, Mass. cHILDREN: John Hollis,
Jr., Sept. 11, 1948; William Nord, Jan, 18, 1956; Jill, April 22, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Howard Hollis Allen, ’32; Joseph Allen, ’37, M.B.A., °39.

OCCUPATION: General practice of medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Medical Staff, Addison Gilbert Hospital, Gloucester,
Mass.; member, Finance Committee, Rockport, Mass.; chairman, Rockport
Red Cross; director, North Shore Children’s Friend Society.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society, Sandy Bay Yacht Club and

Rotary Club, Rockport, Mass.; Rockport Art Association (associate mem-
ber); Community Chorus of Rockport.

AFTER college, to please my father, I went to medical school.
Hopping over the hurdles with some difficulty, I graduated from
Tufts Medical School in 1939. There followed a year of rotating
internship at Newton Hospital and five years in the U.S. Army.

On December 7, 1946, a different struggle began. I married an
artist and started general practice. I recall nailing up my shingle
and warning my wife to. stand clear lest she be trampled in the
rush. Two weeks later the first patient appeared. General practice
seems two-thirds reassurance of functional or minimally pathological
conditions. I never see most of the diseases we studied in medical
school but there is much of human interest.

My family includes two sons, a daughter and a dachshund. The
children were at first known as Wootz Pie, the Pook and Sissy Boo.

However, they are outgrowing these labels, Gussy the dog is called
locally a dash hound or hotdog dog.

[ 110 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Our travels are confined to voyages aboard a small cruising sloop.
My wife thinks this a safe mode of travel. She has the greatest con-
fidence in me as a Salty character, not realizing the alarm with which
I view black squalls, thick fog and surf on leeward shores. Cruising
and I are like the snake and the small bird, the one exerting a
potentially fatal fascination on the other.

My other hobby is singing in the community chorus. Off and
on I have tried to found a barbershop quartet, but, as a bass, I
have discovered tenors to be so irritating and undependable that
my ardor soon cools. Still there are few things in life as soul-
satisfying as a good barbershop chord.

My war record as an army medical officer breaks down into four
parts: one pre-Pearl Harbor year at Camp Edwards on Cape Cod,
a year and a half in the South Pacific Theatre, a year and a half back
in the States with recurring malaria, and a final year in India. Life
on New Caledonia was in many ways idyllic, but the three months
with Infantry on Guadalcanal I shall not soon forget. It is possible
to live like a beast in the field and come out the better for it psycho-
logically. India is a place strictly to be avoided and the British are to
be pitied for having kept it so long. I have entertained at least five
tropical infestations, two forms of malaria, amoebic dysentery, hook-
worm and giardiasis.

How can I cover social convictions briefly? Social workers
should be discouraged as they sow not, neither do they reap. They
build empires, discourage individual enterprise and lead us down a
pinkish path. A recent Rotarian, I have so far resisted the pressure
to conform. The lunch and conversation are worth it but not the
feeling of doing good. Regarding baseball, I used to think it was for
cretins until my son became a pitcher in the Little League. I never
miss a game he’s in.

On religion I must agree with Ellery Sedgwick’s offspring who
didn’t feel it was of sufficient importance to discuss. However, we
shall encourage our children to attend Sunday school as Christianity
is our heritage and they may need it badly some day.

Politically, I am a militant, conservative Republican. May the
devil fly away with all Democrats!

[ x11 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

DOUGLAS DANFORD BOND

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3017 Fairmount Blvd., Cleveland 18, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Howard M. Hanna Pavilion, 20go Abington Rd., Cleveland 6,
Ohio.

BORN: July 2, 1911, Waltham, Mass. parents: Earl Danford Bond, ’oo, Grace
Newsom.

PREPARED AT: Haverford School, Haverford, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; M.D. (Univ. of Pennsylvania),
1938; pD.sc., hon. (Heidelberg Coll.).

mMarRiED: Helen Cannon, July 3, 1937, Cambridge, Mass. cHILpReN: Peter Dan-
ford, Jan. 30, 1940; Thomas Cannon, May 27, 1942; Sharon, Sept. 20, 19465
Barbara, Oct. 27, 1947.

HARVARD SON: Peter Danford Bond, ’62.

occuPATION: Professor of psychiatry, School of Medicine, Western Reserve
University, director, Department of Psychiatry, University Hospitals of
Cleveland.

OFFICES HELD: Chief, Laboratory of Psychiatry, School of Aviation Medicine,
Randolph Field, Texas, 1942-43; director of psychiatry, rst Central Medical
Establishment, 8th Air Force, England, 1943-45; chief consultant and di-
rector of psychiatry, Headquarters, Army Air Forces, Washington, D.C.,
1945-1946; consultant, Neuropsychiatry to the Medical Director, Veterans
Administration, 1946-48, expert consultant to Secretary of War, on Per-
sonnel Procurement, Management and Policy, 1948-50; medical adviser,
American Red Cross, 1950-51; member, Committee on Medical Sciences,
Research and Development Board (resigned 1952); training analyst, Psycho-
analytic Training Center, Cleveland, 1954; secretary, American Psycho-
analytic Association, 1955-57.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American Psychoanalytic Associa-
tion, American Psychiatric Association, Group for Advancement of Psy-
chiatry; Ohio State Medical Society; Cleveland Academy of Medicine,
Cleveland Society of Neurology and Psychiatry, Peripatetic Club.

puBLICATIONS: Love and Fear of Flying, International Universities Press; papers
on psychiatry and psychoanalysis.

UPON graduation from Harvard, I attended the medical school at

[ 112 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT -

the University of Pennsylvania, from which I graduated in 1938.
While there I worked in some research with D. G. Wright, a class-
mate at Harvard, whom I had not met before. In 1937, I married
Helen Cannon of Cambridge and Radcliffe, 1937, whom I had met
before. After internship I followed a long-established aim by going
into psychiatry. In the year 1941-42, I returned to the Harvard
Medical School to the Department of Physiology, where I spent a
very happy year. During this time I was in psychoanalytic training
at the Boston Institute. In 1940, our first son Peter, now in Harvard,
1962, was born to us. In 1942, a second son, Thomas, came along.

In 1942 I was asked to head a department of research in psychiatry
at the School of Aviation Medicine at Randolph Field, Texas. I ac-
cepted this invitation and became introduced both to the ways of
the Army and to the emotional problems of flyers. In 1943 I was
sent to England where I joined D, C. Wright again and became the
chief psychiatric consultant to the Eighth Air Force. From this
experience came a book on the emotional problems of flyers and on
better ways of administratively handling them. In 1945 I came home
to become psychiatric consultant to the Army Air Force and spent
about half a year in the office of the Air Surgeon. I felt that the
Army had been especially kind to me and I was fortunate to see
the operation from both low down and high up.

In 1946 I started my present job — somewhat to my surprise —
because I had not thought concretely of becoming either a teacher
or an administrator. I was fortunate to join a medical school which
was on the march and have been very satisfied to participate in the
most thorough revision of a curriculum that has so far taken place.
My time has been filled with building a department of psychiatry,
constructing a new building, teaching, psychoanalysis, research, and
raising a family. Two little girls were born in quick succession after
the war, here in Cleveland. -

My wife has embroiled herself in PTA, Girl Scouts and in raising
money for Radcliffe and thus my interests have been broadened.
I have acquired strong interests in education, in research into the
workings of men’s minds and the relationship of those minds to their
bodies. I am concerned about the very great intrusion of daily hfe
and problems into the leaky ivory towers of academic life. I look
forward greatly to the Twenty-fifth Reunion.

[ 113 ]

. HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

‘ARTHUR PEREZ BONNEY, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 10 Norwood St., Winchester, N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Serv-A-Station of Mass., ro Park St., Winchester, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 11, 1912, Egypt, Mass. parents: Arthur Perez Bonney, Laura Webb
Shapleigh.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Ruth Margaret Kemper, Jan. 24, 1942, Manchester, N.H. CHILDREN:
Alfred Shapleigh, Jan. 12, 19443 James Kemper, June 5, 1946; Mercer Mason,
Sept: 19, 19§2.

occupation: Bookkeeping and business management service for service stations;
partner, Serv-A-Station of Massachusetts.

OFFICES HELD: President, Massachusetts Association of Training Directors, 1951;
member, executive board, Daniel Webster Council, 1951-54; moderator,

school district, Amherst, N.H., 1952-54; instructor, Northeastern University
Business School, Evening Division, 1956-58.

SHADES of English A! Composition was never one of my strong
points nor did I particularly enjoy it. Future classes should provide
a ghost writing service! Not that this is such a hard subject to write
about, for it has been a wonderful twenty-five years, Actually, it
seems like ten; it has gone so fast and has seemed to be so full at
every stage.

My start in the cold world of reality in 1934 was far from
auspicious, but it was fun working in a service station for a year and
a half. Convenient hours, pleasant work, a carefree existence,
actually, and it was a good thing that Texaco came along with a job
or l’'d happily be pumping out “regular or hi-test?” still. But Texaco
made a clerk of me for a year, and then fed me to the wolves as a
salesman for four years.

In 1942, Peg and I barely got the knot tied and a skiing honey-
moon in before Uncle’s far-reaching arm whisked me off to Chicago

—Lr4]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and a USNR Officer Candidate School. Two months of a consider-
able reorientation, for me, and I stayed on to teach ordnance. There
we stayed in the serviceman’s heaven that was Chicago for four
delightful years. Number one son arrived, and we learned the
wonder of being parents. VJ-Day found me in New York as tech-
nical assistant in the production of some ordnance training films.
From there, I went to the First Naval District as District Ship’s
Service Officer and final separation.

Much to my amazement, Texaco assumed that the Navy had
taught me something, for they assigned me to a training job when I
returned. A year later, I was lucky enough to be given “the responsi-
bility of all the sales training in New England. This was a fascinating
assignment — being part pedagogue, part showman, part salesman,
part father confessor and general handyman. Six wonderful years
of it, traveling through New England, making friends and acquaint-
ances all over. But always in the back of my mind lay the great
desire to be on my own.

So now I am, and happier than I have ever been and than I prob-
ably have any right to be. For three years we scrimped and saved to
make ends meet and build up a business of bookkeeping for service
station dealers and advising them on the management of their busi-
nesses, Last year I took in a hard-working and talented partner and
things have really begun to hum. All of eastern Massachusetts 1s
our oyster, and it’s a glorious rat race to open it up. Yes, I’ve
scratched the hairline back a considerable distance and worried a
few more wrinkles into place, but never once have we paced the
floor searching for the answer to why we left all that nice regular
salary and comfortable security for this struggle. The satisfaction
of accomplishment and the delight in doing it ” the way you see it,
rather than following orders, is all well worth any sacrifice
financially.

Number one son, now turning fifteen, takes after the old man in
his allergic reaction to anything academic. Age is helping to cure
that, and we now have hopes that he may yet achieve a degree from
a first class college. Meanwhile, he blows a mean trumpet and keeps
us chuckling with a keen sense of humor. Number two takes after
mother in quietly getting the job done without much pushing and
shoving from anyone. At twelve, he has acquired an engaging

we
*

joie-de-vivre, and lots of friends — male and female. Then there's
the queen, seven now, and already possessed of a very positive mind
of her own. Always on the move —I often wish I could borrow

[3x15 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

some of her energy. In the center of it all and capably managing
everything 1s little Peg, newly turned school teacher. I stand in
constant amazement observing her making all the homely decisions,
anticipating and averting the usual crises, guiding and counselling,
being, in short, a most efhcient wife and mother and still being able
to go to summer school and then take over seventh grade English
(ugh!) all in stride. These Vassar women are made of stern stuff!

As for hobbies, Scouting takes all the remaining time after family
and business have had theirs. Troop Two is the finest, in spite of all
its scoutmaster can do to foul up the detail. Skiing and the home
workshop used to get some attention, but that waits now on the
day when our adolescent business matures to the point that it can
stand by itself more of the time.

Sure, it has been a wonderful twenty-five. And this hasn’t been so
bad after all— writing this. Note to future classes: cancel that
ghost writer idea. It’s good looking back for a bit. Kind of makes
you realize, too, how much difference four years at Harvard make
in one’s ability not only to enjoy but to live life. There’s lots yet
to be done; let’s hope the Lord will grant us another couple of
twenty-fives.

PAUL KIMBALL BONNEY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 310 S. Davidson St, Albany, Oregon.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Southern Pacific Co., Albany, Oregon.

BORN: May 8, 1914, Everett, Mass. parents: Norman John Bonney, Mildred
Rich Kimball,

PREPARED AT: Mount Prospect School, Waltham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1936. DEGREE: S.B. IN ENG, 1936.

MARRIED: Irene Ann Bistricky, March 20, 1948, Oregon City, Oregon. cHILDREN;
Kaye Marie, Nov. 17, 1951; Norman Paul, ‘April 15, 1955.

{116 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
occuPaTION: Teletype operator and relief agent, Southern Pacific Company.

AFTER graduating in 1936, I spent the summer job-hunting and
worked six weeks pumping gas on the fish pier in South Boston. In
October I started working in the paper-testing lab of the Champion-
International Company in Lawrence, Massachusetts. Six years later,
in September, 1942, I joined the Merchant Marine. Uncle Sam sent
me to radio school for eight months on Gallup’s Island in Boston
Harbor, where the U.S. Maritime Service turned out about fifty
new radio operators every two weeks. As soon as I obtained my
second-class radio-telegraph operator’s license, I transferred to a
training ship as chief radioman and spent almost a year cruising on
Chesapeake Bay. Later I served as radio operator on merchant ships
going to the Persian Gulf, South America, England and France. I
jumped at the chance for a West Coast assignment after V-J day,
and was discharged from the Maritime Service at San Francisco in
1946.

Then I decided to try making a living at my lifetime hobby —
railroading. I consider it a happy change, and have enjoyed my
twelve years with Southern Pacific. Knowledge of International
Morse code enabled me to qualify on American Morse in about
eight weeks. Practising Morse with other operators on the line
gained me an introduction to my wife Irene. Morse code and steam
engines have now been completely retired. But I enjoy the chance
to travel by train at reduced rates and about every alternate summer
have taken many vacations by rail. And I believe the railroads will
have a prosperous future, especially in hauling freight in carload
or bigger lots, which they are doing more efficiently all the time.
With general business conditions picking up, our chances are steadily
improving.

[117 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

DANIEL JOSEPH BOORSTIN

4 ee a ee a Se a

&
x
&
:
.

4 a
View.
t
.!
nc -

 

PATTIE Bo mg
, on
'
al ‘
«,
»
i
Le si dich

HOME ADDRESS: 5609 Woodlawn Ave., Chicago 37, Ill.

OFFICE apprEss: Dept. of History, University of Chicago, 1126 E. 59th St., Chi-
cago 37, Ill.

BORN: Oct. 1, 1914, Atlanta, Ga. paRENTS: Samuel Aaron Boorstin, Dora Olson.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Tulsa, Okla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 1934; B.A. (Oxford
Univ.), 1936; B.c.L. (ibid.), 19373 J.S.D. (Yale Univ.), 1940.

marrieD: Ruth Carolyn Frankel, April 9, 1941, Great Neck, N.Y. cHILpreN:
Paul Terry, Jan. 29, 1944; Jonathan, April 5, 1946, David West, July 5, 1950.

occuPATION: Professor of American history, Department of History, University
of Chicago.

MEMBER OF: Inner Temple, London (barrister-at-law); Massachusetts Bar;
Elizabethan Club (Yale); Colonial Society of Massachusetts; Quadrangle
Club (Chicago); American, Mississippi Valley and Southern Historical
Associations, American Studies Association, Congregation K.A.M. (Chi-
cago).

PUBLICATIONS: The Americans: The Colonial Experience, Random House, New
York, 1958; The Genius of American Politics, University of Chicago Press,
1953, paperback 1958, The Lost World of Thomas Jefferson, Holt, New
York, 1948; The Mysterious Science of the Law, Harvard University Press,
1941, Beacon paperback 1958; Delaware Cases, 1792-1830 (3 vols.), West
Publishing Company, 1943; editor of Chicago History of American Civiliza-
tion, in twenty-odd volumes being published by University of Chicago
Press, editor for American History, Encyclopaedia Britannica (1951-55)
author of articles and book reviews.

1 AM now at the University of Chicago where, for fifteen of the last
twenty-five years, I have been writing and teaching American his-
tory. Much of the exicitement I’ve found in my work has come from
my having been badly — or rather, not at all — prepared. When I
left Harvard College in 1934, nothing was further from my mind
than what I’m now doing.

Arriving at Balliol College, Oxford, on a Rhodes Scholarship in

[118 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1934, 1 was sufficiently uninterested in America to think of settling
in England. At Oxford I studied law, and by eating dinners and
doing examinations at the Inner Temple i in London, was called to the
English bar. Except for a vague professional i interest, I never really
knew why I was studying law. The pleasures of Oxford consisted of
sherry-and-oyster-omelette luncheons that lasted till tea, lots of good
conversation, the leisure to read, the fellowship of people who
worried about the state of the world and who awakened me to
politics, an open-ended (and still not entirely paid) charge account
at Blackwell's for buying books, and — perhaps best of all — the
opportunity to go to the continent for long vacations. My most
colorful memories of Oxford are the countryside and museums of
Italy.
Gradually I discovered that, whether or not I belonged in the
US.A., I certainly did not belong in England. I was more American
than I had suspected. The most important influence on me then —
and my greatest debt to Harvard — was F. O. Matthiessen. He, had
been my tutor and, as he had often told me, it was at Oxford that
he too had begun to want to discover America.

My three and a half years abroad were divided equally between
trying to fit into the aristocratic life of Oxford and on vacation en-
joying the bohemian vagrancy of the continental Left Banks.
Coming back to the U.S.A., after so much leisure and irresponsibility,
was difficult. Especially so, because I returned to an American law
school (I had a Sterling fellowship at Yale) where students seemed
to think that learning was like shoveling cement. They shoveled it
on an hourly basis in the delightful Yale Law Library. But I found
almost nobody who wanted to 5 take a walk or who shared my interest
in aimless reading and talking.

F. O. Matthiessen gave me the opportunity to come back to
Harvard as a tutor in history and literature. Although I had never
formally studied American history or literature, I read up enough
to pass as a tutor, and I developed a skill at guiding students away
from the vast areas of my ignorance. I persuaded the Law School to
let me teach a course in American legal history (which had almost
no students).

Nearly everybody I knew in those days who was interesting
humanly or intellectually was “leftist,” and thought they had a
duty to “do” something about the state of the world. “Social con-
science” —then a favorite phrase — was a person’s w llingness to
to see the world in a Marxist framework. “Doing” something

[119 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

students at Swarthmore was the daughter of the late Professor
Robert Redfield who was then engaged with President Robert
Maynard Hutchins, Professor John Nef and others in setting up a
new “interdisciplinary” program in the social sciences. I was glad
to come to this stimulating cosmopolitan atmosphere. But I soon
found myself in a world of bitter university politicking — an amus-
ing contrast to the academic atmosphere of Washington, D.C., where
I had been only a few years before. The little group of which I
found myself a “member had much the atmosphere of the self-styled
“saving remnant” which had characterized my Harvard cellmates.
The program itself had something of the utopian, dogmatic flavor of
nearly all Dr. Hutchins’ interesting enterprises.

After a few years, the Department of History invited me to join
their less messianic company. Since then, as professor of American
history in the graduate school, I have found as good an environment
as is apt to be found anywhere for my teaching and writing. From
generous, svmpathetic and stimulating colleagues I have learned a
great deal. I have developed an attachment to them and to the uni-
versity which is, I suppose, the symptom of middle age, of settling
down, or perhaps only of an increasing ability to know a good thing
when I see it. Students have been as lively as they have been
miscellaneous. Every year our graduate students seem a little older
and a little abler. I am more and more tantalized by suspicion that
what I give them is not worth their sacrifices and the sacrifices of
their working wives and baby-seated children. I have enjoyed them,
they have taught me a lot, and some of them have become my closest
friends.

During the last ten years the university, the U.S. government
(through the Fulbright Act) and other agencies have generously
provided me and my family opportunities to travel and to learn
something about America from the outside. For a year I was visiting
professor at the University of Rome, where we found the city even
richer and more unfathomable than we had hoped. Partly from this
experience came a little book, The Genius of American Politics.
For some months I was in the Caribbean, mostly at the Social Science
Research Center of the University of Puerto Rico, studying national-

ism on the island. For six months, we were in Japan, where I was
visiting professor at Kyoto University, and where we all had a de-
lightful and thoroughly tantalizing time.
The university has left me free to teach what I want, which has
always been related to my writing, Although I’ve written several

[122 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

smaller books, for nearly twenty years my work has been focusing
on an effort to see to what American culture adds up. This I have
tried through an interpretive history of the United States, the first
volume of which (The Americans: The Colonial Experience) has
just appeared; there will be two more volumes within the next few
years. The job has, I’m afraid, become obsessive. I suspect it could
never get done otherwise, nor without the charity and endless
patience of my family. Naturally, I hope that all my classmates
will read it; but whether or not they or anybody else reads it, it
goes on.

WILLIAM RUDOLPH BOOSE, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2406 Lane St., Falls City, Nebr.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1622 Stone St., Falls City, Nebr.

BoRN: April 29, 1913, Falls City, Nebr. parents: William Rudolph Boose, Mabel
Wilson.

PREPARED AT: Falls City High School, Falls City, Nebr.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

mMarriED: Anne Marie Windle, Dec. 27, 1941, Falls City, Nebr. cuitpren: Wil-
liam Rudolph, 3d, Aug. 10, 1944; Anne Marie, Jan. 8, 1948; Mary Helen,
July 11, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Farmer; cattle feeder.

MY introduction into the business of farming and cattle feeding

began with the worst drought and total crop failure this Midwest
has ever experienced. Looking back, the year 1934 was probably
the best thing that could have happened to me — toughened me up
for the years to follow. Since then, my life has been a series of
good and bad crops, markets and government controls.

The high point of my life came with my marriage to a wonderful

girl from Red Oak, Iowa, and the low was reached while trudging

[ 123 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

through the Colorado mountains with an infantry outfit. My only
dubious distinction during this period was in being the only Army
private maintaining a permanent residency in the Broadmoor Hotel
at Colorado Springs. Released to raise crops and cattle instead of
blisters, the old pattern was resumed with one addition — I began
to raise and feed children along with cattle and corn.

In the last five years since the Twentieth Anniversary Report, the
only major changes scem to be (1) a few more gray hairs, (2) a -
few more creaks in the saddle which don’t belong to the saddle,
and (3) a complete change of strategy in my “Battle with Benson.”
The first two speak for themselves but as to the third, by way of
explanation, I have become increasingly more disgusted with annual
acreage curtailments, lower quotas and allotments and have switched
more to cattle than to crops. The only drawback is a personal
one —the conversion of a forty-five-year-old tractor jockey into
a forty-five-vear-old semi-cowboy.

My chief diversion is still and always will be my family. Travel-
ing, horseback riding and hunting with my sharp-shooting teen-age
son occupy a goodly share of what leisure time I have.

MILTON BORNSTEIN

 

HOME ADDKESS: 199 Langley Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.

oFnics avpkess: English High School, 77 Ave. Louis Pasteur, Boston, Mass.

hows: Nov, 22, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents; William Philip Bornstein, Ida Helen
Seigal.

rer vawen at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A, magna cum laude, 934; EoM. (Boston
‘Teachers Coll), 1935; bom. (Harvard Univ.), 1953.

Maku: Plorence Farber, July 2, 1939, Boston, Mass, coitonen: William Bruce,
Dew. 2g, 14g}; Ralph Rdward, Aug. 1. 1947.

[ 124]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Teacher of French.

OFFICES HELD: Committeeman, Cub Scout Pack 5, Norumbega Council, secretary,
Boy Scout Troop 8, Norumbega Council.

MEMBER OF: American Association of Teachers of French; High School Teach-
ers of Boston.

NINETEEN HUNDRED FIFTY-NINE—time to pause and
glance back at the years that have slipped by so quickly. It seems
that it was only yesterday that I was walking across the Yard to
Sever and Emerson, studying and dozing in one reading room or
another, exercising in the new Gym at Soldiers Field, digging into
the musty volumes of the French Library on the top floor of
Widener.

As a senior I felt I wanted to teach, and to this end I began a
program leading to a Master’s degree in education. Imbued with
enthusiasm and armed with my “degrees and my knowledge of
French, I thought I was ready. That first year, however, my classes
were ever more ready — but it was good experience, so everybody
said. At any rate, I didn’t become discouraged, I've continued to go
to school each morning with the school children for most of the past
twenty-five years.

What is teaching like? It is the daily routine of bells, papers.
tests, administrative details. It is the new situations and problems
that arise each day, the existence of which keeps teaching from
being dull repetition, the solving of which makes teaching ever
interesting. It is the satisfaction resulting from having a good lesson
or from watching the development of students. It is the disappoint-
ment that comes when lessons go flat or when boys fail to measure
up to expectations. It is the friendly contact with boys growing
into young men and the effort to guide them as they prepare to
make their way in the world. It is the exchange of ideas, plans,
stories and gripes with fellow teachers. Above all, teaching is a
challenge, and meeting this challenge is what I have tried to do up to
now and what I hope to be able to do in the future.

The war years found me in the Army. If T had had it my way it
would have been the Navy, but IT was turned down (by a Harvard
man) for the naval program in which I tried to enlist. Farly lite
with the Army was not radically different from civilian life —I
fought a battle of books and pencils at Ann Arbor and Minneapolis
studying Japanese. Eventually IT was sent to Australia, the Philp-
pines < and Japan to do work in Intelligence and Operations, My role
was a minor one, in keeping with my rank of second and later en

[125 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

fir licutenant. The extensive land, sea and air travel I did at Uncle
Sam's expense was travel I never could have done without his
subsidy. Sceing that I suffered no ill effects other than a strong
dislike for powdered eggs and Spam, the * ‘specialités de la maison”
of the cooks in my unit i ‘in Manila, I can look upon my serv ice as a
duty discharged and a source of many memories and a number of
stories, say that it was broadening, and offer up a thankful prayer
that I came home unscathed.

Back on the home front my two sons have led me to PTA, Cub
Scouts and Boy Scouts. I have done Sunday School teaching since
the end of rhe war. And with such sundry pastimes as concerts,
records, books, theatre, summer courses, lawn-mowing, etc., time
never hangs heavy on my hands, I’ve managed to escape serious
illness and accident. I have a good appetite, a “fair crop of hair and
a figure thar still can get into the old army uniform. And that’s it.

+ MAURICE EMIL BOTHNER

 

Boas: Sept. 18, 1909, Cape Town, South Africa. parents: Charles Bothner, Elise
Blatter.

Purrauep at: South African College High School, Cape Tow! South Africa.

YEARS IN CIAL EGE! 1930-1932.

Wamvanp Bacntiite: Paul Charles Bothner, ’36.

bith: Oct. 10, 1956, Johannesburg, South Africa.

MAURICE FMIL BOTHINER was chairman and managing director
of C. Bothner & Sons, Limited, in Johannesburg, South Africa, who
controlled various companies interested in the manufacture and/or
ascinbly of automobiles, domestic electric appliances, pianos, ete.
Ile was an enthusiastic “Grand Prix” auto racer and speed boat
racer and for our Twentieth Anniversary Report wrote that, at that

[126]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

time, he held all the South African and Rhodesian unlimited records
in the inboard classes. He had been a city councillor for Johannes-
burg. He was killed in an automobile accident. His brother, Paul
C. Bothner, ’36, survived him.

GEORGE TAYLOR BOTTOMLEY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 9 Woodman Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 422 Beacon St., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 7, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: John Taylor Bottomley, a1.p, ‘95,
Mary Agnes Kenney. —

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1943.

mMarriepD: Lydia Fuller, Oct. 14, 1944, Rye Beach, N.H. cuipren: Lydia, July
14, 1945; John, July 21, 1947; Pamela, Dec. 19, 1949; George, Jan. 30, 1951
(died April 30, 1951); Jill, Feb. 23, 1952; Stephen, July 22, 1956.

. HARVARD BROTHER: John Kenney Bottomley, ’32.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: President, Abenaqui Golf Club, since 1947, medical staff, Sancta
Maria Hospital, since 1958, trustee, Chestnut Hill School, 1956-59, member,
Newton (Mass.) Republican City Committee, since 1956; secretary-treas-
urer, Boston City Hospital Alumni Association, since 1957; instructor in
surgery, Boston University Medical School; associate visiting surgeon, Bos-
ton City Hospital; junior visiting surgeon, Carney Hospital; member,
courtesy staff, Faulkner Hospital.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Boston Surgical Society; Norfolk
Medical Society; Massachusetts Medical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Co-author of two papers on “Traumatic Surgery.”

AFTER a brief sortie into the women’s shoe manufacturing field,
frustration caught up with me in °39 and a return to my earlier cast-
aside premedical studies became imperative. There followed a
harrowing experience of trying to convince various medical schools’

[127]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

admission deans that I represented a reasonable risk after so many
years away from the books culminating in Tufts College Medical
School finally accepting the challenge Pand granting me an M.D.
degree in June’ 43. A surgical internship followed at the Boston
City Hospital, interrupted by a tour of duty in the Pacific with the
Naval Medical Corps in Military Government. What at first ap-
peared to be merely a frustrating island-hopping Cook’s tour of
Balboa’s discovery subsequently turned out to be a valuable and
satisfying surgical experience encompassing work which would
never have been my lot had I been assigned to a regular naval in-
stallation. Late ’46 found me returning home to continue my surgi-
cal training at the residency level, requiring another four years be-
fore qualifying to wield a scalpel and get paid for it. Since 1950-51
I have been practising general surgery from an office on Beacon
Street and doing a little surgical teaching, wondering why my
competitors are so numerous and have larger practices.

When Uncle Sam’s Navy started to seriously breathe down my
neck in October 1944, I decided it was high time I married my
across-the-street Back Bay neighbor whom I had known for some
twenty-odd years. After returning home from the Pacific to see our
first child for the first time at almost two years of age, we proceeded
to bring five other rascals into the world who now vary in ages
from two years to thirteen. I am sure I am safe in saying that our
progeny are and have been Lyd’s and my chief love and concern
through these years albeit TV, switch-knives, juvenile delinquency
and rock-and-roll test one’s perseverance. Although school and
work require most of our time to be spent in Newton, Massachu- _
setts, the youngsters and ourselves run up to our lovely place on the
coast of New Hampshire at every opportunity and mutually agree
we wish there weren't such horrible pastimes as school and work!

Summer vacations for the time being are not feasible, but in
recent years Lyd and I have been fortunate to get away from home
and family to a favorite spot in Nassau in off-season January for rest
and sunshine, with one intervening trek to the California desert to
confirm the allegation of “God’s country” for ourselves. Our other
relaxing activities involve very mediocre golf and enthusiastic but
amateurish indulgence in flower gardening.

It has been a happy twenty-five years. We are a little frightened
just how to prepare ourselves and the children for the next twenty-
five when we see the way government has been growing at all levels,
but it ought to be a challenging period in which to live.

[128 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALLAN VINCENT BOWMAN '

 

HOME Appress: Grey Shingles, Ogunquit, Maine.

OFFICE AppreEss: Hillcrest Inn, Ogunquit, Maine.

BORN: Aug. 6, 1913, Hudson, Mass. parents: Wordsworth W. Bowman, Caro-
line Edith Bassett. ,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.

MarRRIED: Anne Hetherington Williams, Dec. 8, 1934, Boston, Mass. cuitp:
Elizabeth Williams, Sept. 11, 1935.

occupation: Manager, Hillcrest Inn.

AFTER a number of years in the investment business, we decided
in 1941 that city life was not for us and so moved to Maine where
we each had spent our summers for many years. During the war,
I was employed by the Navy i in a civilian capacity, helping to build
submarines at the Portsmouth Navy Yard. Since then, helping to
run a summer inn has been my occupation, Catering to the wants of
all types of people can produce all sorts of crises, if not with the
guests, then with the plumbing or the help. Even so, it’s alw ays
interesting. Our daughter, now grown up, has completed four years
of college and is now working herself.

Our winters are quiet with the exception of the demands and the
vagaries of our 18th century house. Hobbies consist mainly of a
little amateur carpentry, gardening and a considerable amount

of reading.

[ 129 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

HAROLD NICKERSON BOYLE, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2 Nashoba Rd., Concord, Mass.
orrice appress: W. & J. Sloane, Reading, Mass.

Bors: Oct. 19, 1911, Reading, Mass. parents: Harold Nickerson Boyle, p.M..,
"99, Mildred Parker.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1930-1932, 1934-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1934(36).
makeito: Helen Rothwell Shepard, Aug. 15, 1947, Marblehead, Mass. CHILDREN:

Lucy Rothwell, Aug. 9, 1948, John Lennox, Dec. 20, 1949; Sarah Nickerson,
July 8, 1952; Thomas Bartlett, Dec. 19, 1955.

occupation: Design and contract sales, New England Division, W. & J. Sloane.
orrices HELD: Member, various committees, Red Feather and Community Chest,
since 1937; member, Program and Membership Committees, Business Asso-
ciates Club, Boston Chamber of Commerce, igs0-52; fund chairman, Con-

cord Chapter, American Red Cross, 1953; chief Class Agent, roth A.M.P.,
Harvard Business School, 1957-58.

MeMBpER OF: Concord Antiquarian Society; Boston Club; Harvard Business
School Association, White Mountains Ski Runners (vice-president 1952);
Maine and New Hampshire Hotel Associations; Directory of Furniture
Designers, National Association of Furniture Manufacturers,

REUNION pressure to set down autobiographical notes is barely
sufficient to aid me in recalling those all but forgotten bachelor days
in Boston when I had spare time to burn. That I ever had it, now
scems quite remarkable. Living at the Harvard Club eliminated up-
keep responsibilities. Weekends were free for skiing in Vermont or
sailing, tennis, and riding on Cape Cod. Even week nights were open
for squash or rowing at the Union Boat Club. The time-consuming
nature of the maintenance jobs that await the married man living in —
the country lay well beyond my horizon. How could I foresee that
one day | would be swamped with repair projects, weathered toys,
crumbling barn floors, garden pests, rabbits, and warped screen
doors? Could I have known that eventually I would be forced by

[ 130]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

degrees to turn to the marvels of mechanization to regain a sense of
leisure from extra hours that were once so cheap? Of course that
re-created spare time is today hardly sufficient for the upkeep of the
time-saving products and machines that were introduced to produce
it.

My business activities since graduation seem to have fallen into
rather clear-cut cycles. Each cycle, initiated by sales or personnel
work, progressed through marketing to systems or product design
and ended with managerial responsibilities.

The first such cycle culminated with my resignation as president
of Sigma Instruments, Inc., following my enlistment. With a back-
ground of three years of membership in Battery A, 1oist Field
Artillery, I ended up in the Navy as a lieutenant DV(s). I had no
responsibilities afloat other than as troop commander on a crossing
of the USS Bronx. I] did some investigation and intelligence work on
the West Coast and went out as industries officer for the Ryukyu
Islands and was also made labor officer for Okinawa.

To an AMG Training Course at Princeton which provided nine
hours’ credit toward a Master’s, upon my release from the Navy, I
added the Harvard Business School’s 1oth Advanced Management
Program and then left at once for New Hampshire with Textron to
head up the Personnel Department of the sprawling Nashua Mills.

Nineteen forty-seven was probably the most exciting, jam-packed
year since college. Work around the clock ... six weeks of
pneumonia . . . appointed to the executive committee . . . engaged
to be married ... negotiations with the CIO which seemed
hopelessly bogged down just 26 hours before the time set for our
wedding festivities ... then the breakthrough permitting a wed-
ding on schedule ... and finally the installation of the Nashua
30% Retrenchment Program.

Following our stay in Rhode Island where I was manager of the
Nylon Tricot Division, we moved to Concord, Massachusetts. This
last move made it possible for Helen and me to sink tap roots for our
children in a delightful town with good schools, a stimulating
' heritage, and a beautiful countryside. It also provided quick access
to Cambridge where I worked as sales manager of the Soda Lime
Division of the Dewey and Almy Chemical Company.

The early ’50s were characterized by less erratic business demands.
This enabled us to take a more active part in community affairs. . . .
And then I decided to go into business for myself and again my spare
time dissolved. In November ’ 57, I signed up W ich my present

[131]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

employer and early in ’58 sold out my furniture manufacturing
interests.

Today the pace is still fast but somehow different in its demands,
Asa designer of furniture and interiors for institutions, I am at last
capitalizing upon the fine arts background which was my field of

concentration at Harvard. I also rely heavily upon my first-hand
experiences in the manufacture of furniture, metal, textile and chemi-
cal products. .

As the pressure peak has always come in the winter, each year
since "47, we have aimed for a March vacation .. . however brief.
In the early years it was skiing in the Laurentians. Now when.our
children are included, we favor the White Mountains. Two years
ago our cruise in the Florida Keys whetted my appetite for southern
game fishing, especially for bone fish and tarpon on light spinning
tackle.

Now each spring [ steal an occasional few hours with the older
children for fly fishing within a mile or two of our house. With
summer, we turn more to salt-water sports with weekends on the
North Shore, usually at Marblehead. Sometimes we pack up all four
children and combine a picnic with fishing, boating, or exploring
animal haunts. On a weekend or two in the fall, I take John bow-
hunting at Bear Brook Reservation. He stalks with a movie camera
and carries his compass and hawk call so that we can work along on
parallel courses.

With Lucy now eleven, we are in the process of changing over
our activities to include once again tennis, riding, sailing and golf.
Wee are also talking about a cross-country camping trip. Has anyone
any suggestions?

Although children and the problems they engender admit little
time for philosophical reflection, I do find a growing family a vital
force in keeping us young and far away from our arm chairs.

[132 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM STEPHEN BRADFORD

  
  

ADDRESS: 1893 Sheridan Rd., Highland Park, Til.

BORN: July 23, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Joseph S. Bradford, Anna Hogarty.

PREPARED AT: Brighton High School, Brighton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Barbara Ann Kennedy, May 31, 1942, Chicago, Ill. cumpren: Martha
Ann, June 20, 1944; William Stephen, Jr., Sept. 5, 1950.

occuPATION: Medicine.

NO questionnaire returned.

SEYMOUR LOOMIS BRAMAN

ST

HOME ADDRESS: 31 Maplewood Rd., Hartsdale, N.Y.

OFFICE appreEss: Pacific Insurance Co. of New York, 12 Gold St., New York
38, N.Y.

BORN: Nov. 7, 1911, Wethersfield, Conn. parents: Sydney Royce Braman,
Mattie A. Dunham.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930—1931.

Marrigp: Jeanne R. Holt, Feb. 26, 1937, Reno, Nev. cHitpren: Jane Elizabeth,

[ 133]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

March 20, 1939; William Royce, July 22, 19423 Martha Lindley, Nov, 23,
1935; Barbara Holt, Oct. 27, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Pacific Insurance Company of New York Group.

orrices HELD: Director, American Hull Insurance Syndicate, United States
Salvage; adviser, U.S. Aviation Insurance Group.

MEMRER OF: Insurance Society of New York; Drug & Chemical Club.

JOHN MYERS BRANT

 

HOME ADDRESS: R.F.D. 1, Rochester, N.H.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Realty Bldg., Rochester, N.H.

BoRN: Dec. 11, 1912, Utica, N.Y. parents: Harry Sturgis Brant, Johncea Gil-
lingham Myers.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., CU7 laude, 1934; LL.B., 1938.

MarrieD: Constance Elizabeth Cronin, Jan. 2, 1944, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Elizabeth Vreeland, Oct. 7, 1944; Catherine Rutter, Aug. 4, 1948; Margaret
Baldwin, June 30, 1951.

occuPATION: Lawyer, general practice. |

OFFICES HELD: Solicitor, Strafford County, 1951-54; president, Rochester Lions
Club, 1951-52, Rochester Community Activities Association, 1954-55.

I WONDER if all of us share the feeling that twenty-five years
have gone by all too quickly. At such a milestone, perhaps one is
supposed to feel full of years and wisdom, but I can’t say that I do.
Perhaps Ill have to wait for the Fiftieth before this comes to pass.

Such thoughts as occur to me, in writing this report, are thoughts
which I imagine we all share. However various our interests and
pursuits were, both at Harvard and since, all of us have a great deal
in common. I am thinking of fundamental things, such as the values
we cherish, our attitudes of mind, and our general approach to
things. We had a truly liberal education. We lost provincial or
narrow attitudes. We had the opportunity of becoming acquainted

[ 134]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with the greatest thoughts and achievements of mankind. We ac-
quired the habit of thinking for ourselves, and the instinct to defend
the right of every man to advance his own views, with the thought
that only by a free exchange of ideas is the correct conclusion likely
to be discovered.

Of course these things are intangibles, and perhaps have little to
do with earning a living. They are the essence, however, of what
we mean when we speak of an educated man. And it is clear that
it 1s Important to our country that its citizens should be nurtured in
such an atmosphere, or tradition, or discipline. As to each one of
us, one of the greatest contributions we can make is to carry this
spirit through life, and into our daily contacts with others. The
importance of these intangibles has become increasingly obvious
during the years since 1934, as we have witnessed, in the world, the
rise of upstarts and murderers who systematically tyrannize the
‘human soul and hold in contempt every tradition and every value
which distinguishes a free man from a chattel or a slave. These
forces, which have brutalized about half the world, are contagious.
We have seen the rise of bigots and pseudo-patriots in our own
country, people who were oblivious to the fact that they were
making a good start at destroying the very values which Americans
have fought wars to defend, and which have brought to our shores
new citizens seeking freedom.

As to each of us, then, whether or not we have been in a position
to do anything spectacular or particularly noteworthy, I am sure
that we have carried with us these counsels of reason and traditions
of freedom, and that it is important that we have done so.

However, this report is supposed to give some sort of sketch of
my Own activities over these years. Shortly after graduation, I went
to Europe for about fourteen months, some of w <hich I spent in a
year of study (history and Jaw) at Cambridge University, and the
rest were spent in travel. I renewed and made new Harvard friend-
ships at Munich, where Harvard men tended to congregate. English
universities have six-week vacations, and in the spring vacation I

traveled with Chuck Arensberg from Naples to Athens, and
through southern Greece by walking , by donkey, and by antiquated
bus. At Christmas a group of us went to Austria for skiing. Some
of the boys came back from a Munich café one day and said they
had found themselves sitting a few tables away from Adolf Hitler.
The youth of Germany was marching in the streets. We tried out
our college German, with consider able success, The ruin of a great

[135 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

part of the world was being prepared, but we were pretty young,
and we enjoved ourselves.

The next year I returned and, after the usual three years, gradu-
ated from Harvard Law School. I then started out by working for
large law firms, in San Francisco and in Boston. However, I had
acquired little but experience when I was invited to join the armed
forces. I was in the Army for over three and a half years. The only
shots I heard fired were on the firing range. I did receive more
education, however. The Army even sent me to Yale to study
Italian. This was followed by a roasting hot summer at Camp Polk,
Louisiana, for training in the maintenance of trucks. I was still an
enlisted man when I married, and my wife was then an ensign in the
Coast Guard. Finally, I received a commission in the Transportation
Corps, and the Army forgot about the Italian language and the
trucks and assigned me to the New Orleans Port of Embarkation as
a legal officer, with quite an imposing list of duties.

In the summer of 1946, I was released from active duty, and my
wife and I and our eldest daughter, then about two, drove back to
New Hampshire, and we then decided to live in the country. I still
had a lot to learn about practising law, and I guess that must be one
reason why I have found the law an interesting profession. Cer-
tainly a general practice is full of challenges to one’s capabilities.
One tries to be an expert at many things. A good deal of Supreme
Court work has come my way, as I especially enjoy it. Also, quite
unexpectedly, I became county solicitor (prosecuting attorney) in
1951, and served until the end of 1954, handling some cases of quite
a spectacular nature. Maybe I should wind up with a flourish
and say I wouldn’t exchange my life or career for any other. That
iS probably so, and anyway I haven’t thought of any other I would
take in exchange. I know I have learned much since I left Har-
vard, and I expect the learning process to continue as long as life
continues. I think my education at Harvard was a good start.

4

[ 136 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LUTHER ADAMS BRECK, JR.

 

HOME Appatss: 33 Allen Rd., Wellesley Hills 81, Mass.

OFFICE Abtarss: Joseph Breck & Sons Corp, gor Summer St., Boston 10, Mass.

BoaN: March 26, 1912, London, England. parents: Luther Adams Breck,
Marguerite Reeves Jones.

peeparen at: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE? 1930-1934.

maratp: Clara Fare Tafr, March 25, 1937, Newton, Mass. cHitpRen: Margaret
Reeves, Feb. 23, 19+; Sarah Adams, April tg, 1944.

occtpanion: President, general manager and director, Breck’s of Boston (retail
home and garden centers, mail order catalogs, lawn and garden manufac-
turing).

orFices WEDD: Trustee, Free Hospital for Women, Breck Realty Trust; director,
Direct Mail Advertising Association, Ames Flectro-Chemical Corporation;
member exccuuve committce, New England Mail Order Association; cor-
porator, Boston Five Cents Savings Bank, Charlestown Savings Bank;
member, various committees, American Sced Trade Association,

Mesper oF: Dedham Country & Polo Club; Wellesley Country Club; Wellesley
Club, Harvard Club of Boston; Megansect Club; Nothing Wild Club, Wel-

lesley Curling Club.

IN spite of rumors to the contrary, a merchant's life can bea happy
one! Ie all started when my promotions in the old family seed
business were rapid and rewarding. As I have hinted in previous
Class Reports, it could have been because I was the only living
member of the family with an I.Q. of over twenty-seven and the
Breck name. And having no sons the coast seems clear, at least for
a few more years.

Somewhere along the line T discovered mail order. This opened
upaw hole new world, which my forebears did not have the vision
to recognize, of gifts and gadgets and epicurean oddities and Jap-
anese imitations of Wedgwood saucers and hot little numbers like
our dehydrated water pills for campers. (Just add water and serve!)

[ 137 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

It also opened up the world of tax-deductible travel. I have en-
joy ed every minute of it, except the ninety-nine visits to trade shows
in Chicago, and have actually chased after desirable mail order items
to every continent except Australia, Right now, for example, I am
working on a hand-carved ivory Alimony Computer patterned on
the ancient abacus. It must fit handily in milady’s purse and retail
for not more than $3.98. I just may have to emplane immediately to
Delhi to oversee the final details.

I am very fond of side deals, The best one was in 1957 when two
friends and I formed the Citrus Corporation of America. We sold
over ten million plastic squeeze-lemons and squeeze-limes, without
any plant or employees, and then sold the company, seven months
after starting it, for capital gains. The latest venture is Pleasure
Island, which will open in Wakefield, Massachusetts, about June rst.
It is a large family recreation project, in the Disneyland pattern.
This one will make or break me on side deals, forever!

My hobbies are undesirable ones, according to my wife. Travel,
as above, golf, curling, skeet-shooting, bridge, poker. But they get
me away from it all, “and out with the boys, and some of them in-
volve fresh air and gentle exercise. We still go skiing a week or so
each year with our girls — but without our skis!

And speaking of hobbies, I want to tell my boat-loving classmates
that I, too, am — or was — of their fraternity. While in Hong Kong
not long ago I passed money to a Chinese gentleman who was a com-
plete stranger to me and before long there arrived in Boston harbor,
freight charges collect, my lovely new custom-built thirty-foot
genuine Chinese junk. The Painted Lady was of virgin teakwood,
slept four, had nylon sails and a dazzling collection of hand-painted
Chinese murals fore and aft and inside. I sailed her once or twice
with my kids and their friends in the summer of 1958 but my horizons
avere strictly limited between two of the bridges on the River
Charles. This acquisition brought a barrage of publicity in the
Boston press, radio and TV, All the while I casually let it be known
that a new owner could take over at a fraction of her natural value.
’'m sorry to report that the Proper Bostonians were not ready for
this newest (or oldest) boating thrill and it finally went to a little old
lady in Connecticut who thought it would be cute to have in the
lily pond on her estate for her grandchildren!

Looking back over the twenty-five years I can’t see that my major
in French literature was a particularly wise choicé but I’m sure that
my Harvard education in general was. The four of us have had a

[ 138 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

happy family life in our comfortable home in our comfortable
suburb of W ellesley Hills. We have been blessed with good health
and good friends. We have eaten regularly and perhaps too much.
We have participated moderately 1 in town and school and charity
and church affairs. There is a lot of music in the house, My wife is
now running for the School Committee and my number one
daughter, Margo, is headed for college in the fall. (Which of five
we don't know: vet!) We have much t to be thankful for and now we
are all looking forward with keen anticipation to the big Reunion
Weck in Cambridge!

ROBERT BRECKINRIDGE

¥

  

HOME Aporess: 6 F. 74th Sc, New York 21, NLY.

OFFICE AppREss: Robert Timpson & Co., 63 Wall St, New York, N.Y.

BoRN: April 26, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: John Cabell Breckinridge, ‘92,
Isabella Goodrich.

preparrp ar: St. Paul's School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: AB., 1934; LL.B. (Univ. of Virginia), 1939.
UN MARRIFD,

HARVARD BROTHERS: Joseph Cabell Breckinridge, ’24, LL.B. 727 (deceased); Charles
David Goodrich Breckinridge, 31 (deceased).

OccUPATION: Investment broker, associate, investment adviser,

MEMBER OF: Union Club, New York City; Metropolitan Club and University
Club, Washington, D.C.

FOUR years as a Naval Reserve officer and three years in the State
Department were my contribution to public service, permitting me
to appreciate fully the subsequent years of intensive and sybaritic
travel in Furope and South America. ° My present work fascinates
me. I consider myself fortunate indeed. No complaints.

[ 139 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ROBERT ALDRICH BRIGGS

 

HOME appRESS: Walpole Street, Dover, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Gillette Co., Boston 6, Mass.

BORN: June 8, 1912, New Bedford, Mass. parents: James Franklin Briggs, ’or,
Inez Louise Nash.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 19343; M.B.A., 1936.

marrRiED: Miriam Wright Guernsey, May 13, 1938, Wellesley, Mass. CHILDREN:
Susan, Aug. 22, 1939; John Guernsey, March 2, 1942; Sarah Anne, Oct.
271 1945.

occupation: Comptroller, Gillette Company.

MEMBER OF: Controllers Institute of America; American Institute of Certified
Public Accountants; Massachusetts Society of Certified Public Accountants;

Harvard Club of Boston, Union Boat Club; Racquet Club of Chicago.

AFTER graduation I followed my original plan of attending the
Business School, after which I obtained employment in public ac-
counting. Seven years of traveling from the Canadian border to
Central America were sufficient to lure me into accepting a position
with an industrial company — a switch I made in 1943.

One of the advantages of working in a city like Boston is the
opportunity of being able to live in a rural community and yet being
within easy commuting distance of the office. After one year of
married life in a city apartment, we moved to a small town about
eighteen miles away. The family grew — three children, dogs, cats,
assorted animal life — the house at times seemed half hotel and half
200. Now the children are older and, when home on vacation, the
noise is of a different type.

Since 1943 I have been happily engaged in corporate financial
work. My non-working hours have been largely taken care ‘of
with gardening, wood-chopping, raising children and a reasonable
amount of activity in local affairs, I still have my hair but my eyes

[ 140 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

now require bifocals and my waistline is larger. See you at the
Reunion.

EDWIN DEERING BROOKS, JR.

 

HOME aporess: Garfield Road, Concord, Mass.

orrick apoasrss: Minot, DeBlois & Maddison and Shattuck & Brooks, 294 Wash-
ington St, Boston, \fass.

porn: July 18, 1gi2, Dedham, Mass. parents: Edwin Deering Brooks, ’99, Gladys
Wells.

parparep ar: Belmont Bill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE! A.B. 1934.

Mareen: Theodora FE. Lawrence, Sept. 20, 1935. Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Fadward Fldredge, June 17, 1936; Frances Deering, Jan. 31, 1939; Hooper
Lawrence, Oct. 24, 1944.

occuparion: lavestment management; partner, Minot, DeBlois & Maddison and
Shattuck & Brooks.

orrices HEID: Trustee, Suffolk-Franklin Savings Bank, since 1938; member, Radio
Research Laboratory (radar counter-measures), Harvard University, 1942-
46, director, Boston Real Fstare Board, 1947-50; trustee, since 1948, treasurer,
since 1950, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution; trustee, Free Hospital
for Women, since 1949; member, Boston Security Analysts Socicty, since
19s.

sar MineR oF: Harvard Club of Boston.

[141]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

JOHN GRAHAM BROOKS, II

 

HOME AppRESS: 178 Boston Post Rd., Weston 93, Mass.

oFFice ADDRESS: Peabody, Arnold, Batchelder & Luther, 10 State St., Boston 9,
Afass.

BORN: Oct. 8, 1913, Medford, Mass. pareNts: Lawrence Graham Brooks, ’o2,
Susan Af. Hallowell. .

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.,; Mesa Ranch School, Mesa,
Ariz.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 19343 LL.B., 1937-

MakRIED: Miriam Phillips Littlefield, June 13, 1938, Providence, R.I. CHILDREN:
Miriam Phillips, March 1, 1940; John Graham, 3d, Oct. 19, 1942; Christopher
Russell, Feb. 5, 1946; Sarah Hallowell, March 17, 1949; William Blair, Jan.
29, 1953.

occupation: General practice 2 of law; partner — Peabody, Arnold, Batchelder &
Luther.

OFFICES HELD: Director, since 1942, president, since 1958, Sharon Sanatorium;
trustee, 1947-55, vice-president, 1951-55, Walter E. Fernald State School;
Harvard Class Agent, 1949-55; director, Children’s Medical Center, Inc.,
since 1950; Weston Red Feather Chairman, 1951; member, Weston Finance
Committee, 1951-55; trustee-secretary, American Child Guidance Founda-
tion, Inc., since 1953; trustee, Perkins School for Retarded Children, since
1953; trustee, since 1954, president, 1954-55, Bay State Society for the Crip-
pled and Handicapped, Inc.; director, Boston Legal Aid Society, since
1955; member, since 1955, chairman, 1957-59, Weston School Committee,
trustee-secretary, Association for Advancement of Musicians, Inc., since
1956, member, Boston Bar Association Council, since 1957.

MEMBER OF: Union Club of Boston; American Law Institute; American, Massa-
chusetts and Boston Bar Associations.

IN the happy belief that being a lawyer would provide a desirable
combination of a modest livelihood and freedom, intellectual and
otherwise, in contrast to the shackles of employment in “business,”
[ took a flyer at the Law School. I liked the law, decided to stick
with it, and on graduation I had the good fortune to become as-

[ 142 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sociated with my present firm in which I became a partner in 1942.

My first year or so of practice was at the tail end of the depression
when most of the profitable bankruptcies and salvage operations
stemming from the early thirties had pretty much petered out.
There was intermittent ‘clock-watching and pounding the pave-
ments of the North End and other less prosperous areas of Greater
Boston indulging in that great training ground for young lawyers —
collections from indigent debtors.

It wasn't long before I began to get a taste of the freedom I had
been looking for— freedom to branch out into the vast field of
more or less extra-curricular activities — limited apparently only
by one’s ability to say no at the strategic time. During the war years
this consisted primarily of legal representation of and advice to
conscientious objectors — mostly sincere youths but occasionally a
fascinating screwball — whose beliefs got them wittingly or un-
Ww ittingly i inco trouble with Selective Service authorities. My efforts
to get a fair shake for them gave me an unusual vantage point for
observing the operation of the federal law enforcement and penal
systems.

Having settled in Weston where the old New England Town
Meeting “ill flourishes, the ordinary citizen can make his influence
felt and the old tradition of responsible and idealistic town govern-
ment is still the order of the day, I started at the bottom of the
escalator in the Taxpayers’ Association and worked up through
five years on a school building committee and four years on the
finance committee to the school committee on which I am now
rounding out my fourth year as a member and second year as chair-
man. Flaving had the satisfaction of being elected to public office
over Opposition and having been re-elected during a hectic period
of school expansion and change in school administration, all in this
Sputnik-Conant era of changing concepts of educational values and
techniques, Iam about ready to retire and leave this area of freedom
to someone else.

Several other extra-curricular elcemosynary trusteeships and the
job of co-Class Agent having been given up to make room for the
school committee, I am looking forward in the near future to a little
more normal attention to family and increasingly demanding law
practice.

The freedom in my law practice has been maintained by doing
my best to remain a general practitioner despite the increasing
pressure to become primarily a specialist. While most of my

[ 143 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

practice is with corporate clients in one field or another, it has been
very varied and has, in the past year, run the gamut from working on
problems of investment trusts, bank mergers and stock and bond
issues to incorporating a skating studio and settling an estate includ-
ing among its assets large and valuable collections of oriental and
early American objets dart and twenty-three cats, for the survivors
of whom I am now acting as a trustee. The academic side of the
law I still manage to keep some contact with, passively through the
American Law Institute and more actively through committee work
for the Boston Bar Association. For added variety I am also becom-
ing in a small way one of those strange creatures known in the
trade as a Boston trustee.

The balance of my freedom is spent trying to keep abreast of the
younger generation ranging from kindergarten to a sophomore at
Radcliffe (how different the attitudes on the two sides of Massachu-
setts Avenue from twenty-five years ago!). I like to think I can
still outski and outclimb them and outplay them at tennis, but my
days on that pinnacle are definitely numbered, as I discovered last
summer when I tried some high altitude climbing in the Rockies.
My spare time at home is spent largely as groundskeeper and handy-
man and supervising the supervision by the children of the livestock,
presently consisting of two horses, three dogs and a cat.

Normally my vacations are spent with my family on Cape Cod
relaxing. However, with the children becoming more self-sufficient,
travel is becoming somewhat less complicated, and thanks to the
patient tolerance of my partners I have managed to take two sab-
baticals — one a motoring trip in Holland and neighboring countries
in 1953 and the other last summer. After a couple of trial runs in
past summers, first with no children, then with two, through Quebec
and the Gaspé, we joined the other six million (or is it 60 million?)
camping Americans last summer in a trek to the Great West and,
with wife, five children and a cousin, plus baggage and complete
camping equipment, all in and about one car plus box trailer, in-
dulged in a six-week trip through the Rockies from the Indian
country of New Mexico and Arizona to the lakes of Glacier National
Park, discovering not only the natural beauties of the country but
also the amazing extent and quality of the camping facilities offered
by Uncle Sam and by most of the states en route.

As to hobbies, I suppose tennis, sailing, music, home repairs and
ficld ornithology ( sometimes irreverently referred to as bird-watch-
ing) are my principal ones, all of which I am beginning to get back

[ 144 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to as I can persuade at least one of the children to enjoy it with me,
and my long-suffering wife to detach herself more frequently from
housewifely and motherly duties to do the same.

All in all, life has been very good to me. It has been and is very
full, but it’s better that way — once in a while something worth
while accomplished — always something interesting to turn to —
never a dull moment, With relatively few grey hairs, extraordinarily
congenial and capable partners both at home and in my Office, five
very different and stimulating (if not always pliable) children and
a reasonable supply of at least tolerant clients, plus the example
of my still very active parents, I like to think the next twenty-five
will be even better than the last.

ANDREW HUTTON BROWN

 

HOME AppaEss: 5909 Gloster Rd. Wood Acres, Washington 16, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Geographic Society, 16th & M Streets, N.W., Wash-
ington 6, D.C.

BORN: Dec. 31, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: Carroll Neide Brown, ’91,
Agnes Hood Hutton.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1929-1930, 1931-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

marRieD: Margaret Gordon, June 21, 1947, Washington, D.C. CHILDREN:
Andrew Gordon, Oct. 30, 1950; Patricia Church, Feb, 21, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alan VWVillard Brown, ’30, A.M., "32.

OCCUPATION: Senior editorial staff, National Geographic Magazine.

MEMBER OF: Chevy Chase Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles indexed in indexes of National Geographic Magazine.

THE Harvard Club employment service in New York got me mv
first job out of college — floorwalker in Lord & Tay lor’s, w here
they euphemistically called us “junior executives,” at twenty-eight

[145 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

dollars a week! A few months of that, and then I went to work in
the agency department of the New York Life Insurance Company,
also in New York (which was my home-town). After a year there,
insurance not tempting me for the long run, I got a try-out oppor-
tunity at the National Geographic: writing and photography had
always interested me. I’ve done just about. everything here in the

editorial line, at one time or another: write articles, take pictures,
develop stories with contributors, handle incoming manuscripts and
do various editorial chores.

Having been something of an authority on Labrador all my life
(more or less), I’ve come by quite a few cold-country assignments,
most recently working with Admiral Byrd on his last stories for the
Geographic. 1 accompanied the admiral on his last voyage to
Antarctica during 1955-56, and I’ve written about a Labrador canoe
trip, Arctic weather stations, Greenland, and snow surveys in the
Oregon Cascades.

“The girl next door” came to a party friends of mine gave in the
fall of 1946 —and in June I found myself joyously married to her.
Our boy and girl are our chief hobbies; actually though, we like to
go to the mountains hiking and camping and are fond of a certain
North Carolina beach, too.

World War II wasn’t the misery for me that it was for my married
friends: I missed home and all its associations, of course, but at that
time I wasn’t sore at heart from missing wife and children, for they
had not swum into my ken. I was commissioned a tank platoon
commander at Fort Knox in June, 1943, after not quite a year as
an EM. But most of my war service was as an officer in the Eighth
Weather Squadron (later Eighth Weather Group) and I served
that fine outfit in Greenland for more than two years. I was a
captain and group personnel officer when my separation came
through in the early spring of 1946.

Across from my office window on 16th Street stand the Russian
Embassy, the University Club, of which I was formerly a member, a
doctor’s office, a red-brick church, a trade association building

going down fast to make room for a bigger new one, and the
National Education Association in a great, shiny structure of green-
tinted glass and white marble. Somehow these buildings summarize
an awful lot of the influences which have affected my life — and
that of others — over the past few decades.

Looking further back, the most durable, formative influence in
my earlier life (apart from what my father and mother provided

[ 146 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

from their resources of intelligence and experience) was, of course,
my Harvard College education and that of the very fine Horace
Mann School before. What they did for me still is substantially the
basis for whatever small claim I can make to usefulness and under-
standing in this rather confused time.

ARCHIBALD MANNING BROWN

e SPB

   

HOME apprFss: Fox Lane, Bedford, N.Y.

OFFICE appress: Edo Corp., College Point 56, N.Y.

BORN: Dec. 25, 1910, New York, N.Y. parents: Archibald Manning Brown,
’03, Helen Parrish.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGRFE: A.B., 1934.

MarrieD: Mary Marshall Canfield, May 19, 1934, Peekskill, N.Y. cHILpreN:
James Parrish, June 1, 1936; Hope, Dec. 14, 1939; Archibald Manning, Jr.,
Sept. 2, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Peabody Brown, ’39, B.ARCH., °43.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president in charge of sales, Edo Corporation, manufacturer
of aircraft and electronic devices, mostly for the Military, president, Edo
(Canada) I.td., Cornwall, Ontario.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of trustees, 1946-57, president, 1956, Bedford
Rippawam School, Bedford, N.Y.

MEMBER OF: Bedford Golf & Tennis Club; Aviation Commandery, Naval
Order of the United States; Wings Club, New York City.

LIFE became quite hectic near graduation time in 1934. Married in
May. Job started June rst. Visit to graduation. Worked as opera-
tions and traffic manager, Island Airlines — Seaplanes — New Bed-
ford to Nantucket, Next traffic department Eastern Airlines, New
York City; thence to Edo Aircraft Corporation, New York City, and
Fairchild Aircraft Division, Hagerstown, Maryland, as sales manager,

Entered Navy in May, 1942, as lieutenant (j.g.) and sent to Pen-

[ 147 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

sacola for Wings of Gold. For two years fought the “Battle of
Flatbush Avenue” ferrying all sorts of Navy aircraft to all sorts of
places. Then two years in NATS mostly in western Pacific as a
flying bus driver for brass hats, mail sacks, sad sacks and surveyed
engines. Released February, 1946, as lieutenant commander.

Banged around Wall Street for two years as aviation consultant
and adviser to investment bankers. Director of Capitol Airlines dur-
ing financial troubles. Returned to my starting point, Edo Aircraft
Corporation, as general sales manager; promoted to vice-president
in charge of sales of new-named "Edo Corporation who design,
manufacture and sell complicated contraptions to U.S. government,
Canadian, French, etc., mostly for Navy for use above the sea, on
the sea and under the sea (used on Nautilus, Skate, etc.).

Children growing up. Jim at work, having graduated from Yale
Engineering School in 1958. He is making soap and trying for Navy
OCS. Daughter Hope is sophomore at Smith; Archie at Brooks.
(P.S. Jim has three Harvard crew shirts he won at New London.)

Travel a lot on business; sometimes with wife, mostly by Cessna
310, company-owned, self-flown: or by Porsche auto—— never by
train. Two weeks in summer in Shelburne, Vermont, summer place;
two weeks in winter in Caribbean — when can make it, preferably
St. Thomas.

BEVERLY HOLLADAY BROWN

£ * a id
4

  

ORL NNN BE RAN NPN INS

   

HOME ADDRESS: 2651 16th St., N.W., Washington 9, D.C.

OFFICE. ADDRESS: Thomas Jefferson Room, Library of Congress, Washington 25,
LC.

BORN: June 1, 1912, New York, N.Y. parenrs: Frank Harold Brown, ’o2, Daisy

Holladay.
[ 148 ]

‘

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Institut Walter, St. Prex, Switzerland.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

Makrigp: Gertrude M. Busch, July 26, 1934, New York, N.Y.

occuPATION: Full-time librarian; part-time religious writer and translator.

MEMBER OF: Third Order of St. Francis; Catholic Library Association; Lay
Mission Committee and Mission Library Committee, Mission Secretariat.

THE outstanding fact about my Harvard years is that (like my
father) I had to leave college and earn a living at the end of my
sophomore year, which was 1932. My widowed mother’s income
having been seriously “depressed, ” TI filled a welcome vacancy as
an English teacher in the Swiss preparatory school which I had
attended and was planning to work in after graduation. Two years
later, wishing to marry and live in the United States, I came to
Washington and sought a government job.

Within a few weeks I obtained an excellent one: checkstand boy
at the Library of Congress; salary $600 a year. By hanging on and
giving people the right hats and coats, within a few months I
managed to get my salary doubled overnight — for the first and
last tune in my government career. Subsequent steps up the ladder
were: reading-room messenger, stack attendant, card filer, telephone
reference and then general reference assistant, and eventually
junior and senior reference librarian, specializing during the last
fifteen years in Christian church history.

In 1943, during the war (I was 4-F), I rejoined, and my good
wife joined, the Roman Catholic Church and we entered the Third
Order of St. Francis for lay persons. I then began to write and
translate articles and books on Catholic and Franciscan subjects.
Two series of articles written as contributing editor of Our Lady
of the Cape magazine were published in book form: The Life of
Mary as Seen by the Mystics and Mary Conmnunes with the Saints.

During 1951-52, in cooperation with the Mission Secretariat of
the National Society for the Propagation of the Faith, I prepared
a World Survey of Catholic Leprosy Work. The need for a
Catholic leprosy information office and bulletin, which was ex-
pressed in missionaries’ replies to a questionnaire published therein,
has since been met by the publication of a bulletin by the Leprosy
Research Laboratory of the late Marist Sister Marie Suzanne in
Lyon, France, and of a magazine in English and Spanish by the
International Catholic Center for the Relief of Hansenians, recently
founded by the Knights of Malta in Rome. I serve as a member of
the editorial board of both publications. I am also contributing

[ 149 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

editor of the Damien Dutton Call published by the Damien Dutton
Leprosy Aid Society.

In recent years I have concentrated on w riting about St. Francis
of Assisi. I translated the popular fictional biography, The Perfect
Joy of St. Francis, by the late Felix Timmermans, and I am com-
piling and translating a series of little-known original “St. Francis
Texts,” two of which have been published by the Franciscan Herald
Press in Chicago: Our Lady and St. Francis, All the Earliest Texts,
and Fifty Animal Stories of St. Francis, As Told by His Companions.
For the last two years I worked on the first complete English
version of the famous classic, The Little Flowers of St. Francis,
using the Latin original, which was published late in 1958 by
Doubleday’s Hanover House and Image Books.

In May, 1958, I had the great privilege of spending four weeks
in Franciscan Italy, visiting twenty little hillside monasteries founded
by the Poverello. I am now trying to share the joy and beauty of
that pilgrimage by giving talks on the subject, illustrated by color
slides, and by writing up the journey in a series of articles in Padre
magazine.

Recently I completed a booklet on the life of a little-known
Franciscan lay brother, Fra Carlo da Sezze (d. 1670), who is due to
be canonized in 1959; I am about to begin a book-length biography
of him. Other future projects include books on the hermitages of
St. Francis and also a collection of unknown stories about that great
Saint. Eventually, God willing, I hope to prepare a complete life
of St. Francis in the words of the earliest Franciscan documents.

I am indeed grateful for this opportunity to testify that, by the
grace of God and the prayers of a good wife, I have found in the
spirit of St. Francis and in his faith the secret of true joy and peace
of mind, heart and soul.

[ 150 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HERBERT RUTHERFORD BROWN, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 43 Harwood Lane, East Rochester, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 380 Monroe Ave., Rochester 7, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 6, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Herbert Rutherford Brown, m_.,
"14, Mary Teresa Schwartz.

PREPARED AT: West High School, Rochester, N.Y.; Phillips Academy, Andover,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; M.D. (Univ. of Rochester
School of Medicine and Dentistry), 1939.

MARRIED: Elsie Leonard Graves, Jan. 28, 1944, Brooklyn, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Herbert Rutherford, 3d, Feb. 19, 1945; Karen Elizabeth, June 9, 1948;
Carlinda Stewart, Dec. 29, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Physician, specializing in the fields of circulation, hematology and
fluid balance.

OFFICES HELD: Intern and assistant resident in internal medicine, 1939—41, resi-
dent in neurology and fever therapy, 1941-42, instructor and assistant
physician, 1945, Strong Memorial Hospital, University of Rochester Medi-
cal Center; Bertha Hochstetter Buswell Fellow in Medicine, University of
Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry, 194650; senior physician,
Highland Hospital, Rochester; medical director, Rochester Regional Blood
Program, American Red Cross, 1948; medical director of blood program,
Eastern Area, American National Red Cross, Alexandria (Va.), 1950-515
member, board of directors, Rochester Chapter of National Hemophilia
Foundation, 1950; vice-president, member of board, 1950, Harvard Club of
Rochester; member, Blood Banks Commission, New York State Society,
1953; member, Heart Committee, Health Association, Rochester and
Monroe County, 1956; member, executive committee, Monroe County
Medical Society, 1956-59; Diplomate in Internal Medicine.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Rochester; University Club of Rochester;
Monroe County Medical Society; Rochester Society of Internal Medi-
cine; New York State Medical Society; American Medical Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Twenty-five articles in medical journals in the fields of circula-
tion, cardiovascular disorders, hematology and fluid balance; a monograph,
Clinical Ballistocardiography — with Drs. Vincent deLalla, Jr, Marvin A.
Epstein and Marvin J. Hoffman, The Macmillan Company, 1952.

[isr ]

° HARVARD CLASS OF 1934
I WAS born in Boston on January 6, 1911. My father, Herbert R.
Brown, Sr., was then a student at Harvard Medical School and
working part-time at the Toxin-Anti-Toxin Laboratory. Dr. Theo-
bald Smith, a pioneering bacteriologist, was director of the labora-
tory under the Massachusetts State Board of Health. He was also
professor of comparative pathology at the Harvard Medical School.
The laboratory was located on the grounds adjoining the Arnold
Arboretum in Jamaica Plain. It was here that the first anti-toxin was
developed which has since led to relative eradication of diphtheria.
Dad had originally come here at the instigation of Dr. Charles W.
Dodge, professor of bacteriology of the University of Rochester.
He later graduated from Harvard Medical School in 1913. It was
this beginning that later directed me to Harvard.

We moved in 1918 to Rochester where my preliminary schooling
began and I was graduated from West High School in 1929; then
spent one year at Phillips Andover Academy. These early memories
have meant much to me. I was graduated from Harvard in 1934,
gaining my A.B. degree. I spent one year working under depression
circumstances and then entered and graduated from the University
of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry in 1939. Here two
gentlemen gave me a push similar to that my father had — namely,
Drs. William S. McCann, now emeritus professor of medicine and
first professor of internal medicine in this new medical school, and
Stafford L. Warren, professor of radiology and now dean and
initiator of the University of California of Los Angeles’ new
Medical School and Medical Center. |

The Second World War saw me in the Navy in July, 1942,
where I incurred stimulating assignments. The first was at the U.S.
Naval Hospital in Brooklyn, New York. Here I met my wife and
we were married in the hospital’s chapel. My next assignment was
Atlantic duty on the 2nd Navy Hospital Ship, the USS Refuge,
where we covered the invasions of Europe and Southern France.
From there I was transferred to Guam in the Pacific as an officer in
charge of whole blood shipments for the combined services. An
important task was the planning of these blood supplies for invasions
under Admiral Nimitz. This was the first time in medical history

that whole blood was safely transported such long distances and suc-
cessfully administered at the battle fronts. The last duty was at the
Bureau of Medicine and Surgery, Washington, D.C., recording the
data obtained and the procedures employed for future use,

I returned to Rochester in 1946 and became a Bertha Hochstetter

[152]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Buswell Fellow in Medicine again with Dr. McCann and engaged in
research in cardiovascular disease and completed a monograph on
ballistocardiography. Because of my background in this field, the
first of the Red Cross Regional Blood Programs was started in
Rochester in January, 1948, along with Dr. Albert D. Kaiser, City
Health Officer, Harvard Medical School ’13, and a classmate of my
father. Admiral Ross T. McIntire, retired, was the first National
Red Cross Director of this now vast service. He remains a kind
friend both in and out of the service. |

I entered private practice in internal medicine in 1951 in partner-
ship with Dr. John R. Williams, Jr., son of Dr. Williams, Sr., a_
pioneer in diabetes in this country and also a high school classmate
of my father. I am currently active, involved and busy pointing Jim
(Herbert R. Brown, 3d) for Harvard.

JOHN CRICHTON BROWN

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 138 Main St., Andover, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 18, 1913, Blackie, Alberta, Canada. parents: Gordon Thorburn
Brown, Christine Jessie Taylor.

PREPARED AT: Sherbrooke High School, Sherbrooke, P.Q., Canada.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., C471 laude, 1934; D.M.D., 1938.

MARRIED: Mary Elliot, June 26, 1943, Andover, Mass. cHILDREN: Nfargarct
Cadman, Aug. 27, 1945; Helen Thorburn, Aug. 21, 1947; Jane Crichton,
May 11, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederick Thorburn Brown, ’32.

occuPATION: Dentist.

OFFICES HELD: President, South Church Men’s Club, 1952; member, executive

committee, Merrimack Valley District Dental Society, since 1956; various

offices, Andover P.T.A., 1958-59.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Dental Society; American Dental Association;

American Society of Dentistry for Children; International Association for

[ 153 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Dental Research; Harvard Odontological Society; Andover Service Club,
punticatioss: “Dental Occlusion in’ Patients with Muscular Dystrophy”;
“Findings in a Dental Survey of 354 Preparatory School Boys.”

HANDING in term reports and meeting course requirements kept
me in rather close couch with the dean’s office and it wasn’t until my
last year that I really began to think about the future. Having
decided late to study dentistry, I spent the whole summer after
graduation at summer school, first at M.LT., then at Harvard. With
these requirements completed, I moved over to the Harvard Dental
School and to Boston where I spent the next five years. My last
vear of formal training was at the Children’s Hospital.

About a month before World War II began, I opened an office in
Andover. Those were lean, uncertain days. However, in a few
months I found myself in the Army Dental Corps assigned to the
Air Force, where I spent the next forty-four months entirely in
domestic service.

Back to Andover in 1946 to resume practice and this is where I
have been ever since. We break up our routine with frequent
visits to New Hampshire where we found an old farm in a quiet
place with a view that we love.

LLOYD BROWN

  

HOME ADDRESS: 427 Garland St., Bangor, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 316 State St, Bangor, Maine.

Bors: Oct. 19, 1911, Boston, Mass. pareNTS: Lloyd Thornton Brown, 03,
Marian Fpes Wigglesworth.

purpaurp at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YVRAKS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.By 1934, M.D., 1938,

Masui: Laura Whitney Dodge, April 29, 1939, Milton, Mass. cipren:
Lloyd, Jr, March 22, 1941; Laura Whitney, Sept. 6, 1942; Susanna Lock-

[154]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

wood, Aug. 9, 1947; Rosamond Dixwell, June 1, 1949; Timothy Bowditch,
March 30, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thornton Brown, 736, M.D., "40.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Home Service Committee, American Red Cross, 1949-
56; director, 1950-57, vice-president, 1956, Bangor-Brewer Tuberculosis
& Health Association; director, Maine Tuberculosis Association, since 1954.

MEMBER OF: New England Surgical Society; American Board of Surgery
(diplomate); American College of Surgeons (fellow); American College
of Chest Physicians (fellow); American Trudeau Society; Maine Chapter,
American College of Surgeons (president, 1955).

GRADUATION from college, for me, was but a momentary let-
up. I had been fortunate enough to be accepted by Harvard Medical
School, so in September, 1934, I retired to Longwood Avenue for
four more years. But before so doing, I spent a memorable two
months in Europe with Cary and Weed and later with Forbes and
Dennison. In 1939, I came out of seclusion long enough to marry
and then began four years of internship and residency in Boston,
Cleveland and, I hesitate to say it, New Haven. At this point, Uncle
Sam took a hand in my affairs and I spent a couple of years cam-
paigning in West Virginia, Texas and New Mexico, always threaten-
ing, but never quite going overseas. These wanderings convinced me

°
that I wanted to settle in New England and, after several feints, I

landed in Bangor, where I have remained.

Life in a small city has been pleasant. My rapidly-expanding
family required the purchase of a large old house which overlooks
the Penobscot River and the Bangor Salmon Pool. There are now
few salmon, but I have a garden in the backyard. I am five minutes
from the hospital and my Office. Commuting i is only an ugly rumor.
I find myself unexpectedly becoming involved in the PTA, the
Community Chest and the like.

The practice of surgery has been very absorbing. Small well-
equipped hospitals are becoming common and we are fortunate in
having a good one. Of course, I miss the teaching hospital, but
progress in surgical theory and technics has been so rapid and the
dissemination of this knowledge so widespread as to present a con-
stant challenge. .It is a real satisfaction to feel that one’s contribution
has been at least locally significant. I have been associated with the
tuberculosis programs for both the state and the Veterans Administra-
tion at a time when real progress has been made in the treatment of
this disease.

Politically, I have carried on a strong Republican family tradition.

[155]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

However, even as my adopted state has shown Democratic tend-
encies, I have changed my point of view enough on occasion to be
damned as a “liberal.”

My children number five and range from a senior (high school)
to a sub- -primary. Keeping up and down to all of them is a hopeless

task. I see no danger of life becoming humdrum or of the nest being
deserted for many years to come.

I have recently increased my spare time by forming a partnership.
But my projects still far outnumber my accomplishments. In the
summer, I play a little golf and tennis and have taken an occasional
cruise along the Maine coast. In the winter, spurred by trips to
Austria and Aspen, my 1932 Fire Trail squat is being converted to a
modified “Wedeln.” I am still trying to get close enough to a deer
to lay it low with an arrow.

It is hard for me to define what Harvard has meant to me. I know
I would not have gone elsewhere for the world, even though in the
home of the “Stein Song,” Harvard is not always an asset. I hope
that my sons may have the same opportunity. I am still not sure,
however, w hether I should have been pleased or insulted when the
other day someone said, “I did not have any idea he went to Harvard,
he’s just as ordinary as the rest of us.’

That, in brief, is ‘the last tw enty-five years. I hope the next w ill be
as pleasant,

RICHARD PHILIP BUCH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2529 Sheridan Drive, Norwood, Cincinnati 12, Ohio.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 2111 Carew Tower, Cincinnati 2, Ohio; Screen Gems, Inc., 711
Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y. (home office).

BORN: Aug. 20, 1913, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Henry Philip Buch, Ida Broker.
PREPARED AT: Roosevelt High School, St. Louis, Mo,

[156 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B, magna cum laude, 1934.

Marrirp: Louise Boatwright, June 12, 1943, Ridge Spring, S.C. (divorced
1955). CHILDREN: Richard Philip, Jr, March 11, 1946; Benjamin Middleton,
Jan. 29. 1949.

OCCUPATION: Manager, Screen Gems, Inc., TV film sales (programs for tele-
Vision),

Mesa oF: Harvard Clubs of New York and Cincinnanu.

PuBticATIOSS: Promotional brochures, motion picture scripts, articles in trade
publicarions,

AFTER graduation T got a job in Washington as a file clerk for the
Agricultural, Adjustment Administration, on the graveyard shift,
from midnight to seven o'clock, Tt wasn't much of a job, but in those
post-de pression davs work was hard to find, and one couldn't afford
to be particular. In a short time T obtained a daytime position in
the FERA, later the WPA, as assistant to a New Deal statistician.
We did statistical and graphical studies on farm income, rural re-
settlement and drought cycles. [used to climb around like a fly on
the big walle harts in ‘Harry Hopkins’ office, keeping track of drought
cattle movements.

At first L lived with a group of eager young crusaders in suburban
Washington, in a kind of intellectual boarding house, where profes-
SOFS, politicians and administrators discussed the nation’s economic
ills and their favorite panaceas. Later, I lived with Classmate Fal
Pearson, who worked in the same office. [attended law classes at
night for a year, but decided this was not my calling. But life was
not all serious, and there were many parties at which bachelors of
all political views were always w elcome.

In the summer of 1936, I left government service and went to
Furope with my brother. We atrended the Olympic Games in
Berlin, heard W. agner’s “Ring” played in Bayreuth, hiked through
Bavaria and Austria, bicycled in the Black Forest, visited my father’s
people in Frankfurt and saw as much as we could of Paris, London
and Oxford. That fall I returned to New York and went to work
for Harvard fund-raiser John Price Jones, as a publicity writer. I
Was assigned to the University of Pennsylvania Bicentennial Fund
in Philadelphia, where I wrote pamphlets and ghosted canned
speeches. One day my supervisor sent me out to watch a local film
producer photograph some scenes for a fund-raising movie. “Find
out all you can about movie-making,” he instructed me, and I took
him at his word. Before leaving Philadelphia I had acquired an
advanced case of “celluloid fever” from which I have never re-
covered.

[157]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

compromised and became an industrial film producer. My wife and
children returned to the family place in South Carolina, while I
became involved in selling, writing, directing and producing color
films for industry. I roamed Texas, Louisiana, Oklahoma and
Arkansas, based in Atlanta. I thoroughly enjoyed film-making on
location, but the long months away from home played havoc with
my marriage. For the sake of a more regular family existence, I went
into syndicated TV program sales. We bought a house in Atlanta
and took root there. But late in 1954, job and marriage both blew
up and divorce followed in 1955.

Divorce was a shattering experience for me. Eventually I left
the South and in 1956 moved to Los Angeles, as Western Division
Manager for a TV film distributor. I liked Southern California
and fell naturally into the casual relaxed way of life there. Among
the movie-makers in Hollywood and the broadcasters in Denver,
Phoenix, Seattle and San Francisco I felt at home. Here was a world
that I understood and could feel part of.

_ But this too passed. Our company was absorbed by Screen Gems,
a leader in TV programming. Late in 1957 I was transferred to
Cincinnati, where I now live in our family house with my widower
father, back where I started in 1930, having completed the cycle
from the Middle West to New England, to the Middle Atlantic area,
to the South, to the Pacific Coast and back “home’”’ again. So “home
is the sailor,” but after many years of roaming, one’s spiritual and
geographic homes are poles apart. One day soon, I know, a call will
come that will send me on my way again.

Looking back across the years, the axiom of the rolling stone
certainly applies to me. There isn’t much to show in tangible form
for all the years of effort. My list of “offices,” “societies” and

“publications” is unimpressive. Occasionally I admire my more
integrated colleagues whose lives have moved serenely in well-
ordered and established channels, who marry well and stay that way,
and who move inexorably up the ladder, eventually wind up as heads
of banks and insurance companies, board chairmen of corporations,
trustees of hospitals and universities. J admire them, but I would
not trade with them if I could, for I make a poor pillar of society
and have no stomach for being a “success” in this sense. However,
I enjoy the challenge of difficult assignments against heavy odds, and

function well as a crusader, In a more pious age I might have become

a pretty fair preacher or temperance lecturer. I enjoy creative en-

deavor and the society of creative people, but I usually wind up

[ 160 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

becoming an “executive.” Once the basic problems are solved, this
soon palls and I must move on. For the individualist in a conformist
society, creative selling offers a challenge and a refuge. And so
here in the business of selling intangibles — dream merchant, if you
like —I find some of the satisfactions that a career as a novelist or
a playwright or an actor might have brought. .
And so, classmate, if you feel, betimes, that you have become stulti-
fied in achieving your current eminence, and you wonder what
might have been — whether it would have been more fun to travel,
or produce motion pictures or fly airplanes or chase starlets — I
shall be happy to compare notes at Reunion.

LAWRENCE MASON BULLARD

  

HOME apparss: Germantown, N.Y.

oFFIwCE aporess: Board of Education, Germantown, N.Y.

BorN: Dec. 30, 1910, Lyndon, Vt. parents: Ethelbert Mason Bullard, Laura
Lund.

PREPARFD AT: Hudson High School, Hudson, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932. DEGREE: 8.8, (Univ. of Massachusetts), 1935.

MarRieD: Joyce Marguerite Hobart, Aug. 31, 1938, Boonville, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Nancy, June 8, 1942; Eleanor Mason, March 1, 1947.

OccUPATION: Teacher of science and industrial arts, Germantown Central
School.

OFFICES HELD: President, Columbia County Teachers Association, vice-president,
Reformed Church Consistory; 4-H Club leader; Boy Scout committeeman.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Phi Epsilon — Massachusetts Alpha; Lions Club; New York
State Teachers Association; New York State Teachers of Industrial Arts.

PUBLICATIONS: Chapter in Education of the Blind, edited by M. E. Frampton,
1940, World Book Company.

TWO years at Harvard! In 1935 I graduated from the University
of Massachusetts, was offered a year's apprenticeship as a teacher

[ 161 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

of agriculture and assigned to Dartmouth High School, Dart-
mouth, Massachusetts. It was a delightful and enriching experience
but the school year was soon over and as you may remember you
couldn’t buy a job i in °36. The university informed me of an open-
ing in the New York Institute for the Education of the Blind, lo-
cated at 999 Pelham Parkway, New York City. I accepted the
position and spent six w onderful years in New York. It was here
that I met Joyce who had Sraduated from Sweet Briar in 1935. We
were married in 1938.

In 1939, Joyce and I spent the summer touring through the west.
I mention this trip because last summer (1958), we repeated the trip,
but this time with our two daughters.

Teaching the blind was challenging and rewarding, but I wanted
to move out to a rural community and teach in a public school. So,
in 1942, we came to Germantown and I am now completing my
twenty-fourth year of teaching. I have always been happy and
satisfied with my choice of profession. Lack of attractive salaries
has been offset in many ways, such as by having the two best months
of the year free to travel and relax. Joyce teaches and both girls
aspire to be teachers.

Ours is a simple quiet sort of life here on the banks of the Hudson.
I’ve never become involved in politics but I finally did help to elect
a Republican president. Having spent my youth in Massachusetts,
it was not too unusual to be a member of the Unitarian Church, but
Pve now accepted the Dutch Reformed Church with reservations.

As for the future, I shall soon be eligible for retirement and since
Joyce is fond of Florida and rebels at our long winter months, it is
quite probable that our home address will be a southerly one before
many years.

[ 162 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES BAXTER BURBANK

 

HOME AbDbRESS: 22 Lantern Lane, Arlington 74, Mass.

OFFICE ADpRESS: 94 Pleasant St., Arlington 74, Mass.

BorN: Sept. 8, 1912, Medford, Mass. parents: Manning Sise Burbank, Josephine
M. Baxter.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1934. DEGREES! A.B, 1934; M.D. 1938.

Marriep: Mary J. Fish, Aug. 26, 1936, Brookline, Mass. (died 1952); Catherine J.
MecHlugh, Feb. 2, 1953, Brookline, Mass. cuito: Cy nthia K., Oct. 15, 1937.
ooctpaTioN: General surgeon with special interests in fracture and hand surgery.
orrices HEED: Member, active surgical staff, Massachusetts General Hospital,
since 1947, Faulkner Hospital, since 1949, Mt. Auburn Hospital, since 1949,
Symmes Arlington Hospital, since 1957; visiting surgeon, Veterans Ad-
ministration Hospital, Bedford, Mass. since 1947; consultant, Leominster

Hospital, since 1gso.

MeMaFR of: American Micdical Association; Massachusctts Medical Society;
Middlesex South District Medical Society; American College of Surgeons;
American Association Surgery of Trauma (fellow); American Board of
Surgery (diplomate),; Boston Surgical Society; Harvard Club of Boston,
Massachusetts Benevolent Society; Massachusetts Horticultural Society.

pupil icaTioss: About a half-dozen papers in surgical journals.

AT the age of about fifteen, I had decided that I wanted to be a
surgeon. Consequently by the time I had become a junior in col-
lege, I decided I would try and get into the Harvard Medical School.
In this, I was successful.

After graduation from college in June of 1934, I spent the next
two months in England having a fine vacation. In the fall, I began
medical school and continued in the Harvard Medical School until
I graduated in 1938. I had been fortunate enough to get a surgical
internship at the Massachusetts General Hospital and after gradua-
tion from the Medical School, I moved down to the General and
was an intern, assistant resident and resident there for the next

[ 163 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

four and one-half years. Those years were long and arduous, but
ones which I shall never forget.

In February of 1943, a month after I had graduated from the
Massachusetts General Hospital, I found myself a first heutenant in
the Army. From February of 1943 until September of 1946, I re-
mained in the service. The first year and a half I spent in San
Antonio, Texas, at the Brook General Hospital. The next year I
spent in Europe going from England into Normandy and acer
Germany, with a surgical auxiliary group. Following V-E Da
May of 1945, I was sent directly to the Pacific. I was first at Manila,
then Okinawa and finally ended up in Tokyo where I remained until
my discharge. In Tokyo I was chief of surgery at the 42d General
Hospital. My war service was entirely satisfactory as all my as-
signments were surgical and I was fortunate enough to have a great
deal of surgery to do. I had my final promotion to lieutenant colonel
while in Tokyo and this too was most satisfying. |

On my return to Boston, I began the practice of surgery in as-
sociation with some other men on the staff of the Massachusetts
General Hospital. I did most of my work there until 1956 when I
moved to Arlington, Massachusetts, where I now do the great
majority of my work. I have done a little teaching at the Massa-
chusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School. I am
especially interested in hand and fracture surgery. I enjoy my work
immensely and am very glad that my decision at the age of fifteen
was what is was. I have also been surgeon to the employees at
Harvard since 1946. 7

My non-professional interests in recent years have been devoted
mostly to visiting St. Croix in the American Virgin Islands where I
own four acres of land on the Caribbean and am at the moment
negotiating to build a house there where I eventually shall retire.
Fishing of all sorts is available there and I enjoy spear fishing more
than the rod and reel. I shall also enjoy the local tax advantage.

[ 164 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM ROBERTS BURCHILL

 

HOME ADpRESS: 3228 Ravensworth PL, Alexandria, Va.

orpice appress: Maritime Administration, Washington, D.C.

porw: March 13, 1912, Frackville, Pa. parents: William Francis Burchill, Mar-
garet Roberts.

paepanep at: Mercersburg Academy, Mercersburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B, 19343 LL.B, 1937.

Maariep: Marion Flizabeth Fisenhower, May 10, 1946, New York, N.Y. cHiLp:
William Roberts, 2d, Dee. 6, 1947.

HaRvaRD BrovHER: Lewis Roberts Burchill, '31, 1.8.4, 738.

occupation: Actormey, Division of Legislation, Maritime Administration,

AFTER graduating from college, I attended the Law School from
which I graduated | in 1937. Then I went to New York City where
I worked in a law office until I was drafted into the Army in June,
1941. [was sent to Camp Lee in Virginia for training in the Medical
Department. In September of that year I was released from active
duty (because I was over twenty-nine years old), returned to the
New York law office until January, 1942, when I was recalled to
active duty and assigned to a Military Police Battalion. We spent
the rest of 1942 guarding industrial installations in the Norfolk,
Virginia, area.

In January, 1943, I attended the Adjutant General’s Officers
Candidate School, became a second lieutenant in March of that
year, was sent to Headquarters VII Corps in Jacksonville, Florida,
for training; in August went to Camp Blanding, Florida, for over-
seas training and in October of that year was off to Greenland
where I spent the next thirteen months. Then I returned to the
United States where I was assigned to the Casualty Branch, the
Adjutant General’s Department, to make determinations of status
under the Missing Persons Act.

[ 165 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

At the end of the war, I went home to Frackville, Pennsylvania,
married the girl next door, and returned to the New York law
office until early in 1952 when the office closed, Then I obtained a
job in the legal oftice of the Services Division of the Office of Price
Stabilization in Washington, D.C., until that agency was discon-
tinued, when I came to my present job in the Division of Legisla-
tion, Maritime Administration.

I have done a variety of legal work which has, nevertheless,
had the interpretation and drafting of legal documents as a common

o
theme. My chief work now is the drafting of bills relating to

merchant marine problems for introduction in Congress and (for a
short time after their enactment) the administrative interpretation
of the resulting statutes. This work is stimulating because it pro-
vides opportunity to exercise imagination in devising, through the
use of conventional legal tools, legislative solutions of problems, and
because it provides an eye-opening perspective on the interpretation
of statutes others have drafted which could not easily be obtained
with so much conviction in any other way.

Legal work is not easy, but I enjoy it, which may indicate that
whoever said that “in selecting a career you might as well select
something dificult because habit will make it congenial” was (at
least within some limits) correct.

Our leisure time is pretty -well occupied by our cleven-year-old
son and heir. I never used to care much for sports, but I have
spent many enjoyable hours watching with enthusiastic companion-
ship baseball, football, basketball and hockey contests. In addition,
I have spent some time throwing the baseball and football, but I am
politely not invited as often for these activities as I used to be which,
I suspect, indicates that my abilities along these lines are now being
more critically appraised. We all enjoy automobile drives and we
spend many enjoyable hours together in this way.

This was the first twenty-five years, which it seems to me forms
a sound basis for the second twenty-five.

[ 166 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARRY BECK BURCHSTEAD

 

HOME AppRESS: 44 Brantwood Rd., Arlington 74, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % The Adjutant General, Washington, D.C.

BORN: Nov. 29, 1912, Lexington, Mass. parents: Harry Nelson Burchstead,
Marie Beck. .

PREPARED AT: Peterborough High School, Peterborough, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. 1934.

MARRIED: Julia Anderson Reid, June 10, 1944, New York, N.Y. cum~pren: Harry
Beck, Jr., Aug. 29, 1945; Anne Reid, Oct. 16, 1947; Palmer Reid, Jan. 4,
1949; Karin Julia, Nov. 9, 1950; John Henry, March 25, 1956.

occupation: Major, U.S. Army.

SINCE I last reported I entered on active duty with the U.S. Army
on September 15, 1940, and intend to remain in this status for an-
other twelve years. Over half of this time has been spent in Europe.
My last overseas station was Vienna and I am Presently stationed at
Fort Sam Houston, Texas. My military service has been with the
Artillery, the Infantry (including the 18th Infantry Regiment of
the “Big Red One’’), and, at this time, General Staff, Gz, 4th U.S.
Army.

As a Yankee with forebears on the Union and blue side, I was
happily captured by a daughter of the deep South. Her grand-
father, a Presbyterian minister, was the founder of schools in Reid-
ville, South Carolina. The record under “children” above speaks
for the success of this union.

After the war we visited Europe as a family. We searched for
the “off-way” places and found the people very friendly, and we
made a lot of friends. I have remained interested in hunting and
fishing, but now I am inclined more toward fishing, which is some-
thing we can all enjoy as a family.

With the space age upon us, how can we doubt the presence of

[ 167 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

the Divinity, infinite and eternal?) What healthier and happier way
to bring up a family than by the Sermon on the Mount?

JOHN EDWARD BURKE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 81 Warren Rd., Framingham, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 35 Lincoln St., Framingham, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 8, 1912, Natick, Mass. parENts: Michael Francis Burke, M.p., ’98,
Alice Dorothy Madden.

PREPARED AT: Natick High School, Natick, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1938.

MarRiED: Mary Louise McCarthy, Oct. 11, 1941, Milton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Edward Lawrence, April 16, 1943; Kevin Michael, Nov. 9, 1944; Francis
Patrick, March 10, 1947; Sheila Carol, June 7, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Francis Madden Burke, ’31, M.D., 36; Walter Thomas Burke,
"33, LLB., '36.

occupaTION: Physician, specializing in obstetrics and gynecology.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, Kiwanis Club of Framingham, St. Stephen’s Holy

Name Society, president, Framingham Community Recreation Center;
trustee, Framingham Library

MEMBER OF: American College of Obstetricians & Gynecologists, American
Society for the Study of Sterility; Guild of St. Luke; Catholic Alumni

Sodality of Boston; Harvard Club of Boston; Charitable Irish Society of
Boston,

A DOCTOR'S life is a gratifying existence. The medical man can
occasionally bring a ray of sunshine to the troubled. Medicine has
a certain flare of excitement of its own, especially if the doctor has
a fascination for people. Human dramas, unfolded in his inner
sanctum, enrich his day, and arouse from him sympathy, sorrow and,
sometimes, exasperation.

sy way of Tufts Medical School, the Cambridge City Hospital
and the Boston City Hospital, I nailed my shingle in Framingham in

[ 168 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1942. I did “everything” for the first few years — snared tonsils, re-
paired hernias, splinted fractures, poked into kids’ ears, sedated the
drunks, poured ether, committed the insane, advised the teen-agers,
etc. Those were busy times.

After the war was over I restricted my practice to obstetrics and
gynecology and was admitted to the American College of that spe-
cialty. I thought that by this shift I might see a little more of my
wife and growing family. But about this time a goodly number of
young people decided to move to the Framingham area. Such folk,
as we all well know, are prone to bear offspring, so I found myself
as preoccupied as before. And to make matters worse, I was busier
at night. So, my solution to this dilemma was to take on an associate,
which again worked out well for a while until within two or three
years we were doing well over twice the volume that I did working
“solo.” (No reflection on our skill; the real estate boom had moved
in.) Recently a third obstetrician has been added to the group, and
the balance between day work, night work and time off seems to
be about what I would like it to be. With Uncle Sam grasping as
much as he can of the ‘ ‘company’s ” assets, I feel that there is no
point in taxing my coronaries too much! |

As a result of the partnerships and as a result of my belief that
a doctor should not become so submerged in his work that he ceases
to exist as a father, husband or social member of the community, I
have been able to enter into various rewarding interests and recrea-
tions. My wife (Mimi McCarthy, Wellesley ’37) and I have had the
pleasure of flying over to Europe on four different vacations, con-
centrating on a different country each time — Ireland r950, France
1953, Spain 1954 and Italy 1956. On the past two trips we took one
of our sons with us. A weekend in Ashford Castle in Cong, Holy
Week in Seville, Paris in the springtime, tracing footsteps of St.
Francis throughout Assisi — these are memories which will never
fade.

Our large fifty-year-old home with a huge play area in the base-
ment has been adequate to allow our children as well as all the chil-
dren in the neighborhood to express their individualities. Eddie,
fifteen, and Kevin, fourteen, are preparing for college at St. Se-
bastiah’s Country Day School; Francis, eleven, is developing study
habits at the Fay School, and Sheila, nine, is attending the fourth
grade at St. Stephen’s Parochial School.

As I look back at my extra-curricular activities, it seems to me
that throughout the years I have enthusiastically taken up some en-

[ 169 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934.

deavor as a hobby, pursued it for an indefinite period of time, to a
varying degree of inefficiency and then passed on to something else,
Let me enumerate a few of these activities:
. Golf. Seven or eight years ago I sneaked away at every op-
portunity to hit the ball, I remember days when I would get off to
the club at 6:30 a.m. to get in some practice before making hospital
rounds. By dint of concentration I finally could score in the low
eighties, but finally concluded that this sport took too much time
for the amount of exercise, so I switched to tennis. 2. Tennis. I had
a court built in my backyard. Now I can work up a good sweat in
an hour or so. I still outmaneuver my sons, but by next year they
ought to beat me regularly. 3. Symphony concerts. Some years ago
I was a regular subscriber to the Boston Symphony. But Mimi was
pregnant most of the time in those days. She didn’t get there too
often. Going alone was not too much fun, so I dropped it. 4. Piano
lessons. While frightfully busy in the early days of practice I got
the notion that I wanted to take lessons. But when I was forced to
advise the music master so often not to come since I[ hadn’t time to
practice, I gave up the idea; so now I play Chopin poorly by my-
self. 5. Gardening. This enthusiasm died an early death. Too
many weeds! Even when the string beans came up, I got so busy
I never was able to pick them. (The family were at the summer
home in Newport, Rhode Island, and weren’t available for picking. )
6. Chess. This bug bit me too. I read all the books. While wait-
ing for deliveries I played with the anaesthetist. I never showed
much ability, Finally the fervor died. 7. Photography. I still click
my Leica frequently. I have collected and catalogued about 2500
colored 35 mm. slides of various trips, events and family scenes. 8.
Crossword puzzles. At one stretch years ago I could not start out
the day without doing the daily puzzle. I have become more mod-
erate in this habit, and now I often enjoy working on the Sunday
Times puzzle. 9. Dancing. A couple of years ago we organized a
series of Cha Cha Cha and Mambo lessons in the play-room, with
twelve or thirteen other couples. Once a year we invite eighty or
one hundred friends for square dancing on the tennis court. 10. Oil
painting. This is supposed to be ideal for the harassed doctor. I
gave it a fling, and was flattered when Sheila could identify the
locale of my one masterpiece (!), “Rocks at Newport.” 11. Read-
ing. This has provided me many hours of pleasant relaxation. Chief
topics: Irish history, Catholic literature, selected fiction and non-
fiction, 12. Contract bridge. This is my latest pursuit. Blackwood,

[ 170 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Goren, Sheinwold and Stayman are all houschold words, and their
Writings serve as sources of inspiration.

I have also found time for some local civic activities. I have been
a member of the Framingham Kiwanis Club for thirteen years, and
have served as its president. I have been a trustce of the local town
library board for eight years, I was president of the St. Stephen’s
Holy Name Society, and I am now president of the Framingham.
Community Recreation Center. I have enjoyed my association: with
the Catholic Alumni Sodality of Boston; also the Charitable Trish
Society of Boston, whose historic organization I once had the honor
of addressing.

So, looking back, medicine has been stimulating, and my family
and social life replete with warm and satisfying experiences. God
willing, may the next twenty-five be equally fruitful.

JOHN LANCASTER BURLING

 

HOME aporess: 24 Gramercy Pk. New York 3, N.Y.

OFFICE aDpRESs: goo Madison Ave., New York, NLY.

poan: May 17, 1912, Chicago, IIL parents: Edward Burnham Burling, ’91,
Louwa Greene Peasley.

preparep ar: Avon Old Farms, Avon, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. Wiagna cum laude, 1934; LL.B. 1938.

Marrirp: Rosamond Taylor, July 16, 1938, Claremont, N.H. (divorced);
Freda Lustick, Oct. 16, 1954, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN: Philip, Jan. 25,
1942; Peter, Feb. 5, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Burling, Jr., Lv.s., ’32.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Law assistant, District Attorney of New York County, 1938-
39; Assistant U.S. Attorney, Southern District of New York, 1939-42,
chief, Special Projects Section, director or acting director, and deputy
administrator, Foreign Travel Control, Alien Enemy Control Unit, War

[171]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Division, U.S. Dept. of Justice, Washington, D.C., 1942-46; member,
Legal Staff, U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, 1947; chief trial attorney
and special assistant to Attorney General, Office of Alien Property, US.
Dept. of Justice, 1948-50; associate counsel, Special Senate Committee to

Investigate Organized Crime in Interstate Commerce (Kefauver Com-
mittee), 1950-51.

MEMBER OF: Metropolitan Club, Washington, D.C.

FOLLOWING graduation, I entered the Law School, but was forced
by severe illness to drop out for one year. I re-entered the Harvard
Law School in September, 1935, and was graduated in June, 1938.
During the following summer I was married, which marriage was
later terminated by divorce, but which in the process produced two
fine boys: Philip, who was born January 25, 1942, and Peter, born
February 5, 1945.

About August 1, 1938, I became law assistant to the District
Attorney of the County of New York (Thomas E. Dewey), which
title was given to most junior members of the legal staff and especially
those who had not yet passed the bar. In July, 1939, I was appointed
an Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York
and was assigned to the Criminal Division. Here I handled some
cases for myself and carried bags for my superiors in some major
cases.

In December, 1941, I went to Washington to work in the office
of the Alien Enemy Control Unit of the Department of Justice.
There were complexities involved in the transfer of my papers and
subsequent complexities relating to my title and position which
would be of no interest here, but my activities throughout the war
period might be described as chief assistant to the director of the
Unit in charge of Non-Routine Matters. I was classified 4-F by
Selective Service. Because my duties were, by definition, non-
routine, they varied very widely and were extremely interesting
to me, but a recital would be too lengthy and too complex to give
here. At the wind-up of these wartime activities, in June, 1946,
I thought I had decided to practice law permanently in Wash-
ington and became an associate of the firm of which my father was
senior partner and my brother a partner, Covington & Burling.
However, on January 1, 1947, I returned again to the government, in
the Office of the General Counsel of the Atomic Energy Commis-
sion. In the fall of that year I left that office and on January 1, 1948
returned to the Department of Justice, this time with the title of
chief trial attorney in the Office of Alien Property, This, in reality,

[ 172 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

meant that I had personal and direct charge of two of the largest
alien property cases litigated which arose out of the last war. One
of these was won in court and the other was settled on terms satis-
factory to the government. Following this, I was asked by the
Counsel to the Kefauver Committee (Rudolph Halley) to become
his first assistant, which job I gladly took, and I had personal responsi-
bility for the inv ‘estigations in Detroit and St. Louis. I resigned
from this Committee the day before its statutory authority ex-
pired, or on March 30, 1951. Following that, I endeavored to
practice law by myself in Washington for a while and, in February,
1953, I returned to New York where I have been continuing to
engage in the private practice of the law by myself. In this con-
nection, | have made one profoundly important discovery: a client
wishing to retain one is vitally important to the private practice of
law,

On October 16, 1954, following a divorce, I was married to Freda
Lustick, with whom [am presently happily living. I prefer to make
no comment concerning my religious affiliations, Politically, I am
_ Of that species which ts rapidly becoming extinct like the buffalo,
namely, a New Deal Democrat.

RICHARD GANNETT BURLINGAME

 

aporess: Woodstock, N.Y.

Born: Feb. 13, 1911, New York, N.Y. parents: Fredcric Anson, Charlotte Gan-
nett.

prepareD at: Avon Old Farms School, Avon, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.
OCCUPATION: Creative arts.

NO questionnaire returned.

[173]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ALBERT HOWARD BUSCHMANN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 50-18 94th St., Elmhurst, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 161-19 Jamaica Ave., Jamaica, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 21, 1913, Long Island City, N.Y. parents: Albert Howard Busch-
mann, Angele R. Raboud.

PREPARED AT: Newtown High School, Elmhurst, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1934; LL.B. (St. Lawrence
Univ.), 1939.

MarRIED: Gladys E. Stueckle, July 23, 1944, Elmhurst, N.Y. cnuitpren: Gladys
E., Sept. 18, 1946; Albert H., Oct. 2, 1947; Angele A., Dec. 31, 1949; Lois E.,
June 7, 1954.

occupation: Attorney and counselor-at-law.

OFFICES HELD: County commander (Queens County, N.Y.), American Legion,
since 1949; chief, Civil Division, Office of U.S. Attorney for Eastern

District of New York, 1953-56; president, Elmhurst Fifth A.D. Republican
Club, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Queensborough Chamber of Commerce; American, Federal, New
York State and Queens County Bar Associations, American Legion;
Catholic War Veterans; Knights of Columbus, Benevolent Protective
Order of Elks; Reserve Officers Association, Jackson Heights Com-
munity Federation.

WORKED as an office manager for Western Union Telegraph
Company in New York City and then attended Brooklyn Law School
of St. Lawrence University. I was admitted to practice in 1940
and then was inducted into the Army as a private. Officer Candidate
School followed and I became a second lieutenant in Field Artillery
in July, 1942. I was then assigned to the 11th Armored Division
and stayed with that unit until August, 1945. We saw action in the
European Theatre in England, France, Belgtum, Luxembourg, Ger-
many and Austria. I was promoted to the rank of major just prior to
the end of the war in Europe, and left the service in April of 1946.

[ 174 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I had been married in 1944 and we have one son and three lovely
daughters (my wife being very attractive). |

I went back to rhe practice of law in Jamaica and became a
partner in the firm of Austin & Dupont until I was appointed chief
of the Civil Division in the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the
Fastern District of New York. There I became embroiled in all
sorts of federal litigation such as; taxation, torts, FHA “windfall”
matters, contracts, renegotiation, etc. My three years there were
very happy but none too remuncrative. I had been very active in
Republican politics since my return from World War II and when
the opportunity came to run for Congress in the Sixth Congressional
District of New York, T left the U.S, Attorney’s office. I ran in
a very strong Democratic district and heard the bad news on elec-
tion day in 1956. T then opened my own Jaw office (again in
Jamaica), and have been hard at it ever since.

As far as hobbies are concerned, I suppose politics, Army Reserve
and organizational work are mine, [am no longer a combat soldier,
having transferred to the Judge Advocate General's Corps, in which
Lam a lieutenant colonel, FE enjoy the weekly meetings and the two
weeks’ active duty in the summer. Sometimes I think the family
would prefer to see more of me but maybe Iam just being conceited.
We also have a little home in Lake Mohawk, New Jersey, where the
family spends each summer, This gives me all the occasion I need to
get near the soil,

College for the children ranks as the next order of business and |
hope that my son will want to go to Harvard and that Harvard
will want him to attend. I want him to have the same opportunity
to make good friends at ‘the College and to have an excellent educa-
tion.

Like all the rest of the Class, I am looking forward to the Twenty-
fifth Reunion and to renew ing old friendships and associations.

[175]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

AMBROSE JAMES BUSH

 

HOME AppREsS: 629 E. 52d St., Indianapolis, Ind.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 7339 Montgomery Rd., Cincinnati, Ohio.

porN: April 17, 1912, Montague, Mich. parents: Thomas Henry Bush, Mary
Gunnis.

PREPARED AT: Afuskegon High School, Muskegon, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932. DEGREE: 8.B. (Univ. of Michigan).

makrkieD: Joanne H. Osterveer, March 21, 1941, Chicago, Ill. critpren: James
Roy, Sept. 14, 1942; Donald Allen, Sept. 5, 1946; Sandra Lea, Jan. 5, 1950.

occupation: Consulting engineer.

MEMBER OF: Afasons,

THE opportunity to relate to former classmates the story of my
life since the early thirties tempts me toward an embellished, quasi-
factual (but interesting) tale. However, this urge is tempered by
the sobering thought that several erstwhile pals have first-hand
knowledge of the events comprising my existence in the past quarter-
century, Eschewing the grandiose, the censorable, and items de-
leted by autobiographical taste, here then, tn capsuled fragments, ts
the story,

To commence in the middle, I regretfully left Harvard in "32.
The depression forced retrenchment but not complete surrender and
I was able to continue in engineering for two years at the University
of Michigan. From the hills of Ann Arbor to the stock yards of
Chicago — employ ment with Armour and Company. Seven vears
in various phases of engineering during which time I junketed
around the country and ‘managed to keep i in touch with a few of
the boys.

Flashback: In the late thirties I met Joanne — tall, brunette, skepti-
cal, legal secretary. [ liked what I saw — pursued, wooed, argued
persuasively, undermined all opposition, languished, schemed, fifth-

[ 176 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

columned my way inte the good graces of her family, presented
mysclf at every opportunity, and finally through sheer ubiquity got
from her the affirmative nod. We were married in the spring of
gg. Jam, our first child, arrived a little over a year later.

Shortly after that LE obtained a commission in the Navy, followed
by three vears of active war duty in radar work up and down and
across the Pacific: Gilberts, Marshalls, Philippines, China, etc. Many
scarey no scam. These junkets were interspersed with brief stints
of stareside duty; mate and offspring hedgehopping with me wher-
ever ponsible. Finally, V-J Day, a long wait in China, a slow ship
tu the U.S. — fultilment of wartime ambition: Home, Alive in "45
—~ for ¢ ‘hristitias, too.

Don, our second child arrived in the fall of °46; Sandi, four years
later, During thi tine PE worked for Armour's Research and Phar-
maceutical Division as a mechanical and chemical engineer, In 1953
P accepted the position of chief engineer for the Kingan Division
of Pivgrade Food Products Corporation, with headquarters in In-
dhanapolis, And in January of “sg Gust a few days ago), accepted a
pesition as consulting engineer with Food M, anagement, Inc., in
Cincinnati, Here endeth the encapsulated saga, Further details will
be available for the Fifticth Anniversary.

+ BRUCE IRVIN BUTTERWORTH

 

eas: Oct 9 1git, Detron, Mich. paxests: Irvin Butterworth, Florence Bridges.
purpaneD at: Framingham High School, Framingham, Mass.
YEARS IN COULEGE: 19j0-1932-.
op: Oct. 20, 1947, San Francisco, Calif.

SRUCE IRVIN BUTTERWORTH spent two years at Harvard
with our Class. At the time of our Sexennial Report he wrote that

[177]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934
he was advertising manager for Herpolsheimer Company, Grand
Rapids, Michigan. Later he was associated with the mercantile firm
of J. L. Hudson & Company in Detroit. He was survived by his
mother.

GEORGE WILLIAM BUTTERWORTH, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2 Clinton St. Framingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Butterworth’s Florist, 2 Clinton St., Framingham, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 8, 1913, Framingham, Mass. PARENTS: George William Butterworth,
Sarah Jane Overmiller.

PREPARED AT: Framingham High School, Framingham, Mass. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932, 1933-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1934(35).

MarRIED: Elizabeth M. Shaw, 1936, Newport, R.I. cuttpren: Nancy Elizabeth,
April 1, 1937; George William, 3d, Feb. 23, 1939.

HARVARD son: George William Butterworth, 3d, ’6o.

occupation: General manager, Butterworth’s Florist and Orchid Growers.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Boston Flower Exchange.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Horticultural Society; American and Massachusetts
Orchid Societies; American Legion; Veterans of Foreign Wars; New
York State and Massachusetts Flower Growers.

AS general manager of Butterworth’s Florist and Orchid Growers,
my job covers every phase of growing and selling for the retail and
wholesale business plus exhibiting.

[ 178 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD GILMORE BUZZELL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 354 Lower Lane, Berlin, Conn,

OFFICE ADpRESS: Colt’s Patent Fire Arms Manufacturing Co,, Inc., 150 Huyshope
Ave., Hartford 15, Conn.

porn: April 29, 1909, Bangor, Maine. Parents: Herbert Gilmore Buzzell,
Grace May Ingalls.

PREPARED AT: New Hampton School, New Hampton, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1931-1934. DEGREE: A.B, 1934.

MarRIED: Helen MacIntire, 1936 (divorced 1947); Ruth E. Martin, April 5,
1947, Kensington, Conn. chitpren: Carole Ann, Feb. 18, 1937; Elaine
Grace, Sept. 20, 1945.

occupaTION: Merchandising manager.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

FRANCIS PAUL CAHILL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 11 Prospect St., Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 43 Bay State Rd., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: June 29, 1912, Somerville, Mass. parents: Patrick Francis Cahill, Annie
Gillis.

[179 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

prepareD at: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934; M.D., 1938.

marriep: Luise M. Caggiano, 1944, Boston, Mass. cHitpREN: Luise, March 19,
1946; Mark F., May 3, 1940.
OccUPATION: Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Senior clinical instructor in surgery, Tufts Medical School; con-
sultant in surgery, First Army.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Surgery (Diplomate); American College of

Surgeons (Fellow); Boston Surgical Society; Harvard Club of Boston,
Massachusetts Medical Society.

THE first four years after graduation were intensively and pleasantly
occupied on the Boston side of the river at the Medical School. The
next two years were spent as surgical house officer at the Boston
City Hospital, where I met the future Mrs. Cahill. In 1941 the scene
shifted back across the river to the Mount Auburn Hospital, where
I became surgical resident. ‘This idyl was interrupted by a call from
Uncle Sam in June. The initial twelve months of service with the
Army Medical Corps were spent at Grenier Field, Manchester, New
Hampshire. My services were next required in the Central and South
American theatre for some three years. Although stationed for a
while in the interesting and remote Galapagos Islands, I contributed
nothing to the prior studies made there by Darwin. I married Luise
Caggiano in 1944 and we concluded our Army service at Wakeman
General Hospital in Indiana.

In the immediate post-bellum period we moved to Walpole, Massa-
chusetts, where I passed two and one-half years in further surgical
residency training at the Pondville Hospital, Meanwhile, we were
gifted by a daughter, Luise, in 1946, and a boy, Mark, in 1949. We
have lived in Belmont, Massachusetts, for the past six years, where
we are parishioners of St. Joseph’s Catholic Church. Mark is a
sturdy fourth-grader, Luise an active eighth-grader, and Mrs, Cahill
a busy worker in family and social affairs. The four of us have a
common interest in piano and organ music. We visited the Caribbean
two years ago and Mexico is next on the travel agenda.

Since 1949, I have been busy and happy in the practice of general
surgery at 43 Bay State Road, Boston. I have a special interest in
tumor surgery.

Our lives have been constantly enriched by our many Harvard

friends and associations, We expect to sce you all at the Twenty-
fifth Reunion,

[ 180 J}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES FRANCIS CALEY, JR.

 

HOME AbpRESS: 265 Mountain Rd., West Hartford, Conn. -
OFFICE ADDREsS: A&tna Life Insurance Co., 151 Farmington Ave., Hartford,

Conn.
BORN: June 29, 1911, New Haven, Conn. PARENTS: Charles Francis Caley,

Catherine T. Keegan. .
PREPARED AT: Kent’s Hill School, Kent’s Hill, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934.

marriep: Kathleen E. Callahan, May 3, 1937, New Haven, Conn. CHILDREN:
Charles Francis, 3d, Oct. 28, 1938; David J., March 12, 1940, Marianne
T., May 26, 1941; Richard M., Aug. 15, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Assistant treasurer, A®tna Life Insurance Company, the A®tma
Casualty and Surety Company, and the Standard Fire Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, Hartford Investment Group, 1958-59.

MY business career has involved chance to a much greater degree
than choice, but I doubt that any amount of careful thought would
have led me into a more satisfactory way of making a living. In
1934 one with neither special skill nor high academic achievement
was in no position to be selective. Just being employed was an ac-
complishment and I began a railroad career for no better reason than
that the New Haven was willing to pay me forty cents per hour
to clean passenger cars. The subsequent bankruptcy of this once
powerful New England institution brought hardship to some, but
the demands of law firms and financial institutions for great quanti-
ties of statistical data, reports and exhibits created enough employ-
ment to bring into the office a car cleaner who had been to Harvard.

Electronic data processing was yet to come, which meant that a
small army of wage slaves had to be set to work copying numbers
from one sheet of paper to another, usually from small to large but
sometimes from large to small, followed by a long series of calcula-
tions. (It was quite a while before I learned that if you did that sort

[181 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

of thing in Wall Street you were called an analyst and often paid
well.) As could be expected, repetition developed understanding
and eventually those who prepared the information knew as much
about its application (and more about its defects) as those who used
it.

It didn’t occur to me that I was making a significant change in
leaving the New Haven to join the investment department of A®tna
Life (again, mostly chance), but it certainly does now, especially
after a train trip to New York or a look at a New Haven financial
statement. The railroad “expert” has had his day, however, and |
am now chiefly concerned with our companies’ common stocks.
This tends to be a disturbing kind of thing to have to be doing
because it always looks as if right now is the worst of times to buy
comunon stocks; and if only we could wait for about six or nine
months, the future would become much more discernible. Fortu-
nately, the tendency to feel frustrated is more than offset by being
in a fine company with highly respected and well-liked associates,

My life outside the investment world is routine in a sense. Raising
four children has brought us the usual responsibilities in Scouts,
Brownies, PTA, and like organizations (silliest was cubmaster, the
most rewarding, Little League umpire, despite the painful incidents
from time to time). We have gone beyond this stage, however, and
are now into the problems of higher education. These are some-
thing if your offspring considers C grades an accomplishment.

By most standards we are comparatively inactive outside our
home. In part, this is dictated by the need to cover bills from
four schools. When these requirements peak out, we shall have no
difficulty in finding interests.

[ 182 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

KENNETH CAMERON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2033 Celeste Ave., Walnut Creek, Calif.
orFice appkess: Dept. of Industrial Relations, State of California, 1531 Webster

St. Oakland 12, Calif.
Born: Oct. 12, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: Kenneth Cameron, Ann Deane.

PREPARED AT: George Washington High School, New York, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B, 1934; A.M. (Univ. of California),

1949.
MarRRIED: Betty Eames, 1942, Washington, D.C. (divorced 1958). CHILDREN:

Nancy Faith, May 10, 1947; Christina, Oct. 4, 1948; Patricia, Sept. 15, 1951.

occuPaTION: Deputy Commissioner, Office of the Labor Commissioner, Depart-
ment of Industrial Relations, State of California.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, California Association of Labor Law Officers, 1955—-56;
president, San Ramon Valley County Water District, 1956-59.

MEMBER OF: American Economic Association; Commonwealth Club; Sierra Club;
California State Employees Association; State, County and Municipal Work-
ers’ of America; American Civil Libertics Union; Congress of Racial

Equality.

TO be what I am, to become what I am capable of becoming,” thus
did Stevenson state the purpose of life to him,

It is difficult to combine and reconcile one’s own individual drive
for achievement with a proper reverence for life as a whole. This
difficulty is the core of moral man’s dilemma in an immoral en-
vironment, Perhaps the key to its solution lies in our feelings
toward our family, toward our children especially. For the members
of our family are other than us, but also a part of us. To serve them
is to serve our own life force in new forms. Thus it is that to
create for one’s own posterity is the easiest form of unselfishness;
all men and women can understand it. To provide for oneself, to
provide for one’s posterity —these are the first two imperatives
of nature. Man has carried this sequence further and has added:

[ 183 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

DAVID ROBERT CAMPBELL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 207 Marked Tree Rd., Needham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New England Power Service Co., 441 Stuart St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 25, 1914, Roxbury, Mass. PARENTS: James Osmond Campbell,
Martha May Courant. °

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932. DEGREE: S.B. IN C.E. (Massachusetts Inst. of Tech-

nology), 1947.
MarriepD: Mary B. Fitzgerald, June 8, 1946, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: James

William, March 23, 1948; Linda Marie, June 19, 1951.
occuPATION: Hydraulic and structural engineer, New England Power Service
Company.
MEMBER OF: Boston Society of Civil Engineers. \
AFTER leaving Harvard for financial reasons at the end of my
sophomore year, I worked at whatever came along, until entering
the Army in 1942. I served in the States for two years and in the
European theatre for almost two more. While in the service, 1 was
sent to M.LT., to study civil engineering under the Army Specialized
Training Program, and upon my discharge, I returned to Tech and
eceived my degree in 1947. Thus it was seventeen years from the
‘ime I entered Harvard at the age of fifteen until I received a degree
it the age of thirty-two.

Since then I have worked for my present employers, first as a
iraftsman, and now as an engineer. My work consists chiefly of
ayout, design and supervision of construction of hydro-electric
slants.

For diversion I enjoy adding a room, a patio, or a porch to my
ome, wherever possible.

Unfortunately, my contact with Harvard was a bricf one, and
xe facts that I commuted to classes and was younger than most of

[ 186 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my classmates may be why it did not leave deeper impressions. At
the time, however, it was a rich experience to be a part of the Class
of ’34 and I am sure I have benefited from it in many ways.

+ PAUL TOWNSEND CAMPBELL, JR.

 

BORN: May 28, 1912, Kansas City, Mo. PARENTS: Paul Townsend Campbell, Mar-
guerite Langdon.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

piep: Dec. 26, 1942, White Plains, N.Y.

PAUL TOWNSEND CAMPBELL, JR., spent two years at Har-
vard with our Class. In 1937 he reported that he was in the ad-

vertising department of Lever Brothers. He was survived by his
parents.

ROBERT MORTON CAMPBELL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1035 Chestnut Rd., Ann Arbor, Mich.

[ 187 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

OFFICE AbpRESS: Ford Motor Co., The American Road, Dearborn, Mich,

sors: Oct, 8 1912, Cambridge, Ohio. parents: Morton Carlisle Campbell, Mary
Margaret McFarland.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B, 1934; LL.B. 1937.

marriep: Louise Eunice Wylie, March 20, 1945, Cambridge, Mass. cHILpren;
Anne Carlisle, May 22, 1946; Alan Craig, Oct. 21, 1948; Andrew Morton,
Dec. 11, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: \Villiam Charles Campbell, ’27, LL.p., "32. °

occupation: Lawyer; general attorney, Ford International, Ford Motor Com-
pany.

MEMBER OF: St. Andrews Golf Club; Barton Hills Country Club; American
Society of International Law; American Bar Association, Association of
the Bar of the City of New York; Michigan Bar Association, Harvard Club
of New York.

TWENTY-FIVE years spent in studying and practising law has
left me with a cautious and careful pen. Repeated readings of the
instructions relative to the class life, however, have convinced me
that no danger of liability exists here, and I hasten with a sluggard’s
step, to carry out the repeated injunctions to a timely filing of this
document.

Career. After graduation from the Law School in 1937, I traveled
to New York, in common with many of my classmates, and labored
in the law firm of Root, Clark, Buckner & Ballantine. Seeking a
slightly smaller firm with a chance for greater diversification of ex-
perience, I shifted to another New York firm, Hughes, Hubbard &
Ewing in early 1941, with whom I was associated (except for the years
1942-45) until 1949. I found my experience with both firms very
satisfying and extremely interesting. Early in 1949, Bill Gossett,
who had left the Hughes firm in 1946 to become vice-president and
general counsel of Ford Motor Company, asked me to come to
Ford Motor Company to act as counsel for a newly organized di-
vision, Ford International Division, After ten years of experience
in this position, which has required a considerable amount of travel
in Europe and Latin America, I have become thoroughly convinced
that it is a field in which monotony does not exist.

War Experience, Shortly after Pearl Harbor, I was given a reserve
commission as lieutenant (j.g.) in the Navy and spent the next
four years as a non-flying officer in the acronautical branch of the
Navy, emerging with two and one-half stripes. My tour of duty
included sea duty with a carrier, the old Wasp, overseas shore duty
with a staff in the South Pacific, and for the Jase year, shore duty
in Massachusetts.

[ 188 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Family. 1 look back on my experience in the Navy with that half
rosy glow from which the routine boredoms and strain have disap-
peared. Further, the last year of the war was a very fine year for me
as I persuaded Louise Wylie to marry me, the ceremony taking place
most appropriately for me in the Harvard Chapel. Our wedding
day was a beautiful, sunny March day, and despite the many lovely
and impressive cathedrals and churches which I have visited, the
chapel on this March day still remains for me the most beauuful
church I have seen. Our life has been happy, busy and fruitful,
witness our three fine children, Anne, Alan and Andrew. During
several of my trips overseas, Louise has been able to accompany me,
acting at times as an emergency secretary, and learning with me that
overseas travel on business (while of absorbing interest) is a far
different and more strenuous way of life than that pursued by the
casual tourist.

From 1945 until 1956, we lived in the New York area, but in 1956
we followed Ford International Division to Michigan, leaving New
York with considerable regret. Fortunately, we have found Ann
Arbor a fascinating place to live, with pleasant neighbors, good
music, and all the attractions of a fine university town. A very
pleasant surprise for us on moving to Ann Arbor was to find Alec
Barry, also of the Class of ’34, there to welcome us as next-door
neighbor. Alec and I had never met previously despite a freshman
year we had both spent in the Smith Halls.

Hobbies. Golf still remains my favorite sport — squash and tennis
also at infrequent intervals. With some enthusiasm, I still pursue
photography but the days of doing my own printing and developing
as-on the Crimson staff are no more. In a sense, I suppose I could
say that residential architecture has become a hobby. While living
in the New York area, we had a beautiful house designed and built
for us, and it was one of our great regrets in leaving Bronxville that
we could not put the house in the moving van, Currently, we are
again in the process and now, happily, we feel that the new house
will eclipse the old.

Through the years, my experiences at both college and law school
have remained a constant source of interest, of old friends re-
acquired, and of new ones met. To many of us in the business or
professional fields, there comes sometimes the fond hope that seme-
how the sabbatical year granted to the professors and teachers at
the university may be extended to other fields so that we could

[ 189 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

study again, no doubt with our aging facultics slightly impaired
but possibly with judgment improved.

WILLIAM NEIL CAMPBELL, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 136 E. Southgate Rd., Highpoint, Peoria, Ill.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 4532 Prospect Rd., Peoria Heights, Ill.

BorN; May 28, 1912, Roslindale, Mass. parents: William Neil Campbell, Lena
Stuart

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1934; M.D., 1938.

marrige: Lillian May Hunter, 1939, Boston, Mass. cHttpren: William, 1943;
David, 1945; Donald, 1947; Charles, 1949; Deborah, 1951; Pamela, 1953.

occuPaATION: Physician; general practice of medicine and surgery.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Chicago; Creve Coeur Club (social).

AFTER graduation from the College, I went to the Medical School,
graduating in 1938, and interned around Boston — longest in surgery
at Boston City Hospital. Met former partner when I was at Boston
Lying-in, and he talked me into coming out to Illinois, for which
I have been thankful.

Have been almost too busy, but leave here each July for the east
again, two cars full—and am seized with some nostalgia and more
loneliness when I show my children about the College, for alma
mater is but a deserted shell of her vital self on a hot summer day.

[ 190 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

++ JOHN REDMOND CANAVAN

 

BORN: Oct. 22, 1911, Boston, Mass. paRENTS: John M. Canavan, Mary Cahill.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934, 1935-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1934(36).

MarrigD: Mildred Alice Sheehan, Oct. 12, 1939, Weston, Mass.

piED: Dec. 17, 1948, Dorchester, Mass.

wipow: Mrs. John Redmond Canavan, 25 Sydney St. Dorchester 25, Mass.

JOHN REDMOND CANAVAN was military drill instructor for
the Boston schools. While an undergraduate at Harvard he was a
member of the freshman swimming team and the freshman crew.
He received a reserve commission in the Army from the Harvard
ROTC and after graduating, was stationed at Fort Bragg, North
Carolina, as a lieutenant in the 4th Field Artillery. In 1937 he entered
the advertising department of Lever Brothers and four years later
was called to active duty and went overseas as colonel with the
famed Americal Division. Colonel Canavan was among the first
Army troops to support the Marines at Guadalcanal. In 1944, fol-
lowing his recall to the United States, he was appointed commandant
of the Army Special Training Program at Boston College and later
served as director of the Information and Education Section for the
First Service Command. He was survived by his wife.

[191]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

EDWARD TATNALL CANBY

 

HOME AppreEss: 780 Greenwich St., New York 14, N.Y.

BorN: Feb. 28, 1912, New Haven, Conn. parents: Henry Seidel Canby, Marion
Gause.

PREPARED AT: Avon Old Farms, Avon, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; A.M., 1936.
UNMARRIED.
occupation: Broadcasting.

A LATE start at Harvard —I followed innumerable ancestors
straight to Yale for one year, then transferred to Harvard, mainly
for better music and my ideal, the Harvard Glee Club — brought
me in with the Class of ’35 for a year, then into Lowell House know-
ing none of my own class. I continued an eccentric college career
by shifting to Eliot House for graduate work, then progressing to
Princeton where I taught the lower forms of music to freshmen and
sophomores for all of three years. Completed an Ivy League round-
about with four’ more years at exclusive Finch College in New
York, where I taught and the gals didn’t listen, Then I quit college
for good.

Chance work in a wartime FM radio station started me on a
weekly radio program, which continues in New York City to this
day, has reaped me much acclaim and no cash whatsoever, Oc-
casional record reviews before the war for the Saturday Review
blossomed out into a parallel career with that magazine and, since
1952, in Harper's. In 1947, I joined a new technical magazine,
Audio Engineering, and am a sort of mainstay of that sheet today
serving to tie together the utterly disparate ficlds of audio engi-
neering and music, as they must be tied, for hi-fi, It is now called,
more circumspectly, Audio, and I dare talk about Bach and Hinde-

[192 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
mith and Gesualdo, not to mention the technicalities of FM mulu-
plex stereo broadcasting and the like.

Many sidelines have dissipated energy for me and brought
pleasure and good times. Following my gice club experience
(where F was extremely mousy), I have sung in the Dessoff Choirs
in New York for longer than anyone can remember and am a
perennial board member; I have had my own small choruses, con-

duct a group now that carries strictly amateur singing to a quite
srofessional level. We invite ourselves to sing for people, brazenly
‘efying tradition.

Perpetual scientific interests, as well as musical, open all sorts
odd lanes of experience and make the crass world of commercial
i an interesting one. I devour Scientific American monthly,
ture to librarians on recorded music, tell the hi-fi clubs about
zart and the musicians about intermodulation, and generally

ct myself into every handy discussion that comes along. ws

, in New York.
1954, I bought a house on a mountain in Cornwall, Connecticut,

commute there weekends to work (and tape my broadcast)
r and summer. I drive my fourth English Austin, a lordly SIX,
‘pect one of these days to settle down and get married. Lots

> still.

JOHN MARTIN CAPRON

 
   
 

—- (IA
rr a ae Dect Ce i
Oe Oe ae era a a Ce

Bene IED
ELLE OTS

 

 Kogaicho, Azabu Minato ku, Tokyo, Japan
Furness, Capron & Nakamura 31 Fukok Bldg, Toys

N13, Annapolis, Mad. paneyts Paul Capron, ph Kin Wht

“

(Ly?
ct
”

mot unmier Academy, South Byfield, Ma

MS

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1934; LL.By 1937.

marriep: Margaret Schenck Birnie, Aug. 3, 1939, Cambridge, Mass. (divorced
1948); Elizabeth May Robbins, Nov. 10, 1949. CHILDREN: Margaret Birnie,
March 26, 1940; John Robbins, Dec. 20, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Paul Capron, Jr., ’29.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Officer and director, several small corporations; legal adviser,
local Masonic charitable corporations; past master, Tokyo Masonic Lodge.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Tokyo, Tokyo American Club, Tokyo Club;
various Masonic organizations,

THE spring of 1934 was gloomy and the outside world forbidding.
By a good deal of luck and unstinting study of the restricted
scholarships described in small print at the back of the University
Catalogue, I was spared the need to make a living, and went instead
to the Law School. Five years later, after two essential years of
apprenticeship with the grand old firm of Hutchins & Wheeler in
Boston, I was back at the Law School, running errands for Dean
Landis and for Harrison Dimmitt, the school secretary. I was also,
by their dispensation, trying to practise law. In another year and
a half, I followed Jim Landis to Washington, where he had just
been named to succeed LaGuardia as director of the Office of Civil
Defense.

After six months of blackout regulations and air raid warden
instructions, I wound up with the Legal Division of the War Produc-
tion Board, which I still think was (with the exception of myself
and a few other hangers-on) one of the most effective collections
of lawyers then at large. Since they were, from John Lord O'Brian,
’96, on down to the youngest lawyer, predominantly Harvard men,
I doubt that many will question my opinion. The work was fas-
cinating. Every problem seemed to be without precedent. ‘The
enthusiasm and confidence of Mr. O’Brian and his assistant general
counsel inspired us to play way over our heads.

By late 1944, however, the watchword was smooth reconversion
to civilian production. The newspapers set up an incongruous situ-
ation by talking about the Battle of the Bulge and the unruly atti-
tude of the Japanese on the Pacific Islands. Under the circumstances,
I concluded that American industry could do a good job of recon-
version without my help; and after the red tape had unwound, I
found myself at Fort Bragg, North Carolina, enjoying perhaps the
most effective, and surely the most inexpensive, physical recondi-
tioning course then, or at any other time, available to a soft and
impecunious lawyer. After adding insult to injury by sending me

[ 194 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to Mule Pack School at Fort Riley, I was put to pasture (without
my mule) in Japan, shortly after the surrender. As soon as it was
feasible, I changed my military status back to that of a government
employee and found that in the Economic and Scientific Section of
the Japanese occupation, I was doing substantially the same sort of
work I had done with the WPB, under utterly different conditions
and for a completely different purpose.

- The one significant operational difference, in my case, at least,
was that I had daily contact with the government officials, trade as-
sociation people, and businessmen whose basic assumptions in govern-
ment and business were being disrupted by occupation orders. One
of my most pleasant recollections of the past twelve years is that
these Japanese with whom I had daily contact are today my best
friends among the Japanese. To be sure, a not inconsiderable number
of these persons are Harvard men, which may have had a consider-

able bearing on their attitude and understanding of our problems,

as Americans, during the occupation.

Since 1950 I have been remarried and am practising law. Life in
Tokyo is charming and unique. We are a small town of a few
thousand foreigners, with our American Club, a few churches and
the usual small town diversions. At the same time we are a part
of the community of one of the largest cities of the world, the
capital of a major nation. Our daily life, social and in business, re-
flects this incongruity.

At home, the boss and tyrant is Johnny, At four and a half, he
has graduated from the two-year nursery school course with honors,
and is now coping with kindergarten. We figure that if he makes
. out well this year, he can coast the rest of the way until he graduates

from Harvard in 1974.

[ 195 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

RICHARD BARNARD CARLETON

 

HOME apprEss: 113 Union St., East Walpole, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Union Congregational Church, Rhoades Avenue, East Walpole,
Mass.

BORN: Sept. 13, 1912, Worcester, Mass. parents: Herbert McMaster Carleton,
Myrus Mary Thomas. |
PREPARED AT: Beal Memorial High School, Shrewsbury, Mass.

SEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; B.D. (Andover Newton Theo-
logical School), 1937.

MARRIED: Marcia Smart, July 31, 1937, Lynn, Mass. cHiLpREN: Jane Thomas,
July 8, 1938; Peter Smart, Dec. 20, 1940; Jon Richard, Sept. 3, 1946.

XOCUPATION: Pastor, Congregational Church, East Walpole, Mass.

9FFICES HELD: President or scribe, various ministers’ clubs; chaplain, Shawmont

Lodge, A.F. & A.M., 1953-54; offices in Grange and local PTA’s; director,
Star Island Corporation, Isles of Shoals, N.H.

MEMBER OF: Monday Club; Isles of Shoals Congregational Corporation; Suf-
folk South Ministers’ Association.

‘UBLICATIONS: Poem in Parents Magazine; other poems and articles in denomina-
tional or historical magazines.

JNE Sunday in July, 1933, the group of us who were playing 3 in the
Jance orchestra at Bonnie Oaks went over to Orford, New Hamp-
hire, to go to church “for the hell of it.” We stayed to become
icquainted with the pastor, From this beginning, I began to think
of being a minister, To be honest, I saw it as something I knew I
ould do, and I was timid about trying anything else. Besides, I
rever had been able to communicate to others as I wanted to —
which is like the challenge of the mountain “being there” — ] wanted
o learn to speak because I could not speak.

The pastorate has Jed me on a tour of New England, While still
student at Andover Newton, I was pastor of two churches in the
ural village of Croydon, New Hampshire. 1 put a new roof on the

[ 196 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

church, had fun, saw how the swamp Yankees live, took my bride to
this “most beautiful but most remote place in the world” (that’s
what she said). Then to the college town of Norton, Massachusetts.
Depression years and hard work to move people’s minds and hearts.
North to the rural town of Westford, Massachusetts — head of the
Nashoba Valley and famous for apples. Here I remember my youth
choirs and the war discontent which led me to try industry, and the
wonderful potatoes and other vegetables I raised in the garden and
the burn Jane had on her face and arm, and still that struggle to
make ends meet. |

After leaving the war industry, I started over again as pastor in
the mill town of Pittsfield, New Hampshire. Here I learned to hate
some people and to love some others. We took a ten-year accumula-
tion of ashes out from under the church! Pittsfield had the only rail-
road, privately-owned, that ran in the strike of the forties. When
we moved to Springfield and I became pastor of the family church
there, I began to enjoy the ministry with confidence for the first
time. I found grace and appreciation in these people. They chose
the church because it was a church. Here began my association with
Star Island, which has rewarded me so deeply. But financial need
and professional pride drive a minister to move on and I came to
East Walpole. The building is a gem of colonial architecture, the
parish house makes other people envious, but it took three years for
the people to accept the new man and four years to recognize him as
a person. I think I am beginning to crack the ice.

Along the way, there have been other assorted jobs: stoking a
soft-coal furnace for room rent, working with boys at a Settlement
House, trying to write for pay, sewing bags of wool tops in the
woolen mill, driving a school bus, part-time teaching, war work
as production clerk in a signal-wire plant which never shipped much
overseas (here I learned how much waste time there is im industry
because of the boss system!), a painter’s helper in and around an
old cotton mill, an apple picker and general hand in the orchard,
gardening, chaplain to old folks and the chronically ill and, at one
time during the war, playing drums in the orchestra again with the
deacon playing saxophone and the organist at the piano.

What does it mean to be a minister? Well, you see people live —

_ from birth through childhood, youth, family-time, middle age, old
age and death. All kinds of people in all kinds of places. There are
sO many common people, but there are occasionally real uncommon
ones. I still have a sense of having missed people to commune and

[197]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

be friendly with in a deep way, for the ministry has too much of gq
wall around it. And this is even harder on the minister’s wife. But
with maturity I sense this coming too. One has to struggle against
the “system” in church life as in industry or anywhere. | realize now
how very simple is the faith which saves—and how most people
do not think. Is there an evolution coming in this time of advance-
ment which will leave the un-thinking in a group by themselves, and
the others will start a new colony of human beings?

I find myself proud of my parents (I miss the lost graciousness
of their generation) and proud of my children. Jane is a ballet
dancer and lives to dance! Peter is going to be a chemist and he is
a worker full of fun who finds friends! He also has a General Motors
scholarship. Jon is already a business man and an artist full of
charm, although he is just in junior high. And if I am not more
in love with my wife than ever (which I think I am), at least I have
an understanding that a good woman is like God, always a surprise
and a mystery.

I have really found my greatest reward in being director of Youth —
Conferences at Star Island, ten miles out from Portsmouth, New
Hampshire. There, for two weeks each summer, we guide groups
of high school youth. We sing and we play and we dance and we
worship each night by taking a candle lantern up the rocky path to
the chapel, with no other word than the service itself, and then we
take our candles silently down the pathway again. On the last
night, we sit way out on the rocks and watch the phosphorous in
the surf and the moonlight and the beam of White Island light. And
the next day, the kids go home with tears in their eyes because they
never knew such friendship before, and hoarse voices from laughter
and a far-away look because of fellowship with man and God.

Harvard? I remember it as a little too much of an unhappy
struggle, but there I learned to study and to think. It would be
grand to go back now and study hard, and also get into more hell
than I dared to then! Timidity and fear have always been my devils.
Now, as I get middle-aged, I smile and shout when I please, and I
know that it is infinitely important for me to tell you about me
and for you to tell me about you!

[ 198 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HENRY NEWTON CARLSON

 

HOME AppREss: 51 Davison Lane, E., Magoun Landing, West Islip, Long Island,
N.Y.
OFFICE AppREss: Wellington Curtain Co., Inc., 347 Fifth Ave. New York 16,

N.Y.

BorN: March 8, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Henry Nils Carlson, Emma Chris-
tine Swenson.

PREPARED AT: Monson Academy, Monson, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933.

MARRIED: Lucienne de Sanére, June 6, 1936, New York, N.Y.

OCCUPATION: Sales manager, Wellington Curtain Company, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Babylon (N.Y.) Chapter of the
American Red Cross, South Shore Marlin & Tuna Club of Long Island.

MEMBER OF: Magoun Landing Yacht Club of Long Island; New York Curtain
and Drapery Club; South Shore Marlin & Tuna Club of Long Island.

AFTER leaving college at the end of my junior year, I spent nine
years in the retail field with Abraham & Straus in Brooklyn and
with Hahne & Company in Newark, New Jersey.

In 1942, I joined the U.S. Merchant Marine and sailed on various
ships to practically all parts of the world for a period of four and
one-half years, a rather enjoyable experience to look back on, but far
from enjoyable during those war years. Civilian life found me
back in the retail business with J. N. Adam & Company in Buffalo,
New York, for a year, In 1947, I returned to New York City and
opened a sales office and show room for Wellington Curtain Com-
pany of Putnam, Connecticut, and for the past eleven years I have
kept myself busy with the sales and manufacturing end of the
curtain and drapery business.

What spare time is available has been taken up with boating
and deep sea fishing, what with a waterway to the open sea in our
backyard and some pretty fair-sized marlin and tuna forty to fifty

[ 199 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

miles off shore. Golf, my former hobby, has been sadly neglected
and my game and clubs are slowly rusting.

JOHN WESTERVELT CARMAN

 

HOME apprEss: Upper Front Grove Road, Slingerlands, N.Y.
OFFICE AppRESs: Socony Mobil Oil Co., go Steuben St., Albany, N.Y.

BorN: Aug. 25, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Ernest Westervelt Carman, ’08,
Jessie Bailey Caton.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Springfield, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

marriep: Eleanor F. Tarbell, April 24, 1935, Lincoln, Mass. CHILDREN: Nancy
Tarbell, Feb. 1, 1941; John Westervelt, Jr., July 9, 1946.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Edward Caton Carman, °35; James Russell Carman, ’50.

occupation: Real estate manager, Albany Division, Socony Mobil Oil Com-
pany, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1946-58, chairman, nine years, Lincoln School Commit-

tee; trustee, Lincoln Library, 1948-58, member, Lincoln-Sudbury Regional
High School Committee, 1956-58.

IMMEDIATELY after Commencement, I worked for Gilbert and
Barker Company in West Springfield, Massachusetts, long enough
to learn that manufacturing was not my field. In December, 1934, |
Socony-Vacuum employed me as a service station salesman, thus
beginning my career in oil marketing in the Metropolitan Boston
area.

Service in the USNR, starting as a lieutenant (j.g.), took me from
the oil business for three and one-half years. My Navy duty was
exceedingly unadventurous. Three years were spent at the U.S.
Naval Training Station in Bainbridge, Maryland, first as a regimental
commander in recruit training and later as executive officer of the
Service Schools Command. The lack of glamorous duty was more

[ 200 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

than offset by the fact that the family was able to join me for
virtually the entire period.

In January, 1946, I was released from the Navy as a lieutenant
commander and returned to the oil business. For the next twelve
years my business activity alternated between gasoline marketing
and the handling of real estate negotiations in the greater Boston
area. In Nov ember, 1958, I was appointed real estate manager of
the Albany Division of Socony Mobil Oil Company, Inc.

Having always had an interest in town affairs, in 1946 I was
elected to the Lincoln School Committee and served a total of ten
years: nine years as chairman, Lincoln grew rapidly during this
period but by careful planning was able to keep pace with growing
enrollment and steadily improve its educational performance. My
major observation as a result of this experience — it is of utmost
importance, if a good level of public support is to be maintained,
that school committee members foster progress, but at the same time
be strong-minded enough to keep control of school policy and not
become rubber stamps for the professional school administrators.

Two years on the Lincoln-Sudbury Regional High School Com-
mittee and eight years as a trustce of the Lincoln Library rounded
out my town activities, Participation in community activity is
interesting, rewarding and important. However, having been free
of such responsibilities for a couple of months, I am certainly en-
joving my new-found hours,

My assignment in Albany meant breaking the many roots set
down by the family in Lincoln over a twenty-three-year period,
and in the case of my wife Peggy, the roots of a lifetime. The search
for a new home with enough land for the diverse family interests
ended very successfully in Slingerlands, New York. This acquisi-
tion shortly ended my own plight as a hotel resident and weekend
commuter, a role to “which I am ill- -adapted. Real estate work in
the oil business has always been of great interest, and I look for-
ward to the challenges presented in coping with the company’s

roblems in this field in the area of Connecticut, Vermont and over
one-half of New York State.

Our daughter Nancy, now eighteen, was the cause of a succession
of animals on the place; starting with chickens and ending with
horses which are her major interest. Five years, two well-trained
hunters and countless ribbons for horse show participation attest
to her skill in this field. She is now carrying forward with her
objective of converting a hobby into a more professional status,

[ 201 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934.

as a freshman at the College of Agriculture at Cornell. John, aged
twelve, has maintained a steady primary interest in sports of al]
kinds, depending on the season, with educational pursuits a neces-
sary boyhood evil. Peggy has participated in a wide range of com-
munity projects over the years and at the same time has avoided
becoming involved in the crusades that have been conducted in our
sometimes over-stimulated town. |

Several family camping trips made it possible to visit the Rockies,
Yellowstone, the Tetons and much of the area between New Eng-
land and the West. Peggy.and I shall continue with camping and
fishing vacations as we find this kind of life fills a need not other-
wise satisfied. With an avowed intention of becoming less entangled
with outside activity, I expect to have more time to devote to
gardening, furniture refinishing and fishing, in the future.

Based on reports from Peggy and myself, who were about twenty
at the time our respective fathers had their Twenty-fifth Reunion,

the entire family is looking forward to June, 1959, with keen antici-
pation.

+/FRED JAMES CARR, JR.

   
 

Tey ey re
a Reng. : at ES

BORN: July 25, 1912, Somerville, Mass. pareNts: Fred James Carr, Irene Lawson.
PREPARED AT: Crosby High School, Waterbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934(35)3 LL.B. (Boston Univ.).
MarrieD: Catherine Nannery. CHILDREN: Brenda; Gail.

DIED: July 15, 1955, Springfield, Mass.

wipow: Mrs. Fred James Carr, Jr., 2 S. Colonial Rd., Wilbraham, Mass.

AFTER graduation, Carr was associated with the John Hancock
Mutual Life Insurance Company for a short time before entering
Boston University Law School where he received his LL.B. degree.

[ 202 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

He had been a member of the law firm of Ropes, Gray, Best,
Coolidge & Rugg and a member of the American and Massachusetts
Bar Associations. He was survived by his wife and two daughters.

JOHN MATTHEW CARROLL

 

Home apoaess: 195 Atlantic Se, Quincy 71, Mass.

o+rice aponsss; Boston Public Library, Copley Square, Boston, Mass.

poan: Oct, 25, 1982, Dorchester, Mass, parents; Guy Joseph Carroll, Mary A.
O'Neill.

preparrp at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGRFES: A.B, 1934; A.M. (Boston Univ.), 1940;
9.1.8. (Simmons Coll.), tg4y.

Maagifp: Evelyn Frances Coswell, April 22, 1ys0. cHitpren: John Matthew, Jr.,
April 20, 1951; Philip Myles, April 7, 1952; Christopher Neal, April 27,
1955; Joseph Fenwick, Jan. 7, 1957-

oocupation: Chief librarian, Division of Home Reading and Community Serv-
ices, Boston Public Library.

Memnea oF; American, Massachusetts and Catholic Library Associations.

[ 203 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

SIDNEY CARROLL

 

HOME AppRrEss: 189 Broadway, Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.

BoRN: May 25, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: Louis Carroll, Lena Schectman.

PREPARED AT: James Madison High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.

marrigp: June Sillman, 1940, New York, N.Y. cHmpren: David Louis, March
10, 1942; Sydney Elizabeth, April 13, 1947; Jonathan Samuel, Jan. 26, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Free-lance writer.

OFFICES HELD: Associate editor, Stage, 1935-37, Ken, Esquire, 1937-45, Coronet,
Pageant magazines, 1952; editor, Gentry magazine, 1957-58; contract writer
for Hecht-Hill-Lancaster, David O, Selznick, Pegasus Productions.

IN twenty-five years I have lost the following: The assorted career
ambitions of my college years. My robust undergraduate constitu-
tion. At least seventeen splendid opportunities to get rich quick.
Five teeth. My hair.

In twenty-five years I have gained the following: Wife, children,
house, mortgage. A 2% piece of an Australian race-horse. An
interest in clocks, carpentry, Talmudic literature. Thirty pounds.

I welcome this opportunity to say to the men of ’34 — so patient,
so anxious all these years for a word of cheer from the one lost
tribesman who never joined the Harvard Club —1 say to you, fear-
lessly, that life is a funny thing.

I was sent to Harvard primarily to learn enough about economics
to take care of the family fortune. By my sophomore year there was
no more fortune. I decided to become a doctor, since medicine seemed
to me to be a straight line to a fast buck. But I tired of the smell
of hydrogen sulfide in Mallinckrodt when the wind was wrong,
and by my junior year my nose was pointing to Fogg and the
glorious promise of a life of art for art’s sake, :

I think there’s a good, dull book somewhere on the subject of

[ 204 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

what the thirties did to the men who wanted to court a Muse
rather than Mammon — and how long it took them to learn that an
empty stomach is too much ballast for a soaring spirit. In 1934 I
was determined to do it Murger’s way — in an attic, with a kerosene
stove for company. I found out that even an attic costs rent and
kerosene costs money. By the winter of 1935 I was ready to take
any job that would keep me and mine in cold cuts. I was eating my
still life compositions faster than I could paint them. When the
job came along it turned out to be a kind of K.P. duty on a maga-
zine. (I was hired to peel the editor’s large, potato-like prose.)

Precisely what has happened in the years between, precisely what
it is I have finally become, I find it impossible to define. On re-
newals for my fishing license on the dotted line where it imperti-
nently asks, “Vocation?” I print the word “writer” — but never
without deep searching of the soul. I identify myself as a writer
because in my time I have written advertisements for depilatories,
gags for radio, sketches for musical revues, speeches for politicians,
doggerel for children, approximately 500 magazine articles, some
short stories, some screenplays, some television plays, a syndicated
Hollywood column, several letters to the Times. I am by profession
one who puts words together for a fee, but whether I’m entitled to
wear the word “writer” like a campaign button at my Class Re-
union is open to public debate.

Whatever the proper word for what it is I do, word mongering
has been more than kind to me. It enabled me to fight the war in the
South Pacific the proper way —as a correspondent. It has pro-
vided me with many trips abroad, with more trips to Hollywood
than I can count, with excursions to many islands more mythical
than Bali Ha’i. It has enriched me occasionally, even if it has often
allowed the wolf at the door to come in right up to my armpit. It
has opened wide to me the arms and hearts of four bona fide
geniuses of my time and given me the friendship of any number of
merely talented persons who exist- by the pen, sword, brush, type-
writer, sock and buskin in the little world of Broadway and Beverly
Hills — or what we used to call Bohemia. I have worked as editor
on eight magazines, four of which are still alive to tell the tale. My
profession was the direct cause of my meeting the patient beauty
who is my wife, and indirectly responsible, therefore, for my three
other deductions — one golden female of twelve flanked by two
strapping males of ten and seventeen, All three are healthy — uh —
and wise. All have been trained to live like Bedouins, When we

[ 205 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

aren't traveling together, or widely dispersed, we live in an ancient
white place just forty-six minutes from Broadway.
I like a certain line somewhere in the works of Isak Dinesen. It
holds that among God’s favorites is “the wanderer in his vocation.”
I like it because, like all aimless ones, I shall wave like a pennant any
homily, any slogan, which establishes a rationale for the way I’ve
chosen to live. I have wandered in my vocation for twenty-five
years. Do I wonder sometimes where I'd be if 'd stayed put? Yes
—of course. But that Marquand dream of what-might-have-been
is only an occasional game with me, not the obsession it seems to be
with so many solid citizens of my acquaintance. I offer that thought,
that suggestion of satisfaction, to my sons, as an honest testimonial
to the joys of always carrying a supply of ants in your pants.
I have not repaid my adopted Muse in gold coin. I have not yet
written the great American novel, or The Play. It does not seem
likely that I shall be penning speeches of acceptance for the Nobel
Prize in the foreseeable future. This, I regret, with truth and
penitence, for I cling to an old college notion that writing, no
matter what its shape or intent, is still Shakespeare’s profession, and
any man arrogant enough to follow in his steps must find a way,
somehow, somewhere, to embellish the path. Among the collected
works of my first forty-five years an ardent Boswell may one day
find one deft line, even an acceptable story; he will find no book, no
play, no solid bid for immortality. My excuse is that for my first
forty-five years I have been warming up my typewriter for the
second forty-five. And —TI’ve been wandering,

JOSEPH CARTER

 

HOME appress: Dover, Mass.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE appRESS: N.E. Publishing Co., 5 Winthrop Sq., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 31, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Joseph Francis Carter, Anne Foley.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. 1934.

OCCUPATION: Publishing.

NO questionnaire returned,

PHILIP SIDNEY CARTER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 50 Quincy St., Sharon, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hospital Radio, Inc., 50 Quincy St., Sharon, Mass.

BORN: July 5, 1911, Scituate, Mass. PARENTS: Philip Walker Carter, ’10, Dorothy
Carter.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

mMarrieD: Marian Fay, Dec. 28, 1935, Nashua, N.H. cxmpren: Philip Sidney,
Jr., May 18, 1938; Elizabeth B., May 16, 1943; Mary Lee, Jan. 9, 1948.

OCCUPATION: President and sales manager, Hospital Radio and Television Sys-
tems, including construction and installation of amplifier distribution net-
works. |

OFFICES HELD: President, New Jersey Junior Chamber of Commerce, 1947-48;
member, Mayor’s Fact Finding Committee on Educational Salaries, 1947;
institutional representative, 1955-57, troop committee treasurer, 1957-58,
Troop 51 Boy Scouts, Sharon; vestryman, St. John’s Episcopal Church,

Sharon, 1955-57.
MEMBER OF: Plainfield Mendelssohn Glee Club; Sharon Amateur Radio As-

sociation; American Radio Relay League.

THE sudden realization that twenty-five years have elapsed since
graduation seems almost unbelievable. To chronicle activities for a
Class Report covering a quarter of a century probably requires
someone on Ralph Edwards’ staff who is more adept in this type
of work. Actually, while probing into the past, I could not help but

[ 207 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

feel that the years ahead of us should be of greater concern. How-
ever, the call is for what is now ancient history, which makes me
wish that my ghost-writer had not skipped town at this particular
time.

This might be divided into two equal segments, the first locale
being New Jersey prior to moving back to the Bay State in 1948.
Following a period of job orientation, it became apparent that the
field of electronics offered excellent opportunities. This coincided
with an interest in short wave transmission dating back prior to
1926. My first efforts in this direction took place with the Engi-
neering, Science, \fanagement and War Training Program, a govern-
ment-sponsored program at Rutgers University. As field radio
laboratory instructor, the main responsibility consisted of setting
up courses throughout the state for the enlisted reserve of the USS.
Signal Corps. My own classes, covering everything from basic
fundamentals through advanced radar, were held both during the
day and usually five nights each week in all sections of the state.

This work was followed by activities as a manufacturer’s repre-
sentative of numerous electronic components before throwing all
caution to the winds and becoming involved in the operations of an
FM broadcasting station. Anyone who has followed the fortunes,
or possibly the misfortunes, of the FM industry knows that this was
no easy row to hoe.

A deep feeling of civic responsibility led me into the Plainfield
(N.J.) Junior Chamber of Commerce. After serving a term as
president, I was invited to head the state organization. From SIX-
teen chapters we grew to thirty-eight in one year, but | must con-
fess it was a time-consuming job.

Back in Boston, after a brief look at the broadcasting business,
I became associated with classmate Ed Dickson. Our firm specializes
in the operation of radios, television sets and amplifier systems in
hospitals.

Diversions include three growing children, including a son now
completing his sophomore year at Trinity College, a daughter who
has a yen for the ballet, and a younger one who still has her feet
on the ground. Other interests include sailing and a recent revival,
after a twenty-four-year lapse, of my amateur radio station W1iCRA.

Politically, I would probably be classed as an independent, of
which there scem to be a great many in this state. Somchow, the
underlying differences between the major political parties are not
too well defined. Therefore, my vote usually goes to the person

[ 208 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

who, in my opinion, can do the best job regardless of party affilia-
tion.

FRANCIS FROTHINGHAM CARY

ee PETE AI GOO a a mar
- ee

“a.

 

 
 

“ehcp id Shai Sil aS snaacon- ol

v4

 

HOME aAppREss: 14 Orchard St., Greenfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 12 Union St., Greenfield, Mass.

BORN: March 22, 1912, Brooklyn, N.Y. Parents: William Harris Cary, ’94,
Katharine Babcock Thomas.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; M.D., 1938.

MARRIED: Isabelle Lane Dickson, Aug. 12, 1942, Scarborough, Tobago, B.W/I.
CHILDREN: William Harris, Jan. 8, 1947; Martin Dickson, Oct. 23, 1948;
Margaret Rhodes, Feb. 17, 195t.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Harris Cary, Jr., ’21, a.M., '28, George Trow-
bridge Cary, ’30.

occuPATION: Physician; internal medicine.

OFFICES HELD: President, Massachusetts School Physicians’ Association, 1952-54,
Professional Staff, Franklin County Public Hospital, 1957-58.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; New England Cardiovascular So-
ciety; Mohawk Male Chorus.

THIS quarter-century period, in retrospect, seems much shorter,
broken up as it has been by the first dozen years of “preparation”
in medical school, hospitals and military service. Reviewing the
“living” part —the establishment and growth of a practice, the
same of a family and taking part in the activities of a small com-
munity — produces a certain sense of pride and complacency.

This reflective process can work two ways, however. All these
years gone by and so many things flubbed or missed! The Great
World neither conquered nor rearranged! This line of thought
made me feel that my life could be summed up in the wording on
a trophy I was recently awarded: “Runner Up, Duffer’s Division.”

[ 209 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

But enough of the past! The future is still the important thing.
The challenge of keeping up in medicine, the fascination of the family
crowing up and the fun of new plans in other activities will cngross
me and | may even accomplish more of those unfinished dreams.

Yes, by golly, perhaps next year Vil be the winner of the Duffer’s
Division.

WARREN ALBERT CASEY

 

HOME appress: 2 Foxhill Lane, Newtown Square, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Delaware Fund, Inc., 2015 Three Penn Center, Philadelphia
2, Pa.

BoRN: Jan. 14, 1913, South Boston, Mass. parents: Edward Joseph Casey,
Gertrude Prowse.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934; M-B.A., 1936.
MaraleD: Virginia Ruth Godfrey, Oct. 28, 1939, Boston, Mass.,
HARVARD BROTHER: Ralph Edward Casey, ’32, 10.8. "35.

occupation: Investment vice-president, Delaware Fund & Delaware Income
Fund.

OFFices HELD: Director, Standard Products Company, Cleveland, Ohio.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Business School Club of Philadelphia.

AFTER graduation I spent two years at Harvard Business School
and graduated with the Class of 1936. I then spent about a year
with the General Electric Company in Bridgeport, Connecticut,
doing accounting and statistical work. For several years thereafter
I was associated with the Securities Liquidation Division of the
FDIC in Washington, and with the SEC in Philadelphia.

Uncle Sam didn’t put his heavy hand on me until June, 1943, and
I soon found myself a lowly yardbird at Camp Lee, Virginia, This,
however, later proved to be one of the more gratifying experiences

[ 210]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of my life, Because no one else seemed to be available at this “fight-
ing quartermaster” center, I became coach of the football team, and
for several months was transplanted back to the good old college days.
Our football squad was composed of a bunch of guys named “Joe”
—none of whom ever played for a college football team. Never-
theless, we opened the season against the Brooklyn Dodgers of the
National Professional Football League and I had the thrill of seeing
one of our boys — Earl Rowe of the University of Akron — receive
the opening kick-off and run through the entire Dodgers team for
a touchdown. For a while we led 6-0, but eventually went down by
a rather respectable score of 20-6. The following week we played
the New York Giants of the National Professional League, and lost
21-0. I can still recall the unthinking GI’s at this game booing Al
Blozis of the Giants, former Georgetown University great and
Olympic shotputter, for not being in uniform. Less than a year later
the news was received that Al Blozis had been killed in action over-
seas. After these two early warm-up games, it was a comparatively
easy job to win the service championship of the South.

Following a ninety-day stint at OCS, I became fiscal officer at the
San Antonio ASF Depot and, either fortunately or unfortunately,
sat out the rest of the war in that spot. Unfortunately, and this
time I mean unfortunately, I had very few points accumulated under
the point system, and did not get back to civilian life until June,
1946. From i946 through 1954, I plied my trade as a security
analyst with several Philadelphia brokerage firms. While I had
never in my educational period prepared for an investment career, I
am sure that I could never have found anything that has been more
stimulating, fascinating and rewarding.

In December, 1954, I became associated with Delaware Fund in
Philadelphia, and have since ridden the tide of a booming mutual
fund business which has seen our assets increase from $19 million
to approximately $70 million at this writing. This is a business that
you live from the time of arising in the morning until going to bed
at night. The mutual fund field is one of the greatest growth busi-
nesses of the era, far eclipsing such highly-touted growth industries as
oils and chemicals. Probably its greatest growth lies in the years Just
ahead, and it presents an interesting challenge even now.

Traveling had never been very high on my “hit parade” of desires,
but I finally succumbed to the urgings of a stronger force in the
family and during the past year journeyed to Europe. Tam now
thoroughly sold on this type of experience and highly recommend it

[ 211 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

to all who have been giving it any thought. One of the more ex-
citing things that have happened to me in the past few years was the
giving of a party in our suite aboard the SS United Stares on our re-
turn trip. Among the guests W hose company we enjoy ed were
Rossani Brazzi and his wife Lydia (needless to say I have since been
forced to see “South Pacific” and “A Certain Smile,” at least twice),

Robert Montgomery and his charming wife, Jim Farley, Leonard
Hall, Dr. Frank Reichel of American Vi iscose, Dr. Leland Doan of
Dow Chemical, Count André DuBois of Paris, and Dr. and Mrs.

Eddie Farrell (he’s the former shortstop for the New York Giants,

Boston Braves and Boston Red Sox). Iam now looking forward to

our next trip abroad and can think of no better way for anyone to

cross the Atlantic than in the luxurious Uuited States, (Plug for

United States stock, which we hold in our Income Fund.)

My wife and I have not been blessed with children, but for the
past eighteen years have been parents, at least by proxy, to the com-
bined eight children of my two brothers.

If I were to be graduated from Harvard today, instead of twenty-
five years ago, I know just what I would do — just what I have done.

GEORGE WILLIAM CATURANI |

 

HOME ADDRESS; 125 E. 63d St. New York, N.Y,

oFFice Appress: Time, Inc., 9 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N.Y
Born: July 3, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: Michele Gactany Caturani,
Wilhelmina McPhail.

PREPARED aT: Westminster School, Simsbury, Conn,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1935. DFGREE: 8.B., 1934(35).
marnieo: Barbara Warren Kelley, Sept. 14, 1935, New York, N.Y. cHttnren:

Barbara Francesca, April 10, 1940; George Michael, May 7, 1943; Jean
Kelley, Sept. 26, 1947-

[212]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: Mario Cesare Caturani, °32.
occupaTIONn: Life assignment editor, Foreign News Service, Time, Inc.

PETER CERTO

 

ADDRESS: 226 Grant St., Haworth, N.J.

BoRN: April 26, 1913, East Boston, Mass. parents: Anthony Certo, Concelta
Antonnucio.

PREPARED AT: East Boston High School, East Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

OCCUPATION: Radio.

NO questionnaire returned.

ARTHUR FREEBORN CHACE, JR.

    

HOME appreEss: Garfield Road, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Samson Cordage Works, 470 Atlantic Ave., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 12, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: Arthur Freeborn Chace, ’9a
Kathleen Stirling Fletcher.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1934. DEGREE! S.By 1934(35).

[ 213 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

asarrieD: Betsey Tobey Luscombe. cHitpres: Daphne Ky July

iz, 1 ;
Minturn V., Feb. 2. 1941; Diana Ly April 2, 1942; J. Fletcher, Feb. 1
1944.

HARVARD BROTHERS: James Fletcher Chace, °38; Charles Anthony Chace, "44,
occupation: Executive vice-president, Samson Cordage Works.

AFTER reading my voluminous reports in previous Class publica-
tions, brevity seems appropriate at this time. It should be sufficient
to observe that life has been far more pleasant than expected and,

although the past has been enjoyable, the present is more so, and

should we avoid nuclear destruction, I expect the future to be even
better.

EARL ERSKINE CHADSEY, JR.

 

HOME apprEss: Concord Road, Sudbury, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Research Corp., 70 Memorial Drive, Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: April 3, 1912, Waltham, Mass. parents: Earl Erskine Chadsey, Edna Jane
McCullough. |

PREPARED AT: Saugus High School, Saugus, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; ED.M., 1940.

MaRRIED: Ida M. Snow, March 2, 1941, Saugus, Mass. cHipren: David, Sept.
22, 1945; Deborah, Sept. 11, 1947; Dexter, Sept. 24, 1953.

occupation: Research chemist, group leader, supervision of research pilot plant
developing processes for production of active and refractory metals.
OFFICES HELD: President, Eliot Hill Improvement Association, 1948, Dundee Ski

Club, 1950; clerk to executive committee, St, Elizabeth’s Church, Sudbury,
1958,

MEMBER OF: Electrochemical Society; Dundee Ski Club.

IMMEDIATELY following graduation, | enrolled in the summer
session of the Graduate School of Education to work toward an
Ed.M. in Secondary Education. Late in the summer of 1935 an
opportunity came to teach chemistry at Saugus High School, This

[214]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I accepted, continuing my studies through afternoon and summer
courses, and finally completing them in 1940.

Teaching proved fascinating and highly rewarding. Eight years
passed quickly in a busy round of experiments, notebooks, discus-
sions, and exams. Students and teacher combined their time and
talents to modernize the chemistry classroom and laboratory along
lines developed by the courses at the Graduate School of Education.

My first class did more for me than teach me how to learn how to
teach. Its members introduced me to ski bindings and hence to the
then relatively new sport of controlled skiing which has provided
me with many unforgettable experiences. More important, this first
class introduced me to Miss Ida Snow, second row center, who
merited a lifetime of study. Under the personal supervision of the
majority of the senior class, we were married March 2d, 1941,
the year after she graduated from Wheaton College.

Although I was appointed head of the Science Department, the
realities of budgeting a teacher’s salary resulted in my regretfully
leaving the teaching profession to work as an analytical chemist at
National Research Corporation. Much to my surprise, chemical re-
search work has proved to be even more fascinating to me than
teaching. The variety of problems and the demanding pace of ap-
plied research make the work continually exciting.

As our family grew, we moved from an apartment in Kenmore
Square to a small house in Newton; and with the arrival of the
third “D” in 1953 we overflowed into a rambling 150-year-old
farmhouse with a big barn and three and one-half acres, in Sudbury
Center. Here we are all busy with church and community activities
with some time left for house remodelling, gardening and bird
watching.

We are Episcopalians and attend church at St, Elizabeth’s Chapel
which is just across the fields from us. This chapel, while certainly
not as famous as Sudbury’s Wayside Inn, is fully as interesting. The
story of how Ralph Adams Cram, the architect, built this as a
family chapel, employing local labor and fieldstone from his estate,
in the manner of early European churches, is a fascinating one and
the result is a truly lovely and unusual place of worship.

Each year passes more quickly than the last and there never seems
to be time enough to do all the things that need to be done. In spite
of this, David and I are looking forward to spending more time in
Tuckerman’s this spring than has been possible since we moved to
Sudbury.

[215]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ZECHARIAH CHAFEF, III

 

OME AbpRESS: 315 Valley Rd., Merion, Pa.
FFICE ADDRESS: Pennsylvania Railroad, 6 Penn Center Plaza, Philadelphia 4, Pa.

rN: May 21, 1913, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Zechariah Chafee, Jr., LL.B., ’13,
Bess Frank Searle.

Z2EPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., C17 laude, 1934; M.B.A., cum laude,
1936.

arrieD: Curtis Hayes Palmer, Sept. 20, 1941, Garrison Forest, Md. cHiLpren:
Charles Palmer, Nov. 13, 1943; Anne Dexter, Dec. 30, 1946; Claire Graham,
Jan. 13, 1949.

-RVARD BROTHER: Robert Searle Chafee, 36 (deceased).

CUPATION: Manager, freight traffic research, Pennsylvania Railroad.

=MBER OF: Harvard Club of Philadelphia, Harvard Business School Club of
Philadelphia.

WENTY-FIVE years since college have been divided into three
tegories — Career, Family and Other Pursuits of Life, Liberty
d Happiness. As “career” provides the means to enjoy the others
ore fully, it has been placed first, This also conforms with the old
ying, “business before pleasure.”
At a faculty luncheon early in 1934, Professor William J. Cun-
igham of the Harvard Business School remarked that it was “a
ghty poor year to enter the railroad field” and strongly rec-
mended my spending the next two years at the Business School.
ter sixteen years of education, his suggestion was not too wel-
ne, but subsequently I’ve never regretted the sound advice. Be-
es sharpening the thinking processes and increasing knowledge
business management, the Business School provided an op-
‘tunity to make new friends from other colleges besides becom-
better acquainted with our classmates who went on to both
Business and Law Schools.

[ 216 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The summer of 1935, between the two Business School years, was
spent at the Builders Iron Foundry (now B.LF. Industries. Inc.)
at Providence. I quickly found that working conditions were far
pleasanter than those grim stories in so-called liberal magazines
about exploiting and exploited Americans.

Following my graduation in 1936, I started work with the Pennsyl-
vania Railroad Company at Philadelphia. Except for a brief furlough
in 1938, I’ve been with the company ever since, working in or out
of seven different places. My various jobs have combined my fond-
ness for trains, railroads, geography, economics and statistics with
a host of new friends and new sights —all further enhanced by
reduced cost or free transportation.

My brief prediction here on the future of American railroads is
that they will still be going strong at our Fiftieth Reunion, but
under government ownership if the existing lopsided national
transportation policy is not soon corrected. No business, even when
expertly managed, can survive the constant doses of billions of

ublic dollars to benefit its competitors.

Family life was launched on that happy day I first met Miss
Curtis Hayes Palmer at a neighboring cocktail party in March, 1941.
We were engaged in June and married September 2oth in lovely St.
Thomas Church, Garrison, Maryland, by one of the finest ministers
who ever lived. He regaled John Brooks, my best man, and myself
with humorous stories about wedding ceremonies gone wrong in
those somewhat tense moments before the impending ceremony
began.

In due course, our son and two daughters arrived. They've given
us a wealth of pleasure and kept us stepping with their high spirits
and interest in knowledge. Thanks to their energetic mother, who
is not bound by a three-week vacation, they have traveled w idely
— to camp in Algonquin Park, Ontario, to “England and Scotland,
on visits to Florida and Tidewater, Virginia and, for the boy, a
ranch near the Crazy Mountains, Montana.

Other Pursuits of Life, Liberty and Happiness can be said to begin
on a very warm day in June, 1934, when John Brooks and I boarded
the good old Statendam at Hoboken, for a ten-week bicycle trip
through Holland, Germany, Switzerland and Austria. The Class
of 1934 was well represented on board. Bob and Sally Hurlbut were
in first class seeking privacy for the start of their happy and all roo
short life together, Tommy Knowles could be found in the morn-
ings on the forward third-class deck discussing Nietzsche with the

[217 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

elderly and unique Communist woman who was making a pilgrimage
to Leningrad, refusing to acknowledge the effect of heredity on
human behavior and later forgetting to leave the boat at Plymouth,
much to her mental anguish all the following night.

The highlight of that summer of scenic wonders, including skirt-
ing such crises as the Dollfuss assassination, was a quiet Sunday
morning at the Salzburg Festival. Bruno Walter both played the
piano and conducted the orchestra in a superb repertory of Mozart
while nearby millions of Germans conducted an “election” amid
ascending crescendoes of “Sieg heil” and vote “Ja.” Rarely has the
best of the old and the worst of the modern been more emphatically
contrasted.

Following a period of squiring Bryn Mawr College girls, attend-
ing or assisting at weddings of contemporaries, and visiting Cape
Breton Island twice, a second major trip with two business friends
was taken in the last two weeks of August, 1939, as war was about
to break in Europe. We crossed Canada from Toronto, past scenic
Lake Superior, to wonderful Jasper Park. Then followed the mag-
nificent beauty of British Columbia via the superb Skeena River
Valley, Prince Rupert, the Inland Passage, Victoria and Vancouver,
thence east via Lake Louise and Banff to arrive in St. Paul as Neville
Chamberlain reluctantly announced that Britain was at war.

Omitting other shorter trips, the pattern today can be considered
similiar to that followed by many others — excursions or games with
the young, escorting my fair lady to the theatre or football games,
happy holiday visits with relatives of both our families, enjoying
the less strenuous sports, including occasional mountain climbing,
skiing or dancing (square and otherwise).

There is also some home maintenance and gardening (puttering
variety), a bit of Boy Scout activity, especially seeing how experts
like Dick Estes perform, also an “era” of trying to teach Sunday
School. This summer, if plans materialize, the whole family will
see the West together for the first time.

Politically, | am a Republican who usually finds some good Demo-
crats on the ticket and wonders when many Republican organiza-
tions are going to wake up and welcome efforts of the young to
help instead of regarding themselves as exclusive clubs for existing
aging members. ;

In religion, I was finally confirmed an Fpiscopalian in 1950 and
agree with Charles P, Taft that “we are a reformed church.” I
favor no monolithic unity of religious beliefs since diversity can

[ 218 }

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

be much more invigorating, I also oppose antagonism to those of
many creeds with whom we are united in common goals. The
growth of religious tolerance has been one of the great victories
of the last three hundred years. In separating church and state,
however, I deplore attempts to educate in a religious vacuum. Re-
gardless of beliefs, children can benefit from exposure at school to
the magnificent inspirations of religion — in literature, art and music.

As to social outlook, I try to take a kindly interest in what others
are doing and not get too far afield from the activities I enjoy most.
“Be yourself” is important here.

Conclusion. It has been a good life, if not unique, and a most
interesting age in which to live. When we were young, horse-drawn
fire engines were still racing wildly down the streets, smoke
belching from the fires in the old steam pumpers. We could still
relish the sex appeal of a steam locomotive and the chugging of a
clanking old steam roller. There was the joy of catching a ride on
a passing sleigh, clinging to open trolley cars en route to New
Haven victories, or clambering to the top of an open Fifth Avenue
bus. We could hear the puff of a Stanley steamer, the friendly
blast of a coastal steamboat whistle, or sit high on the seat of an
old Model T with its “‘ka-doo-kah” horn.

Today, as we hover between forty-five and fifty, man is probing
space through devices that use all kinds of fantastically elaborate
and accurate electronic devices. Who can now tell what new and
astounding activities will be developing when 1984 rolls around?

4

JOHN PARKER HALE CHANDLER, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: Warner, N.H.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Kearsarge Independent, Warner, N.H.

[219 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Bors: Aug. 6 rget, Roxbury, Mas. parents: John Parker Hale Chandler,
‘or. Madeleine Juha Vogel.

prepared at: Governor Dummer Academy, South Byficld, Mass.; Huntington
School for Boys, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B, 1934.

MARRIED: Rose Mabel Eaton, Dec. 5, 1938, New Castle, N-EL. critpren: FEliza-
beth Cleo (a. Paul Joseph Collins); Rose Mabel Eaton; John Parker
Hale, 3d; Thomas Herbert Eaton. craxpcuitpren: Wendy Elizabeth Col-
lins; Paul Joseph Collins, Jr.

occuPaTioN: Publisher; politician, philanthropist.

OFFICES HELD: Member, New Hampshire House of Representatives, 1943-44,
1945-46, 1951-52, New Hampshire State Senate, 1947-48; vice-chairman,
Merrimack County, 1946-58, chairman, Warner Republican Committee,
1946-58; member, Governor's Council, 1953-538; treasurer, Advertising
Club of New Hampshire, 1956-58; state chairman, Powell for Governor
Committee, 1958, New Hampshire chairman, March of Dimes, 1958, 19593
member, Chandler Reservation Committee; director, Concord Regional
Development Corporation; trustee, Sugar River Savings Bank of Newport;
president and treasurer, Warner Ski Slopes, Inc.; member board of di-
rectors, New Hampshire Society, Sons of the American Revolution,
president, Contoocook-Warner Branch, Salvation Army, delegate-at-large
to Republican National Convention, San Francisco, Calif.

MEMBER OF: New Hampshire Farm Bureau; Grange; Warner Planning and
Development Association; Meredith Civic Association, Concord Chamber
of Commerce; Newport Industries, Inc.; Dartmouth-Lake Sunapee Region
Association; Harris Lodge, F. & A.M.; Consistory; Shrine; Eagles; Moose;
Odd Fellows; Elks; Claremont Polish-American Club; Manchester Press
Club, New Hampshire Good Roads Association; Sons of the American
Revolution; Merrimack County Fire Wardens Association, New Hamp-

shire Weekly Publishers Association; Lions, Harvard Club of New Hamp-
shire.

X
PUBLICATIONS: Kearsarge Independent, a weekly newspaper.

POLITICS, publishing and promoting have taken up much of my
time during the past sixteen years and for the past sixteen months
Pve been Powell pushing. As the campaign manager of Attorney
Wesley Powell, I managed to help get him elected governor of
New Hampshire and managed to get defeated myself in the process
of seeking an unprecedented fourth term on the Governor’s Council.
I've been editor, publisher and copy boy for the Kearsarge Inde-

pendent since 1943, as well as running the Warner Ski Area since

1946, with various other undertakings “too numerous to mention”
thrown in.

Following graduation | made a six months’ visit to thirteen Euro-
pean countries including a 3,000-mile bike trip through France,
Italy and Spain, where 1 missed the revolution by a few days. James

[ 220]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

M. Curley was governor of Massachusetts when I got back, so I took
off for New Hampshire to live and have been here almost constantly
ever since, I worked at construction, poultry farming, etc., etc.,
until following in the footsteps of my ancestors I entered the field
of practical government or politics. I served four terms in the New
Hampshire General Court— three in the House and one in the
Senate — and then got elected to what is considered a political grave-
yard, the Governor’s Council, and became the first from this dis-
trict ever to serve three terms. The last man from Warner to serve
on the Council died in office and it began to look as if I might also,
so I gave myself a handicap by taking sides in a red hot gubernatorial
primary contest. The general came through it alive, but several of
us lieutenants got knocked off in the fight.

English literature was my field at Cambridge, so whatever | know
about government I have learned the hard way. After fourteen
years around the State House there isn’t too much about running
the State that I don’t know. Under the new state and federal limited
access acts the councillors have considerable to do with highway
problems, are trustees of state institutions, act on appointments,
grant pardons, etc., etc. Actually, I’m happy to be out for at least
a while.

During my undergraduate days I didn’t miss a football game in
four years and the first one I’ve been to since was the 1958 Harvard-
Yale game. Probably [ll get to another in the next twenty-five
years. If I do, I hope to see everyone there and especially some of
the fellows I traveled with in college, only one of whom showed up
to see the 28-0 victory.

Well, if I had it all to do over again would I do the same? About
the only advice J shall attempt to pass on to future generations is to
stay away from politics, newspapers and ski tows. I could perhaps
give more profound advice on other aspects of life, but knowing it
will be ignored anyway, I will not do so.

I trust that the above ramblings will suffice to put an end to the
weekly prodding postcards. Now all I have to do is to get that
darned picture taken and then I can die in peace. Amen.

[ 221 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

* WILLIAM ANDERSON CHAPMAN

 

BorN: Dec. 12, 1912, Cincinnati, Ohio. parents: Arthur Austin Chapman, Mary
Dwver.

PREPARED AT: Norwood High School, Norwood, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932, 1936-1938. DEGREE: A.B., Cum laude, 1934(38).
MARRIED.

prep: March 1, 1954, Christiana, Pa.

WILLIAM ANDERSON CHAPMAN left Harvard after our
sophomore year but returned in 1936 and received an A.B. in 1938,
as of our Class. He was engaged in journalism for a while and at the

time of our Fifteenth Anniversary Report, he was farming in
Christiana, Pennsylvania.

ERNEST WILLIAM CHARD

    
 

* : “om

a

HOME AppREsS: 166 Whitney Ave., Portland, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Guy Gannett Publishing Co., 390 Congress St., Portland, Maine

BORN: Sept. 14, 1912, Chelsea, Mass. parents: Ernest Dade Chard, Geneva
Chadwick,

—

 

[ 222 ]}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1934.

MARRIED: Pearl E. Titus, July 3, 1937, Augusta, Maine. cHt_pren: Carol Ann,
April 29, 1938 (7. Samuel Ina, Sept. 6, 1958); William Dennison, April
16, 1941; Thomas Darrell, Aug. 24, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Managing editor, Portland Press Herald, a daily newspaper.

MEMBER OF; Harvard Club of Maine; Maine Associated Press News Execu-
tives Association (president, 1956-57); New England AP News Execu-
tives; AP Managing Editors Association; New England Society of News-
paper Editors; Portland Kiwanis Club; United Fund Publicity Committee.

I CAME to Maine shortly after graduation to get some newspaper ex-
perience.. I planned to stay a year or two and move on to a bigger
city and a bigger paper. But jobs were slow in opening. Meanwhile,
I met and married a proofreader on the Kennebec Journal (Au-
gusta), where I was learning the ins and outs of reporting. Within
a year, our first child arrived and I was deep in family responsibilities.
I moved as far as the Portland Press Herald, As the years ticked by,
a son joined my daughter; I moved through various reporting as-
signments; became assistant city editor, then city editor; then news
editor and, finally, managing editor. Had a late son in 1951.

A few years ago, a chance finally did beckon, in a big city and on
a big paper. My plans rose to haunt me and I answered the call. But
it was too Jate. My pattern of living was too well set. I didn’t like
the big city. Fortunately, I was able to return to Portland with a
valuable lesson learned. Now I am content to do my best each dav
in the job I have. I enjoy the challenge of trying to understand
and present the daily news of this complex but exciting world.

I find pleasure in walking to and from work each day (about five
miles). I like to take an occasional trip on my bicycle. Best of all,
I like to get out on a golf course. I play in the 80’s— high or low,
depending on how I’m putting. I get a great kick from the high
school sports, especially football and baseball, both of which my
elder son plays with some success. Pretty simple pleasures for an
atomic age, you see.

My mind, I fear, is about as simple, too. I have few strong con-
victions on any subject. I am not moved to assert or deny “much
categorically, I guess I am, by nature, more a watcher than a doer
and the nature of newspaper work probably has encouraged this
bent. But, as far as I am concerned, this state of mind represents one
approach to equilibrium, a condition very much to be desired at any
time and, especially, now.

[ 223]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

THEODORE CHASE

 

OME AppRESS: Farm Street, Dover, Mass.

FFICE ADDRESS: Palmer, Dodge, Gardner & Bradford, 53 State St., Boston,
Mass.

RN: Jan. 23, 1912, Boston, Mass. PareENTS: Frederic Hathaway Chase, ’g2,
Theodora Kyle.

EPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

ARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., magna cuin laude, 1934; LL.B. cum
Jaude, 1937.

.RRIED: Dorothea Newman, June 22, 1935, Concord, Mass. CHILDREN:
Theodore, Jr. Aug. 20, 1938; Alison, Feb. 4, 1942; Lavinia Bosworth,
June 4, 1946.
VARD BROTHER: Frederic Hathaway Chase, Jr. ’24, S.B., '25.
UpaTiOn: Lawyer; partner, Palmer, Dodge, Gardner & Bradford.
‘CES HELD: Harvard Class Agent, 1934-49; lieutenant (j.g.) to leutenant
commander, U.S. Navy, 1943-45; member, 1951- 57, chairman, 1953-57,
Dover Board of Selectmen; member, Harvard Fund Council, 1954-57;
finance chairman, Twenty-fifth Reunion; general chairman, 1955 Greater
Boston Red Feather Campaign, former member of board, United Com-
munity Services, Boston Chapter, American Red Cross; director, Rock-
‘and-Atlas National Bank of Boston; trustee, Massachusetts Savings Bank,
st. Timothy’s School, Free Hospital for Women, Community Work-
hops, Boston Tuberculosis Association, president, Family Service Asso-
‘jation of Greater Boston; chairman, board of trustees, Northficld Schools.
3ER OF; Somerset Club, Dedham Country and Polo Club; City Club,
ymerican, Massachusetts and Boston Bar Associations, American Law
‘stitute.

IN graduating from college I naturally went on to the Law
o] — naturally, because my father, whom I held in high esteem,
an able and respected Boston lawyer and because my talents,
as they were, scemed to tend as much in that direction as in
ther, By the same inevitable process T entered a Boston law

[ 224 ]

3

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

office and, with the exception of the war years, I have been there

ever since.

In 1937 it was still possible to become a general practitioner and
that is what I became. The results have been satisfactory, for though
I have not become an expert in any field, I have nevertheless had an
intellectually stimulating experience in the law, with a great variety
of clients (few of them large or important), a wide diversity of
problems (though none involving any great cause) and very few
dull moments.

The war years gave me an opportunity to see what specialized
practice is like. For almost three years I served as counsel for the
Navy’s Finance Division, which provided the funds through loans
and advance payments to finance the Navy’s war contracts. It was
in some respects like being general counsel for a large commercial
bank. .There was none of the danger of the South Pacific, but none
of the boredom either. My clients were able and companionable
young bankers. I lived with my family in the charming suburb
of Georgetown, and all about us was the atmosphere of hard work,
great events and intense gaiety that characterized wartime Wash-
ington.

One of the special advantages of my professional life has been
the opportunity for non- professional activities which it has afforded.
I have turned to civic and charitable endeavors probably more from
natural inclination than from a conscious urge to aid my fellow-
men, and one activity has relentlessly led to another. I have found
particular pleasure in holding office in the small town of Dover,
where government still follows closely the pattern of New England
town management of 300 years ago and is at the same time a micro-

cosm of larger political affairs. My other extra-curricular errands
have included a hospital, countless community fund drives, a family
Service organization and various educational affiliations,

To my regret, I have never excelled at any form of sport, and
while I play” tennis and ride horseback w ‘ell enough for pleasure
and exercise, the joys of skiing, sailing and the like which have lent
sparkle to the lives of many of our classmates have eluded me. But
I have found consolation in less active pastimes —travel (almost

any w here) and the collecting of books (almost everything, but
with emphasis on American and English social history, especially
diaries and journals). Like the hero of Marquand’s Se ‘Little Tinte,
I have come at last to realize that I shall never read all the books

[225 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

in my library or visit all the places of my heart’s desire — but |
certainly intend to keep trying!

Sharing i in all the little successes, the setbacks, the diversions and
interests which have gone into the maturing process of the last
twenty-four years, yet with a rare independence and moral strength
of her own, has been the wife to whom I became engaged while
sull in college. In her quiet, poised and serene manner, she has
given light and strength and direction to me and to our family.
We have three alert and attractive children: a brainy son, now a
junior at Harvard whose interests, while not those of his father,
are deep and diverse; a charming daughter now at boarding school
and on the verge of young womanhood; and a second daughter who
seems to combine the good qualities of both her brother and her
sister.

If, as I hope is not the case, this biography seems a little stuffy, it
is only because I have tried to draw a picture of quiet satisfaction
with a life which, while neither exciting nor distinguished, has never-

theless been a happy and, I hope, a moderately successful and
useful one.

WILLIAM GUNDRY CHASE

 

HOME AppREsS: Sarven Court, Tarrytown, N.Y.

orrice appress: New York Central Railroad, 466 Lexington Ave., New York
17, N.Y.

BORN: June 5, 1912, Depue, Ill. parents: March Frederick Chase, Margery
Elizabeth Lambertson.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: 8.B., 1934,

MarkieD: Frances Morgan Ross, April 18, 1936, Terre Haute, Ind. cHipReN:

Nancy Lambertson, April 9, 1937; William Gundry, Jr., June 10, 1940;
Elizabeth Clifford Ross, Dec. 8, 1948,

[ 226 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Director of labor relations, New York Central Railroad.
OFFICES HELD: President, Railroad YMCA, Toledo, Ohio; member of board,
Toledo YMCA, Railroad YMCA, Grand Central Terminal Branch, N-Y.

WORKING in the transportation business has many interesting

facets, but it seems that one of the basic prerequisites is a willingness

to pull up stakes and move from one location to another. In my

twenty-three years with the railroad, we are presently living in our

twenty-third house, having lived and worked in some ten different
cities, not including those that we briefly lived in while in the Army.
My work has included twenty years in the operating department
from brakeman, yardmaster, to assistant superintendent, and then
into labor relations. During the war, I remained in the transporta-
tion field serving from 1943 to 1946 in the 718th Railway Operating
Battalion, part of the time in the European Theatre attached to the
Third Army as a Railhead Battalion.

We have enjoyed living in the many places. Actually our children
have taken to it very well. All of us have kept contact with old
friends, and as the children went away to school and college they
again ran into friends they had known before.

Our activities have been varied and to some extent governed by
where we lived. Along with the usual activities, such as the PTA,
church, YMCA and Community Chest work, we have, at one time
or another, taken up golf, photography, sailing, raising dogs, and
gardening. Also, some small do-it-yourself projects fixing up the
numerous houses in which we have lived. A continuing interest has
been a dairy farm in Wisconsin. |

Interspersed with our moving around, we have taken several trips
to Bermuda, one to Mexico with Bob Lucas, a western trip, and in
later years to the seashore with the children, at Nags Head, North
Carolina, when living in Charleston, West Virginia, and Martha's
Vineyard since living in New York.

Presently I am back in New York for the third time, with Nancy
working, Bill a freshman at Trinity and Tibby in the fifth grade.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

DAVID BRADLEY CHEEK

 

JOME ADDRESS: 2347 Francisco, San Francisco, Calif.
9FFICE ADDRESS: 2000 Van Ness Ave., San Francisco 9, Calif.

orN: May 22, 1912, Singapore, Straits Settlement. parents: Marion Adolphus
Cheek, Lulu Foster M{ills.

REPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.EL.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., cu laude, 1934; MD. (Univ. of
California), 1941.

LARRIED: June Prince, May 6, 1942, Baltimore, Md. cumpren: David Prince,
Aug. 2, 1947; Kathleen, Dec. 18, 1949.

ARVARD BROTHER: Marion Adolphus Cheek, Jr., 26.

-CUPATION: Physician — specialty gynecology.

EMBER OF: American College of Surgeons; American College of Obstetrics
and Gynecology; American Academy of Psychosomatic Medicine, Society
of Clinical and Experimental Hypnosis.

‘BLICATIONS: One scientific paper on causes of postmenopausal bleeding in
women; several papers on the general use of hypnosis and specific papers
on the use of hypnosis in gynecology and obstetrics.

TER graduation from Harvard College in 1934, I had to take

other year of preparation for medical school because, with native

dergraduate forethought, I had planned to be a geologist until

o months before graduation. I entered Harvard Medical School

the fall of 1935, but the air must have been too rare. I spent the
xt two years out with tuberculosis. The first year in bed was a
nstructive one, for I gained much first-hand information about
ing sick and I had an unequalled chance to read. Money ran out
1 1 returned to California where I graduated from the medical
i001 in 1941.

The next four-and-one-half years were spent in Baltimore at Johns
pkins Hospital. The war broke out during my intern year and
ause of my history of tuberculosis | was left behind while most

(228 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of my associates were taken into the service. I married June Prince
in May of 1942 —the one bright spot in those days. The Army
gave no explanation of their rejection of me, but the examiner for
the Navy said he felt I would not be able to lose sleep safely and
loss of sleep was one of the most prevalent things in active combat.
During the following two years J learned that the Navy had made
a mistake. I had to serve in the capacity of two assistant residents,
plus one intern, because of shortages of local manpower. Sleep was
pretty scant during that time. I used to envy the Navy boys.
Next came the troublesome time of deciding where to attempt
using the knowledge acquired over the years. June and I settled
on San Francisco, but we soon found ourselves running out of
money while we searched vainly for a place to live. Some friends
told us about a small community in the North Sacramento Valley
where we found ourselves most welcome and successful in building
up a practice, The lure of the city, however, finally proved too
strong and we moved with our children back to San Francisco in
1954.
I did some teaching at the University of California Medical

School for two years and have subsequently been limiting my free
time to teaching hypnosis usages in dentistry and medicine.

CHARLES EZEKIEL CHEEVER

    

HOME appress: Elm Street, Medfield, Mass.

OFFICE AbpREss: First Boston Corporation, 75 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: May 25, 1911, Boston, Mass. Parents: David Cheever, ’97, Jane H.
Sargent. |

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B, 1934; Graduate School of Banking,
Rutgers Univ,, 1951,

[ 229 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

MARRIED: Jane Garfield, Jan. 31, 1942, Boston, Mass, cuwpren: Charles Ezekiel,
Jr. Oct. 31, 1943; Jane Welles, Feb. 28, 1945; Susan Emmons, March 10,
1047.

HARVARD BROTHERS: David Cheever, Jr. 31, M.B.A, 34; Francis Sargent Cheever,
"32, M.D., 36; Daniel Sargent Cheever, °39, A.M., '47, PH.D., ’48.

occupaTION: Investment banking; assistant vice-president in charge of Govern-
ment Bond Department, First Boston Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Member executive committee, Massachusetts Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Children; assistant treasurer and member execu-
tive committee, Visiting Nurse Association of Boston; member of corpora-

tion, Boston Lying-in Hospital; member, Finance Committee, Town of
Medfield.

MEMBER OF: Dedham Country and Polo Club; Badminton and Tennis Club,
Boston; Norfolk Hunt Club, Dover, Mass.,; Somerset Club, Boston.

LIFE since our Twentieth Reunion has followed a very similar
course as in the preceding period, and the years have been very
kind. I continue to work at the First Boston Corporation in Boston,
in charge of the Government Bond department. It is common
knowledge that government securities have caused some violent
headaches of late to various holders interested in speculative possi-
bilities, with accompanying operational difficulties from a dealer’s
point of view. I shall soon be eligible for the Twenty-five-Year
Club of the firm. "

My hobbies are tennis, fishing of all kinds and working on our
place in Medfield where we farm and garden in an amateurish way.
The summer months are spent down on Cape Cod, with particular
accent on tennis and fishing, sailing and swimming. My wife and
I try to get away occasionally in the wintertime and have had
pleasant trips to Bermuda, Nassau and the Virgin Islands. Any time
left is taken up with a reasonable amount of charitable work, and
membership and activity in various town committees.

Looking farther backward, the war years, 1942-46, Were spent In
the Signal Corps. I taught at Fort Monmouth, New Jersey, for
several years with emphasis on classified subjects connected with
cryptographic work. The climax was a period of about a year
spent in Manila assigned to General MacArthur’s headquarters in
the same line of work. This was an exceedingly interesting and re-
warding period in a rather drab and long-drawn-out Army career.

[ 230]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ARTHUR OSGOOD CHOATE, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 154 East End Ave., New York, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 61 Wall St., New York, N.Y.
BORN: Nov. 15, 1911, New York, N.Y. parents: Arthur Osgood Choate, Anne

Hyde Clarke.
PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. 19}4..

marrieD: Whitney B. Griffiths, July 3, 1946, Locust Valley, N.Y. (divorced
1949); Eloise Weld Fleming, Dec. 8, 1951, Boston, Mass. cHitp: Arthur
Bourne, April 14, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Hyde Choate, ’37, LL.B., '40.

occuPATION: Investment banking; general partner, Clark, Dodge & Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member of staff, J. P. Morgan & Company, Inc., 1934-39; general
partner, Clark, Dodge & Company, since 1940; vice-president, Lenox Hill

Neighborhood House; Bond Club of New York.
MEMBER OF: Racquet and Tennis Club of New York; Links Club; National

Golf Links of America.

AFTER graduation I came directly to Wall Street, influenced in
this decision by my father who was ending a very successful career
in “the Street.” I have never regretted this decision, and “the
Street” has been good to me, too. Five years in a bank (J. P. Morgan
& Company) and twenty years as a partner in my father’s invest-
ment firm, I have had a front row seat as far as watching the financing
of the great era of expansion that the country has enjoyed during
this period.

I served in the Navy from 1942 to 1945, being discharged as a
lieutenant commander. Most of this period I was out of the country
— two years with naval aviation units and two years with amphibious
forces — Caribbean and Pacific areas.

I am an Episcopalian — enjoy golf, sailing and horseback riding
as principal recreations.

[ 231]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

JOSEPH HODGES CHOATE, Ill

 

HOME apprEss: Old Roaring Brook Road, Mt. Kisco, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Choate, Ronalds, Reynolds & Hollister, 44 Wall St., New York
5, N.Y.

BORN: Feb. 22, 1912, New York, N.Y. PareNts: Joseph Hodges Choate, Jr.,
’97, Cora Lyman Oliver.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., €2772 laude, 1934; LL.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Jane Morrogh Swan, July 20, 1940, Boston, Mass, cHiLpren: Jonathan,
Jan. 7, 1942; Priscilla Jane, Dec. 28, 1944; Deborah, Oct. 7, 1947.

CCUPATION: Lawyer; partner, Choate, Ronalds, Reynolds & Hollister.

MEMBER OF: Bedford Golf and Tennis Club; Delphic Club; North Haven
Casino.

3EFORE my diploma had even been inked, I was off to Wash-
ngton’s sultry climes to keep my father company for the summer.
Je was the director of the then new Federal Alcohol Control Ad-
ninistration and I was given a minor job in the enforcement section,
where my immediate boss was Adlai Stevenson. There I learned
Juite a bit about the red tape that is bureaucracy and it was quite
relief to get back to Harvard in the fall, even to the Law School
ind the grim warning of its professors to take a look at the man
on your right and left, for one of them would not be present a year
rence. The first year was pleasant, sharing an apartment on Prescott
street with Ted Chase, Archie Cox and Nat Winthrop. Matrimony
nd economics broke up this menage, Chase and Winthrop got
narried and Cox became a proctor. The last two years of law school
vere relatively uneventful — except for two nice Furopean junkets,
me of which included a foldboat trip down the Mosclle, with Chase
nd Corky Nichols, plus Stanton Whitney’s wedding in Paris. Be-
ore graduation, I signed up as a law clerk with Bingham, Dana
< Gould, where I labored most happily till the spring of ’41, when

| [ 232 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I got myself a commission as an ensign in the Coast Guard Reserve.
Until I got married, in July of 1940, I shared an apartment with two
other pup lawyers, in one of the old Bulfinch houses on the back of
Beacon Hill, and when I think of the ten-minute walk to work,
I groan at my present hour and a half commute. After I got married,
Jane and J had a nifty house in Charles River, but the war changed

all that.
My first assignment was as an instructor at the Coast Guard

Academy in New London, theoretically to teach law, but I gravi-

tated into a sort of aide to the head of the seamanship department.

During this period, we lived in three nice houses, one in North

Lyme and the other two in Waterford. Our son Jonathan was born

just a month after Pearl Harbor. Late in January, 1943, my boss

asked me if I wanted to go with him on his new assignment, which
was commodore of a squadron of twenty-four LCI’s I was sup-
posed to be staff engineering officer, but when I got to the shipyard
in Texas, I found I was C.O. of one of the wretched things and that
my boss had made my ship his flag, so that he could help cover my
abysmal ignorance. This job lasted just a year, during which we
journeyed to almost all of North Africa, as far east as Tunis, with
operational junkets to Sicily and Italy, and in October, we got
orders to go to England. On Christmas Day, I got my orders to
return to the continental limits for reassignment and thereafter found
myself behind a desk at 42 Broadway, passing upon the sins of the
merchant marine. During that period, our daughter Priscilla was
born and we lived in an 82d Street flat. This till January, 1945,
when I applied for and got command of a small freighter, of a type
we were manning for the Army. On the day after \ V-E Day, we
sailed for the Pacific, with a cargo to strike terror into the heart of
Hirohito — beer, razor blades and talcum powder. The war was
over before we got to the Philippines and, because I had been in
for nearly five years, I got let out quickly on the point system and
returned home on a Liberty Ship, as a passenger.

Terminal leave was rather a nightmare. I had decided to stay in
New York, and spent weeks and wecks pounding the pav ements
looking for a job. Thinking that I probably knew more about ships
than the law in general, I got a job with an admiralty firm, in the
collision department, w here I spent a frustrating six months doing
nothing which could not have been done as well by a first-year law
student with a low I.Q. At that point, one of my father's partners
was looking for an assistant and, in spite of the obvious d: angers of

[ 233 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

nepotism, I signed up with my present firm, where I have been ever
since. In the spring of ’47, the imminent arrival of our daughter
Deborah forced us out of the 82d Street apartment and we bought
our present house in Mt. Kisco, The next ten years were pretty
routine. A varied practice, sometimes dull, sometimes fascinating
— sometimes months without leaving the office, interlocked with oc-
casional business in England, Switzerland and even Formosa. As I
write, Jonathan is a fifth former at Groton and headed, I hope, for

Harvard — whether he actually chooses it, or if chosen makes it, is
another question.

MALCOLM CHARLES CHOATE

 

HOME appress: 429 West St., Reading, Mass.
OFFICE AppRESS: Cory Snow, Inc., 655 Beacon St., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: March 6, 1912, Lawrence, Mass. parents: Charles Henry Choate, Mary
Pauline Culver.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934(35). .

MaRRIED: E.dith Carolina Johnson, Sept. 20, 1958, Cambridge, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: Paul Theodore Choate, ’39.

occupation: Vice-president, media and research director, Cory Snow, Inc.
advertising agency.

oFFices HELD: Arrangements and reservations chairman, 1955, member, Ar-
rangements Committee, 1956, chairman, Reservations Committee, 19575
Roster Committee, 1958, chapter director, since 1957, treasurer, since

1958, Eastern New England Chapter, National Industrial Advertisers As-
sociation.

MEMBER OF: New England Media Evaluators’

Association; Appalachian
Mountain Club.

LIFE began for me before 1 entered Harvard, and has been going
on ever since. As class orator for a small town high school, the

{ 234]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

theme song still rings in mine ears: “Let us then be up and doing,
with a heart for any fate, still achieving, still pursuing, learn to
Jabor and to wait.” It sounded beautiful twenty-five years ago; it
still does. I am still up and doing, with a heart, trying to achieve,
still pursuing, lots of labor, and no time to wait.

The years after college were lean. Started work with the United
Fruit Company, escorting bananas off the boats in Boston, then told
the retailers how good they were, then the consumers “never put
bananas in the refrigerator, etc.” World War II put an end to all
this, and since bananas became a non-essential, I saw my duty and
enlisted as a private in the Army Transportation Corps, November
19, 1942; commissioned May 30, 1943, bounced around as an ex-
change officer, Boston Port of Embarkation, to May 17, 1944, then
overseas as company officer, 4goth Port Battalion, Utah Beach, July,
1944, to September, 1945; adjutant, 784th Tank Battalion, December,
1945, to March, 1946, at Liége, Belgium and Cambria, France; rail-
way transportation officer, Sixth Traffic Regulating Group at Ant-
werp, Belgium; 1946 before they finally let me come home.

Life at home (Boston) was new. I wanted to start all over again,
but no one knew what I wanted, not even I, but months later I was
“persuaded” to get into the advertising agency business, and here I
have been ever since. It was a delightful compromise between busi-
ness (a sordid word) and education, which I loved.

Life was not all business, however. One of my extra-curricular
activities was mountain-climbing. In college days, and in summer
especially, I did a lot of climbing. The exercise, and getting up in
the clouds, does an awful lot for one. The Appalachian Mountain
Club put me on the Outings Committee, then they made me chair-
man, After three more years of this I was railroaded onto a couple
of other committees, besides leading various excursions to places,
weekend and week trips, etc. It was a lot of fun doing things for
people. Now I am chairman of the Meetings Committee obtaining
lectures for people from Hillary (Mt. Everest to you) down to local
botanical and ornithological lectures, All ideas gratefully accepted.
Now nominated for counselor of excursions. More work.

Family? Have been a benedict these past twenty-five years, or more,
but all my classmates did not think that it was a good idea to show
up at the Twenty-fifth alone; so Edith (Boston Univ ersity a.B. and
A.M.) said she would love to go to the Harvard-Yale game (1958)
and since I did not want to go alone, I said yes. We got married
September 2oth (you see I knew her before the Harvard-Yale game)

[ 235 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

at Harvard Memorial Church, a beautiful wedding in a beautiful
church. “Woody” could not provide the music but his brother
John (Harvard ’32) sure knows the organ, A wedding trip through-
out the New England States and the Adirondacks, mountain climb-
ing (by auto) and ending up in our beautiful Cape Cod Royal
Barry Wills, in Reading, a suburb of Boston, proves that life can be
beautiful. Still achieving, still pursuing, but not waiting — until

the Twenty-fifth.

GROVER CHURCHILL

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Beach Bluff Terrace, Cape Elizabeth, Maine.

BORN: Dec. 17, 1912, Wakefield, Mass. PARENTS: Lawrence Whitfield Churchill,
’o7, Ethel Lurana Shaw. .

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1932, 1933-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1934(35)-

marriep: Christina Diracca, Sept. 9, 1944, Auckland, New Zealand. CHILDREN:
Lurana Noel, Dec. 2, 1948, Victoria Shaw, May 19, 1953.

occuPATION: President, Churchill Lobster Products, Inc., food processing.

OFFICES HELD: Executive director, Crusade for Freedom, Maine, 1951, North

Atlantic Lobster Institute, 1950-54; variously, member board, Children’s

Theatre, Portland, Maine, local county civil defense and other organiza-
tions.

MEMBER OF: New York Financial Writers’ Association; Society of the Silurians.

OURS has been a somewhat checkered, albeit interesting, career —
and we can hope only that the various phases may have added to our
usefulness in the community, We have run the gamut, from special
representative in the freight traffic department of the Pennsylvania
Railroad; eight years writing a financial advisory column in The
Wall Street Journal, Barron's and the Boston News Bureau; four
years in the U.S, Navy as “exec” on a fleet tug, among other things

[ 236]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

(permanent rank, lieutenant); various selling jobs; a stint as reg-
istered representative of the New York Stock Exchange, with Francis
I. duPont & Company, Inc., where I was also a member of the New
York Security Analysts Society, three years as account executive
and publicity man with Simonds, Payson Company (concurrently
running the North Atlantic Lobster Institute); and currently, owner
and president of Churchill Lobster Products, Inc. The last-men-
tioned enterprise, formed in 1954, appears to be moving ahead. We
like it.

Our greatest satisfactions in life now seem to revolve around
family activities, including considerable travel, seeing old friends
(a home in Maine attracts quite a few), and all too little golf, swim-
ming and reading.

We marvel at the audacity of the publishers of this volume in
guaranteeing to print whatever is submitted. But with admirable
restraint, we shall cut off here and wait, with bated breath, for the
publication date.

GILBERT TUFTS CLAPP

 

HOME ApprREss: R.F.D., Goffstown, N.H.

OFFICE ADpREss: New Hampshire Fire Insurance Co., 1750 Elm St. Manchester,
N.H.

BORN: Dec, 31, 1911, Weymouth, Mass. parents: Frank N. Clapp, ’93, Edith
Reed.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933.

MARRIED: Mary Bennett, May 27, 1939, Framingham, Mass. cHipren: Sarah,
Feb. 16, 1940; William Reed, May 1, 1943; Thomas, Oct. 1, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Nathaniel Dudley Clapp, ’28.

occuPATION: Insurance losses.

[ 237]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

NO travel, no war record, no convictions, Good family, interesting
hobbies.

CHESLEY KREUTZ CLARK

 

HOME ADDRESS: Quarters 48, Warren Air Force Base, Wyo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hdgtrs., 706 Strategic Missile Wing, Warren Air Force Base,
Wyo.

BORN: Aug. 9, 1912, Newton, Mass. parents: Philip Maclean Clark, L1-B., 07s
Margaret Kreutz.

PREPARED AT: Sidwells Friends School, Washington, D.C.; Western High
School, Washington, D.C.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932, 1933-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1934(35)

MARRIED: Louise Hunter Larson, Sept. 4, 1943, Washington, D.C, CHILDREN
Marian Hunter, Feb. 27, 1948; Livingston Kreutz, Oct. 22, 1955
HARVARD BROTHER: Philip Maclean Clark, ’51

occupation; Materiel officer, U.S. Air Force
MEMBER OF: Freemasons.

I WANDERED about our nation’s capital in one inconclusive civil

service Capacity or another for four years before getting up enough
ingenuity to try something more exciting. In 1939, I took the four-
hour trip to old Manhattan and started on a new job as leg man for
a research project of the New York (City) Legal Aid Society,
financed by a special committee of the American Bar Association.
The work was revealing and absorbing, educational and of social
significance — “vital,” I suppose the pipe-smokers would say —
and gave me a greater geographical grasp of Manhattan than most
natives, or any Brooklynite. The Bronx I came to know in a manner
of speaking (or not speaking, if you get what I mean), and the same

for Brooklyn, Unfortunately, appropriations ran out at the end of
1939, and I went to work for General Flectric, a soulless colossus

[ 238 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

managed by extremely cost-conscious individuals. After a year as
a prole, carefully monitored by the local Big Brother, I was re-
leased to enter federal military service with my National Guard
regiment, the 207th CA(AA) of New York (the “Old Seventh”),
setting up camp in Hinesville, Georgia, February 19, 1941, Camp
Stewart.

After nineteen months as an enlisted man I entered officers’ school
in September, 1942, receiving a commission December 12, 1942.
Since then, continuous service. Career as an officer goes generally
as follows:

1942-45: chemical training officer.

1945 to present: supply, matériel and logistics officer, with a
couple of brief and insignificant interludes as squadron commander.

Hobby: Meteorology. Sports: Still active in several, including
playing, coaching and managing Air Force, semi-pro and kid base-
ball. In my travels I miss the indoor track seasons in Boston and
New York. I returned from Labrador in time to witness the un-
pleasantness in the Stadium of late November, 1956, and listened
to the debacle of last year in the Harvard Club of Los Angeles.
Wish no more of same. My wife enjoys sporting events if I am a
participant or managerial type; the ballet whether I am in it or not;
and ice hockey because of the speed, grace and agility necessary to
preserve life and limb.

Travels with the Air Force have taken me to the Philippines,
Japan, Australia, New Guinea, Morotai, Guam, Tinian, Saipan, Iwo
Jima, Okinawa, Newfoundland, Labrador, Greenland and Baffin Is-
land. All this since October, 1945, like many others in these times.
Son was first baby born in the new, ultra-modern hospital at Goose
Bay, Labrador, 1955. Wife has lived with me near Manila and
Tokyo; wife and daughter in Newfoundland and Labrador, All
have enjoyed these tours.

Religion: After years of blundering, finally found definitive re-
ligion, a not uncommon development by my age, I suppose. A fel-
low finally goes one way or the other. Politics: Firm convictions,
but find these convictions represented by very few of our present-
day politicians, a situation which I naturally view with alarm. Many
will view with alarm shortly, but perhaps too late.

My deepest apologies for this tardy submission. No excuse except
that old devil procrastination. Your job must be frightful. What-
ever moves a man to take on a job like arranging a tw enty-fitth re-

[ 239 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

union anyway? There are almost no gentlemen of Icisure these days
By the wav, I intend to come to the Reunion.

EDWARD PULTZ CLARK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 127 Broadway, Arlington, Mass.
OFFIcE ADDRESS: Arlington Five Cents Savings Bank, Arlington, Mass.

BorN: April 19, 1912, Arlington, Mass. PARENTS: Wilson Deehamel Clark, Jr.,
Sue E. MacWilliam.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; LL.B. (Northeastern Univ.),
1939.

Marrigp: Minnette B. Savage, June 15, 1932. cHiLpREN: Ann Borden, May 23,

1933 (m. Eugene F. Wolff, Aug. 24, 1957); Sue MacWilliams, April 26,
1934. GRANDCHILD: Ellen Margaret Wolff, June 12, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alexander MacWilliam Clark, ’38, LL.B., °41.

OCCUPATION: President, Arlington Five Cents Savings Bank.

OFFICES HELD: Director, 1949-54, president, 1954, Metropolitan Mortgage Bureau;
trustee, 1949-51, president, 1951, Savings Banks Employees Retirement
Association; president, Savings Bank Life Insurance Council of Massachu-
Setts, 1952-55; trustee, General Insurance Guaranty Fund, 1955-58; chair-
man, Committee on, Taxation, 1952-54, Legislative Committee, since 1955,
vice-president, 1958, Savings Banks Association of Massachusetts; director
and member executive committee, National Association of Mutual Savings

Banks, since 1957, member, Mutual Savings Banks Committee on Taxation,
since 1957.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Boston Yacht Club.

TWENTY-FIVE years in a bank seems a long time, particularly
after an early resolution against it. The project started as a port

in a storm, there being in 1934, a wife and two infant daughters.
Before long the rehabilitation of loans and investments, a rather

substantial process at the time, became an active interest and banking
began to have a more human and attractive aspect. Perhaps it might

[ 240 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have seemed less so if there had been also a responsibility for making

the loans in the first place. This work led in ordinary course to

the various levels of management, affording an opportunity to think

about a widening variety of things. Banking association work also

developed, leading to interesting policy discussions and negotiations.
Every day there is opportunity to think about management, eco-
nomic, investment and legal problems and to estimate the wide
variety of end results which may come about. Trying to suggest
decisions which will later prove sound and reasonable is difficult
but also stimulating.

Banking, with the usual community chores which seem to go with
it, has still left a reasonable amount of time for family sociability.
Vacations and other similar amusements have been normal and con-
ventional, suited to the needs of the young and to an educational
program for the two girls. It is a pleasure to realize that they each
have a degree from a responsible college and that they now should
be able to think and act for themselves. One small but happy result
is less television and more reading around the house,

My wife and I have reached the stage of thinking seriously about
more travel and other pleasant recreations whenever there is avail-
able time. Spare time, however, appears increasingly hard to come
by as the world seems to be growing more complex every year and

there are more things to study and think about. We expect to be
firm about travel, nevertheless, to demonstrate actively that this is

not merely evidence of advancing age.

The last twenty-five years have, on the whole, been most en-
joyable and perhaps with good health, if some of the more war-
like attributes of universal human nature can be overcome, the next
twenty-five years will be even better.

[241 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ELTON CLARK

 

Lander, Wyo. _— |
ray 5, 1910, Framingham Center, Mass. PARENTS: Elton Clark, Eleano

l.

At: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

SOLLEGE: 1930-1934.

Alice Hutchins, 1940, Concord, Mass. cuitpreN: Charlotte, April 23,

ton, Dec. 11, 1945.
: Engineering.

jonnaire returned.

ROBERT BICKERTON CLARK

 

lighview Terr., Madison, N.J.
arner-Chilcott Laboratories, Morris Plains, N.J.
, Arlington, Mass, parents; Harry Bickerton Clark, Edna

ville High School, Somerville, Mass.
)30-1935. DEGREES: S.B, IN IND, CHEM., ctuvt Lande, 1934, SM.
935; LB. (Brooklyn Law School), 1938,

[ 242 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MarRieD: Jacqueline Snell, Aug. 5, 1938, Lynbrook, N.Y. cHttpren: Thomas
Snell, Jan. 1, 1942; Anne, June 12, 1947; Virginia, Feb. 6, 1950.
OCCUPATION: Senior vice-president, Warner-Chilcott Laboratories, Division of
Warner-Lambert Pharmaceutical Company.
OFFICES HELD: Member, Scholarship Committee, Harvard Club of New Jersey.
MEMBER OF: University Club, New York; Madison Golf Club; Chatham Town-
ship Swimming Club.
AFTER graduation, I was firmly determined to follow the career of
a scientist, and so went with Allied Chemical and Dye Corporation,
as the scientific liaison between their patent department and the
research departments of the corporation. However, this firm opinion
quickly changed and I entered the night session of Brooklyn Law
School, graduating and passing the New York bar in 1938. At this
point, I became a patent attorney in the Allied Patent’ Division,
transferring to Nopco Chemical Company in a similar capacity in
1939, and returning to Allied in 1941. From 1941 to 1947, I was in
the Patent Division of Allied Chemical, since this corporation was
heavily involved in war work, I did not enter the armed services,
particularly after finding out that if I did so, I would be engaged
in patent work of a far less important character than at Allied.

In 1947, I made a move which, although I did not know it, was
to change the whole course of my business career. Being interested
in associating myself with a smaller company than Allied, I went
with a company then known as W. R. Warner & Company, Inc., as
patent counsel. Warner, as it turned out, was about to embark on
a sizeable expansion program, and in the eleven years between 1947
and the present time increased in size from $30,000,000 to $175,-
000,000 sales. During this progression, and through a series of re-
organizations, I found myself made secretary and counsel to the
growing company in 1951, and remained in this position as the
company grew until it ultimately became Warner-Lambert Pharma-
ceutical Company.

As secretary and counsel to Warner-Lambert, I, of necessity, got
to know a great deal about the entire operation of the company;
and of all the divisions, the ethical drug division, Warner-Chilcott
Laboratories, appealed to me most — this was probably a throw-
back to the fact that I emerged from Harvard as a chemist. In any
event, in September, 1958, I accepted with alacrity the opportunity
to become the senior vice-president of the division, involving re-
sponsibility for all marketing and manufacturing areas of the com-
pany. This may seem to be a strange place for a lawyer but thus far
it seems to be working out very well — at least from the stand point

[ 243 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

of my own personal enjoyment. The ethical drug business is fasci-
nating, what with its constant growth as a result of new products,
and it is one of the most stimulating areas in the nation’s economy.

Of course, during this entire period, usual family developments
took place in the form of marriage and acquisition of children, all
of which has been most pleasant. My son Thomas will enter col-
lege next September, although in view of the “ivory tower” status
that Harvard has attained, he seems to have no interest in follow-
ing in my footsteps. The girls are still down the line in grade school.
For some time we returned to New England, specifically Nan-
tucket, for our family vacations, but more and more the Southland
beckons us in the winter.

My wife and I both have been active in Unitarian Church affairs,
having organized and run a summer conference on the Isles of Shoals,
off Portsmouth, New Hampshire, some years ago. So far as our
political persuasions are concerned, my inherited Republicanism is
undergoing great stress these days and my wife has all but deserted
to the Democrats. I think a strong influential factor in this con-
clusion has been the fact that the two of us made an extensive trip
around the world to our various affiliates, and during the course of
this trip we became increasingly dismayed at the reduction in our
national influence during these past years — a reduction which pos-
sibly could be inevitable but still distressing to observe on the spot.

Harvard activities have been confined pretty much to the New
Jersey Scholarship Committee, but from all I have heard, the
Twenty-fifth is something not to be missed.

THOMAS WILLIAMS CLARK

 

HOME ADDRESS: gsor Germantown Ave., Philadelphia 18, Pa.

[ 244 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, 34th & Spruce Sts.

Philadelphia 4, Pa.
BORN: Nov. 24, 1912, Cynwyd, Pa. parents: Percy Hamilton Clark, ’96, Eliz-

abeth Roberts.
PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; M.D. (Univ. of Pennsylvania),

1938.
MarRieD: Hon. Anna Vavasseur Fisher, Aug. 10, 1936, Thetford, Norfolk, Eng-

land. CHILDREN: Frederic William, May 6, 1939; Jane Morgan, June 25,
_ 1940; Elizabeth Roberts, May 7, 1946; Hugh Roberts, Jan. 15, 1948.
HARVARD SON: Frederic William Clark, ’6r.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Percy Hamilton Clark, ’30; George Roberts Clark, ’32, M.B.a,
’343; William Lincoln Clark, ’36; John Roberts Clark, ’38; David Williams

Clark, °42.
OccUPATION: Physician; associate in medicine, Hospital of the University of

Pennsylvania.
OFFICES HELD: Vice-president of the board, Mercer Memorial Home, Adantic

City, N.J.; member, governing committee, All Saints Hospital for Chronic

Diseases, Philadelphia.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Philadelphia; American Board of Internal Medi-

cine (diplomate); American College of Physicians (fellow).

AFTER leaving Harvard I went into medicine and received my
degree at the University of Pennsylvania in 1938. I am not aware
of why I chose medicine as I really knew very little about it. It is
often interesting that such major decisions in one’s life are made for
obscure reasons. I have never once regretted my choice of a pro-
fession, though there have been many times when the going was
rough and I wondered what kind of superman it took to be a good
physician.

While in medical school I met my future wife and subsequently
married her in England at her family’s home. This event was one
of the really wonderful things that has happened to me. We have
had some rough water to navigate in the past twenty-four years but
it has been mostly fine going with all sails set.

The war began while I was in training at the old Pennsylvania
Hospital in Philadelphia, A hospital unit was quickly organized i in
the heat of the Pearl Harbor excitement and before we knew it we
were on our way to Australia. I was inducted into the Army on a
transport at the Brooklyn Port of Embarkation and while I tried
to learn the difference between a sergeant and a colonel we were
dodging Nazi submarines along the east coast. We arrived at the
Canal safely and went on to Australia i in February, 1942, to remain
under MacArthur’s command until the end of the war. We saw
plenty of water and jungle, some Japs and excitement, and days and

[245 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

months of boredom. Looking back, it is now clear how privileged
we were to be part of such a magnificent campaign, though while
in New Guinea with bugs and mud and heat, the magnificence of
the thing was a bit obscure. Certainly it was often obscure to my
wife at home carrying the ball alone for three and a half years.

After the war we settled down once again to the pleasant business
of raising children and building a home. I returned to the Pennsyl-
vania Hospital for more training and then started off to a practice of
general medicine on the outskirts of Philadelphia. No doctor is
more privileged to participate in the ebb and flow of human life
than the family doctor. He pays for this privilege however and
sometimes every doctor wonders if the price isn’t too great. |
thought so and after ten years of practice decided I had had enough
of the fascinating but gruelling work of being a family doctor and
not enough of the important work of being a family man. I soon
found that I would fit into the teaching and work program of the
University of Pennsylvania Medical School on a full-time basis.
I have been doing this for two years now and am delighted with
the change. The work is wonderfully stimulating and at the end of
the day there is time to come home and be with my wife and children,
something we never had together while I was in practice.

Weare lucky to have four children, two boys and two girls. They
are by far the most demanding things in our lives but we love the
demands they make — usually! My wife is a registered Democrat.
I am a registered Republican but find myself voting Democratic
more often than not. Some of you analysts may have plenty to say
about this phenomenon. We took on a new hobby last year —a
small farm on the eastern shore of Maryland. We love it and spend
most of our weekends and vacations there. I have found my Farmall
tractor absolute sure-fire entertainment for all adult males who visit
us.

This just about covers us in a brief way. We're looking forward

eagerly to the Reunion.

[ 246 ]

 

FO pea penny te

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DONALD DAVID CODY

 
  
   

ENTRAR

SCRE

  

HOME AppRESs: 14 Wynor Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: New York Life Insurance Co., 51 Madison Ave., New York,

N.Y.
BORN: Aug. 10, 1913, Hartford, Conn. Parents: David James Cody, Ellen E.

Murphy.

PREPARED AT: Bulkeley High School, Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: $.B., sunrna cum laude, 1934.

MarRiED: ‘hamas Eve Ritchie, Oct. 12, 1940, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN: ; Susan
Eve, Nov. 21, 1941; Diane Margot, Aug. 13, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Second vice-president and group actuary, New York Life In-

surance Company.
MEMBER OF: Society of Actuaries (fellow); Scarsdale Golf Club.
PUBLICATIONS: A number of papers in Transactions of the Society of Actuaries.

SINCE Commencement, except for the war years, I have been an
actuary in the life insurance business, first with the Equitable Life
Assurance Society until 1951, and since then with the New York
Life Insurance Company. With the latter, I have had the fascinating
experience of helping to build from the beginning one of the largest
group insurance operations in the country.

For three years during the war, I was a civilian scientist involved
with Navy anti-submarine warfare operations research and later
with laboratory development and field testing of airborne fire-
control systems with the C. L. Norden bombsight concern at the
Indianapolis Naval Ordnance Plant and at the Inyokern (California)
Naval Ordinance Test Station.

In retrospect, my business responsibilities have been perhaps too
time-consuming, even though rewarding in all respects, Eve, Susan,
Diane and I are a healthy, happy family, living in a community we
love. We are Republican down the line,

[ 247 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

SIDNEY SPRAGUE COGGAN

 

HOME ADprESS: Warren Lane, Alpine, N.J.

OFFICE appREss: Colgate-Palmolive Co., 300 Park Ave., New York 22, N.Y.

Born: Dec. 21, 1912, Malden, Mass. parents: Linus Child Coggan, Maude
Sprague.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1934; LLB., 1937.

MarriED: Florence Willig, Sept. 6, 1939, Englewood, N.J. cHitpren: Peter
Sprague, May 21, 1941; Joan Willig, Jan. 20, 1943; John Linus, March 31,
1954.

OccUPATION: Associate counsel, Colgate-Palmolive Company, manufacturer of
soaps, soap products, detergents and toilet articles.

OFFICES HELD: Councilman, 1948-52, member, board of adjustment, 1945-47,
member, Planning Board, since 1953, mayor, since 1953, Borough of Alpine,
N.J.; trustee, Blue Hill (Maine) Memorial Hospital, Methodist Church,
Alpine, N.J.; director, Kollegewidgwok Yacht Club, Blue Hill, Maine.

MEMBER OF: Maine, New York and New Jersey bars; Harvard Club; Associa-
tion of the Bar of the City of New York; New Jersey State Bar Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Co-author with George S. Alan—“Tax Planning for Foreign
Trade,” 1947; “Aliens and The Federal Income Tax,” 1950.

AFTER graduation, I spent three more years in Cambridge at the
Law School, from which I graduated in 1937. From 1937 through
1950, I practised law wi the New York City tax firm of Lord,
Day & Lord. In 1951, 1 joined the legal department of Colgate-
Palmolive Company where I have remained to the present, I am
still fascinated by the number and complexity of problems involved
in legal practice. I find practice with a corporation every bit as
challenging as private practice and the varicty equally great.

In 1941, I moved from a city apartment to a newly-built house in
the small rural borough of Alpine, which is located in New Jersey
on the Hudson River opposite Yonkers, New York. During the
war years I was active in civil defense work and served as an

[ 248 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

auxiliary fireman in the local fire department. In a small town
everyone has to pitch in and give a hand with community affairs,
and it was not long before I was active in Boy Scout work and with
the local PTA. In 1947, I was drafted by the local Republican
Committee to run for councilman. No Democrat having the
temerity to run against me, I was elected and served in that capacity
until 1953 when, somewhat against my better judgment, I became
mayor, a post which I have held to the present. A small town has
in miniature most of the problems of a large city and civic affairs
occupy a full 90% of my “spare” time.

After the war, I acquired a summer cottage in Blue Hill, Maine,

and my family spend its summers in that delightful spot. I con-
tinue to get most of my relaxation during the summer months from
sailing and especially from cruising the New England coast, proceed-
ing from the Sound in early summer to Blue Hill and returning in the
fall to the Sound. Thus far, I have always managed to be in a snug
harbor when the hurricanes have come along. My vacations are
usually spent cruising the Maine coast with family and friends.
Peter and Joan have become quite good sailors, although attendance
at boarding school has reduced their sailing to the summer months. I
still play an occasional game of chess, but am getting quite rusty. I
have virtually abandoned bridge. Both of these games I hope to
resume when my leisure time increases.

In general, my twenty-five years since graduation have been
good ones. I weigh about fifteen pounds more than I did in college
and my hairline has receded somewhat; also a few wrinkles have
beed added. Despite the passage of time, I don’t feel a day over
thirty. I look forward to attending the Reunion.

[ 249 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

JOHN CRISP COLEMAN

 

HOME appRrESS: Charlottesville, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS; University of Virginia, 530 Cabell Hall, Charlottesville, Va.

BorN: Feb, 16, 1911, Santa Cruz, Calif. parents: Simeon Waldo Coleman, Mar-
garet Lucille McCormick.

PREPARED AT: Cate School, Carpinteria, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1934; A.M. (Univ. of
California), 1935.

UNMARRIED.
occupation: Assistant professor of English, University of Virginia.
OFFICES HELD: Director, North American Investment Company.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association; English Speaking Union; Harvard
Clubs of New York and Boston, Pacific Union Club of San Francisco.

ALTHOUGH for various reasons I have given San Francisco, Cali-
fornia, as my home address up until this report, actually I have
worked in California only three years, from 1935 to 1938, as a
teacher of English and Latin at the Cate School, a boys’ school near
Santa Barbara. Since 1938 I have taught and/or studied in Massa-
chusetts, New York and, for the past ten years, in Virginia. My
two attempts to escape from my profession were (1) in 1942 when
I bargained with the Navy for some job other than teaching naval
history in a midwestern Indoctrination Center and ended up in
charge of an aircraft radio station in British Samoa where, develop-
ing an immunity to various jungle afflictions through steady con-
sumption of Hershey chocolate bars and Three Feathers whiskey,
I remained on to become a kind of senior resident, and (2) in 1946
when I became a book salesman and peddled an inaccurate encyclo-
pedia among the less privileged familics of a large city, until my con-

science got the upper hand and I retired from what might have
developed into a lucrative business.

[250]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

When I was in college, a classmate used to say that I could have
more adventures walking down Main Street than most people could
have on a trip around the world. I have continued to walk down
Main Street, but I have also seen something of the world. I often
fly to England, and in July and August, I always go to California,
sometimes by way of Denmark and Greenland on those fine SAS
planes. On one level or another I suppose I have had a number of
experiences, adventures my Classmates would have called them
twenty-five years ago, and most of them, I think, have demonstrated
that humanity in general is worth salvaging. If that is the statement
of an optimist, then that is what I am.

ABRAM THURLOW COLLIER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 35 Sterling Rd., Wellesley 81, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co. 200 Berkeley St,
Boston 17, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 26, 1913, Billerica, Mass. PARENTS: Forrest Foster Collier, ’99, Lucy
Bryant Foster.

PREPARED AT: Howe High School, Billerica, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., cut laude, 1934; LL.B. 1937.

MarrigD: Eleanor Whitney, Dec. 11, 1937, Newton, Mass. cHttpren: Linda,
May 30, 1939; Deborah Whitney, April 28, 1941; Joyce Hall, Jan. 12, 1945;
Charles Whitney, July 24, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Forrest Foster Collier, Jr., 27, M-B-a., 29.

occuPaTION: Lawyer; vice-president and general counsel, John Hancock
Mutual Life Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Boston Y.M.C.A., since 1954, American Child Guidance
Foundation, since 1958; member, 1948-54, chairman, 1952-54, Town of
Wellesley School Committee; trustee, Wheaton College, since 1957; member
executive committee, Association of Life Insurance Counsel, since 1958.

MEMBER OF; American and Boston Bar Associations; Harvard Club of Boston;

[25]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Harvard Musical Association; Wellesley Country Club; Appalachian
Mountain Club; Dublin Lake Club; Wellesley Club (president, 1958-59).

pusuicaTions: Articles on law and business administration in professional jour-
nals.

THIS is the occasion when one reports on what he has acquired in
twenty-five years, and publicly ascribes to hard work and a keen
intelligence what he privately acknowledges is due to good luck
and a strong constitution.- Along with a standard twenty-five
pounds, I have acquired during these years

.... 4 growing family which occasionally allows me the
fleeting, though never sustained, impression that I am head of the
house. My wife, who steadfastly displays all the feminine virtues,
keeps me working as a trustee for her college. My Skidmore daugh-
ter, with a bug for travel, sometimes lets me know where she is.
My second girl, while giving me a hard time on the tennis court
and the ski trails, sympathizes with my problems in being steady
off the tee. My third, looking up from her accomplished easel, has
been known to make a kindly comment regarding the water color
on my own. Our fifth-grade trumpeter tests my climbing wind and
finds it wanting, but is a stubborn defender of every Harvard team.

Lees a stimulating job, Though I have sat at the same desk
in the same company for twenty years (except for a period during
the war, when I house-kept for some researchers in radar), they
have not been as frightfully dull as they sound. Changing respon-
sibilities in a large organization bring unexpected challenges, many
frustrations, a few accomplishments, numerous friends and acquaint-
ances; the last have included four good classmates: Anderson, Hunt-
ington, Polk and Waters.

.. @ Stream of community responsibilities. One evening in
1946, I sat too near the front of a P.T.A. meeting and woke up
writing a report. Blissfully unaware of what was ahead, I, have
found myself ever since working on new schools, teachers’ pay,
the school committee, general town improvements, and so on. It
has been “taxing” work, but Wellesley is a fine town to live in, as
the presence of good people like Breck, Fuller, Hoffman, Mictell,
Warren and Whittemore must testify.
wee an abiding faith in Harvard. Drawn back by the Law
School (chairman, 20th Reunion for Class of ’37) and the Business

School (A.M.P. 1951, writing for the Business Review), I have also
crossed the Charles for many of those rare Thursdays in June at the
College. Here | have been rewarded mostly by a sense of tradition

[ 252]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and continuity, by a feeling that the University is somehow best-
ing that insistent tyrant — Time. From the lined face of the oldest
graduate at the head of the parade, to the unfurrowed brows of the
newest A.B.’s, I see in the faces of Harvardmen respect for Time,
but not submission.

wee a little understanding. With all my getting, I have tried
to get some understanding of the purpose and the end of life. It is
slippery business, of course, for whenever I have thought I had
caught something substantial, like mercury, it has slipped between
my fingers. Recently, I have been trying to compare the roles of
those who deal with human beings, such as doctors, lawyers,
teachers, preachers and social scientists, particularly as these profes-
sions relate the “is” with the “ought to be.” All of these people,
I feel (not the breacher alone), must in some way come to grips
with the problem of what we are trying to accomplish.

‘These acquisitions may seem quite enough for one, but they have
had their price. Somewhere along the line, J must have met and
made a deal with Mr. Scratch. His bargain with me differed a
little from the deal he made with Jabez Stone. To me, he said,
“If you want to live happy days, you can, but if you choose them,
they will speed by faster than dry leaves on a mountain stream.”
I accepted his offer, and now if old Daniel himself were to plead
that my days have run faster than the contract contemplated, even

he couldn’t win.

WILLIAM BELL COLLIER, III

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1521 Dover Rd., Santa Barbara, Calif,
OFFICE ApprEss: Santa Barbara Civic Opera Association, Santa Barbara, Calif.

[253]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

por: Oct. 4 1910, Portsmouth, Va. parents: William Bell Collicr, Jr., Susie
Dill Cleaton.

PREPARED aT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1928-1930, 1932-1934. DEGREE: A.B, cum laude, 1934.

ssarriep: Eleanor Anna Murtaugh, Oct. 3, 1943, Santa Barbara, Calif. crttpren:
Mary Anne, Jan. 10, 1945; Sarah Anne, Aug. 31, 1948; Susanne Elizabeth,
Sept. 18, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Cleaton Collier, ’35.

occupation: President, Santa Barbara Civic Opera Association;
manager, opera producer.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1946-47, Vice-president, 1947-48, president, 1948-50,

Music Society of Santa Barbara; president, Santa Barbara Civic Opera
Association, since 1954.

MEMBER OF; Santa Barbara Civic Opera Association, Retired Officers Associa-
tion.

puBLicaTions: “Butterfly in Santa Barbara”; “Opera at the Music Academy

of the West”; “Rigoletto in Santa Barbara”; “Lotte Lehmann Stages

Rosenkavalier.”

concert

UPON graduation from Harvard College, I received a commission
as ensign in the Naval Reserve. In 1936, President Roosevelt ap-
pointed me assistant paymaster in the U.S. Navy with the rank of
ensign. Following graduation from the Naval Finance and Supply
School, I served as disbursing officer, Destroyer Division Six, Battle
Force, Pacific Fleet. Like the British admiral who admitted it after
his retirement following forty-four years in the Royal Navy, I
became seasick every time my ship cleared the sea buoy outside
San Diego harbor. June 1, 1941, found me high and dry on the
retired list.

Since the part the United States was to play in World War II was
now clearly in sight, I purchased a second-hand airplane and set
out to train myself for future service as a flying instructor. Not
long after Pearl Harbor, I took off from the Portsmouth, New
Hampshire, Airport and flew as far as St. Louis, before running into
several days of bad flying weather. Continuing on to California
by commercial transportation, I sold my plane and secured a position
as primary flying instructor at the Hancock College of Aeronautics
in Santa Maria, California, where I trained student officers and avia-
tion cadets of the First Army Air Forces Flying Training Detach-
ment. Later I taught basic flying at Polaris Flight Academy to
officers and cadets of the Fourteenth Army Air Forces Training
Detachment. Following the cancellation of the Army’s contracts
with the civilian flying schools in 1944, I served as a research as-
sistant at California Institute of Technology studying the sighting

[254]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

problem in connection with the forward firing of rockets from air-
craft.

After each class of cadets assigned to me at Hancock College
of Aeronautics there was a period of ten days to allow the flyi ing
instructor to recover his perspective before confronting him with a
new batch of eager beavers. I used to enjoy these periodic vacations
singing in San Francisco and Berkeley, where I meta young soprano
just out of Curtis Institute of Music, who is now my dearest
treasure, the mother of my three beautiful daughters, and a principal
artist in all of my opera productions. At the time we were married
in Santa Barbara in October, 1943, Eleanor was studying with Lotte
Lehmann. When my work took me to Lancaster and later to the
Naval Ordnance Test Station at China Lake, both Eleanor and I
formed a happy association with Fritz Zweig which has continued
to this day.

I became interested in the concert business in 1946 when I was
instrumental in bringing the great Italian baritone, Giuseppe deLuca
to the Lobero Theatre in Santa Barbara. Following my election to
the board of directors of the Music Society of Santa Barbara, I
made the acquaintance of Robert Mass, whose newly-founded
Paganini Quartet played two thrilling concerts for me in the Lobero
Theatre. My friends and I were able to continue the series of con-
certs by the Paganini String Quartet until my retirement from the
Music Society. In 1951, my family and I went to Europe, where I
studied at the Schola Musicale di Milano in Italy. I discovered opera
at Teatro alla Scala and also Elisabeth Schwarzkopf, who was then
making her debut as the Marschallin in Herbert von Karajan’s su-
perb new production of Richard Strauss’ “Der Rosenkavalier,” the
first time this opera had been sung in the original German in Italy.
When Elisabeth Schwarzkopf finally came to Santa Barbara to sing
for my friends in the Lobero Theatre, she told me that von Karajan
had eighteen orchestra rehearsals for the production,

When I was elected president of the Santa Barbara Civic Opera
Association early in 1954, I set out to extend the idea of community
theatre into the field of grand opera. For our first production,
Puccini’s “Madama Butterfly,” the local musicians’ union cooperated
by giving us seven mutual benefit orchestra rehearsals, and the
American Guild of Musical Artists permitted cheir members,
Marcella Reale and Lincoln Clark, to rehearse and perform with our
community group without restriction, In six weeks’ time, our gifted
young conductor, Constantine Callinicos, perfected an ensemble

[255]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

comparable to the better European theatres, where each new opera
production is thoroughly rehearsed from four to six weeks before
being presented to the public, According to the Santa Barbara News
Press, * ‘One of the greatest triumphs was the staging by Amelio
Colonroni” — “the acting was alive and convincing, the principals
and chorus moved about i in a choreographic pattern that created
effective stage pictures and joined with the musical motifs and words
to carry out the dramatic intentions.”

The productions of the Santa Barbara Civic Opera Association
have not only advanced the careers of rising young artists like
Marcella Reale and Lincoln Clark, who are now great favorites in
leading theatres in Frankfurt and Hamburg respectively, but also
have provided opportunities for resident scenic artists, singers and
musicians to practise their art under actual stage production condi-
tions in the lyric theatre. It has also given “valuable educational
experience to our children. Sarah play ed the part of Dolore in
“Madama Butterfly” and Mary danced in the ballet in the opening
scene of “Rigoletto.” Both children played in “Showboat,” Sarah
speaking lines as Kim as a child in the convent scene and Mary
playing the part of Kim in her twenties. Eleanor, who played the
part of Julie, said, “It is not every leading man who can provide
daughters who not only look like him but fit the part at each age
level called for by the script.”

At the moment of writing, both Eleanor and I are enjoying the
adorable early days of our third daughter, Susanne, who is giving
Mary and Sarah an education in what is important in life.

BRADLEY COLLINS

 

HOME ApuKESS: 956 Fifth Ave, New York 21, N.Y,

[ 256]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
OFFICE ADDRESS: Wood, Walker & Co., 63 Wall St, New York, N.Y.
BorN: April 24, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: Minturn Post Collins, Flora

Isham.
PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; M.B.A. (New York Univ.),

1950.
MARRIED: Carol Ohmer, Jan. 16, 1952, New York, N.Y. cHILpREN: Carol Min-

turn, May 21, 1953, William Bradley Isham, July 25, 1955; Louise Cantwell,
May 22, 1957; James Connell, May 8, 1958. ;

OCCUPATION: Investments.
OFFICES HELD: Director, Northrop Aircraft, Inc., 1953-56, Skiles Oil Corporauon,

since 1958.
MEMBER OF: Racquet and Tennis Club, New York City; Piping Rock Club,

Locust Valley, N.Y.; Maidstone Club, East Hampton, N.Y.

MY life since graduation has been fairly conventional and has not
contained any extraordinary experiences. In the field of investing,
more of my time has been spent on aviation than on any other in-
dustry; considerable time has been spent on the study of monetary
and business conditions. In regard to travel, business has taken me
around the country, especially up and down the West Coast, a
normal amount.

In 1956, I had the pleasure of going to Italy in the spring, and
like a million other tourists found the Amalfi Drive and Capri out
of this world. My main hobby has been golf. In regard to war
record, I was a lieutenant in Naval Reserve and was stationed in the
Bureau of Aeronautics in Washington.

As to my social, political, and religious convictions, it is possible
that the label “conservative” could “be applied. I am unalterably
opposed to juvenile deliquency and inflation. On the other hand,
I wholeheartedly endorse lower taxes and higher government spend-

ing for defense (i.e. aircraft).

[257 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ARTHUR ABRAHAM CONE
(formerly Abraham Cone)

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2025 Bedford St., Los Angeles 34, Calif.

BORN: Aug. 9, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Ellis Cone, Esther Kramer.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1034. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MarRIED: Mary Ellen Dix, Sept. 18, 1952, Los Angeles, Calif. cHILDREN: Two
stepchildren.

OCCUPATION: Accountant; senior auditor, City of Los Angeles.
OFFICES HELD: Lieutenant, U.S.N.R.

NO apples to polish — Sincerely hope all in Class of 1934 will do
all they can for God, country and posterity, and try to keep peace

in the world. Hope you will all enjoy a good Twenty-fifth at
Cambridge — will be unable to attend.

DAVID EDWIN CONE

Appress: 86 Brown St., Providence 6, R.I.

BORN: May 31, 1913, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Edwin Franklin Cone, Gwen-
dolen Reis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREE: AB., 1934(q2).
occupation: Educational administration.

NO questionnaire returned.

[258]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PHILIP JAMES CONLEY

 

HOME ADDRESS: Portland, Maine.
OFFICE appREss: U.S. Information Agency, 1776 Pennsylvania Ave.,
Washington 25, D.C.

BORN: Aug. 3, 1911, Portland, Maine. parents: James Augustine Conley, Ger-

trude Connolley.
PREPARED AT: Cheverus High School and Portland High School, Portland, Maine.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., Cu laude, 1934; M.B.A., 1939.
MARRIED: Mary Elizabeth O’Donnell, Dec. 4, 1945, Vatican City. CHILDREN:
Mary Beth, Nov. 14, 1946; Gail, Sept. 30, 1948; Philip, July 14, 1951.
occuPATION: Cultural affairs planning officer, U.S. Government.

N.W,,

GERARD DURAN CONNOLLY

ADDRESS: 4925 42d St., Seattle 18, Wash.
BORN: Oct. 9, 1909, Boston, Mass. parENTs: Peter F. Connolly, Estelle Du Van.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932. DEGREE: LL.B. (Georgetown Univ.), 1935-
OCCUPATION: Law. .

NO questionnaire returned.

[259 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ANDREW WERK COOK

  

JOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Woody Creek, Colo.

sORN: Jan. 7, 1911, Cincinnati, Ohio. pareNts: Andrew Edwin Cook, Eugenie
Bruce Werk.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

TEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B, 1934.

AaRRiED: Ruth Simrall Mackoy, 1949, Cincinnati, Ohio. cHILpREN: Andrew
Edwin, 2d, July 30, 1942, and Natalie H., Jan. 15, 1945 (by previous mar-
riage); Werk M., July 25, 1950.

CCUPATION: Rancher.

AFTER graduation I went to Chicago to seek employment. I se-
cured a job with A. B, Dick Company as a serviceman in the late
all of 1934 and remained with this firm until I joined the Naval
Reserve and went on active duty in January of 1942 as lieutenant
}-g-). My work at A. B. Dick was most educational and interesting.
After years of working in various departments, I ended up as as-
istant to the president.

My experience in the Navy was varied. I reported for active
luty and was assigned to the Great Lakes Naval Training Station.
daving had no indoctrination or previous military service, I found
he first few months very enlightening.

In January of 1944, 1 left Great Lakes for California, where I
earned the duties of a beachmaster. From there on to the Pacific
vith the amphibious forces and landings at Saipan, Leyte, Lingayen
sulf, Iwo Jima, and ending up with the occupation of Japan at
Nagasaki. Then a grand trip into Shanghai to pick up weather sta-
ion operators from the China coast, and a trip home. During this
-ourse of events I received the Bronze Star and was promoted to
jeutenant commander (now retired as a commander).

Upon returning to civilian life, I went to work for the M. Werk.

[ 260 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Company in Cincinnati as vice-president in charge of sales — pro-
moted to president in 1949. We sold the company in 1951 and
moved to Woody Creek, Colorado, where I am now settled ten
miles from Aspen as a rancher.

During this period of time, I have been married twice — have
two children by my first marriage, and I have three stepchildren
and one child by my second marriage, We love our life out here
and manage to keep in touch through various classmates who have
come to Aspen to ski.

LOUIS ARTHUR COOK, JR.

   

HOME ADDRESS: 4338 Graywood Ave., Long Beach 8, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Herbert Hoover Junior High School, 3501 Country Club Drive,
Lakewood, Calif.

BORN: May 13, 1912, Chicago, Ill. parents: Louis Arthur Cook, Flora Alice
Risser.

PREPARED AT: Sandusky High School, Sandusky, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1934; A.M. IN TEACHING,
1930.

MARRIED: Margaret Jean Goodyear, June 15, 1938, Laguna Beach, Calif.
CHILDREN: Margaret Ann, Oct. 20, 1939; Richard Goodyear, April 16, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Principal, Herbert Hoover Junior High School, Long Beach
Unified School District, Long Beach, Calif.

OFFICES HELD: President, Long Beach Elementary School Administrators, 1943,
Long Beach Principals Club, 1945, California Elementary School Princi-
pals Association (Southern Section), 1946-48; cubmaster, Cub Pack, No.
207, Long Beach, 1944; chairman, Speakers Bureau, Public Schools Week,
LBUSD, 1956, Vocational Guidance Committee, Uptown Long Beach
Kiwanis Club, 1958.

MEMBER OF: Teachers Association of Long Beach; California Teachers As-
sociation; National Education Association (life member); California As-

[ 261 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

every where, will take an active part in strengthening public educa-
tion, our nation will weather the storms ahead as it has the storms of
the past.

See you at the Fiftieth, if not before!

EDWARD NATHAN COOPER

teins nga gee Pe TM AR MRE ae Sg ad
¥

d

3
‘4

  

HOME ADDRESS: 1 Hyde Park St., London, W. 2, England.
OFFICE ADDRESS: American Embassy, London, England.

BORN: June 5, 1912, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Aaron Cooper, Fannie Koppel-
man

PREPARED AT: Glenville High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: AB., magna cum laude, 1934; M-B.Av
magna cum laude, 1938.

MarrieD: Evelyn Sternberg, July 7, 1946, Washington, D.C. cxitp: Louis Frank-
lin, June 7, 1957- |

OCCUPATION: Foreign service officer, Department of State; first secretary (Eco-
nomic Section), American Embassy, London, England.

AFTER a couple of years spent in academic and business dabbling,
I enrolled in the Business School and got my M.B.A. in 738. Im-
mediately thereafter, I joined the Federal Housing Administration
as a junior economist studying economic and housing trends and
conditions in various areas in the United States for two years.
Transferring to the Office of the Secretary of the Commerce De-
partment, I worked on the economics of the St. Lawrence Seaway
for about a year in what proved to be a vain effort to persuade
Congress to approve it. (In this assignment I enjoyed the company
of Classmate Phil Conley and the supervision of older alumni N. R.
Danielian and Edgar Hoover.) The next five years were spent in
various capacities at the Office of Price Administration which was
teeming with Harvard faculty people and alumni, ¢.g., Professors

[ 264 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Galbraith, Harris and most of the Law School. Closest to my work
were Richard Gilbert and Norton Long, whose instruction some of
you will remember in the economics and political science depart-
ments respectively. At war’s end, I shifted back to housing prob-
Jems for a year with the Veterans’ Housing Program where I had
the pleasure of working closely with Wilson Wyatt, who later
served as Adlai Stevenson’s campaign manager in 1952.

For the last eleven years I have been with the State Department,
specializing in British Commonwealth and Western European af-
fairs, mainly on the economic side and on research and intelligence
functions. Since last August, I have been in the economic section
of the embassy in London, and look forward to a stay of several
years.

For reasons which are now inexplicable to me, I didn’t get married
until 1946, but Evelyn was worth waiting for. Only sorry I didn’t
meet her earlier in her home town or schools (Boston, Simmons,
Radcliffe). It took me another long time to acquire a son (1957)
but he too was worth waiting for. If all goes well, we should have
another child just about Reunion time.

We love living in London, having been in Europe only once be-
fore for several months during 1950-51. The comparison with the
earlier visit is interesting and suggests such a rapid rate of change —
Americanization is the best single word for it — that in a decade or
so, the Europe we used to study in our courses will be all but un-
recognizable.

My present work represents a welcome change of activity for me,
moving into the front line after a long period of rear-area desk
work. I feel that I am contributing in a small way to a job well
worth doing. In fact, for most of my working life I have been deal-
ing with problems and issues that are interesting in themselves and of
some lasting importance in the world. For example, when the Scr.
Lawrence Seaway is soon completed, I shall feel that the economic
study I did nearly twenty years ago, and which at that time seemed
futile, will have made some small contribution to the outcome.

My career is certainly not an inspiring success story, nor is it,
on the other hand, a tale of frustration and failure. To say that I
have found satisfaction at times in doing a good job on work which
seemed worthwhile is a dull kind of observation. But I cannot go
farther and say that I'd rather have done this than anything else in

the world.
My recent transfer to London has had a drastic effect on my

[ 265]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

extracurricular activities and hobbies. Currently there is no time
to be spared from learning to be a diplomat and getting settled.
Enjoying this city’s people, places and events as well as those of
adjacent areas and countries will be more hobby than time will
allow.

Back in Washington, through most of the 1950’s my spare time
was fully occupied with building up and operating (non-profitably)
a pretty good-sized cattle farm near Manassas, Virginia. Before
that, for three or four years, I worked hard trying to introduce a
system of pre-fabricated housing in Washington. Although two
luxury models were erected to the pleasure and profit of their
(Harvard) owners, the idea was too far in advance of the time, I’m
afraid, and was not successful commercially.

Through all the years my continuing hobby has been visiting and
talking w sith congenial friends — and Washington 1 is ideal for this.
No poker, bridge, canasta, Just an extension of the old under-
graduate “bull session” on a coeducational basis. Theatre, books,
cte., are grist to the mill. The subject matter has changed a lot. The
old standbys of sex, religion and the meaning of life have long since
been taken care of empirically, thank Heaven. I still spend a lot of
time bulling about politics, economics and international affairs.

I’m pessimistic about the atom’s effect upon the free world, agree-
ing with Kissinger’s analysis of the problem but skeptical of his
prescription that clearly defined small atomic weapons can be the
solution. I don’t think we'll be blown up, but do fear that the
Soviet will nibble and blackmail us to death. The nuclear disarm-
ament movement in Great Britain is certainly not the answer, but
general disarmament under international control and inspection is
worth a far higher price than we have so far offered.

The issue of economic expansion versus dis-inflation is likely to
be more important in the next few years than almost anything else
on the domestic scene. I lean to the side of expansion because it
offers the best hope of beating inflation and is absolutely essential
in stopping the economic penetration of the Communists. (I’m an
unregenerate New Dealer, I’m afraid.) In any case, I’m convinced
the people of the world will insist that modern technology be given
greater scope to provide more security and wealth. If we don’t do
it democratically the other side will be given the chance to attempt
it its way.

In closing, I must say that a number of friends from the Classes of

"32 and 33 were absolutely ecstatic about their Reunions and

[ 266 ]

, 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

strongly insisted that the event should not be missed even by the
most hardened anti-reunioners. So I am sorry not to be present, for
unless I am untimely transferred back home, I shall not be able to
attend. This means that I'll never see most of you again, for which
I’m really sorry, but I hope some of you will stop in at the Embassy
when you're traveling in this part of the world.

 

HOME apprEss; 6618 Belmead Drive, Dallas 30, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Texas Instruments, Inc., Exchange Bank Bldg., Dallas, Texas.

BORN: Sept. 25, 1912, Tashkent, Turkestan. PARENTs: Aron Korenmann, Filia
Schwarz.

PREPARED AT: Steglitzer Realgymnasium, Berlin, Germany.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.

marrieD: Irma Carlisle, Oct. 18, 1953, Cincinnati, Ohio.

occupation: Central controller, Texas Instruments, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Dallas; Harvard Business School Club of Dallas;
Controllers Institute; American Management Association, American Mar-
keting Association; Dallas Management Association, National Association
of Accountants; Operations Research Society of America; Cipango Club;
Executive Club; Preston Hollow Country Club.

AS the Scotsman said, I am a man of few words. It is obvious
to me that at best I graduated only yesterday and not twenty-five
years ago, as the Class Report Committee claims, For, as I review
the intervening time, I find no trace of any changes either in my
personality, habits, likes and dislikes, or my physical appearance.
I used to be prejudiced, opinionated, dogmatic — I am still the same.
I used to work hard, accomplish little —I still do the same thing, I
used to burst out of my clothing —I have continued that habit.
After a few false starts in the happy thirties, I cook Mr. Greelev’s

[ 267 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

advice and went West. I made a couple of lengthy stops in Michigan
and Illinois before winding up in the second largest state, and the
Neiman-Marcus city, in particular.

Since I was frustrated in my attempt to become a veterinarian, I
took up the next best occupation (after proper schooling at Gen-
eral Motors and Ford Motor Company), namely, that of manage-
ment consultant. This turned out to be a most pleasant clinical
occupation with a pseudo-professional license for trespassing on
other people’s property but without the finality of a Freudian couch.

For the past two years or so I have been back in harness as con-
troller of Texas Instruments Incorporated, which obviously is the
most premising company in the U.S., barring none. Living in Texas
in the air-conditioned age is a perfect delight, and has only the
disadvantages that Locke-Ober’s is umpteen miles away, and spring
and fall are not too readily distinguishable from the other two
seasons.

As I think back to the cat naps I used to take in the Eliot House
library, I must admit that twenty-five years have made one significant
change-—my cat naps after dinner seem to be much longer, at
least according to my dear wife.

MARK MALCOLM CORINOFF

    

HOME ADDRESS: 255 Kelton Ave., Allston 34, Mass.

OFFICE AppREsS: New England Refrigeration Supply Co., 1313 Columbus Ave.,
Boston 20, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 31, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Samuel §. Corinoff, Katherine
Uroff.

preparep aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934, DEGRFE: A.B. 1934.

UNMARRIED.

[ 268 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: President, New England Refrigeration Supply Company, whole-
sale distributors.

OFFICES HELD: Coach, First Marine Division Boxing Team (overseas), 1944~45;
recruiting officer, USMC, since 1947; delegate, Marine Corps Reserve
Officers Association, 1955-58; division chairman, Cerebral Palsy Drive, 1956;
chairman, Nominating Committee, Refrigeration Service Engineers Society,
1956; director, First Marine Division Association, 1958; co-chairman, First
Marine Division Association Reunion, 1958; 1st vice-president, Marine
Corps Reserve Officers Association, Boston, 1958-59.

MEMBER OF: Trinity Club, New York; VWTU 1-1, 1-2, 1-7, USMC, New York;
VTU 1-3, USMC, Boston; American Society of Refrigerating Engineers;
Refrigeration Service Engineering Society; Association of Harvard Chem-
ists; Boston Sports Lodge; Chautauqua Society.

THEY try to pound all sorts of ideas into your head when you
are a kid — some stick and some don’t. One idea that stuck, and
stuck hard, may be familiar to some: study hard so that you will get
good grades, then you will get a good job, make a fortune, and be
like Rockefeller, Guggenheim, Vanderbilt, and all the rest of the
well-known tycoons.

This idea came back to haunt me in the autumn of 1935. Of
course, it was a bit late to get good grades, but it wasn’t too late to
work hard and spend your whole life making a fortune.

Within a few months, I emerged with a new philosophy of life.
This was based on a careful study of the lives of the most prominent
and successful financial wizards in American history. It seemed to
me that they spent most of their lives making money and fantastic
sums to keep themselves alive, when they were too old to enjoy
life. (They were undoubtedly the first sponsors of geriatrics.)
That was when I decided to enjoy life while I was young. In my
opinion I did — this was my new philosophy.

Permit me to explain before you jump to conclusions such as sour
grapes, non-conformist, rationalizer, etc., that I was, and still am, an
aware individual, aware that this new philosophy might have reper-
cussions. I might also add that most of the men I’ve known — and
Pye known many — would have loved to live within the realm of
my new-found philosophy, but due to circumstances bevond their
control, etc... . they never did. My new philosophy of life was
too complex for too many —a conventional way of life was much
simpler! ‘

Following graduation, Boston seemed a dismal place to work and
live. Because New York City had always fascinated me, I left the
Hub and settled in a hotel in the heart of Manhattan. Despite all the

[ 269 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

RICHARD SHERIDAN COSBY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2575 Lombardy Rd., San Marino, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1060 E. Green St., Pasadena, Calif.

BORN: July 6, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: Charles Reynolds Cosby, Mildred

Freeman.
PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, San Francisco, Calif.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; M.D., 1938.
MARRIED: Mary Mayo, May 8, 1948, San Marino, Calif.

OccuPATION: Physician; associate clinical professor, University of Southern
California School of Medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Los Angeles County Heart Association, 1957-58.

MEMBER OF: American and California Medical Associations; California Society
of Internal Medicine; American, California and Los Angeles Heart As-
sociations; American College of Chest Physicians (fellow); Los Angeles
Academy of Sciences; Los Angeles County Research Association; Society
for Experimental Biology and Medicine, New York Academy of Sciences.

PUBLICATIONS: Thirty-seven papers on various aspects of cardiovascular disease.

LOOKING eastward, the long educational tunnel appears misty,
indeed. A metropolitan San Francisco high school had given me
only the barest glimpse of the advantages of a liberal education, so
the College meant hallowed men, all enwreathed in haloes of erudi-
tion, with barely a beginning of understanding after four years.
For some reason conversations with two lawyer parents could only
underline the advantages of a medical education, and it needed at
least four years of cloistered worming at the Harvard Medical
Schoo] to fashion an intern at the Massachusetts General Hospital.
These are the bare essentials of graduate work: these, and a tour
of duty in Cleveland for one year with Dr. Carl Wiggers, and a resi-

dency in cardiology at the Massachusetts General Hospital in 1942
with Dr. Paul D. White.

It seemed in the nature of things that my good friends were from

[272]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

“further west.” On developing appendicitis at ten P.n1., after six
weeks as a freshman, I stumbled achingly into the only lighted
room at Standish Hall, found Fred Lowrey of Honolulu awake, and
walked with him to Stillman Infirmary. Subsequently, I roomed
with him and his brother John through the memorable years at
Eliot House. Summer in Europe, bicycling 1,000 miles through
Germany in the early Hitler era with Bill Hartwell of Honolulu,
laid the stage for further trips in ’37 and following medical school
graduation in 38. There I had a very exciting stint of three months
at Innsbruck, learned to salute properly, and to perform autopsies
in the Austrian manner. Then to the Neurological Institute at
Queen’s Square in England for six months of superb English in-
struction.

The four war years, 1942-46, need little explanation. The i1o5th
General Hospital was formed from Massachusetts General Hospital
and Brigham physicians, and sat in the Australian bush near Brisbane
far too long. Two and a half years away from the war in the
South Pacific was disenchanting, to say the least, and the subsequent.
year and a half of routine duty was spent at Fort Jay and Camp Up-
ton, New York.

After the war, San Francisco seemed too prosaic, Boston too
comfortable, and Los Angeles too alluring. Not too strange that
Pasadena always appears to combine Cambridge and Brookline.
Starting in private practice in cardiology in 1946, and at the same
time beginning a fruitful teaching association with the University
of Southern California (with a handful of clinical cardiovascular
research on the side), has constituted the basic structure of the past
twelve years. The greatest moment was the appearance of a highly
competent research statistician knocking on the office door and
transforming herself into a most attractive wife. |

The town is alive with old medical school classmates: Ed Evans,
Bo MacLauren and Bill Shuman, Watching the science of medicine
mature to adult status in this fantastic place and helping a fledgling
medical school achieve real stature are most stimulating. Most of
our relaxation is in traveling, to Europe when and if we can, and
to skiing spas and watering places in between. Once in a while we're
at home tinkling on the piano, or helping out with a concert series
presenting rising American artists,

[ 273]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

+ GEORGE COVENTRY

 

BorN: Dec. 17, 1911, Utica, N.Y. parents: Graham H. Coventry, Mary Cooper.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.
piep: March 22, 1935, Utica, N.Y.

GEORGE COVENTRY spent only the freshman year with our

Class. The Secretary had no further word of him until his death.
He was survived by his father.

PHILIP DAVID COVNER

oe

 

HOME appress: 10 Eulaw St., Swampscott, Mass.
OFFICE apprEss: Dept. of the Navy, Charlestown, Mass.

BORN; Sept. 10, rg10, Lynn, Mass. parents: Hyman Covner, Ethel Landsman.
PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932. DEGREE: M.D. (Chicago Medical School), 1937.

Marrigp: Shirley A. Chaves, Sept. 18, 1949, Lynn, Mass. cuio: Eric Harry,
May 5, 1954.
OCCUPATION: Physician.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society.

[274]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER graduation from medical school, I was in private practice
until 1957. My general practice was interrupted by Army service;
then a return to practice; now a civilian physician for the U.S. Navy.

My hobby is traveling.

ARCHIBALD COX

 

HOME ApprREsS: Glezen Lane, Wayland, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Langdell Hall, Harvard Law School, Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: May 17, 1912, Plainfield, N.J. parents: Archibald Cox, ’96, Frances B.

Perkins.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., Cum laude, 1934; LLB. magna cum
laude, 1937.

MARRIED: Phyllis Ames, 1937, Wayland, Mass. cHiLpREN: Sarah Russell, Feb. 4,
1939; Archibald, Jr., July 13, 1940; Phyllis, Nov. 9, 1945.

HARVARD SON: Archibald Cox, Jr., ’62.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Robert Hill Cox, ’41 (deceased); Maxwell Evarts Cox, "45,
LL.B., 50; Louis Anthony Cox, ’49, LL.B. 52; Rowland Johns Cox, ’50.

OCCUPATION: Royall Professor of Law, Harvard Law School.

OFFICES HELD: Associate solicitor, U.S. Dept. of Labor, 1943-45; co-chairman,
Construction Industry Stabilization Commission, 1951-52, chairman, Wage
Stabilization Board, 1952; secretary, Section of Labor Relations Law,
American Bar Association, since 1953; director, Harvard Cooperative
Society.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Arts and Sciences; American and Massa-
chusetts State Bar Associations; National Academy of Arbitrators.

PUBLICATIONS: Cases on Labor Law and articles in legal periodicals.

AFTER Law School and the good fortune of a year as law clerk to
Judge Learned Hand, I spent three years practising law in Boston
and then four wartime years with various government agencies in
Washington. In 1945 I returned to private practice in Boston, but
shortly accepted an invitation to join the Law School faculty. Since

[275]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

then I have been teaching and writing, chiefly in the field of labor
law. My interest in labor-management relations has brought a good
many formal and informal contacts with public life, frequently in
W ashington and occasionally on Beacon Hill. I do some labor arbi-
tration.

My only hobby, I guess, is my work, unless it be an occasional
venture into non-partisan town politics. My travels have been re-
lated to professional matters. The view which [ hold with the
greatest conviction is that Ezra Thayer was right in observing that

the central tragedy of life is that there are only tw enty-four hours
in the day.

FRANCIS JOSEPH CRANE

w
a
ms

  

HOME appress: 181 Warren Ave., East Providence, R.I.
OFFICE apprEess: Seekonk Junior High School, Seekonk, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 24, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Hampden Francis Crane, Josephine
Agnes Carney.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: S.B. 1034(38); ED.M. (Boston Univ.),
1949.

MarrieD: Helen M. O’Neil, May 31, 1934, Portsmouth, N.H. cuiprRen: Paul
F., March 28, 1935; Claire M., Jan. 23, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Education; principal, Seekonk Junior High School.

OFFICES HELD: President, Everett Teachers’ Association (two terms); various
offices, Seekonk P.T.A. and P.T.A. Council, 1955-58.

MEMBER OF: National Education Association; Secondary School Principals’
Association, Association of Secondary School Principals; Seckonk Teach-
ers Association; Seckonk Chamber of Commerce.

TEACHING and supervising in the secondary schools, raising two
children, one of whom is now a senior in college and the other about

[ 276 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to take a husband, and enjoying the community life in the small
town where I work keep me quite busy and completely happy.

Had anyone told me that I would one day be a schoolteacher I
would have scoffed derisively. With jobs as scarce as they were
during the 1930's, I drifted into the teaching field as a temporary
stopgap and have remained there ever since. Although not a partic-
ularly lucrative field financially, the ever-stimulating contacts with
growing boys and girls repay me in far more meaningful terms than
dollars and cents, although the increases in salary scales in recent
years are not unwelcome.

In 1942 a friend inveigled me into going to the Navy Recruiting
Office with him, where he was turned down and I was accepted —
to my surprise! Along with many others I became a ninety-day
wonder and served as a gunnery officer for the rest of the war in the
South and Southwest Pacific. The years have dimmed the memory
of this phase of my life so that only the pleasant parts stand out,
such as leaves and liberty in Australia and New Zealand. I still re-
tain my Naval Reserve standing and pursue my annual training duty.

For some years now, I have been one of the hackers on the golf
course who occasionally gets off a good drive, chip or putt that
keeps me coming back for more. Someday | hope to put all three
together and come up with a respectable score! A considerable
amount of reading also helps me to occupy my leisure pleasantly.

Politics never bothered me to any extent since | feel the country
will survive regardless of which party is in power, so I still vote
Republican one time and Democratic the next.

All in all, I feel very little different now than I did twenty-five
years ago. To be sure, I have a few more wrinkles, my hair is
beginning to turn gray, my muscles are turning soft, but I have

°
had no serious illness and I weigh just the same now as I did when

I was in college.

[277]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ROBERT CALHOUN CREEL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1518 34th St, N.W., Washington 7, D.C.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of State, Washington 25, D.C.

BORN: Sept. 25, 1913, Kansas City, Mo. parents: James Randall Creel, Margaret
Emerson Davis.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., sama cunt laude, 1934; LL.B. Cum
laude, 1938.

MarriepD: Mariana Mears Evans, Jan. 21, 1956, Washington, D.C. CHILDREN:
Elizabeth Calhoun, Oct. 14, 1957; Margaret Evans, Sept. 10, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Randall Creel, ’27, LL.B., ’30.

occupation: U.S. Foreign Service Officer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Metropolitan Club and Chevy
Chase Club, Washington, D.C.

THE arrival of the Class Report Committee’s summons to review the
past twenty-five years from a personal vantage point convinced
me I’m in something of a rut, for it found me in pretty much the
same situation I had been in back in June, 1934, and on a number
of intervening occasions — to wit, in the process of packing up in
preparation for an extended stay abroad.

Within days after Dr. Conant had waved his magic wand over us
all in Sever quadrangle, 1 was on a slow boat for Europe in response
to the kind invitation of Harvard College to get out of the country
and stay out for at least a year. As the holder of the Sheldon Prize
Traveling Fellowship, I was subject to only two injunctions during
this period — don’t marry and don’t study, (I was pleased to dis-
cover, when put to this rather severe test, that my resistance po-
tential with respect to each of these two specific hazards was com-
pletely up to the mark.) At times alone, but more often in the
assorted company of such worthy and fun-loving classmates as

Arensberg, Brant, Harriss, G. G. Johnson and Salls, I had a fine

[278]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

thirteen months knocking around the various metropoles, villages,
bistros and back alleys of Europe and North Africa, and can safely
say that I never fully recovered from the impact of this experience.

To be sure, according to pre-determined plan, I returned to
Harvard Law School for three years and proceeded thereafter to
a large Wall Street law firm (Root, Clark, Buckner & Ballantine),
but I never had the conviction that this was really my cup of tea
for the long haul. Matters were, however — fortunately, I believe,
as things have turned out — somewhat abruptly taken out of my
hands in consequence of my having enlisted in the National Guard
Cavalry in March, 1939, which led in turn to my induction into the
federal armed services in very early 1941. My new career took me
in succession to various Army camps in the South, to the Pentagon
(for an unconscionably long period of time, alleviated only by a
tour of temporary duty in India), to the UK for the last six months
of the war against Hitler and then to Paris in a really fascinating
job helping to dispose of a couple of billion dollars’ worth (original
cost) of U.S. surplus property left behind in Europe in the wake
of the mass demobilization of our forces there.

At this juncture, opportunity knocked in the form of a chance
to join the U.S. Foreign Service in the middle grades. Still bearing
the imprint of the Sheldon Fellowship wunderjabr, I made applica-
tion and was, after due scrutiny, accepted. This third career has
exposed me successively to tours of duty in Bucharest, Rumania
(1947-50), New Delhi, India (1g50-51), Berlin, Germany (1951-
54) and Washington (National War College, Class of 1955, and
Office of German Affairs in the State Department). I have now
received orders transferring me to Beirut, as Counselor of Embassy
and — here we go again—am once more packing up and getting
ready to move.

This time, however, it will be somewhat different in at least one
respect —I shall no longer be traveling alone. During my tour in
Washington, I have had enough spare time to acquire a family,
which now consists of three beautiful blonde females. (In response
to the Committee’s request for mention of “hobbies,” I might merely
note that at the moment this particular group is my major hobby —
or maybe “preoccupation” is the better word.) The younger two
of this trio are definitely still on the wee side. In fact, the youngest
will still be considerably short of her first birthday on Twenty-fifth
Reunion Day. Should there be any prize or emolument accruing
to the “Class Baby” on that occasion, [ should like to submit her

[279]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

entry here and now, even though circumstances entirely beyond her
control would probably prevent her from being around to collect
in person.

My failure to make any mention, as requested, of “social, political
or religious convictions” does not signify in the least that I do not
hold such, but under the circumstances I shall defer exposition on
these counts until our Fiftieth Report.

+ FREDERICK GREELEY CROCKER

 

BORN: Aug. 20, 1911, Paris, France. parents: Alvah Crocker, Harriet Greeley.
PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES! A.B. 19343 M.B.A. 1936.
MarRIED: Mary Jane Bigelow, June 9, 1934, Marion, Mass. cui_preNn: Frederick

Greeley, Jr., June 26, 1937; Douglas; Prescott Bigelow.
Diep: August, 1942.

wipow: Mrs. Frederick G. Crocker, 1070 Brush Hill Rd., Milton, Mass.

FREDERICK GREELEY CROCKER spent four years at Harvard
with our Class and two years at the Business School. While at college
he was a member of the freshman football and track teams and the
varsity football team. After graduation from the Business School,
he spent three years with Hayden, Stone & Company and then be-
came a salesman for A. E. Staley Manufacturing Company in Boston.
In 1941 he went on active duty with the Navy as an ensign and later
was promoted to the rank of lieutenant. He was assigned to the
USS. Ingraham, a destroyer on convoy duty in the North Atlantic,
and was still with her when she was rammed and sunk while working
with a convoy. Crocker was reported missing at sea, in August,
1942. He was survived by his wife and three sons.

[ 280 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HERBERT CHARLES CROOK

  

3 “|
% ( 3
Bie testi aac ‘ > i aman ah

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: The Arnold School, East Pembroke, Mass.
BORN: Sept. 26, 1914, Kenosha, Wis. parents: Herbert Charles Crook, Isabelle

Postlethwaite.
PREPARED AT: Lake Forest Academy, Lake Forest, Ill.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., Cu latde, 1934; A-M., 1938.
MARRIED: Marguerite Helen Messer, Sept. 15, 1948, East Pembroke, Mass.
occupation: Education; teacher of French, Spanish, Latin and English.

THREE desultory years after graduation I returned to Harvard to
take my Master’s degree in French, with a view to teaching. Degree
in hand, I applied for a position through a Boston agency, and in the
fall of 1938 joined the staff of the Arnold School, a school so private
that most of the townspeople do not even yet know how to direct
strangers to us. In spite of which, during the twenty years I have
been here, our enrolment has grown from a handful of fourteen to
a bellyful of sixty to seventy; and students have come from as far
away as Chile and Pakistan, from which countries we are apparently
more easily located than from just down the street. I soon found that
French was to be among the least of my duties. The school, un-
endowed (as it still is), aimed at being as self-sufficient as possible.
We raised our own milk, beef, pork, poultry, and eggs, grew our
own vegetables, built, added to, and altered, as our requirements
changed, our own buildings. And so I have found myself suc-
cessively and even simultaneously a gardener, carpenter, electrician,
painter, food-processor. Looking back, it seems to me that we must
have been the original do-it-yourself boys.

Like my work, my relaxation has also assumed various forms, the
first and most sporadic being puppetry. From my first year here I
put on hand puppet shows from time to time, the most ambitious
effort in this line being a three-act play. The vear James Thurber's

[ 281 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Many Moons was published, I had working with me a group of.
students — congenial, enthusiastic, and talented. After nearly a full
school year’s preparation, we placed Thurber’s delightful story
before our audience with marionettes, well in advance of any
other producer’s version. Since then we have presented the play
again from time to time, as opportunity and available talent afforded,
each new performance incorporating minor additions and improve-
ments. (At the most recent presentation, the play nearly died of one
of the improvements, but that is another story.)

My other hobbies include a record collection beyond all reason,
with more than adequate equipment to play it on; a small pipe
organ, part of which I built myself, and the only pipe organ in
Plymouth County, so far as I know, with a cumbelstern; books,
books, books; and four cats. And once a fortnight I really let down
my hair (a neat trick, since I keep it cut short) by playing piano in
a small band of neighborhood musicians — three fiddles, a trumpet,
and a tuba — in one great orgy of relaxation.

Five or six years ago my wife undertook the management of the
school’s 40-cow dairy herd, which supplies a local dairy as well
as our own tables. This is a confining job, and vacations are difficult
to arrange because of it, much to the disappointment of friends and
relatives who would like us to visit them. We did take a month off
in 1950, driving to Wisconsin and back in a Renault —a trip that
included a very bumpy ride across Lake Michigan, a call on John
Challis of Detroit to order a clavichord (which arrived in due
season), and a visit with friend and classmate George Smith, at that
time resident in Cleveland.

In these past five years the school has been slowly changing. We
hire carpenters and other outside help more than we used to; the
garden is now a pocket handkerchief; we buy more produce than we
raise, The new highway is coming through a few hundred yards
from our upper boundary, and who knows what further changes and
adaptations that may force! Within a few years I may find myself
saying with a somewhat different inflection than I say itnow: “Well,
[ have taught school for twenty-odd years, and there’s an end
on ’t!”

{ 282 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MICHAEL JOHN CROWLEY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 13 Gerstung Rd., Park Forest, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wine Advisory Board, 332 S. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill.

BORN: Jan. 14, 1913, Cambridge, Mass. parents: John Joseph Crowley, Ellen
Murphy.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. 1934.
MARRIED: Helen Patricia Leahy, Jan. 21, 1939, Louisville, Ky. cHttpren: John
Thomas, May 28, 1943; Mary Ellen, Aug. 15, 1946; Catherine Claire, May 24,

_ | 0.
OCCUPATION: Central division manager of California Wine Advisory Board.
AFTER graduating I went with Lever Bros. Company and pro-
gressed in the usual way up through the field and wound up as a
sales supervisor in the Middle West. At the time of the birth of my
son, I went into the Navy and nicely enough they sent me back to
Communications School at Harvard. That was in 1943 and I spent
a delightful six months in Cambridge which, by the way, is my
birthplace. A big carrier called the Wasp housed me for the rest of
my naval career. I went in as a lowly ensign and wound up as a
lieutenant.

Back to Lever Brothers after the war I went but got bored, and
a fascinating job that I still have beckoned me and I decided to make
the country wine-conscious. I came out here to the Middle West in
1950, Don’t get to see the ocean enough but we do get back to see
our family once or twice a year or run out to California for a change
of climate. I have an office in Chicago, have eight field men and
cover twenty-six states which is not conducive to too much relaxa-
tion. I do golf quite a bit and occasionally break ninety.

My wife got trapped into teaching school again which has
awakened the interest of both of us into picking up some of the

[ 283 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

studies we have neglected. The children have been great. A boy
who will go to Harvard if he can play baseball, which is his love,
and since he has met a lot of the Red Sox players through some of
my friends, he has now decided to become a major leaguer. This
horrifies his mother but, you know, I wouldn’t be at all surprised if
he makes it. The girls keep me young and broke and the three of
them make our house a decidedly nice place in which to live.

Politically, I am a middle-of-the-roader and couldn’t define myself
as being affiliated with either party and usually wind up voting for
the man. A word more about my job which is in the field of public
relations. I have been shunted onto the public via TV and radio so
much now that I am getting to be a real ham and I'll make a speech
at the pop of a champagne cork.

It has been a terribly short twenty-five years, but I wouldn’t
change a one of them. If I can’t make the Twenty-fifth, Pll see you
all at the Fiftieth.

JOSEPH CRYDEN

   

HOME ADDRESS: 3268 Butler Ave., Los Angeles 66, Calif.

orFice appress: Litton Industries, Electronics Equipments Division, 336 N.
Foothill Rd., Beverly Hills, Calif.

BORN: Aug. 19, 1912, Revere, Mass. parents: Samuel Cryden, Celia Millmeister.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934, ED.M., 1936.

MARRIED: Joan Lewinson, June 29, 1952, Los Angeles, Calif. cHitpreN: David
William, July 25, 1955; Margaret Ellen, Aug. 15, 1957.

occuPaTIon: Physicist; head, College Relations and Advanced Scientific Edu-
cation, Litton Industries. .

OFFices HELD: Member, Schools Committee, Harvard Club of Washington,
1949-52; member, School Committee, since 1953, chairman, Program
Committee, 1955, Harvard Club of Southern California, senior member,

[284]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Institute of Radio Engineers, since 1956; commander, Naval Reserve, since
1955; commanding officer, Reserve Research Company 11-3, since June,
1958; chairman, Los Angeles Chapter, I.R.E. Professional Group En-
gineering Writing and Speech; secretary, Western Electronics Show
Technical Program Committee, 1958, member board of directors, Los
Angeles Science Center, since 1958.

MEMBER OF: Southern California Industry Education Council, since 1956.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Thermal Detection of Ships Wakes,” 1945; “Evaluation
of Nuclear Radiation Dosimeters,” 1951; “The Role of Industry in Science
Education,” 1958; “Techniques for Better Talks,” 1958, “The Significance
of Specifications in Developing Complex Systems under Government
Sponsorship,” 1958.

RECOLLECTIONS AND REFLECTIONS

DO the years since graduation have a pattern? Are there dominant
themes that help me understand the varied events that fill the years
since ’34? Shall I find similar themes in other biographies when I
read the twenty-five-year record of my Harvard class?

For me there have been two major themes: the quest for security
and the groping for self-understanding and self-expression. I sup-
pose the great depression affected most of us, teachers and classmates
alike, instilling perhaps an excessive emphasis on security. The effect
has been inhibiting, too often keeping me from the risks that make us
try our reach and use our talents to the fullest. Still there is a
salutary aspect also, since its influence has made for greater peace
of mind and perhaps a more solidly based happiness.

The “self-understanding” and “self-expression” motif has not been
as obvious, but it has been strong. These phrases occurred many
times at college, but many years followed Commencement before
I began to comprehend them. What do I truly want? What do I
really want to do? Answers to these questions have come slowly
these past twenty-five years, but in all my experiences with family,
job, avocation and pursuit of pleasure the questions have been present
and the answers have been developing.

Both themes appear in my choice of a career. Teaching in the
years after thirty-four offered security; vocational guidance tests
and personal inclination indicated it as my field. The six years |
taught high school physics, five in Washington, D.C., were happy
ones. This I recollect, even after allowing for the mellowing in-
fluence of time. So satisfied was I with the work that never once
in more than four years of military service did it occur to me that I
would not return to it. Yet now I know that there was a seed of

[ 285 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

discontent. It had to do with money, with prestige, with the Joneses,
with inadequate knowledge of real values and of myself.

If the depression influenced my first eight years after graduation,
World War II has certainly had a major effect on the remaining
seventeen. Aside from two brief attempts to return to teaching,
since shortly after Pearl Harbor my job has been related to the
military and the defense effort. I left teaching to serve the Navy,
first as a physicist and then as a naval officer concerned with ap-
plications of physics to Navy problems. Winding up my tour of
active duty as a lieutenant commander at the Navy Electronics
Laboratory, after a brief return to Woodrow Wilson High School
in Washington, I came back to the laboratory as a Civilian physicist.
One more attempt at teaching brought me to Brookline High School

for some six months. This was followed by some five years at the
Bureau of Ships in Washington where I directed programs for de-
veloping nuclear radiation measuring devices and worked on some
aspects of the first nuclear-powered submarine program. During
this period I received a Secretary of the Navy award for my part in
developing a nuclear radiation dosimeter (dosage measuring device).
For the past five years I’ve been at the System Development Labora-
tories of the Hughes Aircraft Company. For four of these five years
I was engaged primarily in engineering activities. More recently
I've been working in the field of engineering and science education.

Perhaps my outstanding accomplishment was at Mercury City,
Nevada, where in the fall of 1951, I participated in the first series
of A-bomb tests held in the United States. I was able simultaneously
to court Joan Lewinson in Los Angeles. We were married the fol-
lowing June, at which time she too left high school teaching. The
years since have been the richest and fullest. For this, Joan is in no
small measure responsible. She ts intelligent, pretty and competent.
She is also often complex, puzzling and baffling, but these traits I
attribute in part to all women, and sometimes I am almost con-
vinced that the puzzlement and the bafflement is mostly my inability
to comprehend that which is essentially simple and direct. I am still
learning. More of the richness and fullness is due to David, now just
past three, and Peggy, a little more than one. For all three I thank
Mr. Fermi and his associated scientists.

Consideration for our editor and for classmates whose friendship
may have pressed them to read this far bids me stop here. Still I
must say a bit about the present and a little on the future. That
which is old stuff for mose of our Class is still new for me, the

[ 286 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

absorption, the demands, the confinement of a young family. David,
to wit, has been helping with this report, its composition and its
typing in a dozen ways, none of which have been exactly conducive
to clarity of thought or beauty of the printed page. I enjoy living
in this western part of Los Angeles, with its moderate unchanging
climate, its proximity to the ocean, the desert and the mountains.
I look forward to greater appreciation of these wonderful outdoor
recreational resources as Peggy and David grow older. Meanwhile
I do setting-up exercises at home. Having seen some of my writing
in print, even if for limited audiences, I’m encouraged to do more.
Some success at lecturing has also whetted my appetite in that
direction. I’d love to get a crack at television. It’s the teacher in
Moderately active in the local Harvard Club I’ve been on the
Schools Committee these past five years, as I was in Washington,
D.C., before. I’ve also worked on several local projects for im-
proving science education in the public schools.
Still active in the Naval Reserve, now with the rank of com-
mander, I am C.O. of a Reserve Research Company that meets
- semi-monthly at UCLA. Recently I received a commendation from
the chief of Naval Research for programming a two-week seminar
on guided missiles for reserve officers. Interest in my local com-
munity has yielded to the pressing requirements of a young family,
but I look forward to future activities in that direction, too. Finally,
I hope that as the speed of airplanes, the reduced cost of travel and
the occasional pay raise make long trips and vacations more frequent,
I can renew and reinforce old friendships and acquaintances.

WILLIAM BREWER CUDAHY

 

HOME aApprEss: 1430 Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, Il.

[ 287 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

OFFICE ADDRESS: 33 N. LaSalle St., Chicago, Ill.

BORN: Jan. 23, 1912, Chicago, Ill. parents: Edward I. Cudahy, ’03, Leonore
Brewer.

PREPARED AT: Afiddlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 77agna@ Cum laude, 1934; J.D. (North-
western Univ.), 1937.

marrieD: Honore White, Nov. 23, 1935, Chicago, Ill. (divorced 1947); Evelyn
M. Wilkinson, April 5, 1951, Kansas City, Mo. cHtpren: William Brewer,
Jr., Oct. 9, 1937; Victoria F., Feb. 20, 1940; Joseph M., Dec. 28, 1951.
HARVARD BROTHER: Michael Cudahy, ’36.

occuPATION: Banker; vice-president, Investment Research Division, American
National Bank & Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Callaghan & Company, Chicago, since 1946; director,
since 1952, vice-president, 1958, Lawrence Hall (home for boys), Chicago,
Trustees’ Committee Alternate, Chicago Community Trust, since 1954;
member board of trustees, since 1957, treasurer, 1958, Latin School of
Chicago; vice-president, Saddle & Cycle Club, Chicago, 1958; treasurer,
Racquet Club, Chicago, 1958.

MEMBER OF: Onwentsia Club, Lake Forest, Ill.; Bath & Tennis Club, Palm
Beach, Fla.; Chicago Club; Financial Analysts Society of Chicago.

FOLLOWING college, I attended Northwestern University Law
School, considered by my father a prerequisite to my entering his
lawbook publishing business, Callaghan & Company, here in Chicago.
Honore White and I were married in the fall of 1935, and shortly
after receiving my law degree in 1937, we became the parents of my
elder son, Bill, now about to graduate from Yale.

-After passing the Illinois bar examination, I joined the editorial
staff at Callaghan & Company. My daughter Vicki, now a sophomore
at Vassar, was born in February of 1940; whereupon we moved to
the country and had hardly adjusted to suburban living before the
bombs fell on Pearl Harbor, and I had enlisted as apprentice seaman
a few days later in the Coast Guard Reserve, in order to join the
service with my youngest brother, Bobbie, then about to be drafted.
I was commissioned ensign in the fall of 1942, and spent the next two
years on vessels in the Atlantic theatre: USS Manhasset, a converted
freighter on weather patrol, and USS Mojave, an old service cutter
on convoy escort duty with Task Force Twenty-four. Advances
in rank to j.g. and lieutenant followed in due course, and I was
finally transferred to a small army supply vessel on which I served
for the remainder of the war in the South Pacific.

My marriage was a war casualty; and by the time I felt like work-
ing again, my brother Mike held the reins at Callaghan & Company.

So, I joined the investment research staff of the Northern Trust

{ 288 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Company, here in Chicago, and became an officer of the bank in
1949. Quite by chance, I met Lyn in January, 1951, at Camel Back
Inn, Phoenix, Arizona, while we were both there on a winter holi-
day. We were married the following spring in Lyn’s home in
Kansas City, Missouri. Sentimental journeys have been made since
to the Valley of the Sun. Shortly after our marriage, I accepted a
position with the American Bank & Trust Company, and as vice-
president, now head the Investment Research Division.

Lyn and I have one child, Joey, nearly seven years old, who, if
all goes well, should graduate from Harvard with the Class of 1973.
At the moment, however, he is more interested in chocolate milk
shakes, Lassie and the Lone Ranger.

I have always been a city rat at heart, I guess, and Lyn, although
raised on a farm, shares the same zest as I for dining out together
on the spur of the moment and window shopping the Avenue on
the way home. Our country friends can’t understand why we live
in the city; and our city friends share our feelings about the limita-
tions of Suburbia. From the cliff where we live, there’s a view of
Lake Michigan, just over the Drive. Joey’s Latin School is two
blocks away; and thanks to a car pool, I reach my desk in the bank
twelve minutes after breakfast. There is much to be said for the
proximity of Wrigley Field, the Fine Arts Museum, Orchestra Hall
and even the “Black Orchid,” if the late show is good and we're in
the mood.

Although a “fallen Roman,” I was admitted to the Protestant
Episcopal Church after my marriage to Lyn, and we are members
of St. Chrysostom’s Parish on nearby Dearborn Street, where Joev
was baptized.

We look forward to our Florida vacations in wintertime and have
a cracker-box house at 242 Sea Breeze Avenue, Palm Beach, where
we lead the life of lotus-eaters with golf, swimming, bridge and
gardening for hobbies, as the spirit moves.

[ 289 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

JOHN PAUL CULLEN

 

HOME AppRESs: 40 Treeland Drive, Framingham, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1600 Washington St., West Newton, Mass

BORN: May 8, 1912, Boston, Mass. parENts: James Francis Cullen, Letitia Ellen
Johnson.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., C71 laude, 1934; ED.M., [95I.

MaRRIED: Margaret Frances Smith, Aug. 22, 1948, Boston, Mass. cHILDREN: Brian
John, May 16, 1952; Cynthia Marie, May 9, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Leo Cullen, 45.

OCCUPATION: Teacher in Newton Public Schools.

I WISH that I could think of something deathless to say at this
time — something worthy of being chiseled on stone or inscribed
on bronze. The occasion seems to call for winged, soaring prose or
even a few cadenced, sonorous hexameters, However, my post-
Harvard, quarter-century autobiography requires no magnitudinous
phraseology.

Most of my time since graduation has been spent in the field of
secondary education. Specifically, most of my efforts have gone
toward preserving a certain significant segment of our western cul-
tural heritage, illa lingua nobilis et antiqua Romanorum. This is
an impressive way of saying that I have been teaching Latin. At
various times I have taught (or tried to) English, history, French,
German, etc.

Along with my attempts to cultivate the mind, I have also devoted
much time to coaching athletics: football, baseball, etc, They tell
me that coaching keeps one young. So far I don’t detect any signs
of senility in myself and, since my friends are too kind to tell me, I

delude myself into thinking that I still look like a sophomore —
with a few minor exceptions.

[ 290 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My number one hobby is my family. We, in turn, enjoy other
hobbies together. There is no doubt about it, we're the outdoor
type. Camping, skating, skiing, swimming — that’s our dish.

So far, none of us has visited the psychiatrist’s couch. We're
happy. I’ve been happy since leaving Harvard. When I say that, I
don’t mean that there haven’t been low spots (I’ve followed Har-
vard football faithfully for twenty-five years, to cite one example),
but, basically, mine has been a happy life. I would rather teach
than do anything else. If asked to name the one thing that has
brought me the most happiness in the past twenty-five years, I should
say without hesitation — the associations. Vale!

JOHN FRANCIS CUNNINGHAM

 

HOME appress; Oakley Country Club, Watertown, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Boston Herald-Traveler, 80 Mason St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: May 16, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Daniel Terrence Cunningham,
Alice J. McGillicuddy.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., cv? laude, 1934.

MaRRiED: Bettina Amadon, Sept. 25, 1934, New York, N.Y. (divorced 1954).
CHILDREN: Shaun, June 2, 1935 (a2. Beverly Douglas, June 15, 1957); Judith,
Sept. 11, 1944. GRANDcHILD: Glen Bryan Cunningham, May 31, 1958.

OccuPaTION: Financial advertising manager, Boston Herald-Traveler.

MEMBER OF: Oakley Country Club; Boston Press Club; Financial Advertisers
Association of New England.

UNIQUE, indeed, is the invitation to submit an outline of one’s

self and one’s doings during the past twenty-five years. A quarter of

a century, no less!

_ First application for a job was to the Boston Herald-Traveler,

with which organization I have been associated these many years.

[ 291 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

With the knowledge of the total human effort involved, one never
loses the thrill of seeing each issue published. Meeting and getting
to know so many hundreds of people in the field, past and present,
is Most rewarding.

No war service record. The Navy in its wisdom refused the
calculated risk of my becoming an officer ow ing to defect in color
vision, The Army, unexplainably, just did not need me. Indirectly,
then, I must have contributed to the overall cause, since it was won
without my active participation. Keeping the home fires burning and
strictly observi ing rationing were my fate.

The sea of matrimony “became most turbulent some five years
back —so much so the boat capsized and to shore I came as a
bachelor for the first time, as it were, since I had taken a bride at
the age of twenty-two. A strange feeling, that complete freedom
business, and not alw ays a pleasant one. From marriage came two of
the world’s finest children. Son Shaun has repeated “family history
to a degree, at least, by marrying at twenty-two and becoming in
turn father to a son at the ripe old age of twenty-three. No bearing
on his early marriage, he had selected Yale over Harvard on the
word of some sort of authority that Yale’s engineering was superior
to Harvard’s. A disappointment to his father in a way, but all part
of education. The conclusion may well be that his son may choose
Princeton over Yale on the word of some sort of authority, again,
that Princeton’s geography courses are superior to Yale’s.

One of the highlights of each year is my vacation spent with my
daughter Judy in New Hampshire, with a bonus trip to Florida last
winter visiting her brother and his wife, Beverly, at Pensacola. Since
Shaun is now stationed at the Air Base in Brunswick, Maine, Judy
and I may switch our vacation allegiance from Granite to Pine Tree.

For hobbies, still follow baseball, football, golf and tennis. Have
taken up golf, somewhat to my regret, and have even put on ice
skates. Exercise we must have. Have been an ardent Little Leaguer
— umpire-in-chief, president of a league and a tournament, even.
Had one of best times attending Little League World Series in
Williamsport, Pennsylvania. In travel, longest journey yet was

to the Caribbean in 1955. Two of the four spots I visited, Venezucla
and Cuba, have been having their trouble of late — all is still in St.
Thomas and Curacao, however.

May I wish that health will remain as good as it has been — with
bursas, gall bladder, and sacro calm as they presently are, I'm
sure all will be well. With two fine children, a healthy and happy

[ 292 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

grandson, an occasional beef and bourbon, rereading of the favorite
classics, life should be good. Have helped a few; hurt none (in-
tentionally). ‘Don’t expect to break down too many fences, but do
expect to have a glorious time at the Reunion.

For Harvard only one regret — in all its greatness it is perhaps not
as close to me as it should be, due, doubtless, to my having not been
financially able to reside there during those four wonderful years.
Quite impossible to describe what Harvard means — the memories
of all the great professors and what they taught. And, then, Presi-
dent Lowell’s remark at the Freshman Smoker: “An education is not
what you remember, but what you forget.” Itself unforgettable.

THOMAS JOSEPH CURTIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4 Sunset Rd., Nahant, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Dept. of Education, 200 Newbury St., Boston,
Mass.

BoRN: April 18, 1911, Everett, Mass. parents: Timothy Curtin, Ellen Roche.
PREPARED AT: Everett High School, Everett, Mass.; Huntington School for Boys,
Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B, 1934; ED.M., 1939; EDD. hon. (Suf-
folk Univ.), 1958.
MARRIED: Kathleen Marie Noonan, Nov. 25, 1937, Everett, Mass. cHnpREN:
Kathleen Jane, Sept. 26, 1939; Thomas Gerard, Dec. 29, 1944.
occupation: Director, Division of Civic Education, Massachusetts Department
of Education.
OFFIcEs HELD: Trustee, Shute Memorial Library, Everett, 1940-45; president,
Everett Community Chest, 1940-42; president, New England Economic
Education Council, 1953-56; trustee, Jot Council on Economic Fduca-
tion, since 1955; trustee, Huntington School for Boys, since 1957; member,
executive board, Bay Shore Council, Boy Scouts of America; chairman,
School Advisory Board, United Community Services of Greater Boston.
MEMBER OF: National Council for the Social Studies; Everett B.P.O. Elks;

[ 293 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Catholic Alumni Sodality; Greater Boston Council for Youth; Phi Delta

Kappa.
PusLications: “What Kind of Education Leads People to Behave as Good Citi-

zens?” in Education, Feb., 1957.
DURING my senior year in college, Dolph Samborski interested
me in the Harvard Graduate School of Education. I entered in the
fall of 1934 and spent a year in residence until June, 1935. Simul-
taneously I worked as a sports reporter for the Boston Traveler,
wrote publicity for the Boston Redskins (now the Washington Red-
skins), and coached the Harvard freshman boxing team.

In August, 1935, I took a job as teacher and coach of boxing at
the Shirley Industrial School for Boys (a state corectional school).
In 1936, I taught in Litchfield (Conn.) High School and in 1937 I
returned to Everett (Mass.), my home town, where I instructed
in social studies and English for four years at the local high school.

A much more important event occurred in 1937, however. I mar-
ried the girl who stayed by me through college, graduate school
and early jobs (typing my course papers, sacrificing good times
while I worked, etc.). She's still coming to my rescue after twenty-
one years, and her patience and devotion have been primarily re-
sponsible for anything worthwhile I have achieved.

Two prime events happened in 1939. Our daughter Kathleen was
born (she’s now a sophomore at Bridgewater State Teachers Col-
lege), and I received my Ed.AI. at Harvard.

During the period 1941-45, I held various supervisory and ad-
ministrative assignments in the Everett public schools, served as
price control chairman for the city, did extensive volunteer youth
work, and was president of the Community Chest.

In 1944 our son Tom was born. Now, at fourteen, he is as tall
as I. He is attending Huntington School and has high hopes for
college. The choice will be his.

From 1945 to 1949, I served as Superintendent of Schools in
Nahant, Massachusetts (we fell in love with the town and still live
there).

In 194g two men, who mean more to me professionally than any
of the other fine educators I have known, brought me back to
Cambridge to work ona private research program in civic education.
These men were Dr. John J, Mahoney, ’03, a B. U. professor for
twenty-three years, and Dr. Henry W. Holmes, also ’03, former
dean of the Harvard Graduate School of Education, IT worked for
the Civic Education Project until sg52, combining with Charlie Buell

[ 294]

2§5TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and others in writing instructional materials for elementary and
secondary schools throughout the country.

In 1952, I was elected by the Massachusetts State Board of Educa-
tion to the position of Director of American Citizenship, more
recently changed to the present title. My job involves helping
young people to grow up to recognize that the price of liberty is
politics, to acquire a healthy attitude toward the place of law in our
lives, to learn to live together better regardless of creed, color or
ethnic origin. I know of no more satisfying work, for out of it has
come the conviction that this is the finest generation of young people
this country has ever known and a feeling that we have much for
which to be very thankful.

*k JOHN ARNOLD CURTIS, JR.

 

BORN: Dec. 17, 1911, Marlboro, Mass. PARENTS: Joho Arnold Curtis, Dorothy
Mercer.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Fxeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MARRIED; Eleanore Bunn, Sept. 14, 1935, Orange, N.J. cumpren: Nancy, April
12, 19373 John Arnold, 3d, May 14, 1939; Eleanore Betsy Mercer, Dec. 4,

1944.
pieD: Nov. 20, 1944, Millbridge, Maine.
wipow: Mrs, John A. Curtis, Jr., 139 Shawmut Ave, Marlboro, Mass.

JOHN ARNOLD CURTIS, JR., was a member of the University
track squad and Adams House relay team and a member of the
Crimson business board. After graduation he spent a half-year at
the Business School and then entered the family firm, Curtis Shoe
Company in Marlboro, Massachusetts, of which he was assistant
treasurer, secretary and advertising manager.

He was accidentally killed while on a hunting trip in Maine. He

[ 295 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

was survived by his wife and two children. A third child was born
in December, 1944.

EDWARD PARKER CUTTER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 213 Castle Heights, Clarksville, Tenn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 412 Franklin St., Clarksville, Tenn.

BORN: Jan. 5, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Harry Edward Cutter, Alison Cook
Pierce.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1030-10934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; M.D., 1938.

marriep: Marjorie Hall, Feb. 7, 1942, Wallingford, Conn. cxitp: Alison Pierce,
Aug. 12, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Magistrate, Montgomery County Court, Clarksville, Tenn.; School
Board Committeeman, City of Clarksville; physician to Austin Peay State
College, senior surgeon, U.S, Public Health Service; past president of
staff, Memorial Hospital, Clarksville, Tenn.

MEMBER OF: Local and state medical societics, American Legion, Trinity Epis-
copal Church.

I HAVE a lifetime pleasure in the honor of being a Harvard grad-
uate — especially among folks here in the Southland, where but few
of our closest friends have had the opportunities I have enjoyed.
This pleasure comes from trying to be a democratic sort of fellow
so that they may sense what I know: that Harvard stands for the
best in all of us.

[ 296 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HENRY MacMILLAN DAFT

 

HOME apprEss: Cambridge Hall, 4630 Fifth Ave., Pittsburgh 13, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Joseph Horne Co,, Pittsburgh 22, Pa.

BORN: Oct. 3, 1912, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Andrew Cain Daft, Elisabeth
Alexandra MacMillan.

PREPARED AT: Ben Avon High School, Ben Avon, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. cum latde, 1934;
Theological Seminary), 1940.

OccUPATION: Salesman, Joseph Horne Company; assistant organist and choir

director of a church.
MEMBER OF: Western Pennsylvania Chapter, American Guild of Organists,

S.7.B. (Western

SHORTLY after graduating from college, I took a job with the
local branch of the Western Electric Company. After a year and a
half of futility and indecision, I decided to study theology and
entered the Western Theological Seminary, a Presby terian institu-
tion located here in Pittsburgh. In 1940 I took the degree of S.T-.B.,
after four delightful and rewarding years spent under teachers re-
markably alike for brilliance, learning, humor and devotion. Then,
being averse to the usual procedure of ordination and installation in
a pastorate, I decided to undertake work in church music. And so
I resumed the study of organ, allowed to lapse since high school days,
and took training also in harmony and counterpoint. Also, as a
major source of income, I began selling in a department store.
Hence, this two-fold scheme of endeavor has continued ever since
1941. I have served several churches as organist and choir director
and, since 1946, have sold men’s furnishings in the Joseph Horne
Company.
Such a mode of life has, of course, been monotonous at times,

but, on the whole, highly interesting and enjoyable, Perhaps its
chief value is that it has afforded associations with many likeable

[ 297 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

and estimable people. For about a year and a half I have had the
rare good fortune to be one of two assistant organist-directors of
the East Liberty Presbyterian Church here in Pittsburgh. We wor-
ship in a glorious Gothic building which Ralph Adams Cram, the
architect, regarded as one of his masterpieces, Working under one
of the country’s ablest church musicians, playing a magnificent
organ and a large electronic carillon, hearing sermons of the highest
order and associating with fine Christian people, all are sources of
increasing wonder and delight. In 1951 I managed a trip to England
and Scotland, a brief but most happy respite. Having been a classics
concentrator in college, I still try to read a weekly snatch of Latin
or Greek, and recently I’ve taken pleasant excursions into French
and Italian.

The past years have brought an increasing awareness of the in-
estimable value of a Harvard education. Here in Western Penn-
sylvania, there seems to be a prevalent attitude that Harvardians are
arrogant. While that charge would not, unfortunately, seem to be
entirely unmerited, yet we are at least justified in showing our
gratitude for being a part of one of the world’s great institutions .
of learning. Apart from the formal courses themselves, I should like
to say that my most valuable experience in college was membership
in the Glee Club; to a worker in church music it has proven of
enduring, untold help. Heartiest thanks to “Doc” Davison! Pusey’s
election to the presidency, in my opinion, was a masterful stroke.
In our time, I felt that the religious phase of western culture was
lamentably slighted. Now it is obviously being restored to its
traditional place beside, if not, indeed, beneath and above, the hu-
manist element. Under Dr. Pusey’s leadership, Harvard should rise
to even greater heights in the service of humanity. For further
sentiments about “Nostra Universitas,” let me refer to the “Harvard
Hymn” with which the Glee Club used to begin all its concerts, sung
on the steps of Widener.

[ 298 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANCIS JOSEPH DALY

 

HOME apprEss: Bridge Street, South Bethlehem, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESs: New York State Dept. of Education, Albany, N.Y.
Born: Aug. 7, 1909, South Boston, Mass. parents: Francis Joseph Daly, Mary

T. Connell.
PREPARED AT: South Boston High School, South Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932. DEGREES: S.B. IN ED. (Boston Univ.), 1942; ED.M.

(ibid.), 1943; Ep.p. (Harvard Univ.), 1947.
MarrieD: Alice Mary Storrow, 1937, Boston, Mass. cHmpren: Joan Theresa,

Oct. 29, 1937; Dennis John, Feb. 26, 1940; Frances Mary, Oct. 3, 1944;

Alice Ann, Oct. 2, 1953.
OccUPATION: Education; director, Division of Pupil Personnel Services, New

York State Department of Education.
MEMBER OF: International Council on Exceptional Children; American Associ-
ation of School Administrators, American Psychological Association; In-
ternational Association of Pupil Personnel Workers; American Personnel
and Guidance Association; listed in Leaders in Education, Who's Whe in

Education.

PUBLICATIONS: The Four Million (apologies to O,. Henry), 200-page report on
the problems and needs of the children and youth of New York State;
various series of newspaper columns on delinquency and delinquency pre-
vention; child welfare and child youth problems; on Japan, etc.

LOOKING back to the years past and forward to those ahead, I'd
say that I’ve been mighty fortunate in two of the most important
areas of life. One is that of a wonderful wife and family, with the
two oldest still in college, a teenager in between — and a little girl
who has just entered kindergarten, The other is that of work, where
I have been lucky enough to have been placed in situation after situa-
tion where something could be done to make some degree of signifi-
cant difference, hopefully for the better, in our provisions for and
services to children and youth, particularly the handicapped, other-
wise disadvantaged, delinquent, troubled or troublesome ones. In my

[ 299 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Boston Irish, I am still amazed at the sight of a politician or other
speaker actually reading a speech from a prepared script. It’s so
much more fun the other way.

While I was in college, circumstances kept me from getting to
know classmates better, Since then, — well I just haven’t kept in
touch, Nevertheless, the consciousness of Harvard has always been

a very worthwhile thing to know and have. Hope to replenish it
at the Reunion.

GEORGE HUNTINGTON DAMON

    

HOME ADDRESS: 6200 Garnett Drive, Chevy Chase 15, Md.

oFFicE apprEss: U.S. Information Agency, Washington, D.C.

BoRN: July 25, 1912, Istanbul, Turkey. parents: Theron Johnson Damon,
Cornelia Strong Hunungton.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.; Robert College Academy,
Istanbul, Turkey.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1934; A.M. (Fletcher
School of International Law), 1937.

MARRIED: Harriet Atkins, Sept. 18, 1938, Belmont, Mass. cHitprEN: Elizabeth,
Dec. 31, 1940; Henry Hornblower, Sept. 15, 1942; George Huntington, Jr.
Oct. 5, 1945; Harriet, April 12, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Foreign Service Reserve Officer, Class I, U.S. Information Agency
(currently on loan to the Operations Coordinating Board of the National
Security Council as chief, Information, Education and Special Projects
Staff).

OFFICES HELD: Director, U.S. Information Office, Ankara, Turkey, 1942-44;
U.S. Information Program, Turkey, 1945-48; various positions concerned
with the U.S. Information and Educational Exchange program in Near
East, South Asia and Africa, Dept. of State, 1948-53; assistant director,
USS. Information Agency, for the Near Fast, South Asia and Africa, 1954-57.

MemBeR oF: Delta Upsilon Fraternity, Middle East Institute, Washington,
D.C.; Kenwood Golf and Country Club, Chevy Chase, Md.

[ 302 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HE who drinks of the springs of the Bosphorus will return.” So
goes the Turkish proverb. And so it has gone with me many times
from the day of my birth there in Turkey to the postwar years
when two of our four children were also born on the banks of the
Bosporus. .

After graduation, I tried my hand at teaching English at Athens
College in Greece. Greeks have a remarkable feel for language and
I was pressed to keep ahead of the students, but it was a good fol-
low-up to Kittredge and Greenough. Most of us youngsters fresh
out of college would travel third class, sleep on decks of tramp ships,
and walk miles to see the classic and medieval sites of the Greek
mainland and the Aegean Islands. The best part about teaching at
an American school overseas was, however, the unique opportunity
for getting acquainted with other cultures. (If you have any money
left after “The Program,” please contribute to the Near East Col-
leges Association.)

I am especially partial to those years because on the way to the
Athens job I met my wife-to-be, Jerry. We hiked through the
Dolomites the next summer and have been on the go together ever
since — that is, after waiting for her to finish Vassar.

Following two years of graduate work in international relations,
I joined the staff of the International House in New York. We still
keep up with students from all parts of the world whom we knew
there. .

Pearl Harbor came. Rommel held North Africa. Even a rusty
knowledge of Turkish was of some value. In 1942, I was assigned to
the U.S. Information Office in Istanbul where the most urgent task
was to present the U.S. role in the war, plus our war aims and post-
war plans. On VE Day the family sailed to join me. We spent three
historic postwar years in Turkey, where I remained to direct our
Information Service. Turkey gave an unequivocal ‘“‘No” to pressure
from the Soviets who had moved into neighboring Balkan countries.
Our aid program, forerunner to the Marshall Plan and NATO, was
announced in 1947, Two countries that had been little acquainted
came to know and respect each other and our public relations op-
portunities were many and varied.

Since 1948, I have been on the Washington side of information
programs concerned with the Near East, Africa and Asia. Covering
thirty countries and some hundred thousand miles a year as assistant
director of the U.S. Information Agency kept me overseas nearly
half the time. This peripatetic life afforded recurrent opportunity

[ 303 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

for contact with the great phenomenon of our time — the revolu-
tion of peoples’ expectations that has already created twenty
countries and brought forth a new relationship between East and
West based on equality in independence and an intense determina-
tion to move ahead fast. But it was not the ideal way to keep up
with our four growing children. Happily, Jerry was able to join
me on several trips, one of the most memorable being through
Africa.

We have traveled at home also, acquainting the children with
their New England heritage, Jamestown, Williamsburg and Monti-
cello, as well as enjoying the pleasures of vacationing in the West.
The two girls are at the National Cathedral School, where Betsy
is a senior, the two boys are at St. Albans, with Henry hoping to
become a senior. After the Twenty-fifth Reunion and seeing Betsy
into college, we expect to head overseas again. Meanwhile, my
current work keeps me in Washington, a pleasant change.

RICHARD HENRY DANA

 

HOME ADDRESS: 180 E. gsth St., New York 28, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Room 5600, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N.Y.

BorN: March 5, 1912, New York, N.Y. PARENTS: Richard Henry Dana, ’or,
Ethel Nathalie Smith.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1934.

MaRRIED: Nina Katharine Montgomery, Nov. 20, 1948, New York, N.Y.
CHILDREN: Richard Henry, Jr., Jan, 12, 1952; Cornelia Marshall, May 9,
1956; Nathalie, Jan. 17, 1958.

occupation: Executive assistant to David Rockefeller, 36.

MEMBER OF: Century Association, New York City; Harvard Club of New
York.

[ 304 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MY first job, in the hot summer of 1934, was writing copy for
William B. Feakin’s Lecture Agency in New York. Through my
words the women’s clubs of America learned of the political elo-
quence of Dorothy Thompson, the polar hardships of bearded Peter
Freuchen, as well as the attractions of a lady who did picturesque
Czechoslovakian dances in costume. This job ended rather abruptly
once Mr. Feakin’s list was written up.

After several months of trying, I found my first real job as sales-
man for Alfred A. Knopf — fifteen dollars a week. Book publishing
seemed a good place to go, for according to a theory which seemed
all right at the time, a Harvard education was not designed primarily
for making money. In any case, I didn’t make any, but enjoyed sell-
ing Thomas Mann, Willa Cather, H. L. Mencken, Clarence Day and
the rest of the list — one of the best in the business. As I rose after
four years to acting sales manager — forty dollars a week — sales
fell. I was fired. What appeared to me just coincidence was to
Knopf cause and effect.

In 1940, with all the courage of inexperience, I started a new
publishing firm on my own, Music Press. Our aim was to put out
authentic editions of serious music, particularly for school and col-
lege players. Though given about six months by our skeptical
competitors at Schirmer and Fischer, Music Press managed to survive
for ten years before the complete catalogue of 250 titles was sold.
Fifty choral editions from the Lassus-Palestrina period in the Dessoff
Choir Series; E. Power Biggs editions for organ and instruments;

William Billings’ early American music; Handel’s Fireworks Music
for full band; and the Gertrude Stem—Virgil Thomson opera,
’ “Four Saints in Three Acts,” were probably our most effective
publications. Had Music Press been started as a non-profit or Unt-
versity Press kind of firm it might be going today. It turned out
to be a break-even business. In terms of the enthusiasm with which
the editions were received, and in terms of performances, Music
Press proved very rewarding to all who worked for it. We had
invaluable unpaid advice from Chalmers Clifton, ’12 and Carleton
Sprague Smith, ’27.

During the war I was more lucky than most. A year as a private
ended with a stretch just back of Cambridge, scraping chewing gum
off the drill floor of the Charlestown Armory with a wood chisel.
Improvement came with nineteen rough weeks at Anti-Aircraft
OCS. But AA officers had been overproduced, and I ended up
(having some French) in Intelligence. This work proved to be

[ 305 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

briefing combat units of Patton’s Third Army in England, on re-
sisting interrogation, escape and evasion, Later, in France, we ques-
tioned the Allied men we got back — escapers, evaders and those
overrun by Third Army’s very fast advance. After the fighting
was over, I spent eight months as assistant military attaché, U.S.
Embassy, Paris, writing reports on the state of France, under the
very able direction of David Rockefeller, ’36. Though working
seven days a week, we managed to see quite a bit of France while
carrying out this interesting assignment.

Transferring from music back to books, my next civilian job was
promotion manager for J. B. Lippincott in Philadelphia. For two
years I turned out a stream of jackets, catalogues and releases for
books as various as The Egg and I and Doctor Doolittle’s Voyages.
In the end Philadelphia proved too much for my New York-New
England soul.

Next stop, Ballantine Books — in 1952, a lively new firm publish-
ing simultaneous paper and hard-bound editions, all new books and
not reprints. As promotion manager here I had a thoroughly good
time with a good list, starting with Cameron Hawley’s Executive
Suite. But paperbacks, a quarter of a million per printing, all re-
turnable for full credit, are risky. Ballantine ran into financial
troubles and 1 was soon pouring dimes into the pay phones at the
New York Harvard Club, as so often in the past. -

At this point, I again ran into David Rockefeller, now vice-chair-
man of the Chase Manhattan Bank. He was looking for help with
his many non-banking interests which were piling up fast. For
the past four years I have much enjoyed working for him, on any-
thing from buying modern paintings to giving secretarial assistance
to the Committee to Visit Harvard College. This last brought me
back to Cambridge after a gap of more than twenty years. The
extraordinary atmosphere of Harvard is still something which I have
found nowhere else in the world.

But a catalogue of jobs is no description of a life. My marriage
ten years ago to Nina Montgomery, Bryn Mawr, ’45, skillfully engi-
neered by my cousin, A. Fairfield Dana, ’33, was a long step in the
right direction. Our three small children (one, three and seven) —
all incredibly cheerful, healthy and loud — are a great joy, whether
at our New York brownstone on Fast gsth Street or in the summer
at Washington, Connecticut. We have so far managed just one trip
to Europe (1950 B.I.— Before Infants), through Italy, France and
England, by Fiat, Peugeot and Morris —a great success. We go to

[ 306 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

many concerts and J still play the flute, taking regular lessons. I
also sing in a small choral group ably led by Edward Tatnall Canby,
’34. We make public appearances at irregular intervals. For other
exercise I cut brush in the country.

A Yale oarsman is quoted as shouting to my grandfather, ’74, as
the Harvard shell was rammed into the bank: “Damn you, Dickie
Dana, you shall not win this race!” As for me, though I caught a
few crabs in the beginning, I am still rowing hard, sound of wind

and limb.

S. ELLSWORTH DAVENPORT, III

 

HOME ADDRESS: 65 Litchfield Rd., Port Washington, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 654 Madison Ave., New York 21, N.Y.

BORN: March 12, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: Sebert Ellsworth Davenport,
Jr., D.M.p., 10, Helen H. Snow.

PREPARED AT: Westminster School, Simsbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934; D.M.D., 1938.

MARRIED: Joyce Atterbury Conner, Nov. 3, 1942, Bangor, North Ireland.
CHILDREN: Richard Ellsworth, April 18, 1946; Candace Conner, Mav 24,
1949; Judith Snow, Dec. 3, 1954.

occuPATION: Dentistry.
OFFICES HELD: Member, various dental committees, New York Academy of

Dentistry, First District Dental Society, Delta Sigma Delta (dental fra-
ternity); permanent president, Class of 1938, Harvard Dental School,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and Long Island; Port Washington
Yacht Club; West Side Tennis Club.

AFTER college I continued at Dental School, graduating from there
in 1938. During these summers, I played in a number of tennis
tournaments, enjoying this greatly. In 1938, I started practice in New
York City, with my father and two others. Along with working to
build my practice, I had a lot of fun playing squash at the Harvard

[ 307 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Club, in the Metropolitan League. This relatively simple life con-
tinued until things changed after December 7, 1941.

My Army Reserve unit, the Second General Hospital (the New
York Presbyterian Hospital Organization) went on active service
at Fort Meade, Maryland, in February, 1942. Mixed dentistry with
close-order drill until June, when we went overseas to the European
Theatre of Operations. There I remained for the next three and a
half years. For the first six months, we ran a hospital in Northern
Ireland, where a near neighbor was the Fifth General Hospital,
made up mostly of Harvard doctors and dentists. Personal high-
light of this period was my marriage in November, to Army nurse
Joyce Conner, at the home of some Irish friends.

In December, 1942, to Oxford, England, where the Army had
taken over what had been the American Hospital in Britain. A
year and a half was spent there, with the Eighth Air Force being
our biggest patient. In July, 1944, over to Normandy and its apple
orchards, followed by Nancy, still in France, where we took over
a French Military Hospital. I thought that the one thing I would
get from France was practice in speaking the language, putting to
use my good old French 2. But I found that the French were even
more anxious to practise their English. After V-E Day, I made my
bic to be the most married guy in the Class, at least in number of
times to the same girl, The reluctant Army having finally given
official permission, we were married twice more, by the mayor of
Nancy, to please French custom, and by the Army chaplain. My
wife and I decided that this firmly tied the knot. In October, 1945,
I bade good-bye to Kilroy, landed at home on Columbus Day and
was separated from the service in January of 1946. Incidentally,
classmate Al Levy was with the hospital as a surgeon during the
whole four years.

The last twelve years have been pretty much normal suburban
life, with a growing family. I learned a new expression in 1953 —
“Little League.” My son Rick, being at the starting age of eight
at that time, I volunteered to “help out whenever I could.” Before
the words had left my mouth, I found myself the manager of a team,
wondering what to do next. Five years of managing, however, have
given me a great kick. I have loved working with the boys, seeing
the changes that take place from one year to the next. I wouldn’r
have missed it.

My wife Joyce and I had become admirers of a certain general
while we were in the E.T.O., and enjoyed working with the “Citi-

[ 308 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

zens for Eisenhower” in 1952 and 1956. Not much politics other
than that.

We have had no one spot for vacations, going variously to Point
o’ Woods on Fire Island, Martha’s Vineyard and Newfound Lake,
New Hampshire, and even once winding up at a spot called the
Manatoulin Island in Canada. Any serious tennis long since given
up, but I still have a lot of fun with family tennis, mixed doubles,
father and son, etc. However, I have noticed that golf has reared
its ugly head and vacation usually finds a fair amount of that.
Other outside activities have included a lot of time spent on various
dental committees in New York and many enjoyable contacts from
Harvard Club of Long Island Schools Committee work.

My two above-ten children, Rick and Candace, can hardly wait
for the Reunion and we are all looking forward to being there.

DEFOREST PAINE DAVIS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 755 N. Washington Rd., Lake Forest, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 38 S. Dearborn St., Chicago 3, Il. «

BORN: Aug. 1, 1912, Winnetka, Ill. parents: Percy Boyd Davis, Lx.8. ’oo, Bessie
Ida Paine.

PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, III.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934, J.D. (Northwestern Univ.
School of Law), 1937.

MARRIED: Lucile Swift, May 13, 1940, Boston, Mass. cHitpren: Lucile, May 6
1941; DeForest Paine, Jr., Feb. 13, 1943; Diane, Nov. 3, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Percy B. Davis, Jr, '28; John M. Davis, 30.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.
OFFICES HELD: Member, board of managers, Child and Family Services of Chicago

Home for the Friendless; member, Family Welfare Review ing Committee,
Community Fund of Chicago, Inc.; member, panel of arbitrators, American
Arbitration Association.

[ 309 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

MEMBER OF: The Casino, Onwentsia, Shoreacres; The Winter Club of Lake
Forest; University Club of Chicago; Harvard Club of Chicago; North-
western University Club of Chicago; Art Institute of Chicago; Chicago
Historical Society; Chicago Museum of Natural History; Chicago Plane-
tarium Society; Chicago, Illinois State and American Bar Associations, Bar
Association of the Seventh Federal Judicial Circuit, American Judicature
Society.

IN June, 1934, I entered law school and in due course was admitted

to the Illinois bar. I have practised in Chicago ever since — for

the past five years on my own account. As was the case with most
of us, my career was interrupted by World War II. I did my stint
with the Navy and traveled about a great deal without ever hearing

a shot fired in anger. Thereafter, I returned to Lucile and the

children and my career.

We have lived in suburbia these past eighteen years. I used to
play a wretched game of golf, but lately have devoted my spare time
to our grounds, coaxing the grass to grow and the like. I have
been known, however, to desert the law long enough to visit Europe
and to glance at books and periodicals and minister to the needs of
my children. The oldest will be entering college in September, in-
credible as that seems to me. The other two are of boarding school
age.

Since the Class wants to know all about my political convictions,
among others, let it be known that I believe in the two-party system
and so far only twice have cast my vote on the winning side in a

presidential election.

EDWARD PERKINS DAVIS, JR.

    

HOME ADDRESS: 1559 Summit Ave., St. Paul, Minn.
OFFICE apprEess: Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing Co., St. Paul, Minn,

[ 310]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BoRN: Dec, 12, 1912, St. Paul, Minn. parents: Edward Perkins Davis, ’99, Agnes

Blake.
PREPARED AT: St. Paul Academy, St. Paul, Minn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1934.
marriep: Carolyn M. Earl, Oct. 24, 1936, St. Paul, Minn. cHitpres: Sally Earl,
May 22, 1939; Jane Earl, Feb. 28, 1941; Mary Earl, June 15, 1948.
HARVARD BROTHER: Chandler Blake Davis, ’31.
OCCUPATION: Project manager of Reflective Fabrics, Minnesota Mining &

Manufacturing Company.
OFFICES HELD: President, North Star Ski Club, 1940-45; director, St. Paul Science

Museum, since 1955.
MEMBER OF: Somerset Country Club.

HARVARD and Eliot House rubbed off on me enough love of the
academic life, so I returned to a year of graduate study and teach-
ing in physics. Being a proctor and laboratory instructor provided
expense money and a wonderful opportunity to see college from
the other side of the desk. It was an enjoyable life, particularly
because my wife-to-be was at Smith College.

But getting a Ph.D. at one-half speed seemed too slow. My
brother in St. Paul told me of a growing little company that had
recovered enough from the depression to take on another scientist,
so I applied for a job at the Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing
Company. Coming from Harvard helped as the company was look.
ing for diversity of backgrounds in its technical people. Being the
only physicist was a very - broadening experience as I was “drafted”
in turn by nearly ‘every one of the company divisions, to help on the
physics problems. And for a number of years, I acted as secretary
to a group of the top technical men called the Technical Policy
Board.

In a few years, a new product needed help to make it com-
mercially practical. It involved optics — my special interest. So I
had the opportunity as technical director to contribute to the de-
velopment of our “Scotchlite” Brand Reflective Sheeting, from the
very beginning stages. It has been particularly satisfying work
because the product helps motorists see things at night and has
saved many people from being added to the list of almost 40,000
people who are killed every year in traffic accidents, This back-
ground in new-product development led to an opportunity to help
make a business out of two other new products: Flecton, a heat re-
flective fabric used by men w orking near steel furnaces or to protect
and help firemen do a better job of fire fighting, and 3\E Brand
Aluminized Fabric. There is a satisfaction and a challenge j in bring-

[31]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ing new products of this type to market that would be hard to
surpass in any other profession. Because of one’s contribution to
the betrerment of his fellow-men, it comes close to being a religion.
My family life has been perfect. I had known and liked my wife,
kelly, ever since we were in fifth-grade dancing school. We have
always enjoyed doing things together. Now w vith three girls, we
have continued camping, skiing, canoeing and tennis, as a family.
Skiing has been.my favorite sport ever since Ed Brooks pushed me
off down the Mt. W ashington fire trail in 1932. This hobby led to
the building, with my brother, of the second ski-tow in the country
and the first i in the Midwest. We have been skiing ever since. We
have gone, for a number of years, to ski spots out West during the
girls’ spring vacation. Unfortunately, New England doesn’t hold
snow that late. Maybe with both the older girls East in college next
year, we can make it.
" We have been blessed with three children who enjoy learning.

So possibly the love of education, so well-cultured at Harvard, will
be carried on.

MILES KENNETH DAVIS

 

HOME ApprEss: 395 Columbia Rd., Bay Village, Ohio.

BorRN: July 31, 1912, Boise, Idaho. rarents: Homer Arthur Davis, Mabel E.
Bulkley.

prepareD at: East High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932. DEGREE: B.B.A. (Western Reserve Univ.), 1942.
UN MARRIED.

OCCUPATION; Accountant; controller,
Member or: Harvard Business School Club of Cleveland; National Association
of Accountants; Reserve Officers Naval Services (vice-president) ,; Cleveland

Aviation Club (secretary); US. Coast Guard Reserve (commander);
Lakewood Methodist Church.

[312]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
THE Twenty-fifth Reunion doesn’t seem to apply specifically to
me because I only spent two years at Harvard and did not graduate
in 1934. In fact, it was only after long years of an occasional night
school course that I finally got a Bachelor’s degree from another
university. Jobs were very meager and inconsequential for the
ten-year period 1932-42. My two years at Harvard were of very

little benefit as far as getting a job was concerned.

During World War II, I spent four years with the Coast Guard,
serving aboard various ships in the Atlantic and South Pacific. 1
have remained in the inactive reserve and just recently received
notification of promotion to commander.

After the war, I decided to try construction accounting and re-
mained in that field for seven years. Then, for a little broader
experience, I turned to industrial accounting as an assistant con-
troller, Five years later I was appointed treasurer of a small manu-
facturing concern. However, the company underwent a manage-
ment reorganization, so at the present I have a very dim outlook —
trying to find another job.

This would be an ideal time to go flying around in my airplane
except for the fact that it gets a little expensive, particularly with
no income for several months. Flying has become my principal
hobby for the past five to six years. I have visited practically every

state with my Cessna 170; took a two-week vacation flying through
the Canadian Rockies and Alaska; then took off for a long ‘ ‘cross
country’ ’__-down through Mexico, Central America, all the w ay
around South America and island-hopped the Caribbean, back to
Florida and home. I was gone four months on that trip, but it was
a fabulous flying experience. Boston is only a few hours’ hop (even
in a light plane) from Cleveland, so I am looking forward to flying

there for the Reunion.

[ 313 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

OSCAR HIRSH DAVIS

 

.1E ADDRESS: 1731 New Hampshire Ave., NW, Washington 9, D.C.
IcE ADDRESS: Office of the Solicitor General, U.S. Dept. of Justice, Washing-
ington 25, D.C.

w: Feb. 27, 1914, New York, N.Y. parents: Jacob Davis, Minnie Robison.
"aRED AT: fount Vernon High School, Mount Vernon, N.Y.

zS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1934; LL.B. (Co-
lumbia Univ.), 1937.
ARRIED.

PATION: Attorney; first assistant to the Solicitor General of the United
tates.

BER OF: American Bar Association; Federal Bar Association; Phi Beta
.appa.

! significant benchmarks in my life since college have, thus far,
few. After the regular three years at Columbia Law School, I
1 my professional life in September, 1937, as a junior associate

a moderately large New York law firm (then called Chad-
1e, Wallace, Parke & Whiteside). In November, 1939, I mi-

1 to Washington, where (except for the war years) I have

ever since, as an attorney in the Department of Justice. I

se I am what is now beginning to be called a “career federal

r.” My entire government service (again, except for World

I) has centered in the field of appellate litigation, mainly in the
ne Court. From November, 1939 (when I came as a novitiate),
entered the Army in July, 1942, I served in the Supreme Court
1 of the Civil Division of the Justice Department (then called
ims Division); I returned from the Army to that position in
946, and worked there until the end of 1948. For some ten
ince January, 1949, I have been in the Office of the Solicitor
|, being second assistant (as government titles awkwardly go)

[ 314]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

from September, 1950, to July, 1954, and first assistant since that
time. For two short periods during interregna, I was the Acting

Solicitor General. ;
With the aid of other parts of the Department of Justice and of

the “outside” agencies of the Government, our office handles and

supervises almost all of the federal government’s litigation in the

Supreme Court; I have therefore had the good fortune to be con-

tinuously and closely in touch with the mainstream of Supreme

Court activity for over a decade. But as a result of this concentra-
tion, my legal life has taken on the form of a badly inverted pyramid.
I have appeared in, or worked on, a great many more Supreme Court
matters than cases in the federal courts of appeals, and more of those
than cases in the district courts. In fact, except for court-martial
work during the war, I have unfortunately had—up to now —
almost no experience as a trial lawyer.

My military service in World War II (1942-46) was neither
dangerous, difficult, nor eventful. Through the intricate operations
of the Army’s massive personnel machine, I was sent south to the Air
Force’s base at Keesler Field, Mississippi, for basic training (of which
I had very little); I did some military-justice work there as an en-
listed man; then was sent off to the Air Force’s administrative officer
candidate school, emerging as a slim and proper second lieutenant;
in that rank, I had a number of mildly harassing but inconsequential
jobs, all in Florida; then came a mysterious transfer to the Pentagon
to work on the legal aspects of wartime procurement at a high
echelon but with a low (for the Pentagon) rank; I ended up in —
1945-46 (as a captain), drafting atomic energy legislation which Con- |
gress resolutely refused to pass in the form we proposed.

[315 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

RICHARD FIELD DAVIS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3 S. Oak St., Hinsdale, Ill.
oFFick appress: Carl Byoir & Associates, 33 N. LaSalle St., Chicago, Ill.

porn: March 14, 1911, Bradford, Mass. parents: John Herbert Davis, ‘Bessey
Field Millington.

PREPARED AT: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

marrigD: Ruth Marion Carter, 1937, Cambridge, Mass. cup: Joan Carter,
1938.

OCCUPATION: Account executive, vice-president, Carl Byoir & Associates, pub-
lic relations.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Los Angeles Press Club, 1955-55, Harvard Club of
Southern California, 1956.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Chicago.

SIXTEEN years ago I joined the country’s largest public relations
firm, Carl Byoir & Associates, at its New York headquarters. This
followed sales, newspaper and public relations experience in Massa-
chusetts. After several years as a writer and later as radio director
for the company, I transferred in 1946 to Los Angeles, for ten years
handling a number of news events and public relations matters for
Howard Hughes in connection with his industrial, aviation and
motion picture activities.

I was elected vice-president of Carl Byoir & Associates, and two
years ago transferred to Chicago where as account executive I con-
duct public relations for Chemetron Corporation. This company
changed its name in 1958, offering an interesting, unusual problem

in building a completely new corporate identity without losing
valued aspects of the old identity; the successful transition has at-
tracted much favorable attention.

Our daughter Joan is a junior at the University of Arizona.

[ 316]

. 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ANDREW JACKSON DAY

 

HOME AppDRESS: 245 Cloverly Rd., Grosse Pointe Farms 36, Mich.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 702 David Whitney Bldg., Detroit 26, Mich.
BORN: Jan. 19, 1911, Millersburg, Pa. parents: Charles William Day, Martha

Gilbert.
‘PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934; MD. (Univ. of Michigan),

1939.
MarRiED: Elizabeth M, Sinclair, May 6, 1939, Detroit, Mich. cHtpren: Barbara

Sinclair, Feb. 5, 1943; Marcia Sinclair, Dec. 18, 1946.

occupaTION: Orthopedic surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, Detroit Academy of Orthopedic Surgery; mem-
ber, chief of staff, St. Joseph Mercy Hospital, member, executive com-
mittee, Harper Hospital; member, numerous insurance committees, Wayne
County and Michigan State Medical Societies; assistant clinical professor
of orthopedic surgery, Wayne State University.

MEMBER OF: Detroit Academy of Orthopedic Surgery; Detroit Academy of
Surgery; American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons; American College
of Surgeons (fellow); Clinical Orthopaedic Society; Midwest Orthopedic
Club; Nu Sigma Nu Medical Fraternity; Detroit Athletic Club, Country

Club of Detroit.
PUBLICATIONS: Numerous scientific articles, mostly in Journal of Bone and

Joint Surgery.

AFTER seven years of schooling in New England, I hit the trail
westward in 1934 and entered medical school at the University of
Michigan. Apparently my choice of medicine was wise, for I
clicked from the beginning and found some real meaning in study.
It was not all a grind, however, and there was plenty of time for
play, ona graduate level. After my sophomore year | spent the
summer in Europe, more or less roaming ‘around with a medical
classmate, for the enormous sum (nostalgically’) of five hundred
dollars. The handwriting was on the wall in that year 1936 in

[ 317 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Germany, where the militarization descended even to the pre-school
Hitler Jugend. After graduation I stayed in Ann Arbor and in-
terned in University Hospital and further stayed on to take my resi-
dency in orthopedic surgery. It was during medical school that |
met Betty Sinclair and we were married at the depth of my affluence
as an intern in 1939.

When war came in 1941, a University of Michigan Hospital Unit
was organized and I joined that outfit. They left without me in
1942 and I was placed in a “pool” at Fitzsimmons General Hospital in
Denver. Shortly afterward, I was assigned to the hospital itself and .
frozen there for the duration. I enjoyed having my family with
me and, although I worked harder than ever before or since, I had
an enormously profitable experience and reached a census of 1500
patients on my service. It was a fine hospital and wonderful climate
but it had the emptiest Officers’ Club in the world. Believe me or
not, the strongest drink allowed was 3.2 beer, We survived on
private social functions until 1946 when I decided to start practice
in Detroit. My good wife still says that moving away from Denver
should be grounds for divorce, but we get back often enough to
save the marriage.

My last tw elve years of private practice have been tiring, stimu-
lating, rewarding, pleasant, and often exasperating, but all of us
thrive on it. After a few years I teamed up with an older orthopedist
whom I respected highly, and a few years ago we took on a younger
partner so that Drs. Goetz, Day and Hume offer better service and
have themselves an easier life. Even now, however, I never seem to
have enough time to write the papers I have all the data for, to stay
Jess than three months behind in reading the medical literature, to
try the arts and crafts our family constantly delves into, to keep up
with the gardening I find more relaxing than golf, and to travel as
often and as far as I should like. We usually take winter family
vacations to Florida or to Arizona because my daughters go to
camp in summer, and upper Michigan is so handy for long week-
ends. Medical meetings help reduce the travel tariff and we go
more and more often. As you can see, I am almost as bald as a
billiard ball, but life gets better all the time, and must not really
begin at forty, but with one’s Twenty-fifth.

[ 318 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN HERBERT DEAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 42 Atlantic Ave., Cohasset, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Shearson, Hammill & Co., 75 Federal St., Boston, Mass.
BorN: May 11, 1911, Cohasset, Mass. parents: Dudley Stewart Dean, ’91, Kate

Saxton Raynolds. .
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.
MARRIED: Elizabeth Webster, Dec. 26, 1942, Wenham, Mass. cHILpReEN: Charles

Webster, Sept, 28, 1943; Emilie Evans, Dec. 1, 1944; John Stuart, April 30,

1947.
HARVARD BROTHER: Joshua Raynolds Dean, ’27.
OccUPATION: Manager, Boston office, Shearson, Hammill & Company, invest-

ments.
OFFICES HELD: Director, Hingham Mutual Fire Insurance Company, trustee

Cohasset Savings Bank.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Cohasset Yacht Club; Cohasset Golf

Club; Wardroom Club; Bakers Dozen.

I DID not play professional football after graduation for the simple
reason I was never asked by any club. When I would pose the
question to my father as to my occupation after college, his answer
would always be, “Graduate from college first.” As a result I con-
tinued my stay in Cambridge for a year at Harvard Law School,
only to find out after a second year in New York, that perhaps law
wasn’t for me. However, I am still on the Harvard Law School
mailing list for funds.

I did eventually become productive, and in the fall of 1937 was
hired by an investment banking company and started to build my
fortune in the bond business, only to have it interrupted by the call
to arms of the Naval Reserve in November of 1940. With two
years’ sea duty in the Atlantic, a year and a half ashore in Astoria,
Oregon, and two years’ sca duty in the Pacific, I left the Navy as

[319]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

a commander. During this tour I acquired a wife, and in the natural
course of events, we became a family of five. In June, 1957, after
twenty-three vears of satisfactory federal service I was definitely
retired, still a commander.

In September, 1957, I left Halsey, Stuart & Company, to become
man ager of the Boston office of Shearson, Hammill & C vompany, I
spent the fall in New York, and opened here in Boston in January,
1958.

The investment business is still my primary interest, but now
with three children trying to acquire an education, some travel, and
some enjoyment, we find time a difficult thing to catch. We took
off for Florida for a short stay one winter, and for a brief period i in
Atlanta, Georgia, one summer. This Christmas we are going off to
the Laurentians to ski. We still enjoy, too, the benefits of country
living, with the Atlantic Ocean our very near neighbor, and as yet,
I haven't given up on Henry Ford’s saying that every man should
have a cow. (I hope to be ready for the next depression. )

These twenty-five years have ‘been most enjoyable; I seem to have
my health, though the normal slow-down is taking place; I vote
the Republican ticket, though sometimes wonder why, and I journey
occasionally to the Stadium to see the Harvards try to win. It would
be nice to see my two boys there some day, but since it is too soon
to know whether they will make it or not, 1 plan to enjoy myself
thoroughly at the Tw enty-fifth.

ALBERT BETTCHER DEARDEN

 

HOME AbpRESS: 225 Concord Drive, River Fdge, N.J,
orvice, appaess: Law Dept., Port of New York Authority, rit Fighth Ave.
New York 11, N.Y.

[ 320 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Oct. 6, 1912, Jersey City, N.J. parents: Albert Robert John Dearden,

Jeannette Amelia Bettcher.
preparep at: Lincoln High School, Jersey City, NJ.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., Magna cum laude, 1934; U8. 1937.
marriep: Harriet Lavinia Conant, Feb. 9, 1946, Oxford, Ohio. cHitoren: Albert
Conant, April 4, 1948; Alice Laura, Aug. 29, 1950; Harriet Elizabeth, Jan.

8, 1952; Jeannette, June 24, 1957.
OCCUPATION: Attorney, Law Department, Port of New York Authority.

OFFICES HELD: Currently, trustee, Bergen County Historical Society, Central

Unitarian Church, Paramus, N.J.
MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York; Bergen County

Bar Association; Bergen County Historical Society, Long Island Historical
Society; Medieval Academy of America.

THE world faced by fledglings scheduled to become economically
self-sufficient-in June, 1934, was a bleak one, as 100 per cent of us
recall. I left it for the Law School, making it possible for me to
enter the economic fray in 1937, when it was bleaker. Followed a
curious period known only (I think) to New Jersey lawyers, when
one serves a clerkship (the duties range from getting sandwiches
to writing briefs) so that one can take and pass the bar exam, charm
the various committees and be qualified to hang the classic shingle.
I did all that and, when qualified, the schizophrenia which afflicts
northern New Jersey men convinced me that I had really intended
to be a New York lawyer. So, move to New York, wait, exams,
committees — it was 1942 when the second shingle was authorized.
Then I became a most uamilary private, and an MP to boot! Too
much even for the Army; I shortly found myself one of, I suspect,
a unique group. Half a dozen privates, lost in the bowels of Army
Air Corps procurement, w riting contracts as if they were officers.
A very odd experience, including all the annoyances of the military
life, from KP up, none of the rewards, and to be sure none of the
dangers. Maybe there was a point on the earth’s surface less likely
to be endangered by the enemy than Dayton, Ohio, but after some
thought I can’t name a possibility.

I found no enemy, but a w onderful companion, my wife; an up-
state New Yorker, ‘lost as I was in southwestern Ohio (it might as
well have been the great Southwest), she was instructor and organ-
ist at a college in Oxford (Ohio). People who like Bach play ed on
pipe-organs don’t get what you might calla surfeit of it in the Army;
she liked to play, I liked to listen, and we still do. Finally a statT
sergeant (no KP), married, out of the Army, back lawyering in
New York, all early in 1946. Dave Bergmark rented an ark of a

[321]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

lace and I rented a floor from him; our wives had been friends
in college and the whole menage ran pleasantly for over three years;
then he went to Turkey and I to New Jersey. Somewhere in there
I got tired of trust and estate work and shifted to my present job
which involves legal draftsmanship, mostly on leases. I have reason
to believe that some of my draconic phraseology has been used by
similar outfits here and there and all over, to hound unfortunate
tenants. Holmes said the lawyer has not much, but indeed some,
chance to wreak himself on life; but I have wreaked myself only
on tenants.

Our four children are very young, ten years to one, at this writing,
and there is no spare time. Professional music-making in churches
mainly, involving organs, choirs, assorted instrumentalists, occupies
my wife’s time and is spiritually rewarding for both of us. The next
generation is beginning, but only just, to finger the keyboards and
pluck the strings. Despite our young and (hitherto) growing fam-
ily, we have managed to move around in the close-by Northeast
quite a bit every summer; we've vacationed on farms, in woods, at
ponds (generally called “lakes” by the locals) and so on. This
summer, all of us, including year-old Jennie, got to Lake Erie and
the Ohio River, visiting the areas my wife and I had known when
we were first acquainted, and endeavoring to interest the offspring
in such historic sites. Our source of sinful pride now is to be found
in one hundred southern Adirondack acres with a nice old house
and a lot of trees. Exurbanites most of the year, henceforth, for as
much time as we can manage it, we shall be as free from suburbia
as from the city. =

The days are spent at the professional work, in reading, in “doing-
it-yourself” in the lines of plumbing, carpentering, interior decorat-
ing and you name it; in a certain amount of volunteer work, some
of it worth-while, that sort of thing. A twenty-five-year backward
glance is disturbing, the landscape traveled over seems much more
even, level and plain than it appeared to be in the forward glance
of the same scope, twenty-five years ago, Somehow I have man-
aged to attach myself to some fine people who constitute my own
family, and they seem attached to me, which is encouraging. Some-
thing is there perhaps worth their attachment; I look forward to
demonstrating it more clearly during the next (and last) twenty-five
years,

[ 322 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ANDERSON CHENAULT DEARING, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 443 Lightfoot Rd., Louisville 7, Ky.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Kentucky Trust Co., Fifth & Court Place, Louisville 2, Ky.
BorN: April 11, 1913, Louisville, Ky. parents: Anderson Chenault Dearing,

Margaret Swearingen Curd.
PREPARED AT: Louisville Male High School, Louisville, Ky.; San Rafael Military

Academy, San Rafael, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930—1934. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1934.

MARRIED: Ellen Heber Smith, Oct. 7, 1939, Reading, Pa. cHmpren: Margaret
Swearingen, Sept. 12, 1942; Anderson Chenault, 3d, June 22, 1945; Peter

Grubb, March 4, 1947.
OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Kentucky Trust Company, vice-president, First

Kentucky Company (investment management).

OFFICES HELD: Director, since 1951, treasurer, 1955-57, Louisville Fund; director,
since 1952, president, 1958, Child Guidance Clinic of Louisville; director,
since 1954, treasurer, 1955-57, Kentucky Society for Crippled Children;
trustee, Louisville Collegiate School; director, Metropolitan YMCA of
Louisville; president, Harvard Club of Kentucky, since 1957.

MEMBER OF: Louisville Country Club; Wynn-Stay Club, Rotary Club of
Louisville; Pendennis Club; Louisville Beagle Club; Harvard Club of

Kentucky.

HAVING spent my early life traveling over much of the North
American continent as the son of a Marine officer, I had the oppor-
tunity while at Harvard to observe the advantages, material and cul-
tural, of staying put. Vacations during these years were spent in
Louisville where my family had lived for several generations, so
I decided to enjoy the advantages of permanence by settling i in that
city. Due to availability and some inclination for matters financial,
I started to work for the First National Bank — Kentucky Trust
Company institutions at $55 a month (it would have been $50 except

for NRA) on October 1, 1934.
About a year later it was decided to make an intensive etfort to

[ 323 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

develop our very small trust department and I was elected to the
newly formed investment section. Investment work fascinated me
from that moment and I still feel the same way about it today. The

rocess of forecasting trends, searching for information in order to
separate the sheep from the goats and ‘the bulls from the bears, and
the art of getting action from individuals of different temperaments
has been a constant interest. I shall never have time to learn all I
would like to know. However, in a situation of our size where
specialization is not possible, I have had the opportunity to go into
many facets of the busiess. At the start the assets subject to our
supervision were few, so it was incumbent on everyone to be a
salesman as well as an analyst. ] also became involved in civic work
on a fairly extensive scale and have had the opportunity of know-
ing and serving with most of the people who get things done in
Louisville. The combination of inflation, unenterprising competi-
tion, hard work and good luck has helped the success of our institu-
tion. Being a part of this team has been stimulating and rewarding.

In 1939, “T married Ellen Heber Smith of Reading, Pennsylvania,
who fortunately for me decided to visit her Vassar roommate in
Louisville. Two vears later Pearl Harbor led my steps back to the
Marine Corps. They accepted me and I spent the years 1942-45 in
uniform, going from second lieutenant to captain. Over half my
time was spent in Washington, where I saw quite a few classmates.
Leaving there in 1944, I took various training courses before joining
the Fourth Marine Division in Maui, T.H., shortly after Iwo Jima.
We were preparing for the invasion of Japan w hen the atom bomb
put me back in the banking business.

In 1945 my work was clearly cut out for me. We had acquired
two children during the war and a third one arrived shortly after-
wards. Also there had been quite, a few changes in the business of
investing. Keeping up with the pleasures and responsibilities of
family and business has left me time for little else, but we do play
golf and bridge and raise Cairn terriers. 1 read quite a bit and have
made something of a hobby of military history, particularly of the
Civil War. When the children were little we got away without
them on one good vacation a year to Hot Springs, Virginia, or
Tadoussac, Canada. Now that they are graduating from summer
camp, we take one or more of them with us. All three are active,
healthy and full of ideas and should keep us busy for many more
years,

Louisville is so centrally located that many classmates have passed

[ 324 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

through over the years and I have enjoyed their visits. | hope that
those of you who happen this way in the future will look me up.

+* HUGO CHARLES pve FRITSCH

 

BORN: April 5, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: Hugo Gilbert de Fritsch, Har-
riet Anderson. °

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1935. DEGREES: A.B. cU7 laude, 1934(35); S.M. 1938.

MARRIED: Nancy E. Marean, Oct. 12, 1939, Cambridge, Mass. cHILpREN: Hugo
Henry, July 27, 1943; Frances, Dec. 22, 1947.

DIED: Jan. 18, 1953, Hartford, Conn.

AFTER receiving his A.B. degree, de Fritsch entered the Graduate
School of Engineering, leaving to accept a position as assistant to
the consulting electrical engineer for the E. G. Budd Manufactur-
ing Company of Philadelphia, After two years with this company
he. returned to Harvard and received an S.M. degree in 1938. In
1942 he was a candidate for a Doctor's degree in engineering and an
assistant in electrical engineering at the “Graduate School of En-
gineering. He had been an instructor in electrical engineering at the
University of Wisconsin and a field engineer for the Submarine
Signal Company — servicing radar equipment at twenty east coast
Navy Yards. At the time of our Fifreenth Anniv ersary Report, he
was an electrical engineer for the Raytheon Manufacturing Com-
pany in Waltham, Massachusetts. He was survived by his w ife.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

PAUL peBARSY pveGIVE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1309 \fadison Ave., New York 28, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Dominick & Dominick, 14 Wall St.. New York, N.Y.

BORN: June 27, 1910, Atlanta, Ga. Parents: Henry L. deGive, Katherine Rans-
ford.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Eleanor Hoquet, Oct. 11, 1941, New York, N.Y. cHILpREN: David
deBarsy, January, 1943; Ghislaine Suzanne, January, 1945; Paul deBarsy,
Jr., June, 1946, Philip Fitzgerald, November, 1951; Dominique, May, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Leon deGive, L.B., °32.

occupation: Investment banking, brokerage, market research, investment tim-
ing, economist.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Lenox Hill Neighborhood Association, St. David's
Primary School, New York City.

MEMBER OF: Racquet and Tennis Club, Lunch Club; Tuxedo Club, Tuxedo,
N.Y.; Bathing Corporation of Southampton, Long Island, N.Y. °

FROM a training program in the Bankers Trust Company which
lasted from 1934 to 1941, I was called for active duty in June of
that year for Naval Intelligence in the Security and Censorship Di-
vision. This phase lasted until January, 1944, when I was sent abroad |
as liaison officer for Security with SHAEF in London and later
landed with invasion troops in Normandy. With various combat
teams I arrived in Paris the day after the city fell and was trans-
ferred back to Washington as security officer for new types of ex-
plosives which turned out later to be atomic bombs. Because of the
time factor I was released in September, 1945, and opened the New
York office for Courts & Company, which lasted until January, 1949.
Since that date I have been with Dominick & Dominick, as economist,
market letter writer, investment timing and account manager.

As a result of marriage to Fleanor Hoquet in New York City, in

[ 326}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

October, 1941, I now have five children which requires both con-
centration and patience. We live in New York City during the
winter with a temporary stopping spot in Southampton, Long
Island, in the summer.

As treasurer of St. David’s School, a new Catholic primary school
in New York City, we have been trying a new method of education
with maximum use of young boys’ minds rather than the present
accepted curriculum in the fundamentals such as English, French,
Latin, history and mathematics, which is causing increasing atten-
tion in the educational area in New York City. As treasurer of
Lenox Hill Neighborhood Association, the second oldest neighbor-
hood house in the United States, we are trying to cope with in-
creased problems of the tween-agers and teen-agers in a large city.
The old soup kitchens are out but new individual group problems
are being tested and developed.

In view of the above, my hobbies are limited and I am sull look-
ing for free time.

STEPHEN CHARLES LEONARD DELANO

 

HOME Appress: Driftroad, Westport, Mass.
BORN: June 15, 1911, New Bedford, Mass. parents: Arthur Doane Delano,

Florence Ripley Smith.
PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1932.
MaRRigD: Sarah Rodman Scudder. cupreN: Pauline Ga. Jim Tom Reid);
Phoebe (77, Alain Chardon); Jane (a. Robert Lees). GraxpcHitpren: Six,

occuPATION: Textile sales manager.
SINCE leaving Harvard I have spent most of my business life as a

[327]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

textile salesman in the New England area. I served in the Army from
1941 tO 1945, in the United States and Germany.

As of this date, my wife and J are living pleasantly in the country
in Westport, .\Lassachusetts.

HARRY DEMETER, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 214 Huntington Ave., Boston, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Room 600, 150 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 19, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Harry Constantine Demeter, Anthe
Kontanis.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1939.

MARRIED: Eugenia Cleopatra Kolocotrones, June 22, 1952, New York, N.Y.
cHiLo: Christian Pan, Nov. 4, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lee Harry Demeter, ’39.

occupaTioNn: Attorney-at-law; commissioner, Massachusetts Industrial Accident
Board.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Ward 4 Republican League, Ward 4 City Committee;
attorney, Massachusetts Labor Relations Commission, charter member, sec-
retary and treasurer, Suffolk County Republican Club; commander, Back
Bay Post, V.F.W., judge advocate, George Menichlos Post, American
Legion, steward, Allston Grange, treasurer and vice-president, Helicon
Society; president, board of trustees, Greek Orthodox Cathedral of New
England; president, Federated Greek Orthodox Communities of Greater
Boston, Athens Chapter, Order of Ahepa; district director, United War
Fund, Greek War Relief Drives; founder and president, Greek Orthodox
Youth Organization.

MeMBFR OF: Massachusetts and Boston Bar Associations; Joseph Webb Lodge,
A.F.& A.M.; Aleppo Temple, Boston Consistory.

ABOUT five years ago I was riding through the town of Dover,
Massachusetts, and a spot of land caught my fancy. I subsequently
acquired it and in 1958, with my wife’s creative genius and imagina-

[ 328 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tion, had a country house built for us, which at times smacks of
Florida and at other times of California, depending on the season

and mood.

WILLIAM MOLING DENNIS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1020 Centre Ave., Reading, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pomeroy’s, 600 Penn St., Reading, Pa.
BORN: Nov. 1, 1912, Columbus, Ohio. parents: Basil Wrenn Dennis, Helen

Leona Moling.
PREPARED AT: Columbus Academy, Columbus, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.
MaRRIED: Edith Lee Abbitt, March 3, 1934, Warsaw, Ky. cuitp: Donna Lee,

Oct. 8, 1939.

OCCUPATION: Sales manager, Pomeroy’s Department Store.

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1943-53, since 1957, chairman, since 1947, Sales Pro-
motion Steering Committee, Allied Stores; director, 1949-52, vice-president,
1952, president, 1956, 1957, Retail Merchants Division, Reading Chamber

of Commerce.
MEMBER OF: Berkshire Country Club, Reading, Pa.; Lehigh Valley Club of

Allentown, Pa.; Isaac Hiester Lodge No. 660, F. & A.M.; Ancient Accepted
_ Scottish Rite in the Valley of Reading; Reading Chamber of Commerce.

ONLY after the third request am I furnishing this short note on my
progress in the world, since I have about the smallest possible claim
to the Class of 1934, with only one year completed at Harvard.
However, I am quite proud of the fellow ship I enjoved during that
year and am anxious to Jearn of the exploits of my friends of that
time; consequently I offer my contribution to the Class History.

In 1931, I joined the F & R Lazarus & Company Department Store
in my hometown of Columbus, Ohio, as a stock boy and proceeded
by way of window trimmer, proof boy, copywriter and basement
advertising manager to the position of assistant advertising manager,

[ 329 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

One of the nicest things about working at Lazarus was that during
my stay there I met my present wife, courted her and married her
in 1934. Before I left Lazarus and Columbus, the other great climax
of mv life took place when my only child, a very lovely daughter,
was born.

In 1941, I left Lazarus to join Pomeroy’s Department Store in
Reading, Pennsylvania, where T was sales promotion manager until
1953, When I was promoted to sales manager of Joske’s of Texas in
San Antonio, Texas. After two years at Joske’s, I returned to
Pomeroy’s in Reading as a further promotion. Pomeroy’s and Joske’ S
are both Allied Stores, so that I have spent the last eighteen years in
one organization.

Since Uncle Sam did not want me for military service, having
branded me 4-F, I spent the war years in the retail business to which
most of my life has been dedicated because of my inténse interest
in its ever-changing scene. For quite a few years I indulged my
hobby of farming. I took a whirl at sports cars, which I still like.
I am a lousy golfer but enjoy the game.

Actually, my second greatest interest after retailing has been civic
affairs in Reading to which I have devoted some effort. For the
most part, I have lived a very average life earning a living as every-
one else does.

For the past nineteen years, my greatest enjoyment has been my
daughter, Donna Lee, who is now a freshman at Sullins College in
Bristol], Virginia. As for the future, Edith and I are looking forward
to doing quite a bit of traveling. One of our favorite spots is Mexico.
Perhaps, in our travels we'll get to see some of the friends from the

Class of 1934.

[ 330 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES THURBER DENNISON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 457 Edmands Rd., Framingham, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Dennison Manufacturing Co., Framingham, Mass.
BORN: July 17, 1912, Roxbury, Mass. PARENTS: Henry S. Dennison, ’99, Mary

Tyler Thurber.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1934.

MARRIED: Nancy Banister Williams, Dec. 7, 1940, New Haven, Conn. cHILpreN:
Sally Thurber, Nov. 9, 1941; Becky Banister, Aug. 19, 1944; Hannah
Williams, Dec. 9, 1947; Andrew Warren, May 18, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Director of research and engineering, Dennison Manufacturing
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of directors, Dennison Manufacturing Company,
since 1949; director and officer, Framingham Community Chest, 1949-57;
director, F ramingham Chamber of Commerce, 1955-57; member board of
directors, since 1954, president, 1958, Cambridge School of Weston; presi-
dent, United Fund of Framingham, 1957-59; member, Industrial Research

Institute.
MEMBER OF: Schussverein; Framingham Choral Society; Saengerfest of Boston;

Gentlemen Ushers of the Terrapin.

THAT outline looks conventional, dull, unremarkable. The plain
story of a partially proper Bostonian who floated through college,
joined the family business which took him no more seriously than
he took it, became a prominent sportsman with riding to the hounds,
at least. Then he married the right sort of Boston girl, fought
valiantly (probably in the Navy) | in World War II, returned to
plunge into traditional mediocrity in the most select clubs and in-
vestment circles, entertaining royally in his suburban villa. Between
times not more than two children were permitted to carry on the
blood line, and our hero became fat, pompous, the president (and
chief stockholder) of his company and is now well on his way to
intellectual and physical somnolence.

[ 331 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

That’s a fairly accurate summation — with a few minor correc-
tions, 1 Us Dennisons are pure F ramingham: the Bostonians ran
us out fifty years ago. 2. Unfortunately for me, Dennison Manu-
facturing Company is not a family -owned venture. When my
father faced up to what might happen if he Iet his son own the
business, he w isely and quickly divested the family control and made
it a publ icly-ow ned corporation. This caused that son to have to
devote himself to his jobs and work much harder just to prove his
father was wrong. 3. That ‘ ‘prominent sportsman” stuff is OK
except for the social implications, there has definitely been 70 hunt-
clubbing. We have been completely dedicated to skiing, without
respite, ‘for these twenty-five years. In the summer, it’s tennis and
sailing when invited. The prominence comes from the known fact
that I can and do ski faster, harder, longer and over more difficult
terrain than anyone in Harvard 34 —Ritchie, Sise, L. Brown, Mar-
shall, Williams and E. Clark, please note. 4. Cross off the “Boston
girl” line. I married the right sort of girl, ] proudly and loudly pro-
nounce. However, Nancy came from New Haven, snatched from
the vile grasping hands of those Elis. 5. J-T.D.’s service in World
War II ranks almost unnoticed on the valor lists. In 1939 we took up
gliding to distract us until snow fell. So it was easy to become a
glider instructor for the Air Force, in its notoriously unsuccessful
glider program.’ This led to instructing in elementary flying for
naval cadets. Then a quick shift to the Radiation Lab. at M.LT. to
help in the administration end of the development of radar. So I'll
be sporting no ribbons or medals next June. 6. Now wait a minuve
— that traditional mediocrity is going too far. Sure, any executive
in American industry today becomes an organization man, which
means conformity to a social pattern within and without business
hours. The Community Chest — Chamber of Commerce — hospital
campaign — PTA routine can be survived, however, if you keep
your personal social affairs independent. By being an active char-
acter in the Schussverein Ski Club in its divers pursuits, by singing
bass or tenor at any opportunity, and by enjoying and being dis-
respectful of my classmates, I have avoided being stifled by ortho-
doxy. 7. Sce outline above — we have not two but four children,
highly satisfactory ones. As a family of six, we challenge all class-
mates to slalom and downhill races or to a part-singing bee. 8. Iam
not fat, but lean and hard. g. No, no... not pompous. A bit fey,
perhaps, but far from pompous. to. The presidency of Dennison

[ 332 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

is not hereditary. See 2 above. ri. Lemme at the guy who made
that “somnolence” crack!

CHARLES STORROW DENNY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4109 Leland St. Chevy Chase 15, Md.
OFFICE ADDRESS: U.S. Geological Survey, Washington 25, D.C.
BORN: Sept. 17, 1911, Brookline, Mass. Parents: Francis Parkman Denny. ‘gr,

Martha Cabot Storrow.
PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., C17 laude, 1934; A.M., 1936; PH.D.,

. 1938.
MarrieD: Ann Mason Hodges, June 18, 1938, Cambridge, Mass. cuitpreN: Ann

Storrow, July 12, 1940; Elizabeth Mason, June 19, 1942; Patricia Mason,

April 26, 1946.

occuPATION: Geologist, U.S. Geological Survey.

MEMBER OF: Geological Society of America; Geological Society of Washington,
American Association for Advancement of Science; Harvard Club of

Washington; Cosmos Club.

A YEAR at New Haven, following graduation, convinced me that
Cambridge offered a certain freedom of thought and action not
found to the south, so I returned to the museum on Oxford Street
for three years of geology, good fellowship and field studies in New
Mexico under the late Kirk Bryan. A liking for the outdoors and
for walking came from my father and has not been dimmed by use
in my profession. A Doctor’s degree in 738 was followed by my
marriage to Ann Mason Hodges of Cambridge and a honeymoon
in New Mexico.

We arrived at Hanover, New Hampshire, with the 1938 hurri-
cane, where I was an instructor in geology until 1942 and where our
two oldest daughters were born. T he early War years were spent
in Connecticut where I was assistant professor of geology at Wes-

[ 333 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

levan University. In 1944 I embarked on a career with the U.S.
Geological Surv ev during which we have remained within sight
of the W ashington monument. Our youngest daughter was born
in the District of Columbia in 1946 and since 1947 we have lived
in Chevy Chase, Maryland.

From 1944 to 1948 I was a member of the Military Geology Unit
of the Geological Survey. I have studied the glacial or surficial
geology of areas in Pennsylvania, New York and New England and
west of the rooth meridian in Utah, Nevada and California, where
the family has often joined me during the vacation months. Recently
we have spent our summers at New London, New Hampshire.

I have found geology a most pleasant and stimulating vocation.
I] have been fortunate enough to be able to study the geology of
regions of interest to me w ithout undue restriction of time or scope,
and only occasionally do I recall the pleasures of academic life. My
work has included cooperative studies with other-scientists, especially
in plant geography and soil science, and has led to many rewarding
experiences. I lean heavily toward the Democratic party. My hob-
bies are chiefly taking care of an old house and yard, and keeping

up with our three daughters. We are all looking forward to the
Reunion.

.

LORENZO MARTINEZ vePICABIA, JR.

 

ADpRESS: 102 Christopher St., New York 14, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 12, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: Lorenzo Martinez dePicabia,
Marie Marrin.

preparep at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEAKS IN COLLFGE: 1930-1934.

occuPATION: Publishing.

NO questionnaire returned.

[334]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

: CLARENCE DERRICK, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 818 N.W. 21st Terr., Gainesville, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 207 Anderson Hall, University of Florida, Gamesville, Fla.

BORN: April 8, 1912, New Britain, Conn. parents: Clarence Derrick, Eva Reid.

PREPARED AT: New Britain High School, New Britain, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931. DEGREES: A.B. (Trinity Coll.), 1935; A.M. (Western
Reserve Univ.), 1945; pxH.p. (Univ. of Chicago), 1953.

MARRIED: Mary Tyler, July 4, 1945, Shaker Heights, Ohio. cuitpren: Mary
T., Oct. 27, 1947; Thomas J., Jan. 13, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Associate professor of English and Humanities.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, Avon School, Avon, Conn, 1935-41, University
School, Shaker Heights, Ohio, 1941-47; assistant director, Department of
Examinations, Board of Education, Chicago, 1948-49; supervisor of test
construction in English and Humanities, Educational Testing Service,
Princeton, N.J., 1949-53; associate professor, University of Florida, since

1953:
OURS is a time to be concerned with time. A writer who lived
ten miles down the road from here (Gainesville, Florida) once put
these words into the mouth of one of her characters: “Time’s slick
as an otter slide. And how come me to object to that, don't be on
account of you slip down it so fast, but you slip down without
noticing what time’s a-doing to you.”

In a questionnaire from someone arranging a dinner to celebrate
the twenty-fifth aninversary of a secondary graduation was this
query, “How many grandchildren do you have?” I bridled in in-
dignation. I haven't finished paying the orthodontist for my own
children. Some academicians marry late and our daily association
with youth keeps us youthful (or does it?), Middle-: aged? Perhaps
in ten years but not now. But there’s Quincey Dover and that otter
slide. I recall Tommy, aged seven, looking over some old photo-
graphs and innocently (?) inquiring, “And who is that, Daddy?”

[ 335]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

with an implication “How (your) hair is growing thin!” promptir
me to wonder if the boy had been dipping into Prafrock on the sl
In bricf, almost forty years in the classroom as student and teache
leave me convinced that this is the life—for me. If happiness
largely a matter of finding one’s place in life, the work one love
and is fitted for, then I have no regrets.

Addenda: Publications? As one who spends half his time prepar
ing examinations for the general education courses at the University
of Florida and for national examinations, I publish extensively, con.
tinuously and anonymously for readers who are attentive, numerou:
and critical, Organizations? By temperament and tradition I am 4

non-joiner. | hope I can claim membership in the human race. That
is all.

ROBERT FILLMORE DESBERG

 

HOME appress: 24 Ave. Montana, Brussels, Belgium.
orFice appress: etro-Goldwyn-Mayer, 288 rue Royale, Brussels, Belgium

porn: Dec. 12, 1912, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Fred Desberg, Charlotte F eld-

mani.

PREPARED AT: East High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932. DEGREES: A.B. (Western Reserve Univ.), 19343
is. (ibid.), 1936.

marniep: Monique Leleu, Jan. 13, 1947, Paris, France. cut_pren: Philip, Apri
20, 1948; Stephen, Sept. 10, 1954; Nicole, Jan. 1, 1943 (stepchild).

occupation: Motion picture distribution; general manager for MGM in Bel-
gium, Luxemburg and Belgian Congo.

orricys HELD: Member board of directors, American Chamber of Commerce
in Brussels, since 19§4; member board of directors, since 1952, president,
1953. 1954, American Club of Brussels.

MEMBER OF: American Club of Brusscls.

IF events had followed their normal course, I would have graduated

[ 336 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

from Harvard, practised law in Cleveland, married an attractive
American Girl, had a nine handicap, three children and the normal
worries that each of the above entails. However, my father’s un-
timely death, at the end of my sophomore year, necessitated the
continuation of my education in Cleveland. And the war inter-
rupted my law career, and steered me to my present occupation of
managing the affairs of MGM in Belgium.

Still, patterns are so strongly ingrained within us that I still
practised law in Cleveland until 1942——I married an attractive
French girl —I have a nine handicap at the Royal Waterloo (sic)
Golf Course —I am proud of the three children’ (one by way of
dowry from my wife) —and, to be sure, the normal worries are
ever-present.

A few thumbnail or rather hangnail ; impressions:

CAREER — The law was good to me, but I do not care for
jealous mistresses. The motion picture business 1s easier, more lively
and a lot more fun.

WIFE — The best. A former school teacher. A remarkable
mezzo-soprano concert-style voice.

CHILDREN — The sweetest. Let me show you my photos.

TRAVELS — When I travel, I go to the States. I often go to
Paris on business, never getting to the places the rest of you visit.

HOBBIES — Golf, music and putting on parties for the American
Club of Brussels.

WAR RECORD — 1942-46 — 79th Infantry Division and <As-
sembly Area Command. In Europe. Judge Advocate General's De-
partment. Second lieutenant. In retrospect it was not so bad.
FAVORITE QUOTES — Two French savings: “You should put
a little water in your wine.” “Let’s keep the church in the middle of
the village.”

You can go far by comparison and a true appraisal of things.

NOSTALGIA — I am truly glad I went to Harvard even though
I feel that I was too immature to appreciate it. Let us sav that this
was probably due to the fact that I missed the last two and most im-
portant years. I appreciate the intellectual curiosity it aroused in me,
and am also grateful for the love it gave me for Romance languages.
Too bad that circumstances will undoubtedly prevent me from
seeing old friends at the Reunion.

[ 337 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934
FDWARD CLIFTON DEVEREUX, JR.

re 7 8
*

  

HOME apprEss: 416 Cavuga Heights Rd., Ithaca, N.Y.
orFice appress: Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.

BoRN: Sept. 14, 1912, Great Neck, N.Y. parents: Edward Clifton Devereux,
Annabel Rickert.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., #agna curt laude, 1934; A.M., 19393
PH.D., 1950.

Maxrigp: Edwina Embree, May 16, 1942, Toronto, Canada. cHttpREN: Catherine
Day, Dec. 6, 1943; John Rickert, Feb. 25, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Rickert Devereux, 733.

occupanion: Sociologist, professor of child development and family relation-
ships, Cornell University.

OFFICES HELD: Director and vice-president, Social Service League, Ithaca, N.Y.,

1951-56; Cub Scout Committeeman and Pack Master, 1955-56; Fulbright
research scholar, Frankfurt, Germany, 1956-57.

MEMBER OF: American Sociological Society (fellow), Eastern Sociological
Society.

HAVING Jost most of my hair in the Harvard pool during under-
graduate davs, I decided to become an egghead. In keeping with
this resolution, I have contrived to spend most of the past quarter-
century among the alma and ivy in some half dozen universities,
talking, reading, teaching, researching, writing and talking some
more, Nota very exciting life perhaps. I never shot a lion or met a
payroll, (Indeed, I] hardly ever even met a deadline, as our Class
secretary will be glad to testify.)

Yet somehow | have managed to spin out a life which, for me, has
been continually interesting and satisfying. For the academic men,
at least for this one, the interest is not so much in the alma and
ivy, or even in the students and the teaching; it is the subject matter
itself, In my case, sociology has been the main focus, and it has

[ 338 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

been exciting to witness and participate in the rapid development of
this new field during these twenty-five years. Nor is the life of the
sociologist spent wholly in the swivel chair, My own researches
have been concerned with such matters as industrialization in Japan,
adjustments to unemployment in Massachusetts, the suburban move-
ment in Connecticut, the authoritarian family in postwar Germany,
gambling i in the United States, the uses of social research in business
decisions, and the correlates of civic responsibility and participation.
At the present time, I am collaborating with psychologists at Cornell
in studies of family structure and child-rearing practices.

On the extra-curricular side, I have also found life generally
interesting and satisfying. I thoroughly enjoyed a long bachelor
period, with its roving freedoms and its opportunities to travel and
to explore first hand the sociology of sin. But I have enjoyed still
more a long, happy marriage and the challenge involved in coping
with two lively, complicated children. There has even been a good
deal of variety — two years at a little state college, two years at a
big Canadian university, a summer in Russia, fifteen years at three
of the ivy league universities, two years at sea as navigator of a fleet
tanker, a year as guest professor at a German university trying to
teach in a foreign language. ‘There have been the familiar areas of
community involvements, in my case, trying to handle a pack of
seventy-five Cub Scouts (and their parents), teaching Sunday
School, sitting on various boards and committees. And, of course,
there have been the lawns and storm windows to be dealt with.

Although mine has been a sedentary life, [ have managed to swim
a good deal and to sail some every summer. I still listen to music a
lot and have even learned to make some on the piano. Miy other

\ principal interest these days 1s photography, particularly of children.
But let’s face it, most of the time it’s just sitting and talking.

[ 339 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

WALTER RUDOLPH DeVIVO

 

HOME ADDRESS: 64 Concourse E., Brightwaters, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFIcE Appress: Allstate Insurance Co. 267 W. Main St. Bay. Shore, Long Is-
land, N.Y.

BorN: Aug. 11, 1910, Brooklyn, N.Y. parents: Rudolph Edward DeVivo, Maria
Nicolello.

PREPARED AT: W'orcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

MaRRIED: Dorothy Collins, Dec, 7, 1932, Babylon, N.Y. (annulled 1942); Mrs.
Darline Brown Steudle, Aug. 27, 1946, Brooklyn, N.Y. stEPcHILD: Coralee
(m. James E. Puphal). eranpcuipren: Robert Puphal, aged five, Jamie
Lee Puphal, aged three.

occupation: Insurance agent.

PUBLICATIONS: Song, You're Thrilling (ASCAP), featured in the Miami-Bilt-
more Water Review of 1940.

SPENT my early years trying to make a success in the popular
music field. It took me some time to be convinced that I was no
Harry Warren. Eventually, I entered my father’s real estate busi-
ness and began to eat regularly.

After four years in the Air Force, part of the time in the, South-
west Pacific, I decided to make a complete change and move out
to the eastern part of Long Island, hoping to escape the crush of
the city. I was now selling Allstate insurance.

My business allowed me to make a living near my new home and
gave me an opportunity to do some sailing in my auxiliary cruis-
ing cathoat which is ideal for the shallow waters of the Great South
Bay. Incidentally, Tam very proud of the boat, especially since it
was designed by the famous Olin Stephens, designer of the Columbia,
recent victor over the English challenger for the America’s Cup.

The boat was a childhood dream which finally came truc.

My wife and T enjoy our home very much, and the children and

{ 340 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

grandchildren spend a great deal of time with us, as they live close
by.

" attend the St. Patrick’s Roman Catholic Church in Bay Shore
and try to do my share in charitable works. My wife attends the
Presbyterian Church in nearby Islip and is active in church groups.

Have voted Republican most of the time; but am not strictly
partisan. I try to pick the candidate and not the party, as a whole.
My fervent hope is for peace in the world and continued prosperity

for everyone.

J. LINDSAY DEXTER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 335 Grapevine Rd., Beverly Farms, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pepperell Manufacturing Co., 160 State St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 31, 1911, York, Maine. parents: William Endicott Dexter, ‘97, Mary
Fitzhugh Lindsay.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.

MarRiED: Elizabeth Ann Cassels, Sept. 16, 1939, Beverly Farms, Mass. CHILDREN:
William Endicott, 2d, Oct. 14, 1941; Marv Brewster, April 1, 1946, Ann
Lindsay, June 10, 1949.

occupation: Textile manufacturing; assistant treasurer, in charge of cotton
purchasing, Pepperell Manufacturing Company.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, St. John’s Church, Beverly Farms, 1948-55, chainman,
Cotton Committee, Northern Textile Association, 1949-57; member, Ad-
visory Committee, 1950-58, chairman, Textile Engineering Division, 1954,
American Society of Mechanical Engineers, member, Warehouse and
Delivery Committee, New York Cotton Exchange; member, Education
Committee, associate member, Cotton Committee, American Cotton Manu-
facturers Institute; member, Cotton Quality Committee, National Cotton
Council; member, Cotton Utilization Panel, U.S. Dept. of Agriculture;
director, Boston Community Workshop; director, American Memorial
Hospital, Rheims, France; secretary-treasurer, Colonial Retriever Field

[ 341 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Trial Club; member, Retriever Advisory Committee, American Kennel
Club.

MEMRER OF; American Society of Mechanical Fngincers, Vextile Research
Institute; Association for Textile Technology; New York Cotton Ex-
change; Colonial Retriever Field Trial Club; Labrador Retriever Club;
Manchester Yache Club; Myopia Hunt Club.

DESPITE President Lowell's admonition that a Harvard S.B. degree

indicated an ignorance of Latin rather than a knowledge of science,

I have managed to make some progress in the technical side of the

textile industry during the past twenty-five years.

Shortly after graduation, | took off for Arkansas to learn the
cotton business. After a year of apprenticeship in a cotton shipping
firm in Little Rock, I went to work for the Nashua Manufacturing
Company, first in its mill in Cordova, Alabama, and later in its
plants in Nashua, New Hampshire. After working through all the
various departments of the mill and the finishing plant, I became
the company’s research director in 1940. 1 was just settling down
to enjoy my work when Pearl Harbor occurred.

Thanks to two years in Harvard ROTC, I was commissioned a
second lieutenant in the Army Ordnance Corps, but my majoring
in Romance Languages shortly caught up with me and I found
myself Janding on the beaches of Morocco as a prisoner-of-war
interrogator during the North African invasion. During the short-
lived French resistance, I had a chance to warm up my French, and
after the fighting stopped was assigned as a liaison officer to the
Moroccan Colonial Infantry. From there | “moved on to the G-2
Staff, Second Armored Division and w hen, as a result of the Casa-
blanca Conference, it was agreed that the French Army was to be
reconstituted, I was transferred to General Eisenhower’s staff for
the job of helping to reorganize, re-equip, train and supply the
reborn French Army. This turned out to be a fascinating assign-
ment which lasted until after V-F. Day and took me to Algeria,
Tunisia, Italy, Corsica and finally France, where I found myself i ina
headquarters across the street from the Ritz bar! In the course of my
work with the French, I was privileged to know and work with
many fine French officers, some of whom later rose to topmost
ranks in the French Army. The French rewarded me with the Croix
de Guerre, and I left the Army in tg45 with the rank of major.

After the war I returned to the textile business, bute not to my
former research post. IJ became cotton buyer, first for the Nashua
Manufacturing Company and later for the Pepperell Manufacturing

[ 342 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Company, which job I now hold. This position enables me to make
use of my early experience in the cotton shipping business, as well
as my laboratory and technical mill expericnce. In today’s highly
competitive textile business, cotton mills are faced with the problem
of increasing productivity on the one hand and maintaining quality
on the other, while at the same time keeping the raw cotton cost to
a minimum. This puts the cotton buyer squarely on the spot and
requires a thorough understanding not only of cotton marketing,
but also of fiber technology and textile processing and machinery.

In connection with my work in cotton, I traveled to Europe in
1953 as a member of the National Cotton Council’s Technical Mission
and lectured on the practical use of cotton fiber technology in
England, France, Germany, Holland, Italy, Sweden and Switzer-
land. I find that my work is a constant challenge, as rapid develop-
ments in textile technology as well as constant changes in cotton
growing and harvesting methods require new approaches to the
business every year. My work requires me to travel a great deal
through the cotton growing areas of the South and West, as well as
to my company’s southern mills. Although I miss being with my
family, I find the new contacts stimulating and it makes me par-
ticularly grateful when I finally do get home.

My spare time at home is largely occupied training Labrador
Retrievers and running them in field trials or hunting with them.
When the weather is too warm for dog work, I try sailing and
working around my place. My other hobbies include photography

and the art of building Martinis.

‘ EDWARD MELLEN DICKSON

 

HOME appr¥ss: 125 Highland Sc, Weston 93, Mass.

[ 343 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

OFFICE appRESS: Weston Town Hall, Weston 93, Mass.

pors: March 12, 1912, Weston, Mass. parents: Brenton Halliburton Dickson,
‘go, Ruth Bennett.

preparrp At: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE! A.B. 1934.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Brenton Halliburton Dickson, 3d, °27; William Anderson
Dickson, °36.

occupation: Treasurer, Hospital Radio Inc., and Weston Land Company, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Weston Taxpayers’ Association, 1950-54; presi-
dent, Weston’s Men’s Club, 1950-52; Troop Committeeman, Weston Boy .
Scouts, since 1950; Town Clerk, since 1951, Selectman, since 1954, Town
of Weston; treasurer, Weston Chapter, American Red Cross, since 19525
member, Advisory Committee, Weston Country Concert Series, since
1954; commander, Weston Post No. 214, American Legion, Inc., 1954-56;
Finance Chairman, Weston Republican Committee (currently).

MEMBER OF: \WWeston Men's Club; First Parish in Weston; Weston Post No.
214, American Legion, Inc.; Joseph Warren Lodge, A. & M.; Weston Fire-
fighters’ Association; Drifters’ Ski Club.

THE summer following graduation and the summer between my
two years at the Harvard Business School were spent in Europe,
mostly on a bicycle. The first, the summer of 1934, a group of six
rode 1800 miles through England, Holland, Germany, Italy and
France. The Nazi movement was just getting into high gear which
made the trip quite exciting, especially in Germany and Austria.
During the summer of 1935, five of us logged 1500 miles through
France, Andorra and Spain. Again we preceded a political upheaval,
this time in Spain. It was apparent from the landholding conditions
approaching serfdom that a change was long overdue.

After several years of putting my Business School knowledge to
work in the investment advisory field, I returned to Harvard to study
education. This led to my teaching at the Dexter School where I put
in several enlightening years.

Returning from an auto trip to Mexico in 1939, I was suddenly
confronted early one morning outside of Erie, Pennsylvania, with
the news that the war was on. During the ensuing teaching year it
was apparent that it was only a matter of time before the U.S. would
be involved. So in order to pick a spot, I made an “excellent” contact
with a navy recruiting officer in Charlestown to enter the V-7
officer training program. However, since this was temporarily cur-
tailed, he sold me on the idea of signing up in the V-6 reserve as an
entree to V—7 in a quick deal.

July, 1941, found me in boot training in Newport, Rhode Island.

[ 344 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

From there I went into aviation machinist training which took me
to various schools including the Ford Motor Company, where I
served under Henry Ford, 2d, then an ensign, as an APO for eight
months. From aviation machinist mate 3d class, I was commissioned
as an ensign in late 1942 and went on inactive duty early in 1946 as
a lieutenant. While my naval service consisted mostly of shore
battles, it seemed awfully important at the time. However, in retro-
spect, I was not quite as indispensable as I sometimes thought.

My postwar readjustment began with the founding of the North
American Manufacturing Company in Natick, with five other vet-
erans on G.I; loans. I served as treasurer of this company. After
having built up quite a business in interior finish and custom cabinets,
we decided that the building boom would be more short-lived than
it has proven to be and consequently sold out.

My next business venture was the founding of Hospital Radio Inc.,
for which I serve as treasurer. I have subsequently entered the land
development business in the role of vice-president of the Middlesex
Land Company and treasurer of the Weston Land Company.

During the last three state political campaigns, I have been active
on the G.O.P. side, going to the state conventions as a delegate,
being finance chairman for Weston, and garnering votes for candi-
dates. The latter proved to be an ineffectual task in the most recent
campaign.

In March, 1951, I was elected Town Clerk of Weston to an un-
expired term and was re-elected to the same office in 1953 and 1956
for three-year terms. In March of 1954, I was elected as Selectman
in the most heated political contest the Town has ever seen and was
re-elected to the same office in 1957.

My leisure time is spent at golf, tennis, skiing, sailing and striped-
bass fishing, a most frustrating sport.

[ 345 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

DOUGLAS HILTON DIES

 

HOME ADDRESS: 505 Robinson Ct., Alexandria, Va.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1026 17th St., N.W., Washington 6, D.C.

BoRN: Sept. 9, 1913, St. Paul, Minn. parents: Edward Jerome Dies, Mareeta
Cole.

PREPARED AT: Chicago Latin School for Boys, Chicago, II.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. 1934.

MarRIED: Mary Frances Doreen Harding, Nov. 25, 1939, Cambridge, Mass.
CHILDREN: Harding Mogridge, May 24, 1948; Andrea Frances, Nov. 14, 1954.

occuPaTION: Public Relations; government and/or manufacturers’ trade rep-
resentative for numerous firms.

OFFICES HELD: Member, since 1952, numerous campaign posts, Republican Com-
mittee of Alexandria, Va.; member, board of governors, District of Co-
Jumbia Chapter, Sons of the Revolution.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and Washington; University Club
and Oxford-Cambridge Club, Washington; Washington Trade Association

Executives; Food Group, Washington; Sons of the Revolution; Military
Order of World Wars.

LIFE has been very full for me. After Harvard, I had a year at
Oxford and then several years as a United Press reporter in Europe.
Back in this country in 1938, I worked in various states until the
war as reporter, editor, publicity man and advertising agency copy-
writer. 1 was commissioned an ensign in the USNR in June, 1943,
spent six months studying communications in the Harvard Yard, and
was “spot promoted” to lieutenant commander in April, 1946. My
wife (with British passport) was able to be with me throughout the
war. When I went off active duty, we returned to England for
three months. We surveyed the cities of the world and decided
we could be happy living in any of them. We picked Washington,
1D.C., as the likely center of world activity for the next ten years.
Also, T knew I wanted my own business. So in late 1946 I opened

[ 346 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

what I expected to be a standard publicity and public relations office.
My first two clients were trade associations whose members could
sell all they could produce. They wanted to know what our govern-
ment was doing about legislation, price controls, materials controls,
taxes, tariffs, export controls, import regulations. Clients have
changed but the pattern is similar. I feel that I have handled every
possible kind of Washington problem: and yet each morning I am
surprised at the new ones which arise. It’s fascinating work, sur-
roundings pleasant, income reasonable and friendships many.
Because of our late start in getting a family, we devote a lot of
time to our eleven-year-old boy and four-year-old girl. We try to
spend every third summer in England. Also I had lived all my life
in apartments; then in February, 1957, we bought and moved into
a house with yard. [’m learning. Hope I can pick up some hints
from some of my more experienced classmates at the Reunion in
June, which we are already planning on with considerable pleasure.

DONALD LOTHROP DILL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 5526 N. Mascher St,, Philadelphia 20, Pa.

BORN: May 28, 1912, Perth Amboy, N.J. parents: Colby Dill, ’o4, Elsie De
Lamarter.

PREPARED AT: Derby Academy, Hingham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930—1931.

MmarriEpD: Alice M. Townsend, July 16, 1949, Philadelphia, Pa.

occupation: Food business.

MEMBER OF: American and New York Bible Societies.

WITH the Class for the freshman year only, it was my lot afterward
to have lived and worked in various surroundings and occupations
until toward the end of World War II, when Uncle Sam took me

[ 347 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

into the Army Air Force, and used me for fifteen months as a Med-
ical Corps enlisted man, stateside in Texas and Illinois,

Upon discharge I went to Southern California, with trips on two
occasions to the Grand Canyon. On the coast, I dwelt fora year and
a half in Los Angeles and vicinity, supporting myself chiefly in the
drug business, and centering my ‘life around a large Gospel-preach-
ing church out there.

‘The way opened, after this, into the Merchant Marine, where, off
and on for seven years, I worked in several unlicensed capacities in
the engine, deck and steward’s departments. Afloat, I visited most
of the principal seaports of our Gulf and Atlantic coasts, a few —
“nearby foreign,” and several transatlantic ones. In fact, as a mer-
chant seaman, I have been to England, France, Germany, Holland
and Turkey; through the Suez Canal on the way to Kuwaiten and
Saudi Arabian oil ports; and on this side, to Eastern Canada, Gulf
ports of Mexico and Colombia, and a few places in Venezuela, Cuba,
Puerto Rico and the Netherlands Antilles. On the Pacific I never
sailed further than near Catalina Island on a party boat once, sport-
fishing for barracuda from San Pedro!

Also, there was a prewar trip as a tourist to Western Europe
which also included a daylight train-crossing of Belgium, and a
week in Switzerland in the wintertime. While on the water, there
Was opportunity to get a little practice in one or two foreign lan-
guages I had previously begun, and to become a little better ac-
quainted with the “Book of. books,” the Bible,

Now I am back ashore, an opening materialized in the grocery
business and, to paraphrase the Chicago packer in the tale, this per-
son aims to “serve the Lord Jesus Christ, and (handles food) to pay
expenses,” In these times of turmoil it is certainly comforting to
read such Scriptures as Psalm 76:11: “Surely the wrath of man shall
praise Thee, the remainder of wrath shalt Thou restrain”; and
also such promises of the Saviour as in Jobn 6:37: “All that the
Father giveth Me shall come to Me; and him that cometh to Me I
will in no wise cast out.”

[ 348 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HAROLD GARFIELD DILLINGHAM, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3187 Diamond Head Rd., Honolulu, Hawaii.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1022 Alakea St., Honolulu 13, Hawaii.

BORN: Oct. 8, 1911, Honolulu, Hawaii. parents: Harold Garfield Dillingham,
’04, Margaret Bayard Smith.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 19343 M.B.A., 1936.

MARRIED: Mary T. Cooke, July, 1938, Honolulu, Hawaii (divorced 1954).
CHILDREN: Kenneth Henley, July 24, 1939; Catherine Hyde, March 13,

_ 1941; Theodore Cooke, June 14, 1943.
HARVARD BROTHERS: John Henley Dillingham, ’40; Bayard Harrison Dillingham,

’
40.
OccuPaTION: President, Honolulu Book Shops, Ltd., retail book chain; secretary,

director, B. F. Dillingham Company, director, Oahu Railway & Land Com-
pany; vice-president, director, Central Distributors, Ltd.; director, Canada
Dry (Hawaii), Ltd.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary and assistant treasurer, Oahu Railway & Land Com-
pany, 1936-49; credit executive, Bank of Hawaii, 1949-54, member, Ha-
walian-Philippine Sulu Sea Expedition, January-February, 1957; trustee,
Children’s Hospital. .

MEMBER OF: Honolulu Chamber of Commerce; Pacific Club; Outrigger Canoe
Club; Waikiki Yacht Club.

[ 349 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

LOWELL SMITH DILLINGHAM

 

HOME ADDRESS: 5475 Kalanianaole Highway, Honolulu, Hawaii.’

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hawaiian Dredging & Construction Co., Ltd., P.O. Box 3468,
Honolulu, Hawaii.

BORN: June 17, 1911, Honolulu, Hawaii. parents: Walter Francis Dillingham,
’o2z, Louise Olga Gaylord.

PREPARED AT: Nfiddlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934.

MarRiED: Harriet Barbour, June 12, 1936, Paterson, N.J. CHILDREN: Gail Louise,
Feb. 28, 1938 (72. Cedric Benjamin Baldwin, Jan. 2, 1958); Heather Barbour,
Nov. 29, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Benjamin Franklin Dillingham, 2d, °39; Henry Gaylord
Dillingham, ’40 (deceased).

XCUPATION: President, Hawaiian Dredging & Construction Company, Ltd.;
1st vice-president, Oahu Railway and Land Company; president, Dilling-
ham Bros. Ltd.; director, Bishop Trust Company, Ltd. Oahu Sugar
Company, Ltd.

MFFICES HELD: President, Maunalani Hospital & Convalescent Home.

MEMBER OF: Hawaiian Sugar Planters Association, Oahu Country Club; Pacific
Club; Pacific Union Club (San Francisco).

AFTER four years of Harvard, I returned home in 1934, to learn
-he dredging business from the ground up. Almost every job in the
>ompany I held at some time or other, until 1 was elected president
n 1955. Soon after becoming president, we launched out on an
nternational basis and I am pleased to say we now have numerous
obs from Suez to Honolulu.

All during the time since 1934, I have been especially interested
n ranching as a hobby, and just recently went into the coffee busi-
ress as a sideline of my ranching interests.

[350]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ KENNETH DiMENNA

 

BorN: April 7, 1909, Newark, N.J. parents: Anthony DiMenna, Anna Coleman.
PREPARED AT: Barringer High School, Newark, N.J. -

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., CU71 laude, 1934.

MARRIED: Myrtle M. DiMenna. cuitp: Roberta.

pieD: July 29, 1951, Tenafly, N.J.

wipow: Mrs. Kenneth DiMenna, 14 Oak Ave., Tenafly, N.J.

KENNETH DIMENNA was a member of the Red Book Photo-
graphic Board, the Dramatic Club and the freshman track team. After
graduation he became associated with the Western Electric Company
in Newark. When last heard from, in 1940, he was an auditor with
that company. He was survived by his wife and daughter.

  

HOME ApprEss: Rear 309-13 S. Montgomery St., Ojai, Calif,
OFFICE apprEss: E. & H, Dorsey, P.O, Box 1414, Ojai, Calif.

BORN: Sept. 15, 1912, East Orange, N.J. parents: Herbert Grove Dorsey, Vir-
ginia Munroe Rowlett.

[351]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934, 1935-1936, 1937-1938. DEGREES: S.B, 1934(38); S.M.
(Massachusetts Inst. of Technology), 1949.

sarrifp: Elizabeth Copley Ballantine, Oct. 29, 1939, Washington, D.C. (di-
vorced 1958). CHILDREN: Herbert Grove, 3d, Mav 27, 1940; William Ballan-
tine, April 29, 1942; Diana, Dec. 31, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Rowlett Dorsey, °41.

occupation: Hydro-meteorological research; specialist in USAF Polar Opera-
tions, as active major, now consultant.

oFFices HELD: Chairman, Alaska Branch, American Meteorological Society,
1949-51; coordinator and chairman, Emotional Security Programs, Nor-
walk (Calif.) State Hospital, 1953-54; Community Chest Agent; Chamber
of Commerce (Ojai) Committees; PTA.

MEMBER OF: American Meteorological Society; Arctic Institute of North
America; American Polar Society; British Glaciological Society.

puBLications: “Local Forecasting of Heavy Winter Precipitation,” 1936; “Ant-
arctic Mountain Weather Stations,” 1941; “Glaciation of Siberia,” with R.
F. Flint, 1945; “Meteorological Aspects of Greenland Ice Cap,” 1945,
“Wartime Investigation of the Ice Cap,” with F. A. Wade, 1946; “Arctic

Meteorology,” in Compendium, American Meteorological Society, 1951;
gy ,

“Outlook for New England Winters,” 1954.

WHY do things the hard way? The psychologists among you can
answer for mountaineers, explorers, spacemen. . . in a few factual,
unromantic remarks. But we, whose strayings from the more fre-
quented paths were tolerated and even encouraged during our
Harvard years, are likely to have opinions as different as individuals
can be. My awareness of venturesome tendencies is sharper today,
but my preference for the idealistic or romantic narrative delayed
this writing as before.

How can inanimate matter have a natural perversity? I, too,
pondered this — though not necessarily in the manner of my research-
physicist father. Conflicts? Contrasts? A trite phrase, “Battle Be-
tween the Opposites” (not excluding sexes), seems to supply some
of the answers and reminds me of some life-before-Harvard pertinent
to this story. My life has been full despite contra-indications since
early days. I had a close brush with death at age four, and yet that
same year felt a first great love for inanimate nature. Imagine the
impact, the contrast between the struggle with death and wonderful
release, to a love of playing in snow and on ice! No wonder I felt
such a deep attraction for the life of a polar explorer and arctic
meteorologist.

My reading and study of polar expeditions started early and was
greatly accclerated in college, thanks to Harvard’s Library and In-
stitute of Geographical Exploration. The simulated polar experi-

[ 352 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ences gained through White Mountain winter trips, with Ski Squad
and Mountaineering Club, were topped off by an exhilarating year
as a weather-observer-mountaineer on Mt. Washington, New
Hampshire, 1936-37. Weather research work at Harvard’s Blue
_ Hill Observatory then financed a start at M.I.T. and a final semester
of engineering sciences at Harvard. Forecasting was still more an
art than science, or I wouldn’t have done so well at it. There was
plenty of room for individual expression and group discussion in
seminars attended by most of Metro’s staff and students. Scheduled
meetings often adjourned to informal continuations across the avenue
( Mass. ) where the Café tables could be meteorologically regrouped
for “ein Bier.” I became indebted to Harvard’s Dr. C. F. Brooks
and Drs. Rossby and Willett of M.LT. for far more than a lifetime’s
value in inspiration!

Sharing a Dunster Street apartment with my brother (Virginia
to Harvard transferee, autumn 1938) gave me a good “base ops” for
the most social of eight years lived in Cambridge. An ever-running
Model A made almost daily rounds of my fiancée’s Wellesley
grounds, and double round-trips weekends or an aside to some New
Hampshire ski spot. It was very little strain, including honor grades
at M.1I.T., but my “free” time was about to run out unexpectedly,
pleasingly. It was 10 years before I finished my graduate thesis.

My long cherished dream of polar exploration started coming
true at last. I was given the chance to be an expedition meteorologist
and weather forecaster for Admiral Byrd’s south polar exploratory
flights on the 1939-41 U.S. Antarctic Expedition .. . and gladly
took a cut in pay to go. Meanw hile, the dream of starting my own
family had been rivaling that of polar adventure for several years.
Now it came true too! Betty and I were married in the W ashing-
ton, D.C., Cathedral three weeks before my departure. Picture the
contrast between that and the poignant separation for many families,
along with ours, when we cast off from Boston in the last of the
Navy commissioned sailing polar ships, the barkentine and former
revenue cutter USS Bear. A dreary late November day it was, with
snow-spitting clouds filling the leaden sky and husky sledge-dogs
accenting the more mournful aspects W ith their staccato yelps and
eerie howling.

I should have written a book about the next eighteen months! |
made several brief reports in technical publications.

After returning from that far away southern continent (our
East Base Group made an epic-worthy escape from its ice-bound

[ 353 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

student supreme, yet talented in domestic and social arts, and an
attractive lass for that! She is destined for higher education in the
East, mavbe Radcliffe?

ELMER FRANCIS DOW

 

HOME ApprEsS: 130 Bradley Ave., Meriden, Conn.

BORN: Jan. 11, 1912, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Elmer Mears Dow, Minnie A. Silver.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: S.B., cu laude, 1934; M.B.Ay 1936.

UN MARRIED.

occuPaTION: Financial consultant.

OFFICES HELD: President, Controllers Institute of America (Hartford Chapter),
1954; director, National Association of Accountants, 1946-49.

MEMBER OF: Home Club, Meriden, Conn.; Masonic Fraternity.

puBLications: “Contract Renegotiation,” National Association of Accountants,
several articles on finance, Controllers Institute of America; financial articles,
Hartford Times and Hartford Courant, Connecticut Industry Magazine.

ASSOCIATED with Lybrand Ross Bros. & Montgomery in New
York City, certified public accountants and auditors, 1536-40; staff
accountant with United Aircraft Corporation, East Hartford
(Conn.), 1940-42; U.S. Army, Springfield Ordnance District, Spring-
field (Mass.), 1942-46, with work on contract renegotiation and
as special assistant to Price Adjustment Board, received Army Com-
mendation Medal from Chief of Ordnance, Washington, D.C.,
rank of major in Reserves; treasurer, Colts Manufacturing Company,
Hartford (Conn.), 1946-49; controller and assistant treasurer, Inter-
national Silver Company, Meriden (Conn.), 1949-57; financial con-
sultant, since 1957.

[ 358 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT .

GEORGE CHARLES DOWD

 

HOME AppRESS: 81-9 Park Ave., Worcester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 216 Main St., Worcester, Mass.

BORN: March 27, 1914, Worcester, Mass. parents: Charles George Dowd,
Carima Guise.

PREPARED AT; North High School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 1934(35); M.D. (Middlesex Medical
School), 1941.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Physician; internist and geriatrician.

OFFICES HELD: President, Phoenix Club, 1946-53, Council of Eastern Orthodox
Churches, 1955-59, Lord’s Day Committee, 1958-59, Greater Worcester
Committee for Better Dental Health, 1958-59; chairman, Department of
Geriatric Medicine, Boston Evening Clinic and Hospital, 1950-59; chair-
man, National Employment Advisory Committee, 1950-59, vice-president,
1958-59, American Geriatrics Society; trustee, G.A.R. Hall.

MEMBER OF: Gerontological Society (fellow); American Medical Association
(fellow); New York Academy of Sciences (fellow); American Academy
of Political and Social Science; American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science; First Infantry Division Officers Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Six original clinical research articles on degenerative diseases
of ageing; author of handbook, The Senescent in Industry and Evaluation
of His Fitness.

WE could write a good-sized volume, but being on the “lazy” side,
we'll be brief. After graduation at the tender age of twenty, we
spent a year commuting between “Professor Hooton’s ape center”
in Cambridge and the “vampire” center, the blood labs at Boston
City Hospital. Georgetown Medical then occupied a year of our
time; illness at home forced a transfer to Middlesex Medical. After
a year of internship in Brooklyn and completion of the “Bartle of
Prospect Park” there, Uncle Sam invited us to join the First Infantry
Division as a “foxhole” surgeon. North Africa, Sicily, France,

[ 359 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Belgium, Germany and Czechoslovakia were “hedge-hopped” via
the “foxhole route.” Satan almost ‘ ‘got’ us a few times, but after
some three and one-half years, we managed to return to the land
of the “hot dog” and ice cream cone, and to our alma mater, this
time, the Graduate Medical School at Harvard for refresher courses.
In 1946, private practice was begun in Worcester. Geriatrics (old-
age diseases) took our interest, and we have been at it ever since.

Various organizations recognized the “fall guy” quality in us, and
immediately began to draft us for work — which we do not basi-
cally like to do, And we have become hopelessly mired in same.
As a result, some lucky girl was spared our boring company and we
remained unmarried.

Some five years ago, against our better judgment, we opened our
big mouth in criticism, and the church lay organizations snagged us,
especially since we were a bachelor. As a consequence, not only did
our own faith put us to work, but other denominations drafted us.
We sometimes wonder whether we preach or practise. And, our
patients not infrequently call us Father or Reverend Dowd, when
they discuss their problems with us.

In our emporium of professional and extra-curricular endeavors
(alias our office), there is never a dull moment.

The past twenty-five years of our life have been rich and memo-
rable and the yeast which has engendered all this way of life, was
concocted at the “Yard” some twenty-five years ago. For this, |
am most grateful to John Harvard.

é

ALAN SEYMOUR DOWNER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 294 Nassau St, Princeton, N.J,
orvice, abparss: 22, McCosh Hall, Princeton University, Princeton, N.J.

[ 360 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BoRN: July 15, 1912, Syracuse, N.Y. Parents: Harry Vincent Downer, Molly
Louese Bliss.

PREPARED AT: Syracuse Central High School, Syracuse, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., Cum laude, 1934; A.M., 1936.

MarRRIED: Florence Marcia Walsh, Sept. 7, 1941, Cambridge, Mass. cumo:
Alan Seymour, Jr., Nov. 29, 1949.

occupaTion: Professor of English, Princeton University.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, English Institute, 1947-53; member, plenary com-
mittee, International Federation for Theatre Research, since 1956; member,
examining committee, Advanced Placement Program in Literature and
English Composition, E.T.S., since 1956; founder and chairman, American
Society for Theatre Research, 1955-58.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association; (English) Society for Theatre
Research; Société d'Histoire du Théatre; International Federation for
Theatre Research; American Society for Theatre Research, Shakespeare
Society of America; American Association of University Professors.

PUBLICATIONS: Twenty-Five Modern Plays, 1948; The British Drama, a handbook
and brief chronicle, 1950; Fifty Years of American Drama, 1951 (trans-

lated into Arabic, Korean, Japanese, Italian); The Art of the Play, 1955;

some 100 articles and reviews in professional, critical and general periodi-

cals, and editions of Shakespeare and Sheridan in Rinehart & Crofts edi-
tions.

SINCE I am a born avoider of issues, my “career” might be called
“A Chapter of Accidents.” I never dreamed of going to college;
so a devoted high school librarian dreamed it for me, the Harvard
Club of Syracuse came up with what was in 1930 a generous schol-
arship, and I headed for Harvard. I didn’t even know where Cam-
bridge was-—I spent a night in Boston before setting out on the
long trek to Harvard Square. And that was the second accident:
in search of night life, I went to see Jane Cowl in Twelfth Night
across the street from my hotel. The two great unexpecteds, Har-
vard and the Theatre, determined my future.

Harvard supplied a continuum of happy accidents. Henry Chaun-
cey called my attention to the Downer Scholarship, thanks to which
I had to make no decisions for nine years. Kitty and Fritz Robinson
introduced me to the world of scholarship, Matthiessen to the world
of humane criticism, and my tutor, Jere Whiting, to the combina-
tion of both, The Shuberts were still selling theatre tickets for fiftv-
five cents, and I left my mark on the ceiling above the last row in
every second balcony in Boston. And Christ Church, under the
liberal leadership of Leslie Glenn, provided me with a stage of my

own to practise on. Widener and the Wilbur and the amateur thea-
tre shaped my future without my knowing it,

After graduation, the decision between nothing and the Graduate

[ 361 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

School (on the Downer Scholarship) was hardly up to me. I stayed
on, part of the time as librarian at Lowell House, part of the time
as a more or less conscientious scholar, bue most of the time as en-
thusiastic playgoer and play producer, When I reached the point
where T could no longer pretend to be a scholar-in-training, I retired
for a vear to pretend to be a writer-in-training. But I found my-
self in a small town whose library afforded me “nothing to read but
a collection of nearly a thousand 1gth-century plays. I spent the
winter reading them and found myself drawn back to scholarship:
I wanted to study the theatre for which they were written and to
write about them, rather than the detective stories I thought I
wanted to write. But before I could make a decision I was invited
to teach at Wells College and my program was to be divided be-
tween the teaching of literature and the staging of plays.

From 1940 to 1946, I stayed at Wells, teaching freshman English
and advanced literature and staging a half-dozen plays a year. Out
of this accidental combination came my present status as professor
of English at Princeton and specialist in stage history and dramatic
criticism. Since this is a field in which not many people are active,
I have had the opportunity of special assiznments at Cornell, Penn-
sylvania, the University of Southern California and at Harvard,
where I chaired a special conference on contemporary drama. This
led to the writing of a small book on American drama, which in turn
led to the invitation to teach American drama at the University of
Copenhagen.

This accident (courtesy of Senator Fulbright) led to a further
widening of my field. During my year in Denmark, I lectured all
over Europe and had a happy reunion with Lowell Harriss in Hol-
land. I met European scholars who were eager for contacts with
Americans in their fields. 1 found myself on the plenary committee
of the International Society for Theatre Research and a member of
the editorial board of their journal.

I have been at Princeton since 1946, where, because of the size,
the structure and the curriculum, I find myself more intimately
connected with young men than was possible in the Harvard of our
day. And TI find, as I talk to these young men, that there is no place
in their plans for accident. Most of them know, firmly, where they
are heading, for what professions or carcers. By the end of their
sophomore ) year they can see clearly the M.D., the LI D., the adver-
tising agency chair that bears their initials; ‘and they are intense,

and distressed about grades, and oh, so scrious, J try co tell them

[ 362]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

about the accidental life, but they point out, very reasonably, that
the world has changed. Small men can no longer afford to be guided
by whim and accident; today that is the privilege only of nations
and political parties. But as I look back, it does seem a shame.

THOMAS DOWNES

 

HOME ADDRESS: 53 Emerson Rd., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Downes Lumber Co., 100 Southampton St., Boston 18, Mass.

BORN: July 23, 1912, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: James Edward Downes, Mary
Ellen Murphy. ;

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1934.

MarRIED: Jean Gregory, Oct. 17, 1936, New York, N.Y. cyitpren: Bonnie,
Nov. 17, 1937; Gregory, March 17, 1939; James Edward, 2d, Oct. 29,
1940; Thomas Stephen, April 12, 1949.

HARVARD SON: Gregory Downes, ’61.

HARVARD BROTHERS: James Edward Downes, Jr., 735, L.B., °38; Philip Godfrey
Downes, ’40.

OCCUPATION: President and general manager, Downes Lumber Company,
lumber and building material distribution yard.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Winchester Harvard Scholarship Fund, since 1949;
director, Northeastern Lumber Dealers Association, 1951-53; member,
Fellsland Boy Scout Council, 1951-53, Winchester Finance Committee,
1953-55; co-chairman, Schools and Scholarship Committee, 1954-58,
governor, since 1958, Harvard Club of Boston, vice-president and trustee,
Belmont Hill School, since 1956; president, Boston Lumber Trade Club,
SINCE 1957.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Winchester Country Club.

THE whirling excitement and glamorous haze of Class Day, Com-
mencement, boat races and innumerable cocktail parties ended
abruptly that Monday morning at six a.at., as I donned my dungarees

[ 363 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

and went to work in the family yard. The transition from a carefree

student to a laborer punching atime clock was far from easy, but
this was the Great Depression and a job was a job. [endured rather
than accepted, waiting for something to happen.

Fortunately, after two years, it did —I found The Girl on the
W cllesley campus. My salary having reached the splendid sum of
twenty -five dollars a week and love being blind to all obstacles, we
were married that fall and lived happily. ever after. The next six
vears of ever after we lived in a roseate, secure (but not financially)
young married world that saw Bonnie, Greg and Jimmy come along
and we ran pretty fast to make ends meet. A parental gift enabled
us to build a house and during this period our energies were mostly .
absorbed with children, gardening and neighbors.

In 1941, things began looking up and we were just beginning to
get ahead of the game. Then suddenly Pearl Harbor and war; the
world, our world turned upside down, never to be quite the same
again. Two weeks later I had my orders to report to the U.S. Marine
Corps Basic Training School at the Philadelphia Navy Yard. For
the next two and a half years Jeannie and the children followed me
around on my various assignments in North Carolina and Washing-
ton, sharing the wartime service life in this country with its ever-
laughable mix-ups and mishaps. Finally, shipping out to Fleet Marine
Headquarters on staff duty, I saw the rest of the war go by, leaving
only the unforgettable memory of service camaraderie.

Returning again to the lumber yard, I gradually assumed more
responsibilities from my father, who was to die sooner than I ex-
pected. At home there was Boy Scouting, coaching young baseball
players and myriad youthful activities. A little later Stevie arrived
to join the family circle to our great and continuing delight. With
a growing interest in civic and comyiunity matters, I served on the
Town Finance Committee and on the Fellsland Scout Council. A
reawakened interest in Harvard problems drew me back and I found
working with the Scholarship Committee of the Harvard Club of
doston absorbing and challenging. The whole national education
picture is exciting and stimulating and I have thoroughly enjoyed
serving on the Belmont Hill School executive committee. My sole
venture into politics has consisted in running for and being elected
a trustee of the Winchester Public Library (unopposed, I should
add).

Then — fund-raising! Hlow did I ever get involved in so many
moncy-raising activities! There has been money for Boy Scouts,

[ 364 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

basketball backboards for the elementary school, a camera for the
football team, the Belmont Hill Fund, the Winchester Harvard
Scholarship Fund, the Program for Harvard College, the United
Fund — just to name a few — and the end is not in sight.

Time has run faster and faster. My daughter is suddenly a senior
at Wellesley and my oldest boy a sophomore at Harvard. Aside
from business and avocational pursuits — educational or civic — my
wife and I happily share several hobbies. We like to garden and
swim in the summer, and in the winter we are avid at curling on the
ice (the combination of the game, the exercise, the trips for bonspiels
with other clubs and the wee doch and dorris after, are irresistible).

I do not feel any older even though my wind is a little shorter, the
bourbon is a little weaker and the girls seem a little younger. Life
has been and is fun and exciting. Jeannie and I both feel that the
best is yet to come.

GEORGE CHESTER DOYLE

 

HOME AppREss: 14 Holm Ct., Malden 48, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 41 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: July 19, 1912, Malden, Mass. parents: Charles Roger Doyle, Mary
Irene Doyle.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MarRRiED: Doris Thulin, June 5, 1936, Kittery, Maine (divorced 1944). CHILDREN:
Stephen Dennis, April 28, 1937; Matthew Peter, Oct. 5, 1942.

occupation: Director, Division of Smoke Inspection, State Health Department.

PUBLICATIONS: The Government Service, Bellman Publishing Company, Boston,
Mass., 1942.

ALL in all, I would say the years have been good to me. We all
try to cheat nature and we get away with it for years on end, but

[ 365 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

nature invariably wins in the end. By this I mean the artificiality of
our city lives, diet, smoking, drinking and resisting the pressures
which surround us.

Workwise, as a child of the depression, I successfully sought
shelter from the storms of business inactivity in government em-
ployment. By a display of versatility of sorts, T have spent my entire
working life since graduation in the public service. I have been
consultant to the City of Boston and the Boston Port Authority,
have seen service with the State Department of Public Works, Traffic
Division, Bureau of Internal Revenue, as deputy collector and in-
come tax auditor, and State Unemployment Compensation Commis-
sion with administrative duties; have worked on publicity for
Regional and State OPA and the State Department of Public Util-
ities. Today I find myself under the protective wing of Civil Serv-
ice as director of the Division of Smoke Inspection (air pollution)
in the State Health Department. As can be readily observed, I have
run the gamut in government service, so that my majoring in gov-
ernment at Harvard was not entirely wasted.

Apart from this, I engaged in practical politics, serving as pub-
licity director of various Congressional campaigns and the guber-
natorial campaign of the late Maurice Tobin. None of this has made
me rich, but has kept me in cigarettes at any rate.

My two boys are the pride, pleasure and wonder of my life. I
have, in common with all fathers, the hope that they will accomplish
the things the old man was unable to do.

Reading widely and deeply on occasion has been my chief hobby,
although I have e long had a passionate love affair with modern furni-
ture and her roommate, architecture. These have satisfied my aes-
thetic self. I follow Harvard football avidly, and have had my heart
broken so many times it is beyond all mending. We live in hope,
though, and I believe better times are coming. Horse-racing has
given me thrills galore, a lot of fun and a little money. I earned a
Ph.D. in this field from the School of Experience and I am not pat-
ting mysclf on the back unduly, when J say that I am the best handi-
capper in the United States, so say those that know.

As far as the state of the world is concerned, mankind like the
drunkard, I believe, is incapable of learning from experience. F.du-
cation helps, since I know from my own expericnce, as well as that
of others, that the tolerance I now have toward the beliefs and
foibles of other men was born in the College. For my classmates,
I wish long, full and satisfying lives.

[ 366 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DANIEL DRAPER

 

HOME AppRESS: 2171 Glencoe Rd., Winter Park, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Minute Maid Corp., 1200 W. Colonial Drive, Orlando, Fla.

BORN: Aug. 17, 1913, Boston, Mass. pareNTS: William Hill Draper, ’96, Bessie
Sarah Foster.

PREPARED AT: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1934.

MaRRIED: Judith Waterhouse, Dec. 5, 1942, Cambridge, Mass. cHMmpREN:
Daniel, Jr., March 29, 1945; Nancy, March 3, 1948; Marianne, Oct. 21, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Finance; vice-president and treasurer, Minute Maid Corporation,
producers of frozen citrus products. .

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Club of Central Florida, 1953-55; treasurer,
Winter Park Racquet Club, 1953-55; director, College Park National
Bank, Orlando, Fla., since 1955; trustee, Winter Park Memorial Hospital,
Winter Park, Fla., since 1957.

MEMBER OF: Boy Scouts of America; All Saints Episcopal Church; Controller's

Institute.

IN January of 1944, I went to work for a small, new research com-
pany in Cambridge, Massachusetts, which was everything I was
looking for in the way of new horizons. The Army had recently
dispensed with my services, and I’d been in and out of uniform long
enough to fight the battle of Cottage Farm Bridge with a branch
of the Intelligence Division, and decide exactly what I wanted to do
— or at least under what circumstances I wanted to do it —after I
“got out.” One of the prerequisites was that the company I should
work for have no branch offices. I was a New Englander born, a
New Englander bred and a New Englander I would be buried!
Ten months later I was in Florida. Same company, branch office
number one — they’d been lying in wait for me, I think, The result
of the whole thing was a new company — Minute Maid —and a
new and different life for the Drapers. My wife, Judith, is Massa-

[ 367 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

chusetts born and Connecticut College bred. Together we cursed
the summer heat, basked in the winter sunshine, raised children and
changed gradually from provincial New Englanders to southern
citizens, who were neither newcomers nor pioneers in a society that
is now made up of people from everywhere. It is an invigorating
and provocative situation, which promotes of necessity a facility for
changing attitudes without, we hope, compronusing principles.

A homely example involving my boy, then about tw elve. I had
occasion to check through a family genealogy which happened to
be an excellent example “of ‘its art, complete with photographs of
captains (Union), colonels (Union), and even a smattering of gen-
erals (also Union). His interest increased to the point of a thor-
ough examination of the whole book. Then he was back, much
woebegone, asking my help — he must be mistaken. No, I assured
him — he and his mother and sisters and I were the first of our
branch of the family below the Mason and Dixon line. “You mean.
Dad, not one of our family fought on our side? What am I going
to tell my friends!” It came as a shock to me, too. Even now, per-
sons hearing me open my mouth for the first time ask me what part
of Boston I come from.

But we haven’t missed New England. We’ve been so thoroughly
immersed in orange juice, and citrus concentrates of all kinds, that
there has actually been little time to muse much. Aside from busi-
ness, ’'ve managed to get mixed up in the more formal extracurri-
lar activities outlined above, if for no other reason than to try to
keep up with a wife who must have had a very inactive and disor-
ganized childhood — because she has since taken it out on the world
by organizing everything in sight.

Like everyone else, I’ve had trouble keeping up with the day-to-
day demands. This “do-it-yourself,” for instance. I don’t under-
stand why it has just recently become a craze. To my best memory,
I have been fixing kids’ bikes, repairing doors and windows, build-
ing more shelves and buying paint brushes ever since I was born.
Or perhaps I just get behind, because I do travel a lot.

It’s time to wind this up with the usual paragraph about how
everything I am, I owe to Harvard and my wife, All right, so be it.
I guess I mean it, too, I had occasion last year to say about six words
to a group of ninth-graders who were studying the History of Phi-
losophy and Applied Logic in a local junior high school, at their
own expense and on Saturdays — because they wanted to. It was a
tremendously interesting experiment and I hope it doesn’t die. I

[ 368 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

told them, however, that as a businessman I knew the attempts |]
made as a philosophy major at Harvard, and my efforts toward learn-
ing how to use the English language, were the things that I con-
sciously was aware of as real props to my evolution. Those two,
plus a happy ability to hire good men who know infinitely more
about everything than I do.

As for my wife —I’m very happy doing what I never expected
to be doing, twelve hundred miles from where I expected to be
doing it — and I have three average children. All these things are
her fault.

PAUL FRANCIS DRISCOLL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 143 Beacon St., Framingham, Nfass.

OFFICE appREss: Worcester Telegram, 20-22 Franklin St., Worcester, Mass.

BORN: June 13, 1911, Framingham, Mass. parents: James Henry Driscoll,
Bridget Coleman.

PREPARED AT: Framingham High School, Framingham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1934.

MARRIED: Wanda L, Haznar, June 28, 1941, New Bedford, Mass. CHILDREN:
Dawn Marie, Nov. 5, 1946; Marcella, Sept. 15, 1952.

OccUPATION: Journalism; State House reporter and columnist.

OFFICES HELD: President, Massachusetts State House Press Association, 1956-57;
Framingham Town Meeting Member, 1957-58.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts State House Press Association.

PUBLICATIONS: My Felicia (novel), Macmillan, 1945.

AFTER Commencemient, I went as far as Washington, D.C., looking
for a newspaper job; couldn't find one; returned home to Framing-
ham, Mass., and took a job teaching history and government in the
local high school.

After too many years of that, I found work during the war years

[ 369 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

as reporter for the Worcester Telegram. My military service was
limited to the Massachusetts State Guard, where in three years ]
managed to rise, without the help of political influence, from private
to ptc. Meanwhile, I was writing a novel about New Bedford, which
Macmillan published in 1945 under the ttle of Aly Felicia.

Partly on the strength of that, I was invited in 1947 to teach writing
at the State University of Iowa in Iowa City, Shortly afterward I
was seriously ill; recovered and returned, in 1950, to Massachusetts
and the Worcester Telegram.

In 1952 I was sent to cover the State House in Boston and have
been there ever since, except in 1953, when I was general assignment
reporter and in this capacity wrote seven consecutive lead stories
on the Worcester tornado. I covered the Democratic national con-
vention in 1952; state party conventions, 1954, 1956, 1958; state
primary and election campaigns, 1950, 1952, 1956, 1958. My asso-
ciation with politicians has convinced me that, contrary to the
common belief, they are on the whole fine people and better, prob-
ably, than the voters deserve. I have found them more intelligent
than teachers, more honest than businessmen. Their chief sin is a
lack of courage, a defect not unknown in other occupations. This
in turn results from pressures put upon them by organized special
interest groups, while the general public takes little interest in their
work.

As for the Massachusetts Legislature, my own conclusion, based
on the observations of six years, is that this — for all its failings —
is likely the best in the nation. This opinion may shock those who
put their faith in newspaper editorials. But it is not original with me;
Lord Bryce said as much, away back in 1888. I, for one, see no
reason to disagree with him.

[ 370 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE HOFFMAN DUFFIELD, JR.

bd SEIS PRI CT oee Mes og a cet

   

HOME AppREsS: 860 Albany Rd., Lexington, Ky.
OFFICE ADDRESS: American Mutual Liability Insurance Co., 496 Southland Drive,

Lexington, Ky.
BORN: Sept. 13, 1912, Bridgeton, N.J. parents: George Hoffman Dutfheld,

Carolyn Corson Sharp.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.; Phillips Academy, An-
dover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Mae Maxine Rea, March 30, 1946, Richmond, Va. cHiLpren: George
Hoffman, 3d, Dec. 18, 1947; Robert Rea, March 31, 1930; Thomas Alan,

April 3, 1955.
OccUPATION: Vice-president, Division General Manager, American Afutual

Liability Insurance Company.
MEMBER OF: Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity; Anglers’ Club, Newton, Mass.;
Bluegrass Sportsman’s and Lansdowne Clubs, Lexington, Ky.; American

Management Association.

AFTER graduation, with the effects of the Great Depression still
everywhere, I found that the field of insurance had proved as re-
sistant to the economic toboggan as any industry and therefore de-
cided to find a career in that direction. In the ensuing years, I have
never regretted that decision. In February, 1935, I joined American
Mutual Liability Insurance Company at its home office in Boston
and soon moved into the Underwriting Department, In February,
1938, I was transferred to Philadelphia and in October, 1941, was
sent to Atlanta, Georgia.

In August, 1942, I went on active duty in the Navy as leutenant
(j.g.) and was assigned to the statf of Commander Air Force, At-
lantic Fleet. Based at Norfolk, Virginia, I spent most of the war
fighting the Battle of Hampton Roads. Te had its compensations,
however, because at Virginia Beach, 1 met the hehe of my hte, On

[ 378 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

discharge to inactive duty as lieutenant commander in March, 1946,
I was married in Richmond, Vi irginia,

Returning to American Mutual, ] was underwriting manager for
a subsidiary, American Policyholders Insurance Company, from
April, 1946, to May, 1947, at which time I was transferred back to
Atlanta as division underwriting manager for American Mutual. At
this point I had traveled more in the insurance business than I had
in the Nav y.

In September, 1952, 1 was fortunate to have the opportunity to
attend the Advanced Management Program at Harvard Business
School — one of the highlights of my business experience. In Sep-
tember, 1955, American. Mutual reorganized i its operations extensive-
Iv, at which time it sent me to Chicago as vice-president and division
general manager. Then, in April, 1957, the western division office
was moved from Chicago to Lexington, Kentucky, and now I’m en-
joving the Bluegrass Country.

W ith my W ife a Virginian and our three boys born in Atlanta,
I'm sort of a reconstructed Yankee. As for politics, I generally vote
Republican, but frequently down in Dixie, the choice is limited to
Democrats. On religion, my wife was raised as a Baptist and I as a
Congregationalist. We have worked out a happy compromise by
joining the Presbyterian Church.

LEWIS WARREN DUNTON, JR.

 

HOME abpkess: 616 Howard St. Melrose 76, Mass.

orice appress: A. C, Lawrence Leather Co., Peabody, Mass.

soun: July 26, 1912, Spencer, Mass. parents: Lewis Warren Dunton, ’95, Grace
Darling Taylor.

purpanéo at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Fixcter, NEL.

[ 372 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

marRiED: Mary Ellen Gable, Sept. 15, 1936, Lancaster, Pa. cHitpren: Lewis
Warren, 3d and James Gable (twins), Feb. 7, 1940; Frank Prouty, Sept.
8, 1946.

HARVARD sons: James Gable Dunton, 62; Lewis Warren Dunton, 3d, ‘62.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Taylor Dunton, ’38.

occuPATION: Leather manufacturing; manager, Calfskin Division, A. C
Lawrence Leather Company.

OFFICES HELD: Captain, U. S, Nawal Reserve, team manager, Melrose Little
League, 1948-50, scoutmaster, 1950-56, member, Troop Committee, since
1956, Boy Scout Troop 4, Melrose; member, Finance Committee, First
Congregational Church, Melrose.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Commandery, Naval Order of the United States,
Harvard Club of Eastern Middlesex; Harvard Varsity Club.

AS I sit down to write this report, I am, more than ever, impressed
with the apparent brevity of the last twenty-five years, and the
profusion of events which have crowded themselves into that period
makes it difficult to know where to begin this narrative.

After graduation from college, I returned to Harvard in the fall
for further study at the Graduate School of Business Administration.
At the conclusion of my first year at Business School, I decided to
terminate my formal education and go to work. This decision was
influenced by the untimely death of my father early in 1935, the
necessity for educating my younger brother, then a freshman at
Harvard, and my anxiety to hasten the date on which Mary and I
might be married.

As you all are well aware, the job opportunities in 1935 were
anything but abundant, and the choice strictly limited. However,
after much ringing of doorbells, I ventured forth one day armed
with a letter of introduction from Mr. Dwinnell of the Harvard
Placement Bureau addressed to the president of the A. C. Lawrence
Leather Company in Peabody, Massachusetts. As a result of the
ensuing interview I was hired as a time-study man in the standards
department. While the salary was meagre even by the standards of
the mid-thirties, nevertheless the future was promising and I settled
down to learn about the tanning and finishing of leather. Successive-
ly, I held various positions in production, sales, credit work, and
was assistant credit manager when, in February, 1941, I was ordered
to report for active duty in the U.S. Naval Reserve.

In the meantime, Mary and I had happily culminated our long
engagement by our wedding in 1936, at Lancaster, Pennsylvania, I
blush to relate that we spent the first night of our wedding trip at —

[ 373 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

of all places — the Princeton Inn! Despite that beginning, ours has
been a supremely happy married life. We were not a little surprised
and greatly pleased when our first child turned out (without any
prior warning) to be twin sons.

The twins were just a year old when, in 1941, I reported as an
ensign to the Bureau of Navigation (later the Bureau of Naval Per-
sonnel) in Washington for active duty in connection with officer
procurement. Like some two score of the rest of you, my naval
career had its inception when I enrolled, in the fall of 1930, in Naval
Sci. 1. You will recall that those were the days when most people
said “there can never be another war” and we in the ROTC were
ridiculed by some of our classmates. I fought the “Battle of Wash-
ington” for over two years, helping to roll out reserves and placate
Congressmen. The best part of that duty was the opportunity it
provided for seeing so many of my old college and school friends
who passed through Washington, plus, of course, the fact that I
was able to have my family with me. I finally managed to obtain a
more active role in fighting the war in the Pacific; and, in fact, on
many occasions during action with the enemy in the Philippines, |
wondered why I had been so anxious to leave my “mahogany fox-
hole” on Constitution Avenue.

After five years in the Navy, a Purple Heart and a Silver Star, I
returned to civilian life and to the A. C. Lawrence Company, where
I became engaged in the purchasing of raw calfskins. ‘This required
extensive traveling throughout the United States, including several
trips to the Pacific Coast, and to Europe. In 1951, on leave of
absence from my business, I traveled to Japan as member of a four-
man mission sent under joint cognizance of the Department of the
Army and the N.P.A. to make a survey and report to the Supreme
Commander of the Allied Powers on the requirements of the Japa-
nese textile industry for basic leather raw materials. We traveled in
V.I.P. status and received “red carpet” treatment throughout the
Empire.

A third son, Frank, joined our family shortly after the war, and
with a family including three boys a good deal of my spare time in
the past thirteen years has been given over to work with the Boy
Scouts, Little League baseball and YMCA in Melrose, where we
have made our home since the war. I have also taken an active part
in the affairs of the First Congregational Church. Most of our
summer vacations have been spent at Southwest Harbor, Maine,
where sailing is the principal attraction. Occasional golf, skiing in

[374]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the winter, and gardening around our home have provided adequate
exercise to keep me in reasonably good shape, though I should never
be able to make the 150’s again! Since a recent promotion to man-
ager of the Calfskin Division of A. C. Lawrence, I find that spare
time is even more at a premium.

For four years, Mary and I watched our twin sons, Lew and Jim,
participate in high school football, track and hockey games, and last
June we proudly saw them graduate as valedictorian and salutatorian,
respectively, of their class in Melrose High School, Both boys were
admitted to Harvard as freshmen in the Class of 1962. I have found
myself reliving through them all the Pleasures of freshman year at
Harvard, despite the many changes since our day, and now I look
forward to seeing you all at the Twenty-fifth next June.

WILLIAM ARTHUR DUPEE

 

HOME Appress: 52 Hart St., Beverly Farms, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Choate, Hall & Stewart, 30 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: May 7, 1912, Milton, Mass. parents: William Arthur Dupce, ’94, Clara
Ethel Purdon.

PREPARED AT: St. Gceorge’s School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934; LL.B. (Yale Univ.), 1937.

MARRIED: Constance Turner, Nov. 3, 1939, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Constance
Ross, April 21, 1942; William Arthur, 3d, Oct. 29, 1944; Helen Derby,
March. 20, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; partner in firm, Choate, Hall & Stewart.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, 1947-57, president, 1954-56, Shore Country Day School,
Beverly, Mass.; trustee and member, board of investment, St. George’s
School, Newport, R.L; secretary of corporation, member board of invest-
ment and board of trustees, Provident Institution for Savings; trustee, Chil-
dren’s Art Centre; member, board of directors, Home for Aged Women,
Boston; president and director, Travelers Aid Society of Boston; director,

[ 375 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Sunnyside Day Nursery, Orchard Home School, Selector Corporation,

Chapman, Inc.; vestryman, St. John's Church, Beverly; member, Probate
Committee, Boston Bar Association.

memprr OF: Boston and Fssex Bar Associations; Manchester Yacht Club;
Myopia Hunt Club (associate); City Club Corporation; Yale Club of
Boston; Phoenix S-K, Iroquois Club, Hasty Pudding-Institute of 1770.

AFTER graduating from college in 1934, 1 spent three years in the
Yale Law School, acquiring an LL.B. degree in 1937, and left New |
Haven with a real respect for Yale. I spent the summers of 1935 and
1936 as a law clerk in the firm of Choate, Hall & Stewart in Boston,
and was fortunate enough to be offered a job upon graduation and
have been practising Jaw with them ever since, except for the war
years, having become a partner on January 1, 1950.

In November, 1942, I went into the Navy as an ensign and at one
time had the distinction of being the senior ensign in the Navy, having
missed a promotional AlNav by one day, and finally made full lieu-
tenant the day the Japs surrendered, but I doubt that had much to do
with it! After various gunnery and ordinance training stations in
Norfolk, Pensacola and Jacksonville, ] went to a squadron known
as SOSU-2, which rendered logistic support to aviation units of
cruisers and battleships of the Atlantic Fleet. As one of two non-
flying officers, I managed to get a good deal of flight time in, officially
and unofficially.

My practice of the law is mainly trust estate and probate and I
consider myself what might be called a “family solicitor,” a role
which I much enjoy. On the side, I work with one of the other
partners on personnel and administration of the office. .

We have a small house in Beverly Farms, five minutes from the
ocean and two hours from ski country, and summer finds most of
the Dupee family on the water, mainly racing in the Lightning Class,
and winter, on the ski slopes. When we first moved in, our main
hobby was working around the place, but the temptations of the
water and the snow have somewhat lessened that in recent years,

although Connie is an expert gardener, with a real green thumb.
All in all, the years have been good to us!

[ 376]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES LYDECKER DYER

 

ADDRESS: 2149 N. E. Clackamore, Portland, Oregon.

BORN: Feb 13, 1911, New York, N.Y. parents: Horace Tyler Dyer, Mathalie
Lydecker.

PREPARED AT: Tabor Academy, Marion, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.

OCCUPATION: Business.

NO questionnaire returned.

GODWIN ARTHUR EAGLETON

 

LAST KNOWN aAppress: R.F.D. 2, East Stroudsburg, Pa.

BoRN: May 4, 1911, Morristown, N. J. Parents: Godwin Samuel Eagleton,
Florence Lewis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-31,

EAGLETON has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since

1937-

[377]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ALPHEUS RAYMOND EATON

 

appress: 121 Clinton St., Hempstead, N.Y.

BorN: March 2, 1907, Conway, N.H. parents: Fred S. Eaton, Grace Keith.
PREPARED AT: Kennett High School, North Conway, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.

occupation: Real estate.

NO questionnaire returned,

VINCENT LANIUS EATON

    

HOME appress: 612 McNeill Rd, Silver Spring, Md.
OFFice appkess: Library of Congress, Washington 25, 1D.C.

BORN: Aug. 31, 1915, Puerto Cabello, Venezucla. parents: Emery Wilson Eate
Inez Loretta Lanius.

PREPARED at: Trinity School, New York, N.Y,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: AB, cum laude, 1934.
MARRIED: Dorothy Sharpless Vastine, Sept. 2, 1943, Washington, D.C.

occupation: Library work, chief editor, Library of Congress publications.
orricgs neip: Treasurer, American Studies Association, since 1953.

[ 378]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
MEMBER OF: American Historical Association; American Studies Association,
Bibliographical Society of the University of Virginia, Manuscript Society;
Society of American Military Engineers, etc.
PuBLIcaTions: About seventy-five articles in various learned journals.

AFTER graduating I worked in a New York bank for a year, then
joined the staff of the Library of Congress, where I have re-
mained ever since, except for three years in the Army (1943-46)
as a medic and historian-after-the-action, serving in England, France
and Germany.

My principal hobbies are reading, writing, music, chess and ama-
teur dramatics; my politics are Jeffersonian-liberal (I like to think);
and my religious outlook has gradually shifted from high Episco-
palian to Unitarian.

ROBERT ELLWOOD EBY

   
 

Wy!

   

HOME ADDRESS: 4502 Albion Rd., College Park, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Prince George Hospital, Cheverly, Md.

BORN: Aug. 29, 1913, Philadelphia, Pa. PARENTS: Robert Joseph Eby, ’o3, Emilv
Irene Smith.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934(35); MD. (Univ. of Pennsyl-
vania), 1938.

MARRIED: Divorced. CHILDREN: Claire Ellen, 1943; Manfred Schmidt, 1947;

William Tadeuscz, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Richard Eby, 1a. ’43; M.B.a, "46.

OCCUPATION: Physician; radiologist.

MEMBER OF: National Rifle Association; Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association;
Antique Airplane Association.

MANY of our classmates must have been rather “shook-up” by the
realization that the Twenty-fifth Reunion is coming soon. I can

[ 379 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

hardly believe that it is now well over a quarter-century since |
arrived in Cambridge and took up residency in Standish Hall. 1]
don’t feel any older, and I was recently reprimanded by my chief
for “childish thinking” (fell off in a spin over a young girl), but the
camera and the mirror tell a sadder story. However, the years have
brought me more than a fair share of adventure.

After leaving Harvard, | attended the medical school of the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania, Class of °38. In 1940, I left hospital residence
for active duty with the Army, where I spent the following six
years. My military career was interesting but without glory. I threw
away an opportunity to campaign with a splendid group of brave
men when | chickened and transferred from parachute troops after
some minor injuries in jumping. For the remainder of the war I
served on the surgical service of an Evacuation Hospital in the
European Theatre.

When the war was over, I remained in Germany for several years
with a United Nations public health team. This was followed by a
year at sea as a ship’s doctor. I lost one half of a handsome mustache
on my first equator crossing. We made many trips to South Ameri-
can ports, especially Rio de Janeiro. I next worked a year in path-
ology, chiefly as a medical examiner in cases of violent or sudden
death. About this time, my brother’s field of X-ray began to attract
me, so I began a fellowship in radiology which has led to my certifi-
cation in this specialty. I have settled down in this work in the
Maryland suburbs of the nation’s capital.

The population density of this area has severely limited my earlier
recreation of rifle shooting, but I’ve developed another hobby which
occupies much of my free time during good weather. Flying has
brought me some of my happiest hours of relaxation. I belong to
the Antique Airplane Association, and own a 1929 American Eagle
and a 1931 Waco biplane. One of my few remaining ambitions is
to possess a surplus Mustang fighter, but my little pile of shekels,
depleted by matrimonial shipwreck, frequent trips to Europe and
the inroads of publicans is rather unpromising. When I’m finally
called to my reward, 1 probably won't leave much behind but my
children, Claire, Manfred and Bill.

It would be a great pleasure to meet again any classmates who
may be traveling through Washington. Perhaps we could take a
ride on the Potomac with my little outboard boat, or circle the city
in the Waco. In any event, I look forward to secing many of them ,
at the coming Reunion next summer.

[ 380 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PETER EDGE

  

HOME ADDRESS: 1189 Oakley Ave., Winnetka, Ill.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Lederer, Livingston, Kahn & Adsit, 120 S. La Salle St, Chicago

3, Ill.
BoRN: March 25, 1913; New York, N.Y. parents: Charles Noel Edge, Rosalie

Barrow.
PREPARED AT: Lincoln School of Teachers College, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: S.B., cu? laude, 1934; LLB., 1937
MARRIED: Mary Kerr, Oct. 17, 1947, Oak Park, Il, cuiprex: Deborah Susan,
June 25, 1948; David Kerr, Dec. 18, 1949; Stephen Barrow, Nov. 19, 1953.

OccUPATION: Attorney.
OFFICES HELD: Director and secretary, Hawk Mountain Sanctuary Association

1938-59.
THE first three years after graduation, I spent in Cambridge at Law
School. My law practice started with a few months in New York
City’s Law Department, and then a few years as a bureaucrat and
a New Dealer (and still proud of it), living in New York, Harris-
burg and finally Washington.

A few months after Pearl Harbor, I enlisted in the Coast Guard.
Eventually, with a folder stamped “Not Physically Fit for Sea
Duty,” I spent three years at sea on the USS Spencer, C.G., doing
most of the ship’s jobs at one time or another and ending up as
navigator. It made a quite comfortable war, with plenty of travel
(Bizerte to Shanghai, Trinidad to Bora-Bora) and just enough ex-
citement (at least one submarine sunk and seven invasions). I'm
still glad to have escaped pseudo-legal procurement practice in the
Pentagon.

I moved to Chicago rig he after the war, and started work with one
of Chicago’s older “law firms. Government work had left many
gaps in my legal experience, but after a lictle while I was spending

[ 381 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

most of my time on real estate, tax and corporation law. Three
years ago, ] changed to my present connection, and now spend a
good portion of my time drafting financial documents — much
more exciting than it sounds.

I became more firmly attached to this part of the country when
I married here and began to raise a family. For three years, we
lived in River Forest, a fine staid community, where Mary had
always lived. Recently we have moved north to a much larger
house where we hope to stay for a long time to come.

HENRY EHRLICH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 29 E. Ninth St., New York, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: McCall's Magazine, 230 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.

BorN: Feb. 18, 1912, Brookline, Mass. parents: Adolph Ehrlich, Marion
Ratshesky.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1934.
UNMARRIED,

HARVARD BROTHERS: Richard Adolph Ehrlich, ’22; William Ehrlich, 725.
occupation: Articles editor, McCail’s magazine.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

NO one, I imagine, has watched the passing of time — specifically
the last twenty-five years— with more fascination or reluctance
than I. For me, it has been one absorbing experience after another,
varied and often exciting. My only complaint is that I have gone it
alone — but I guess it’s my own fault that I have never married.
Those of my classmates who preside over flowing households of

adoring wives and happy children, 1 eye with more than a touch of
envy.

[ 382 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

All I knew about my future, when I left college, was that I was
determined to enter some phase of publishing. It was during the
depression, and I was delighted when the opportunity came to start
out at the Boston Herald as an office boy, at nothing per week but
experience. I think I must have been a very good office boy, because
after not too many months, my first request to go out and do an
interview — it was Mary Garden — was granted. And the result
gave me my first story, my first appearance on the front page and
my first by-line. Also, in due course, a raise.

The powers that ran the Herald were good to me. When they
promoted me to the staff, it was not to write obituaries or to cover
one-alarm fires. I became, without a remote knowledge of politics,
the paper’s assistant political writer. This was during the reign of
James Michael Curley —a more delightful rogue I have never met.
As long as he was governor, the fireworks never stopped; as a result
of which I had one of the speediest political educations on record.
I also had one of the greatest practical journalists as my teacher,
the late William E. Mullins, of the Herald.

But the Herald and Mr. Curley did not see eye to eye, and when
an appropriate occasion presented itself, the governor took time out
from firing Harvard men who held state jobs and had me barred
from his office, reasons never fully disclosed. Seeing nothing better
to do with me, the Herald decided to send me to Washington to
reopen its bureau there. It was the year I covered my first political
conventions (Landon and Roosevelt), the month that Roosevelt
was inaugurated for a second term and, in general, the best break I
ever had. It was also a very good job. In those years, Washington
was filled with young men and women about my age, all enthusiastic
and excited about what they were doing; all, it seemed to me, bright
and interesting. The President and the Supreme Court were at each
other’s throats (at my first White House press conference, Mr.
Roosevelt announced his plan to reform the courts) and everything
that happened was news. I was the Herald Bureau and also the
Traveler's (the Herald's sister paper), and, as such, was very nearly

my own boss. In addition to the regular run of news, this meant

columns, editorials, feature articles — nearly everything that came
into my head to do. It also meant that I could go where I liked,
cover what I wanted and, best of all, meet and get to know the people
who were running the government. Summers I would come back to |
Boston to fill in for others on vacations, write editorials and book
reviews, work on local and national campaigns,

[ 383 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

This happy state lasted until March of 1941. I had heard, when |]
was covering the Willkie campaign train, that I had been drafted.
Now this became a fact. I was shipped off to Fort Bliss, Texas, to
serve an apprenticeship in an undertaking that held for me no allure
whatsoever. But everybody knew this was a phony war, and because
he was over twenty -eight, private first class Ehrlich was returned
to civilian life. Afrer a leisurely look at California, I drifted to Wash-
ington, and before I knew it I was back in the Army. This time
as a first lieutenant, in the War Department’s Bureau of Public
Relations, Industrial Services Branch. Three days after | was sworn
in— before I'd even had time to buy a uniform —the Japanese
attacked Pearl Harbor. |

Our job was to whip up enthusiasm for production among war
workers, and this involved the making and distribution of movies
and posters, the editing of special publications for workers outside
and in the War Department, the writing of speeches and the routing
of Army heroes and brass to war plants, the Army-Navy E program,
the management of production rallies—in short, anything that
would increase the flow of war matériel. Our boss was the Under-
secretary of War, Robert P. Patterson, and no one did a greater war
job.

By this time, like every other desk officer, I had a hankering to
go overseas, and in the summer of 1943 I went. I arrived in Italy, as
assistant public relations officer for the Fifth Army, the day Naples
fell. No overseas assignment was a breeze, I suppose, and Italy was
no exception. But I fell in love with the country and go back there
whenever I can. My job brought me into contact with Churchill
and the King of England, DeGaulle, just about every war corre-
spondent and all the junketeering Congressmen. It also took me to
Anzio and kept me there from the landing until the fall of Rome —
I remember how angry we were that D-Day in Europe knocked the
story of our arrival in Rome off all the front pages. Late in 1945, I
returned to AFHQ in Caserta, to work for Field Marshal Alexander,
my favorite general. I left the Army a lieutenant colonel.

Look magazine was next, and I spent five fascinating years there.
I liked travel and they sent me to very nearly every state on assign-
ments. I liked people, and one way or another, I got to know a good
cross section of the people who make up this country. Then, while
still pretty ignorant about how a magazine was put together, I be-

came managing editor, a job | held until 1950, when I went to
McCall's.

[ 384]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My job now is articles editor — trying to figure out what women
want to read, and trying to put it into shape so they will read it.
Once in a while J get away still — the West Coast once or twice a
year, an annual trip to the White House, recently to England to
work with Ingrid Bergman on an article for the magazine. But
mostly I work with writers, and that is what I like the best.

These twenty-five years have been the most exciting in the history
of the world. I often think how lucky I was to have been around
to see them and to be a part of them. To me it is little wonder that
they have flown by so quickly.

PAUL ROBERT ELDER

  

ADDRESS: 112 N. Main St., Yardley, Pa.

BORN: Sept. 5, 1911, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: John Hamilton Elder, Clara
Langkamp.

PREPARED AT: University School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.

OccUPATION: Oil production.

NO questionnaire returned.

[ 385 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

PRICE BUSH ELKIN

 

[ 95 A aL BERENS, |

ai

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 2211 Harvard Ave., Midland, Texas.

BORN: Sept. 15, 1913, Midland, Texas. parents: Francis Fletcher Elkin, Lula
Bush.

preparep aT: Baylor School for Boys, Chattanooga, Tenn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931, 1935-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1934(37); A.M. (The Rice
Inst.), 1939; PH.D. (ibid.), 1941.

srarrieD: Rowena J. Caldwell, July 5, 1942, Stamford, Texas. CHILDREN: Virginia
Louise, March 9, 1945; Francis Caldwell, July 15, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Scientist, rancher, teacher.

orFices HELD: Research chemist, Physics Department, Beacon Research Lab-
oratory, Texas Company, 1941-46, radiochemist, Los Alamos Scientific
Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico, 1946-51; treasurer and director,
Midland Symphony Association, 1953-56; board member, Midland
County Historical Society, since 1956, Midland Civic Concerts, since
1958, First Continental Mortgage Company, Houston, Texas, 1959; secre-
tary, 1956, member, since 1958, Board of Stewards, First Methodist Church;
teacher of physics and electronics, Midland (Texas) High School, 1957-
59.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Physical Society; American
Association for the Advancement of Science; American Association of
Physics Teachers; Association of Harvard Chemists, Sigma Xi; Phi
Lambda Upsilon, National Education Association, Texas State Teachers
Association, Association of Atomic Scientists; Southern Dutchess Singers
(Beacon, N.Y.); Euterpe Glee Club (Poughkeepsie, N.Y.); Los Alamos
Choral Society; Chancel Choir of First Methodist Church, Midland;

_  Sashaway Square Dance Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Several scientific articles in ACS publications, co-author of

chapter on catalyst microstructure in Vol. V, Pt. 2, of The Science of
Petroleum, Oxford University Press, 1953.

THIE passing of time is indeed a relative matter. It used to take ages
for Christmas time to arrive and now it scems that each year this

event... you know how it is. And if you really want time to pass
most quickly, borrow some money from the bank!

[ 386 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The last twenty-five years have been interesting, somewhat profit-
able and, thanks to Weenie, my wife, most enjoyable. There have
been no great upheavals or major conflicts as I somehow anticipated.
Even the war and the introduction of the atomic age have not been
the awesome monsters they seemed at first. Somehow, life has gone
on demanding attention (and giving rewards) in fields other than
those of the great issuex Perhaps life, consisting of apparently trivial
processes involving matter and energy in time and space, has pre-
sented so many exigencies that I sometimes have not seen the forest
for the trees.

As I was saying, it is later than I thought, and some day I hope

to ponder the ponderables. Up to now, many varied experiences
have contributed to a satisfying collection of memories. I have
especially enjoyed participating in scientific experiments, such as
measuring the surface areas of solid powders, the efficiencies of
atomic bombs, the pore sizes within a catalyst pellet, counting the
number of atomic disintegrations of a sample of plutonium and
isolating radioactive atoms from another nation’s bomb test. These
experiences have been dwarfed by the wonderment of a West Texas
sunset, of the tenacity of desert wild flowers through seven years of
drought, of the brilliant colors of fish in Eniwetok Atoll, of a Cat-
skill fairyland ice-storm, and of the greatest of Nature’s thrills, the
birth and development of two lively children.

Since Harvard Glee Club days, I have enjoyed singing in choruses.
My favorites have been Mendelssohn’s “Elijah,” Dubois’ “Seven Last
Words,” Fauré’s “Requiem” and four Gilbert and Sullivan operas.
Other activities, which my artist wife and I enjoy, are camping out
at Indian pueblo ruins in New Mexico. Getting back to nature at
Chaco, Puyé or Firjoles Canyon enhances our tolerance of civiliza-
tion.

In 1951, I left the role of radiochemist to engage in ranching with
my father. Discovery of oil on some of the land helped to offset the
effects of the drought, financi ally speaking, and also helped to create
obligations to Uncle Sam. Because of my concern over the shortage
of science teachers and because of an inclination of long standing,
I was an easy pushover ina TV teacher recruitment program. This

is my second year as teacher of physics and electronics at Midland
High School and I do admit that I like the work. I try ta keep an
eye on the business interests, but if this confounded inflation does
not stop, I shall soon have to put both eves in this direction.
At any rate, Iam determined (and my wife concurs in this phi-

[ 387 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

losophy) not to let the cares of this world or the deceitfulness of
riches engulf us. There is no substitute for an “cight” ball located in

that well-known position. But here's hoping the number of “cight”
balls at any given time shall never exceed onc.

++ BAYARD TUCKERMAN ELKINS

 

BORN: Dec. 23, 1911, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: William McIntyre Elkins,
Elizabeth Tuckerman.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Lukens Elkins, ’29 (deceased).
pieD: April 23, 1932, Cambridge, Mass.

BAYARD TUCKERMAN ELKINS died during our sophomore
year. He was a member of the Porcellian Club, the D.K-E., and

the Hasty Pudding-Institute of 1770. During freshman year he was
a member of the baseball squad. He was survived by his parents.

4

[ 388 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WINTHROP STUYVESANT EMMET

 

HOME ADDRESS: 325 E, 72d St., New York 21, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Choate, Mitchell, Bayes & Baker, 43 Broad St., New York 4,

N.Y.
BORN: Sept. 4, 1910, Freiburg, Germany. PARENTS: Christopher Temple Emmet,

Alida Beekman Chanler.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933. DEGREES: A.B., 1934(33); LL.B., 1936.

MarRRIED: Marian deForest Clark, June 15, 1935, Beverly Farms, Mass. (di-
vorced 1939); Evelyn Bigelow Clark, March 15, 1943, Greenwich, Conn.
(divorced 1956). camp: Daphne, April 21, 1936.

occuPaTIoN: Lawyer; partner in firm, Choate, Mitchell, Bayes & Baker.

OFFICES HELD: Deputy Assistant District Attorney, New York County, 1940-
42, 1946-48; director and secretary, Wright Power Saw & Tool Corpora-
tion, Stratford, Conn., 1950-55; trustee, Austen Riggs Center, Inc., Stock-

bridge, Mass., 1954-57.
MEMBER OF: Knickerbocker Club, New York City.

SINCE graduation from Harvard Law School in 1936 (excepting
a period during the war), I have practised law in New York City,
either as an assistant district attorney in New York County or in
private practice. My practice has been general, with the greatest
single emphasis on litigation.

From 1942 to 1946 I served in the U.S. Naval Reserve, during
most of the time with the rank of lieutenant commander. I served
about fourteen months as a liaison officer on a French cruiser which
was engaged in the two invasions of France. At the end of the war,
while still a naval officer, I was attached to Justice Robert H. Jack-
son’s staff in Germany, as a legal assistant in the preparation of the
War Crimes Trials in Nuremberg.

I am a Protestant Episcopalian, but only an intermittent church-
goer. I began my voting life as a Democrat, but after working under

[ 389 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Thomas E. Dewey in the early nineteen-fortics, I became a Re-
publican, sometimes active, and have remained so ever since.

HOWARD HOMER ENGLANDER

 

HOME appRESS: 4054 Colony Rd., South Euclid 21, Ohio.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 422 Osborn Bldg. Cleveland 15, Ohio.

porN: April 15, 1913, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Simon Englander, Bertha
Korach.

PREPARED AT: Shaw High School, East Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., cui laude, 1934, M.D. (Western
Reserve Univ.), 1938.

MarRIED: Clarice Dorothy Rosenmann, May 19, 1946, Wilmington, N.C.
CHILDREN: Stephen William, May 3, 1948; Kenneth Lewis, Feb. 12, 1953.

OccUPATION: Physician; specialist in internal medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Demonstrator in medicine, Western Reserve University Medical
School, member, active staff, St. Vincent Charity Hospital, O.P.D. staff in

medicine, University Hospitals, Cleveland, allergy medical staff, Cuyahoga
County Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Cleveland Academy of Medicine; Ohio State Medical Society;
American Medical Association; Cleveland Area Heart Society; Cleveland
Allergy Society; Deak Lodge, Knights of Pythias, member and physician,
H.BS.U. (social society); The Temple and its Men’s Club, Cleveland,
Phi Delta Epsilon Medical Club of Cleveland; Harvard Club of Cleveland.

PUBLICATIONS: Various professional articles in medical journals.

IS it really twenty-five years? It hardly seems that a good part of
my life has passed, and | am one of those old men of the Twenty-fifth
Reunion Class. At least, that was what I thought in June, 1934-
Today, at forty-five I really feel that life is just beginning, and I am

not trying to be trite. But looking back, the twenty-five years have
been full and unexciting at times, and certainly not what I imagined

[ 390 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
at the age of twenty-one on that brilliant, hot, glorious June day of
1934!

Initially, after graduation, I continued to pursue my intended
course of medicine. This had been my aim as long as I could remem-
ber, mostly because my father was a physician, and because I thought
medicine the only honest profession. Western Reserve University
Medical School originally was quite shocking. Here I was not
treated as a gentleman as at Harvard, and the freshman professors
seemed to delight in making it difficult for Ivy League men — ask
Francis Silver and Dick Glove. But I managed to survive and grad-
uate. Subsequently, I had further training at Charity Hospital in
Cleveland, at Willard Parker in New York City and at the marvelous
Boston City Hospital. Despite lots of work and a broken heart once
or twice, I managed to have a wonderful time, both in learning in-
ternal medicine and in extra-curricular activities.

Uncle Sam then took command. I “volunteered” for the Air Force.
For eighteen months I was shipped around eastern United States,
seeing many choice spots (such as New York City and New Orleans)
and unchoice spots (certain other southern cities, best left unnamed).
I took three different courses in Medical Officers’ training, finally
becoming a flight surgeon, and I became engaged to my future wife
in Wilmington, N.C., just before I was shipped to the South Pacific.
In the States, at least, I was able to have lots of fun; but the twenty-
two months overseas — mostly as flight surgeon with an Air Evacu-
ation Squadron (flying ambulance) — was very dull, only relieved by
bridge with our nurses; although I admit that a few times in foxholes,
I was not bored. Back home and discharged in 1946, I floundered for
six months trying to reacquire a civilian “outlook and to refresh my-
self in medicine — at Uncle’s expense. Then, in May, I took the big

step and married the girl from Wilmington. And I shall not be
stereotyped, but say that I have almost never regretted that step.

The twelve years since have been the fullest of all. Two children,
now eleven and six, have been more of a delight and challenge than
a worry and a problem. Maintaining a home and garden is more of
a job than I ever realized when I lived under my parents’ roof, and
I well appreciate what a full job a housewife has. Establishing and
developing a practice in internal medicine, establishing hospital con-
nections, trying to understand hospital and medical politics and
economics, changing offices three times (now contemplating a
fourth final move) — this, of itself, could have occupied all my
time. But I always come back to my boys and my wife. We have

| [39]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

our heartaches and squabbles, but we have more fun than anything,
and my older son certainly is rapidly approaching the stage of
companionship.

Medicine has been a hard, a severe and jealous mistress — both in
its practice and in its study and teaching — for I do some of the latter
at Western Reserve University Medical School and at St. Vincent
Charity Hospital, Again I have rarely regretted my choice of pro-
fession: for although I no longer have the ideals and innocence of
youth — the “only honest profession” —I still think it most fas-
cinating and challenging, and probably as honest and honorable as
any other job in the world. My father, then and still my ideal, my
colleague and adviser, died in 1951, leaving a void in my life. I still
try to emulate him in many ways. My mother remains well, and is
active and alert as ever at age seventy-three.

From the preceding, it is obvious that there is not much time for
other activities. 1 discuss politics some with friends, and try to vote
liberally, usually Democratic, although I admit to making the mistake
of voting for Ike once. Parenthetically, 1 hope most of my Republi-
can Harvard classmates have seen the light too. . . . Medicine, as
indicated, occupies most of my time, but there is some little time
left, after the children are considered, for social gatherings, an oc-
casional movie, play, symphony or lodge meeting —I am very in-
active——and rare non-medical reading. As for religion, ] am a
member of the famed Rabbi Abba Hillel Silver’s Temple, and do _
attend services occasionally, although I do confess my habits are not
too religious and that my beliefs are still almost as skeptical as when
I was at Harvard. I have not done much traveling since leaving the
Air Force — mostly trips to Wilmington, with an occasional brief
jaunt to New York, Chicago, or Florida. I still like tennis, but prob-
ably am growing too old for it; so I have taken up fishing for the
last year or so, and I believe I shall enjoy it — especially, since it can
be a family sport.

Yes, it must have been twenty-five years! All this could not have
happened in Jess time; and with hindsight, I must now say: it has

been a full, enjoyable and even fruitful twenty-five years, and very
little of it has been dull. Finally, I must confess that I have changed
during that time: the same waistline, but many silver locks; and my .
face and viewpoint certainly have matured; and I now think a man
at forty-five is young.

[ 392 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HAROLD CHARLES EPSTEIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3109 Keswick Rd., Shaker Heights 20, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 20475 Farnsleigh Drive, Shaker Heights 22, Ohio.

BORN: Aug. 6, 1913, Cleveland, Ohio. PARENTS: Joseph William Epstein, Bessie
Celia Levy.

PREPARED AT: Glenville High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1934, M.D., 1938.

MarrieD: Helene Joy Roggen, June 15, 1939, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Ronald Brett, Dec. 15, 1942; Barbara Ann, Sept. 7, 1945; Lucy Ann, June
13, 1949; Terry Lee, July 20, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Norman L. Epstein, ’30; Lloyd Stanley Epstein, 43, M.D, 46.

occuPaTION: Pediatrician in private practice; assistant ‘clinical professor of
pediatrics at Western Reserve University School of Medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Pediatric Section, Cleveland Academy of Medicine,
1948-49; member, executive board, American Jewish Committee, since 1957;
member, board of trustees, Park Synagogue, 1954-56.

MEMBER OF: Cleveland Academy of Medicine; Ohio State Medical Society;
American Medical Association; American Academy of Pediatrics; Northern
Ohio Pediatric Society; American Jewish Committee; Cleveland Council
on World Affairs; Fairmount Temple; Park Synagogue.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous publications on pediatric and infectious disease sub-
jects in Pediatrics, Journal of Pediatrics, AM.A. Journal of Diseases of
Children, American Journal of Roentgenology, etc.; Manual of Medical
Evacuation in Amphibious Operations, Amphibious Forces Pacific Fleet
(confidential), 1944.

FOLLOWING graduation, the next few years were devoted to my
medical training, four years at Harvard Medical School, four vears
at Babies and Children’s Hospital, and then the inevitable four vears
in the Army during World War IL. It seemed I was never to get
around to the business of earning a living in medical practice.

For four years in the Army I was everything from a surgeon with
a tank battalion to Army Force Surgeon with the Amphibious Forces

[ 393 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

of the Pacific Fleet. I did manage once, because Washington made
a mistake in my orders, to spend three months on communicable
diseases in the 219th General Hospital at Schofield Barracks. Then
someone discovered the mistake and off I was to Manila by plane.
But I never got a chance to be a pediatrician in the Army.
I could think of nothing else when I got out of the service but
to plunge into starting to establish my self at earning a living at the
tender age of thirty WO. By that time Helene and I had been married
seven years and had two children. I started practice with some part-
time teaching at Western Reserve A\fedical School.

After just a year and a half, I had the misfortune of contracting
poliomyelitis which forced me to spend the next six months recuper-
ating. But I was one of the fortunate ones who, after a brief paralysis
of my legs, recovered completely. I’m no athlete now, but I never
was.

Since then my professional career had been uninterrupted, I’ve
been promoted academically through the clinical ranks to assistant
professor, I’ve made some very minor contributions to my field, my
family has grown to four children, and Helene and I can’t understand
why the more recent graduates look upon two such young people
just starting out as a couple of old fogies.

Politically and socially, I am a liberal who behaves conservatively,
a dissenter who talks and thinks as a non-conformist, but conforms.
The substitution of other-directedness for principles distresses me.

One of my main hobbies is the study of foreign policy. Naturally
Mr. Dulles’s policies baffle me as a means of arriving at peace. The
only way to avert catastrophe is to try to negotiate from strength
with an opponent whom you can’t trust, to be continually negative
without positive policy, to pretend that China and East Germany
don’t exist, and to desert our friends for military expediency can
only lead to disaster. We neither talk quietly nor carry a big stick.

I had to limit my desire for wandering to a trip to Europe in 1956
and to Mexico in 1958. I still hope to revisit Hawaii, the islands of the
Pacific, the Philippines and Japan, and sce what has happened there
since I saw them in 1944-46.

[ 394]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES MANSFIELD ESTABROOK

 

pore
f o£
of

  

HOME appress: Store Hill Road, Old Westbury, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Haight, Gardner, Poor & Havens, 80 Broad St. New York 4,
N.Y.

BORN: June 4, 1912, Neuilly sur Seine, France. Parents: Mansfield Estabrook,
"99, Helen Slocum Nichols. .

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1934; LL.B., 1937.

MARRIED: Martha Rogerson, June 19, 1937, Milton, Mass. CHILDREN: James
Mansfield, Jr., Aug. 19, 1938; Helen, May 17, 1943; Margaret, Dec. 3, 1946;
Peter R., Nov. 14, 1948 (deceased Oct. 11, 1953).

HARVARD SON: James Mansfield Estabrook, Jr., ’61.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Nichols Estabrook, M.B.a., ’39.

occupation: Admiralty lawyer, partner in firm, Haight, Gardner, Poor &
Havens.

OFFICES HELD: U.S, Naval Reserve, ensign — captain, since 1934.

MEMBER OF: Maritime Law Association; New York County Lawvers Associa-
tion; Harvard Club of New York; India House.

BEFORE coming to Harvard, one day’s work as a longshoreman
showed most vividly the advantages of higher education. By 1934.
the world needed bankruptcy lawyers, but by 1937 (and this is indeed
hard for a Republican to admit), admiralty not only seemed more
promising, but there were more jobs open.

During Harvard Law School, one great professional triumph by
John Brooks and associate occurred when a correct legal presenta-
tion of their case kept them from being shot as spies, John did have
a camera, but all the associate did was to look at the local color.

After law school, marriage to Martha Rogerson, sister of class-
mate John Rogerson, was followed by starting the practice of
admiralty law in New York. Except for five years’ active duty in

[ 395 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

the Navy, the firm of Haight, Gardner, Poor & Havens and its
predecessors has been my professional life.

The prewar law practice involved far more care in drawing pre-
liminary pleadings, for then it was much easier to have a case de-
cided on a motion made before trial. But in 1940, this all changed
because instead of drilling once a week, our naval reserve division
was ordered to Norfolk to fill out the complement of the “four-
piper” destroyer, USS Blakely, then about twenty-one years young.
After a year and a half in the Caribbean doing each and every chore
an alert, efficient and industrious staff could imagine, the last three
and one-half years in the submarine force was a piece of cake! Two
events stand out to emphasize my importance in our final victory.
On the black Monday after Pearl Harbor, the first order of business
on the Blakely was my promotion to lieutenant (j.g.) In August,
1945, my selection as commander was announced. ‘The enemy sur-
rendered the very next day!

The transition back was far more difficult, but night work, together
with G.I. bill extension courses, helped bridge the gap. Now trying
my best to maintain international commerce through application of
law, not force, has developed into a fascinating profession with as
many opportunities for travel, assistance to others and self-expression
as any other.

At home in Old Westbury, manual work is the best refresher.
A Harvard son and two daughters keep Martha and me busy, and we
both enjoy occasional nights at the theatre. If it were all to be done
over again, I wouldn’t change a minute!

RICHARD FREMONT ESTES

   

A

HOME abprEss: 706 Cambridge Rd., Bala-Cynwyd, Pa.
[ 396 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Budd Co., Philadelphia, Pa.

BORN: Feb. 1, 1912, Canton, Mass. parents: Bay Edward Estes, ’o7, Mellie
Grover Timberlake.

PREPARED AT: Deering High School, Portland, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; M.B.A., 1930.

MarRiED: Leonora C. Lincoln, Sept. 7, 1935, Portland, Maine. cHILprEN: Rich-
ard Freemont, Jr., June 30, 1936; Margaret Lincoln, May 17, 1938; Jere E.,
Oct. 19, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Bay Edward Estes, Jr., ’32, M.B.A., 34.

occuPATION: General purchasing agent, The Budd Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Neighborhood Club, Bala-Cynwyd, Pa. ‘

MEMBER OF: Harvard Business School Club of Philadelphia.

AT the moment I feel as though I were taking a final exam in
Memorial Hall hoping to supply enough facts to pass in a well-padded
answer. After four years at Harvard and two at the Business School,
all the time hoping to become a New England commercial or invest-
ment banker, I found myself settled in Philadelphia, as a buyer of
maintenance supplies for The Budd Company. I had discovered
before leaving Boston that neither banking nor New England had
any desire to support a family of three.

My twenty years in Philadelphia have convinced me that there
are actually other places to live than New England and other fields
of endeavor than banking, so New England is my vacation spot
and I hope the place I live after retirement.

Except for one year when I returned to complete my require-
ments for an M.B.A. degree, I have been with The Budd Company
as a member of the purchasing department, progressing through the
various phases of procurement until now, as general purchasing
agent, I have company-wide responsibility for the procurement of
all raw materials, on a staff basis.

Outside activities were solved automatically as my two boys be-
came interested in Scouting at a time when Cubmasters and Scout-
masters were scarce. Over the last thirteen years a lot of hours and
a lot of work have consumed a lot of excess energy. :

Now with one boy studying for his A.M., a daughter almost
through her A.B., and only the youngest at home involved in high
school studies, sports and his final application for Eagle Scout, I
have time to realize what I actually missed the last twenty-five years.
I never have had vacations of sufficient length to provide my fill of
fishing and hunting in Maine or anywhere else, Perhaps that will
come in 1960 after college expenses cease for our two collegians,
because Canada and the West are in our future plans.

[ 397 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

RICHARD LOWE EVELEIGH

 

apDRESS: 115 E.. Eaton St., Bridgeport 4, Conn.

30RN: Oct. 11, 1913, Bridgeport, Conn. PARENTS: Charles Roate Eveleigh, Maude
Lowe.

REPARED AT: Bridgeport High School, Bridgeport, Conn.

"EARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

CCUPATION: Education.

NO questionnaire returned.

MARSHAL FABYAN, JR.

 

ME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Old Neck Road, Manchester, Mass.

RN: Nov. 15, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Marshall Fabyan, ’oo, Eleanor H.
McCormick.

¥Pakep at: St. Mark's School, Southboro, Mass.

ARS IN COLLEGE; 1930-1934. DPGRFEES: A.B 1934; M.B.A., 1938.

ArkitD: Sarah HH. Palfrey, Oct. 6, 1934, Sharon, Mass.; Caroline P. Bird, Jan.
25, 1451, Concord, Mass, cuio: Dale, Aug. 28, 1942.

cUPATION: Certified public accountant.

[ 398 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFIcEs HELD: Chairman, Town Finance Committee, Town Personnel Board,
Selectman, since March, 1958, Manchester, Mass., director, Beverly

YMCA.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Essex County Club; American Legion,

Massachusetts Selectmen’s Association.

GETTING off to a rather squally start after June, 1934 (remember
the depression), culminating in World War II, during which I saw
much of the Mediterranean while overseas, and New Jersey there-
after on contract termination work with the Air Force, I re-
turned to Manchester, Massachusetts, in 1946 to start afresh in ac-
counting work, having forgotten most of what I had learned
previously. In 1949, I became a CPA, and since then have been
practising this profession on the North Shore of Boston.

Having got married in January, 1951, I was promptly called up
for the Korean War. As this call did not eventualize, luckily enough,

I remained here and since then, in addition to my usual occupation,
have taken part in local town affairs, serving on the Finance Com-
mittee, then on the Personnel Board, and now as a Selectman.

We have one son about two years from Harvard if he makes the
grade, and spend our vacation time either on the Atlantic Ocean or
around the mountains of New Hampshire.

Looking back over the past twenty-five years, which seem like
two and one-half years, I would say that the high points were at-
tendance at the Harvard Business School, which I strongly rec-
ommend, experiences during World War II, and serving the Town
of Manchester. The next twenty-five years will probably be even
more interesting, because of scientific and technological advances

into Outer Space.

[ 399 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

BEECKMAN LIVINGSTON FAIRBANK

 

OME ADDRESS: 924 River Rd., Youngstown, N.Y.
“FICE ADDRESS: Beir Bros., Niagara Falls, N.Y.

RN: May 9, 1912, New York, N.Y, parents: Wallace Fairbank, ’95, Josephine
Nelson.

EPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
ARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934.

arriED: Margaret G. Page, Nov. 27, 1936, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Nathaniel K, Aug. 25, 1938; David P., July 21, 1941; Peter N., Feb. 3,
1945; Rodney G., Nov. 28, 1950.

RVARD BROTHERS: Nathaniel K. Fairbank, ’24; Murry N. Fairbank, 728.

cUPATION: Merchandise manager, department store.

MBER OF: Youngstown Yacht Club; Buffalo Ski Club.

X years with American Airlines following college led to a four-
ur World War II stretch in the Navy, most of it on small Pacific
nds with the Naval Air Transport Service. After the war came
ee fascinating years establishing, operating and finally (alas)
ying a passenger boat service between downtown Boston and
zan Airport across the harbor. |
ince 1949 we have been living in this northwest corner of New
-k, our lives revolving around the problems of a family-owned
artment store and the other complications incident to a family
our boys. The oldest is now a sophomore at Brown, but I have
es that some of the others will see the true faith and find their
‘to Cambridge. I must admit that when I sce the pressure of
oge life today, I am grateful that I went in a less demanding era.
he retail business, for all its charms, never scems to leave as much
e time as we wish it did. Do others have the same problem? We
. worked in a few family trips, notably a very pleasant one to
oming a couple of years ago and a cruise around Lake Ontario

[ 400 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and the St. Lawrence River last summer. Skiing has become a major
family project the past few years, though limited to Sundays, while
the care, feeding, and racing of a small auxiliary sloop takes up most

of the summer.

WALTER CHARLES FEINBERG

 

HOME ADDRESS: 135 Ridge Ave., Newton Center, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Paper Board Co., 36 Roland St., Charlestown, Mass.
BORN: April 20, 1912, Chelsea, Mass. parents: Morris Feinberg, Anna Yanes.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Miriam Abramson, Oct. 27, 1938, Baltumore, Md. cHmpreN: Judith,
March 12, 1940; Debby, July 9, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Harry Feinberg, 717.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Boston Paper Board Company, paper converting.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Newton Center Improvement Association; captain,
Office Equipment Team, Combined Jewish Appeal; trustee, Hebrew Teach-
ers College, Temple Mishkan Tefila, Jewish Vocational Service; president,

Boston Sea Rovers.

THE past twenty-five years have been very kind to me. I have some
of my teeth, hair, waistline, and even a sketchy memory of Harvard
courses to help my wife do crossword puzzles. Upon graduation, I
was lucky. I had a job in the family business — didn’t get much, but
enough to support a car. The work was enjoyable, traveled a bit,
and did some skiing and photography.

In 1938, I met, courted and married Miriam Abramson of Balt-
more; and that was more of the proverbial Feinberg good luck. She
never ceases to surprise me, even now, with her depth, her spirit
and quick humor. She might be a headache but she never is a bore.

Then came a house and two daughters and more responsibilities,

[ qor ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

but not unsolvable. The years went along — it’s amazing how the

telescope in retrospect. The house which was such a big deal in 1939
is still the same—a little more battered and patched, but com-
fortably adequate and paid for. Along with the house came my
next hobby — woodworking. Fixing things was a necessity, but it
became fun. I even went to a carpenters’ night school. About all

that is left is a cellar full of tools and nails which I hammer occasion-
ally. Miriam liked this one.

Then came a hobby of wine. Besides a cellar, it enabled me to
talk knowingly on various vintages, bouquets and after-tastes. This

didn’t last too long — Miriam didn’t like wine and besides it used to
put me to sleep.

Judaica was next, and I learned some new aspects of an old civili-
zation. This led to charity fund-raising for the Combined Jewish
Appeal which was quite high-powered. If the sums were large, the
demands were larger, and the pace was too hot. This type of work

consumes talent at a faster rate than television burns up comedians.
] finally retired to some charity directorships,

The next was antique jewelry. This didn’t last too long —I got
too discerning and the pieces too expensive — but Miriam loved it.
Sailing was good for a couple of summers, and that’s a story all
by itself. .
The latest hobby of the past five years is skindiving. Donning a
mask opened another world —a fascinating silent one. A club was
formed — an hilariously varied group ranging from “Dese, Dat and
Dose” to the Harvard faculty —all with one common interest.
We've spent some wonderful hours under water, sometimes chasing
fish with a spear or snatching lobsters by hand. (The lobsters don’t
like it very much.)

One expedition was for sunken treasure in the Caribbean. We
found the wreck, had a wonderful time, but no treasure, which was
just as well. It would have belonged to the Queen, being British
water. Everyone on the island was watching and we probably would
have had trouble. The sport is so new that whatever we do seems
to be a FIRST. Right now we’re trying to give it the proper safety
rules to protect the coming generations of kids who now infest every
beach in mask and flippers and soon will be buying aqualungs.

As the years go by, Harvard means more and more to me. Its

standards and practices of steady liberalism make it very dear to me.
See you at the Reunion.

[ 402 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BARNEY FELDMAN

  

HOME ADDRESS: 21 Wood Lane, Woodmere, N.Y.

OFFICE appRESS: Adelphi College, Garden City, N.Y.
BORN: Oct. 28, 1912, Lynn, Mass. parents: Frank Feldman, Fannie Handler

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Lynn, Mass..
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1934; EDM. 1937

MarRiED: Goldye B. Abrams, July 2, 1939, New York, N.Y. cHILDREN: Judith
Ann, Sept. 30, 1943; Alan Grad, March 16, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Teacher of mathematics.

MEMBER OF: Association of Mathematics Teachers of New York State.

ACCOMPANIED by the mystic sign of crossed fingers, I offer my
autobiographical contribution; for I believe the fates have been

kind, and I want them to stay that way.
After a year of graduate studies, I taught for several years in the

Lynn (Mass.) public schools and in a temple religious school. What-
ever salary I could spare, I spent in going places (a policy I have
tried to continue). The most important trip of my life turned out to
be a cruise to Nassau and Havana in 1938. On that occasion, I met
my wife-to-be, a New York City girl, then teaching English in high
school. This affected my life in many ways — all of them for the
better. We moved to suburban Long Island in 1940, after which I
spent quite a number of years teaching mathematics in the New
York City high schools. More recently, I have been teaching mathe-
natics at Adelphi College on Long Island. |
College teaching and subur ban life are pleasant, especially at this

hase of our lives, when our children are teen-agers, We are active
1 community affairs and enjoy the theatre and other attractions of

carby Manhattan. At home, I’m usua lly busy on some carpentry
“oject or “do-it-yourself” deal, We're all ardent travel fans and five

om one vacation to the next.

[ 403 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

In 1952, | took a sabbatical leave and for three wonderful mon
we toured France, Switzerland and Italy with our children, th
aged seven and eight. When we returned, an article by my wi
“Taking the Children to Furope,” was published i in the New Yo
Tires, ‘enabling all of us to bask briefly in glory, We look forwa

to another European trip some day — if the world stays in one pie
and the fates remain kind.

These days, my wife sometimes tells me that I look better no
than when she first met me and that in the last twenty-fir e years -

especially since she took hold of me—I have improved with ag
Does this flattering view stem from reality or from her own fon
proprietary feelings? Gentlemen of the jury, I rest my case

JOSEPH FRANCIS FERRITER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 541 E. zoth St., New York, N.Y

OFFICE ADpReEss: A, C. Israel Commodity Co., 95 Front St, New York 5, N.Y
porn: Nov. 26, 1910, Brattleboro, Vt

PARENTS: Patrick Michael Ferriter,
Anastasia Finnegan.

PREPARED At: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B, 1934; M.B.A., 1936

mareieo: Lucy Erwin Katt, July 9, 1955, Watch Hill, RJ CHILD John Patrick
April 11, 1956.

occupation: Secretary, A. C. Israel Commodity Company, commodity and
security trading.

orvicrs HELD: Trustee, A. Cremicux Israel Foundation, Inc.

AFTER graduation I went on to get a degree from the Business
School. Thence to Wall Street and apprenticeship as a security
analyst and trader with the stock exchange firm of Dick & Merle-
Smith. Thanks to a low draft number I was in service as early as
March of 1941 and scheduled for release on the tenth of December

[ 404]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of that year. Came Pearl Harbor, however, so instead I attended
Field Artillery OCS and was commissioned at Fort Sill. After a
period of teaching at the Chemical Warfare School, I was transferred
to the Air Forces at Wright Field, finally attaining the rank of
captain. After the war I stayed on as a civilian employee of military
government in Germany. Service on various quadripartite commit-
tees in Berlin I found interesting but bafflingly slow and unpro-
ductive.
In 1947 I returned to the financial community as an analyst for
General American Investors Company, Inc., and came to my present
job in 1950. Here, the major portion of my time ts spent on security
investments for a variety of enterprises including a holding company,
trusts and a charitable foundation. I also serve as secretary of the
A. C. Israel Comniodity Company and handle certain participations
in oil ventures. The only traveling of consequence involved in my
work has been to the cocoa-producing center of Bahia in Brazil.
Currently, we are in the process of building a cottage at Quono-
chontaug on the Rhode Island shore. Hunting for furnishings for
this and chasing a three-year-old son constitute my leisure-time
activity and furnish my exercise.

ALLEN MONTAGUE FERRY

    

HOME ADDRESS: 4508-39th St. N., Arlington, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Anderson Orthopedic Clinic, Arlington, Va.

BORN: June g, 1912, Evanston, Ill. parents: Albert Montague Ferry, Florence
Speck.

PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnecka, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B, 1934; Mp. (Johns Hopkins Univ.),
1938.

[ 405 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

siarriep: Ethelyn Shaw, July 8, 1939, Chevy Chase, Md. critpren: Patricia
Jo, Oct. 15, 1942, Allen Montague, Jr. July 15, 1944; Alexis Ann, June zs,
19473 Timothy Michael, May 1, 1950.

occupation: Orthopedic surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Member, governing staff, National Orthopedic and Rehabilitation
Hospital, Arlington (Va.) County Hospital, Alexandria (Va.) Hospital,
member, consulting staff, Anne Arundel County Hospital, Annapolis, Md.,
Leland Memorial Hospital, Riverdale, Md.; orthopedic surgeon, Crippled
Children’s Clinic, Fairfax, Va.; vice-president, past treasurer, past secretary,
Northern Virginia Academy of Surgery; past secretary, Washington
Orthopedic Club; past secretary-treasurer, past president, Virginia Ortho-
pedic Society.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Orthopedic Surgery, Virginia Orthopedic
Society; Washington Orthopedic Club; Northern Virginia Academy of
Surgery; American Medical Association, Arlington County, Alexandria

and District of Columbia Medical Societies; Washington Golf & Country
Club; Masonic Order; Shriners.

puBLications: “Retro-sternal Dislocation of the Clavicle,” Journal of Bone and

Joint Surgery; “The Degenerative Disc Syndrome of the Low Back,”
Virginia Medical Monthly.

THE fall following graduation from Harvard I entered medical
school at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. [ re-
ceived my M.D. degree in 1938, not at the top, but not at the bottom
of my class. Shortly thereafter 1 moved down North Broadway, a
few blocks to the Church Home and Hospital for a general intern-
ship. At this institution I was initiated into the practice of medicine
and surgery and also matrimony, for it was here that I met my wife
who was toiling there on the nursing staff for sixty dollars a month.
Since I was making only fifteen dollars a month, I thought it was a
good match, and we were married, as suited our income, on the
hearth of the family home in Chevy Chase, Maryland. Honeymoon
was centered around Cambridge, Massachusetts, not because of
nostalgia for the old Alma Mater, but because we could sponge a
place to sleep and the use of their automobile from my sister and her
husband,

After spending our life’s savings (this included side trips to Chicago
and Niagara Falls) for a couple of months, we retutned to Johns
Hopkins Hospital, 1 to learn about the problems and solutions thereof
of bones and joints, and Ethelyn to earn enough money at nursing,
so we could have steak dinner at Welch’s once in a while. In those
days of residency training you didn’t get paid much ($18.75 a
month), but they kept you so busy that you were too tired or didn’t
have time to spend much anyway. That was before interns had

[ 406 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

unions. Adolf Hitler accelerated the orthopedic training program
and then cut it short in September, 1941. Commissioned in Uncle
Sam’s Army Medical Corps as ist looie until he discovered I was
afflicted with asthma, whereupon the skids were applied and I was
looking for a place to make a living.

After casting looks at Chattanooga, Denver and other locations,
I was confronted with opportunity in my own backyard (then and
now, the metropolitan area of Washington, D.C.). I was invited to
start practice with Dr. O. Anderson Engh who was already about
three years established in the practice of orthopedic surgery. At that
time his practice already included the running of five or six crippled
children’s clinics in various counties of northern Virginia; the
crippled children’s program at Gallinger (now D.C. General) Hos-
pital; conducting orthopedic service and clinic at the Alexandria
Hospital; running one part-time office in the District of Columbia
and one each in Arlington and Alexandria, Virginia; and conducting
a busy consultant practice in the various hospitals of northern Vir-
ginia, the District of Columbia and nearby Maryland. With the ad-
vent of Pearl Harbor and subsequent draining of orthopedic talent
from civilian life all these activities redoubled. With a shortage not
only of orthopedic surgeons, but also of interns and residents, I was
at times, for five years or so, not only visiting orthopedic surgeon in
the various clinics and hospitals, but also intern and resident surgeon.
Dearth of competition in the field stepped up the private practice
rapidly. Accelerated defense construction on such projects as the
Andrew Air Force Base raised the number of accidents. The whole
situation made a very busy five years or so; a very fruitful experience,
though hectic; an excellent opportunity, also, for a newcomer to get
a good start in practice. I have considered myself very fortunate
to have had this opportunity, look back on it with pleasure, but
would not particularly care to do it again.

With the end of the war, things settled down a bit to the point
where I could put some thought to the aims I had in mind when I
came out of my residency in orthopedic. These were, in brief, four
things: 1) to make an adequate living (I had a good start in this);
2) to have a place to work where [I could feel that the best type of
orthopedic could be done (I felt that facilities about the D.C. metro-
politan area were at that time distinctly lacking in this feaure); 3)
to have an opportunity to do crippled children’s work (this was
fulfilled in abundance); 4) to contribute someching worth while in
the eyes of my colleagues to the field of orthopedic surgery (this

[ 407 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

JOSFPH NEAVE FIELD

oN |
( wae
! ~ 4
fowl, |

      

OME appress: 5 Field Lane, Cincinnati 8, Ohio.
FFICE ADDRESS: 602 \fain St., Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

kN: March g, 1912, Cincinnati, Ohio, parents: Tylor Field, ’97, Marion
Harrison.

REPARED AT: St. \fark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
=ARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

ArrieD: Carolyn M. Carrier, July 18, 1938, Louisville, Ky. CHILDREN: Mrs.
Frederick H. von Stade; Mrs. William T. Dickey (stepchildren). GRANp-
CHILDREN: Mary Dudley von Stade, Sept. 1, 1953; Carol L. von Stade,
Aug. 23, 1954; Frances S. von Stade, Oct. 15, 1956, Noel Dickey, Oct. 7,
1952; William T. Dickey, Jr. June 10, 1954.

.RVARD BROTHER: Harrison Field, *32.

CUPATION: Treasurer, Ferro Concrete Construction Company, general con-
tractors.

FICES HELD: Director, Spring Grove Cemetery Association, Terminal Ware-
houses, Inc., Ohio Mechanics Institute, Allied Construction Industries (all
of Cincinnati); trustee, Cincinnati Summer Opera Association.

EMBER OF: Camargo Club; Cincinnati Racquet Club.

FTER several years of dabbling around with an Austrian singing
acher and a slightly ponderous race horse, ] was married in 1938.
hereupon I released both teacher and horse to their respective
tes: the former to being run over by a taxi in Brooklyn and the
tter to | know not what.

Part of the dowry which Carolyn brought to our marriage con-
sted of two daughters, aged eight and six. This turned out to be a
‘eat piece of good fortune, as I don’t feel that I could have im-
‘oved upon them mysclf, and avoiding the carly years of diaper
janging, night walking, etc., certainly was a master stroke. | I did
st come through quite unscathed as I have been pressed into service
few umes with a couple of grandchildren, However, these oc-

[ 410 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

casions were of pretty short duration, as I found myself, and was
found to be, undeniably clumsy and so relieved of such duties.

Since 1932 I have been associated with the same construction
company and, while working is not my idea ‘of paradise, have had
many enjoyable moments and made many worth-while friends
through this association.

As for extra-curricular activities, I still play squash and tennis as
often as possible. Golf was virtually given up some eighteen years
ago, primarily as a result of a certain nervous twitch of the putter.
When possible to be in New York, we see as many plays as can be
crowded into generally a short span. In fairly recent years we have
become increasingly interested in paintings and have acquired a few
inexpensive ones, mostly by contemporary Italian artists. We both
look forward more to traveling than to anything else and attempt
to go to Europe about every other year. Other vacations have been
spent on various islands in the Caribbean, but I have about had the
white sand, hot sun and tepid rum.

This dull tale brings me about up to date.

RICHARD ATHERTON FIELD

BORN: Sept. 21, 1909, Tioga, Fla. parents: Earl Cuthbert Field, Leah Marie
Atherton.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.

MarRRIED: Carolyn Wicker.

pieD: Nov. 25, 1941, Boston, Mass.

RICHARD ATHERTON FIELD spent one year at Harvard and
then transferred to the Stevens Institute of Technology. He was a
member of the Delta Tau Delta fraternity, After a few years as
mechanical engineer for the Boston Insulated Wire & Cable Com-
pany, he became associated with the Whitehead Metal Company
of Cambridge. He was survived by his wife.

[qtr]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

WILLIAM STRAUS FIELDS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 11976 Memonal Drive, Houston 24, Texas.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1200 N.D. Anderson Blvd., Houston 25, Texas.

BorN: Aug. 18, 1913, Baltimore, Md. parents: Arthur Mortimer Fields, ’11,
Lenore Straus.

PREPARED AT: Woodmere Academy, Woodmere, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: a.B., cum laude, 1934; M.D., 1938.
marriepD: Elizabeth May Ritchie, Dec. 18, 1941, Montreal, P.Q., Canada.
CHILDREN: Susan Katherine, July 2, 1949; Anne Ritchie, Aug. 30, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Arthur Mortimer Fields, Jr., °36 (deceased).

occuPATION: Physician; professor and head, Division of Neurology, Baylor
University College of Medicine.

OFFICES HELD: President, 1955, member board of trustees, since 1956, Houston
Neurological Society, vice-president, Houston Academy of Science, since
1956.

MEMBER oF: American Academy of Neurology; Association for Research in
Nervous and Mental Diseases, American Epilepsy Society; American As-
sociation for the Advancement of Science; Society of the Sigma Xi
(honorary research society); Houston Neurological Society; Texas

Neuropsychiatric Association; Harris County Medical Society; Texas and
American Medical Associations; Doctors’ Club of Houston.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles and four books related to diseases of the
Nervous system.

AT the time that I graduated from Harvard Medical School in 1938,
I had no idea that I would finally settle down in a career in academic
medicine. My training experience left me with the feeling that I
must be a gypsy. This was partly due to opportunity and to the
start of World War II so soon after the completion of my academic
work. I traveled first to Nashville, Tennessee, and from there to
Canada where I continued training and in 1941 entered the Canadian
Naval Service. I had five years of service, during which time I
traveled over a good deal of both the Atlantic and Pacific theatres

[412]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of operation, having a tremendously broadening experience which I
would not have exchanged for anything else that I can see in retro-
spect. Following my separation from the service in 1946, I went to
St. Louis to continue training, since I felt that 1 had been aw ay

_ from clinical work so much that I needed to get back into hospital
work before going on with my career.

When I finished in 1949, I had an opportunity to locate in several
parts of the country, but I finally decided to come to Houston,
Texas, largely because of what seemed to me to be an unusual
opportunity to build something in a growing part of the country.
It has been a privilege to have. been able to ‘spend the past decade
in Houston, which has almost doubled in size during that period of
time. It was a real challenge to come to a community where, in my
particular field of endeavor, very little had been done. I was able
to build my own show without having opposition from others who
had preconceived ideas as to how it should be done. The result has
been most gratifying and I am particularly pleased with having had
a hand in training young men to go out and continue careers in
neurology.

_ When I first came to Houston I bought a home in what was then
country. In the ten years that I have been here the city has grown
and annexed the surrounding area to the point where it lies on all
sides of us. I still feel, however, that I have been able to maintain
some of the rural atmosphere and have two horses for my children
on my three acres. I have enjoyed very much working w ith a number
of civic groups in establishing better ‘educational and training facili-
ties for children, in developing and building a new Episcopal church
in our neighborhood, and taking some interest in political activities.
Unfortunately, there is one problem which comes to all doctors,
it seems, and that is that they get so busy with their clinical work
and other responsibilities that they find that they have too little time
with their families for their own liking. If any ‘of my classmates or
colleagues have any solution to this problem, I would be delighted

to hear from them.

[413 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

+ JOSEPH DUDLEY FISHER

 

BORN: Jan. 1, 1913, Dallas, Texas. parents: William Wilson Fisher, ’04, Byrd
Burgher.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932, 1933-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

pep: April 24, 1937, Eunice, N. Mex.

JOSEPH DUDLEY FISHER started to work in the production
end of the oil business a year after graduation. He worked in the
Fast Texas and Texas Panhandle oil “fields and a short time before
his death he became associated with the Texas Company near
Hobbs, New Mexico. His death was caused by injuries sustained

while trying to rescue a-fellow-worker from an oil tank. He was
survived by his parents.

EBEN HORSFORD FISKE

 

HOME AND OFFICE AppRESS: Kinsley Vicarage, Fitzwilliam, Pontefract, Yorks.
England.

[414]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BoRN: Oct. 13, 1910, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Augustus Henry Fiske, ‘or,

Esther Bennett.
PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R. I.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 1934(35); B.A. (Univ. of Cambridge),

1937; M.A. (ibid.), 1942.

UNMARRIED.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Andrew Fiske, 2d, ’33, M-B.A., 35; Augustus Henry Fiske, Jr.,
’
39-

occuPaTION: Clerk in Holy Orders (ordained priest in Church of England);

priest-in-charge, Kinsley Parish Church.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant curate, St. James’ Church, West Hartlepool, 1940-44;
precentor, Wakefield Cathedral, 1944-57; Wakefield Diocesan Youth Chap-
Jain, 1957-58; priest-in-charge, Castelford Parish Church, 1957-58, Kinslev
Parish Church, since 1958.

UPON leaving Harvard, I came abroad and have been living in
England ever since. My affection for this country stems from a very
early age and became deeper when I started my studies at Trinity
College, Cambridge, where I did a certain amount of not very.
distinguished rowing and made many friends, altogether a very
pleasant two years of my life. Yes, I did do some work too, so that
I was awarded a Cambridge B.A., which automatically makes one
eligible for an M.A., upon payment of a fee, a few years afterwards
when the university authorities believe you may have settled down
sufficiently so as to be able to wear a Master’s gown and hood with
dignity. I passed the following two years at Cuddesden College just
outside of Oxford where I received my training for the ministry.
I was made a deacon in Durham Cathedral in 1940 and ordained a
priest in Ig4l.

My first curacy was at St. James’ Church, West Hartlepool, a
town on the northeast coast, noted for its shipbuilding and its steel
works. A month to the very day after my arrival there we had the
somewhat doubtful distinction of being the first town in E ngland to
receive attention from Hitler’s Luftwaffe. Neither the church, nor
the vicarage, nor indeed the entire parish were ever quite the same
afterwards: for from then onward, we were very much in the first
line of the home front, with as many as three or four air raids a
night for months at a time. The people were magnificent and stood
up to it all most wonderfully. I wouldn’t have missed it for the
world.

After four years I moved to W: akefield which became my home
for the next fourteen years. As precentor of the cathedral, life was
very full, for in addition to the normal work of a large parish church,
we had the obligations and responsibilities which go with being the

[415 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Mother Church of the Diocese. After a short spell in charge of
Castleford Parish Church, I came to my present parish about a year
ago.

That's the lot, as they say in these parts, but yet it is only the
very bare bones, for during that time life has been full of adventure
of every sort and I have made many friends and had many experi-
ences which are unique. My hobbies are music of all sorts, sailing
(about once every five years unfortunately), traveling abroad, and
trying to help bring up ‘other people's children, to which might be
added motoring and eating well. Of course, ] am very fond of the
theatre and dote upon Austrian and baroque architecture and, in
fact, all art in general attracts me whether it be the “Follies Bergére,”
which is indeed real art whatever some people may believe, or the
Parthenon, both of which, among other things, I have seen in the
course of my wanderings on this planet. Incidentally, I am not
volunteering to become a Mercury astronaut as [ am still too fond
of life on this earth to consider jeopardizing it, for even though we

might get to the moon or even beyond, yet I am not I fear vitally
interested, I am very fond of gardens, ‘but gardening itself is an
abomination, nor do 1 play golf (saving i it up for my retirement? ),
but would ski if I had the opportunity. I skate about as often as I
go sailing and have never learned to like cricket.

The West Riding (or “Thirding,” the others being north and east)
of Yorkshire is one of the most beautiful counties in England as it
possesses some of the finest scenery and yet at the same time contains
some of the ugliest mill towns and mining villages which owe their
origin to the industrial revolution. One mile away is Nostell Priory,
one of the more beautiful, if not quite so well-known, of the “stately
homes of England” (Chippendale and Paine inside and “Capabil-
ity” Brown outside), while not two hundred yards from my vicarage
are a coal mine and a coke oven plant — and I almost forgot, there is
the greyhound stadium just down the road which appears to do
much better than we do both financially and otherwise. However,
my folk are extremely loyal and hard-working, working at the
moment to pay off the debt on the new parochial hall, and hoping
within the next few years to be in the position of being able to build
a new church as well,

As it looks at the moment, there appears to be no chance of my
being with you for the Reunion, but [ send you all my affectionate
greetings and hope that when any of you are over this way cither
next summer or at any other time that you will drop in on me and

[ 416 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tell me all about it or preferably pay me a longer visit, for you may
be sure of a very warm welcome at all times.

‘ + RALPH ROSWELL FITCH, I

j itn J
?
a <

 

BORN: Oct. 28, 1911, East Orange, N.J. parents: Stanley Gay Hyde Fitch,
Barbara Dillaway.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

DIED: Oct. 12, 1932, York, Maine.

RALPH ROSWELL FITCH, II, was in his junior year at Harvard

when he was killed in an automobile accident. He was survived by

his parents.

-

BURTON LAWRENCE FitzGERALD

 

HOME appress: 44 Hollis St, Milron 86, Mass.
BORN: Sept. 10, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: Lawrence Joseph FitzGerald,
Winifred Veronica Smith.

[417]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934
prepareD at: Malton High School, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. 1934.

scarRiep: Ruth Anne Reardon, June 17, 1939, Brookline, Mass. cHitpREN: Judith
Anne, March 15, 1940; Elaine Ruth, Oct. 4, 1942; Betsy Gail, April 29, 1947

HARVARD BROTHER: Donald Allen FitzGerald, 42.

occuPAaTION: Public accountant.

t

orFicks HELD: Director in three corporations in which IT have a modest financial
interest.

LOOKING forward, twenty-five years in 1934 seemed impossibly
remote. Looking backw ard, how swiftly those years disappeared.
It would still seem perfectly normal for me to awaken some morn-
ing and expect to have a g o'clock at New Lecture Hall or Sever
(frankly that would be darn pleasant, too) — something like the
nostalgic thrill of trving to remember the magic of Christmas as a

boy. T'm still a candidate for mv Ph.D. in dav- -dreaming — trouble
is I keep falling asleep over my thesis.

In company w ith my other starry-eyed brethren, I discovered
the true meaning of the word “depression” shortly after graduation.
I got turned down on one job after clearing all the preliminaries
because the treasurer said, “Frankly, Mr. FitzGerald, you're very
well suited for the job, but with a degree from Harvard we feel
that you wouldn’t want to stay with us very long.” Confidentially,
he was right. Often wonder who did get that stock clerk’s job.
Well, I finally connected with a national concern, became office
manager for the Eastern Division, absorbed some practical ex-
perience, and entered public accounting in association with my
father in 1940. The fact that my father shortly became an invalid,
coupled with the fact that almost all our clients were engaged in
war work, matured me more quickly than a charred-oak cask. Those
war years were mighty hectic, but somehow I survived. I’ve enjoyed
accounting very much — especially tax work. It’s been a satisfying
career, trying to keep the Treasury from getting more than its share.

I met Ruth on March 17, 1934, in the Sheraton Room of the old
Copley Plaza, and while dawdling over a tall drink of lemonade or
something and listening to Meyer Davis’ le Paradis Band playing
“Smoke Gets In Your Eyes,” discovered that we had a lot of common
interests. We ignored Jim and Helen (who arranged all this) most
impolitely during the rest of the evening while we babbled on and
on. Now, this could lead to matrimony — and it did, June 17, 1939 —

so, we'll be celebrating our very happy twentieth at the Twenty-
fifth. After a World’s Fair and Bermuda honeymoon, we settled

[418 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in the house that we still occupy. As each of our three daughters
came along, we had boys’ names selected — and after the guessing
was over each time had many a pleasant laugh about it. Judy is now
a sophomore at Simmons College with Elaine (1942) and Betsy
(1947) not so far behind.

In 1948 we built asummer home on Nenahaunt Harbor at Falmouth
where we all enjoy swimming and sailing very much — between
occasional hurricanes. [| sail a Thistle sloop, which is very fast and
sporty, but like all true sailing fans, would like to tell you “about my
“next” boat.

Ever since my Dad gave me a two-dollar “spyglass” on my eighth
birthday, I’ve been interested in telescopes. They’re expensive to
buy, so I make my own — lenses and all— and as the years go on,
they grow in number and size. Large refractors are my ‘real passion.
In the off-telescope season I like to build and remodel my music
system. We all play a little on the piano and enjoy good music
immensely, and our latest acquisition is an organ. None of us is quite
_ ready for Symphony Hall, but we’re having a lot of fun.

My philosophy? Direct from Latin B— Aeguam memntento, rebus
in arduis, sevare mrentem non secus in bonis —free translation is
“Chin up.”

MAYNES CHARLES FitzGERALD

 

HOME ApvpbrEss: 6150 Webbland Pl, Cincinnati 13, Ohio.

OFFICE appREss: Simonds Saw & Steel Co, 3323 W. Addison St, Chicago 1X,
Il.

BORN: April 7, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Edward FitzGerald, Rose Maynes.

PREPARED AT! Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1934. DEGREE! A.B, 1934.

f [419]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934
mareizo: Dorothy V. Burke, May 9, 1942, Brookline, Mass. cusp: Robert B.,
Oct. 10, 1950.
HARVARD BROTHER: Edward FitzGerald, Jr., ’39.

oocepaTion: District sales representative, Simonds Saw & Steel Company.
meMBeER OF: BPOE; Knights of Columbus, American Society of Tool Engineers.

THE continued appeals of Bert Loewenberg, supplemented by those
from John Towle here in Cincinnati and Dr. Francis Silver in
Cleveland — not to mention the “Sadistically yours” card from
Ruth Mahoney — have finally convinced me that something should
be done about getting this report written and some sort of picture
taken. I shudder at the contrast between the “portrait” which is
being submitted now and what appears in the original Class Album.
The photographer did his best but the shudder still remains.

As for my history since ’34, the whole thing started with what
amounted to an inexperienced kid — despite the four years of col-
lege — going from his home in Boston to Rochester, New York,
where he found that it was possible to be classed as an executive
and still work all day and a good part of the night as department
manager, window dresser, part-time janitor and do other odd jobs in
a chain department store.

Following this I went with another company as “credit manager,”
moving to Woonsocket, Rhode Island, where it was my privilege
to operate the gas pumps every other Sunday, set up displays and
again do other odd jobs. Because 1 was “ambitious” the company
moved me to a larger store in Fitchburg, Massachusetts. The
promised raise did not come through and, conditions in the Bay
State being what they were at the time with regard to both weather
and insurance on cars, people closed their garages from January 1St
to April ist. That meant less business and for those three months
we all had to take a week off without pay — but still some Sundays
on the pumps.

At first my off-time was consumed in running down to Boston
to see if there might not be a steadier job there. Then, being a
skier of sorts, and being close to some good spots in New Hamp-
shire, I spent a good part of my spare time taking advantage of the
snow and also looking around locally. The grass is supposed to
look better in the other fellow’s back yard but there were some
good patches in Fitchburg as well,

Thus I came to be connected with Simonds Saw & Steel Company
which placed me as a shipping clerk in its Boston branch. Then
up the ladder degree by degree with a short time in billing, some

| 420 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in estimating and another period as sales correspondent. Finally
I made it out into the field of selling, yunior apprentice, no class ar
all, moving around by bus, trolley and a lot of shoe leather.

Then along came the war. After the “Ninety-Day Wonder”
treatment by the Navy I became a member of the amphibious
forces and, as skipper of something that seems to have been entirely
forgotten — the LCI(L) — we set sail one foggy and stormy day
for the Med. The stop-off at Bermuda was fine but I shall never
forgive the Navy for passing through Gibraltar in the dark of
night. That was a real disappointment.

After North Africa, Sicily, Salerno and Anzio, I was sent back to
the States because there was no more deck under me. That and
my Social Security card are still probably on the bottom of Anzio
Bay.

That entitled me to a wonderful thirty-day leave which my wife
and I spent in North Conway at a time of the year when it was
possible to ski on the heights and to ride bikes and horses in the
valleys. Then off to San Diego for shakedown cruises and then
the far reaches of the Pacific. This was on an even less known ship
than the LC] —the LCS(L). It packed a lot of fire power for its
size and we did everything from simple escort duty to being the
first into the beaches and sinking mines which had already been cut
loose by the sweepers. That was a tough tour of duty and for quite
some time we always reprovisioned and refueled at sea from some
of the larger ships which had been ordered back to their bases with
instructions to leave all available stores in the area before their de-
parture,

Comes the end of the war and re-entry into civilian life. From
lieutenant commander back to peddler. The company not only had

a job for me but now a better one — junior salesman first. class
working out of Indianapolis. Currently I am district representative
for the company in what amounts to about the southern half of
Ohio and about 80% of Kentucky,

As for the family, we have only one small but very energetic boy
whose interest in sports is keeping both of us young. During
the spring and suminer it is baseball and the Little League which has
involved me in team managership, coaching (though I was never
much of an athlete myself) and what ts probably the hardest job of
all, being an umpire. If you ever have had a kid at bat turn around
and give you a dirty stare on the third strike you will know what I
mean, He is a bit too young for organized football but that comes

C420]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

into the picture, too. In the winter season it is bowling. Fach

Saturday morning is very much a hectic affair and I know now that

it is very much easier to manage fifteen young rioters on a ball

field than it is to do the same w ith only ten on a bowling alley.
All of us are looking forward to the Reunion.

+ WILLIAM MICHAEL FITZGERALD

 

BORN: Feb. 2, 1913, Cambridge, Mass. parents: John Michael Fitzgerald, Helen
Cronin.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

marrieD: Esther Mulligan, June, 1941. cuitpren: William Michael, Jr., June
11, 1943; Kevin Jay, Feb. 15, 1945; Richard Brian, Jan. 19, 1947; Barbara
Marie, Nov. 22, 1951; Marylou Ellen, Jan. 10, 1954.

piep: Dec. 24, 1956, Cambridge, Mass.

wivow: Mrs. William M. Fitzgerald, 21 Pequosset Rd., Belmont, Mass.

WILLIAM MICHAEL FITZGERALD graduated with our Class
and was a member of the University band. Shortly after graduation
he entered the hotel management field as a member of the executive
staff of the Parker House in Boston. He also served for several
years on the staff of the Hotel Bellevue. During World War II, he
was a lieutenant in the Navy and in 1946 returned to the Parker
House where he was resident manager until the time of his death.
He was survived by his wife and children.

[ 422 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CLARENCE FLASHMAN

 

HOME ApprEsS: 368 Dalehurst Ave., Los Angeles 24, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Pacific Crate Co., 2050 E. 15th St., Los Angeles 21, Calif.
BORN: June §, 1913, Malden, Mass. parents: Reuben Harry Flashman, Sarah

Szathmary.
PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932, 1933-1934, 1936-1937. DEGREE: AB. 1934(37).
MarRiED: Sylvia Ehrlich, July 15, 1944, Los Angeles, Calif. cumprex: Tommy
A., Sept. 30, 1945; Perry E., June 15, 1948; Robert E., Sept. 22, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Sales manager, Pacific Crate Company.

HAVING interrupted my studies at Harvard in 1932 and again in
1934, I returned in 1936 and took my degree in 1937 as of ’34. The
next five years were spent as a mortgage broker, up until the time
I entered the Army as Private Flashman. I went through Medics,
Field Artillery, Infantry, Anti-Tank Guns and, finally, was adjutant
general of Base M, Luzon, P.I. I am convinced that U.S. capacity for
production won the war, and not West Point.

Married in 1944, while in service. Tommy was born in 1945, but
I didn’t know about it until twenty-eight days later. After service
and severance from the Army as captain, A.U.S., I ran the Plumas
Box Company, situated in the High Sierras, manufacturing lumber
and boxes, until 1954. I am now in the box and corrugated business.

Three athletic boys keep me quite busy, when not out playing
golf. After having spent more hours than T care to admit, trav eling
the length of Highway 99 between Los Angeles and the High
Sierras, I am just starting to enjoy being settled in one place.

[ 423 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

OLIVER PERIN FLEMING, JR.

 

ADDRESS: 3315 Fairmont Drive, Nashville, Tenn.

BoRN: March 14, 1912, Nashville, Tenn. parents: Oliver Perin Fleming, Helen
Breuer.

PREPARED AT: Peabody Demonstration School, Nashville, Tenn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.
OCCUPATION: Government service.

NO questionnaire returned.

NESTOR SHEA FOLEY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 5623 Overlea Rd., Bethesda, Md.

orrice appress: Covington & Burling, 701 Union Trust Bldg., Washington, D.C.

BORN: Nov. 24, 1912, Pawtucket, RJ. parents: Ambrose Shea Foley, Olivia
Cordelia Jacobs.

PREPARED aT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1934; LL.B., Cum
laude, 1937.

[ 424 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Jacqueline Victoria Peers, Aug. 10, 1941, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Robert Matthew, Aug. 26, 1943; Nestor Shea, Jr., Sept. 16, 1949.

OccUPATION: Lawyer; partner in firm.

MEMBER OF: Chevy Chase Club.

JOHN JOSEPH FOOTE

 

HOME ApprEss: 50 W, Tioga St., Tunkhannock, Pa.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Meshoppen, Pa.

BORN: Oct. 16, 1912, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: John Foote, Agnes Gertrude Cur-
ran.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1034. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; M.D., 1938.

MARRIED: Lillian Irene Spencer, Dec. 30, 1942, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
John Joseph, Jr., Sept. 1, 1946, Peter Vincent, June 23, 1948; Catherine
Agnes, April 28, 1950.

OccUPATION: Physician; chief of surgery, Tyler Memorial Hospital, Meshoppen,
Pa., and at Medical Arts Hospital, Montrose, Pa.

MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons (fellow).

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

STFPHEN HATHAWAY FORBES

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADpRESS: 105 Oakland Ave., Moylan, Pa.

BORN: Nov. 26, 1910, Milton, Mass. parents: Waldo Emerson Forbes, ’oz, Ellen
Forbes.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. (Temple Univ.), 1958.

MarRIED: Emma Elizabeth Weston, Dec. 28, 1939, Hamilton, N.Y.

HARVARD BROTHER: Waldo Emerson Forbes, ’34 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Scientist, private research on color vision.

OFFICES HELD: Teacher, Hunt Memorial High School, 1938-40; assistant in
museum education, 1942-44, museum research associate, 1944, Franklin In-
stitute of Pennsylvania, computer, Bartol Research Foundation, 1945-49-

MEMBER OF: American Physical Society; Optical Society of America; American
Association for the Advancement of Science; Sigma Pi Sigma.
PUBLICATIONS: Musical Scales, Grafix, 1938.

WHEN I left Harvard, I took a trip to Europe with my mother,
landing in Germany five days after Hitler had murdered von R6hm
and von Schleicher. In Munich, there was a tremendous parade in
which every fifth marcher appeared to be a general, so many badges
and ribbons were on display. Everyone except me saluted in the
Nazi manner. My mother and I, when talking about Hitler, always
spoke of a Mr. James and, by this device, hoped to converse without
exciting notice.

Later in the summer, we saw a performance of the Passion Play
at Oberammergau. This was impressive. The players were so intent
on the drama that when a sparrow alighted on the shoulder of one
of them, the actor paid no attention whatsoever, although the
sparrow hopped around picking and pecking.

In Switzerland on the slopes of the Jungfrau, I got a sunburn to
end all sunburns, which put me in bed for three days and lost me

[ 426 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a chance to attempt the Materhorn. Moral: never wear lederhosen
at high altitudes in the summertime!

The following winter was one of the two record cold ones in
the eastern United States, but I was safe in a mental hospital and
so escaped the rigors of the climate.

Next year I became a student in Black Mountain College in
North Carolina, and remained there three years, spending much time
on the work program which took the place of sport in that college.
I made more friends in Black Mountain than I ever did at Harvard.

My first real job was:as a teacher of physics and tutor in many
subjects in the George Junior Republic i in Freeville, New York. I
also coached the cross-country running. The Republic i is similar in
many ways to Boys’ Town in Nebraska, but is different in that it
includes girls. There I married. After two years at the George
Junior Republic, I returned to Black Mountain and studied for two
more years.

Failing to graduate, I went to work in the museum of the
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania, and in less than three years trans-
ferred to the Institute’s physics branch, which is located in Swarth-
more and is named the Bartol Research Foundation, While serving
as computer in Bartol, I became very interested in color, in fact to
such an extent that I finally resigned — “retired” I called it, for I
was in my fortieth year —and have been working on color ever
since. I took time to attend the evening college in Temple Uni-
versity, where, in the course of time, I got a Bachelor's degree in
the field of physics.

Every two to four years, my wife and I get the wanderlust and
head across the Atlantic; by now we have crashed the American
Embassy in Norway, have photographed a polar bear on the Arctic
ice pack, have watched the people burning faggots in Bichizano (in
Corsica), and have found a peace rare and hard to come by in the
States.

[ 427 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

~ WALDO EMERSON FORBES

 

BoRN: July 9, 1912, Milton, Mass. pare
Forbes. :

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933, 1934-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1934(35)-.

MarrieD: Sarah Cushing Paine, Oct. 14, 1939, Weston, Mass. cHitpren: Ellen,
March 14, 1941; Waldo Emerson, Jr., Feb. 28, 1942: Charlotte, Feb. 13, 1944;

Julia, March 13, 1946; Sarah, Oct. 8, 1949; William Cameron, 2d, March 16,
1952; Edith Louise.

piED: Dec. 5, 1955, Boston, Mass.
wipow: Mrs. Waldo E. Forbes, R.F.D. 2, Sheridan, Wyo.

nts: Waldo Emerson Forbes, Ellen

WALDO EMERSON FORBES spent three years with our Class.
He returned to Harvard a year later, receiving his degree in 1935,
as of our Class. While an undergraduate he was a member of the
rifle team and the University 150-lb. football team. After graduation
he spent a short time at M.I-T., taking courses in business administra-
tion, and in 1936 moved to Sheridan, Wyoming, where he engaged
in raising livestock. He was the owner of Beckton Stock Farm,

where he raised cattle, sheep, hogs, grain and hay. He was survived
by his wife and children.

[ 428 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RUSSELL BROWN FORD

 

HOME AppRESS: 676 Ash St., Brockton, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.
BORN: Sept. 20, 1912, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Robert William Ford, Lena

Elizabeth Duenges.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932. DEGREES: A.B. (Boston Univ.), 1935; am. (ibid.),

1936.
MarRiED: Ruth E. Holmes, April 13, 1940, Middletown, Conn. cuitp: Douglas

Robert, June 5, 1947.
OccuPATION: Director of Guidance, Brockton High School.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Family Service, since 1954, Brockton Council of

Churches, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts, Brockton and Plymouth County Teachers’ As-
sociations; American Personnel & Guidance Association; American School
Counselor Association; Greater Boston Personnel & Guidance Association;
Greater Boston Guidance Directors’ Club; South Shore Guidance Di-

rectors’ Association.

_ AFTER leaving Harvard, I did odd jobs for about a year. Then, I

enrolled at Boston University, College of Liberal Arts, where [ re-
ceived my A.B. degree. The follow; ing year I had an Opportunity
for a scholarship in physics at the graduate school, where I received
my A.M. degree. All this time, I “had been preparing for teaching
in the public schools. My first teaching assignment was in Connecti-
cut where I met my wife. After that, I moved to various schools
where IJ taught mathematics and physics and coached basketball and
baseball.

When the war came, I tried to accept a commission in the Navy
but was turned down because of my eyes — the Navy thought I was
color blind, but I can still tell a red light from a green one, Thus,
out the window went the commission. Later, I went into the Air

[ 429 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Force as an instructor. I was stationed with the Third Air Force in
Louisiana until they sent me to Washington and Lee University for
courses in personnel work and guidance. It was about this time that
my W ife, while walking, was struck by a car and received a very
severe head injury. I was discharged to take care of her and returned
to teaching. After brain surgery, my wife recovered and we try to
live a quiet life. Since then, I have moved into guidance and ad-
ministration.

We belong to the Porter Congregational Church in Brockton,
where we both attempt to serve on various committees. Of course,
having a growing boy means many adventures into all types of
situations such as Cub Scouts, clarinet lessons, band meetings, Sunday
School, picnics, etc. Our latest venture is a small hideout in Maine

where we manage to spend a few weeks in the summer fishing and
swimming.

HENRY POWELL FORMAN

 

HOME AppRESS: 9441 Lake Washington Blvd., Bellevue, Wash

OFFICE ADDRESS: Puget Sound Power & Light Co., 860 Stuart Bldg, Seattle 1,
Wash.

BORN: Nov. 3, 1911, Paris, France. parents: Henry James Forman, ’03, Miriam
Chase

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: AB. 1934.

Marrigp: Margery Wildhack, Oct. 17, 1936, Redding, Conn. cumpren: Robert
Chase, May 3, 1941; Maria, Nov. 7, 1943.

occupation: Assistant to president, Puget Sound Power & Light Company;
in charge of public, stockholder and employee relations.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Club of Seattle and Western
Washington, Washington Athletic Club; Seattle Art Museum

ONLY the joyful anticipation of the chance to catch up with the

[ 430 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

lives of my classmates could prompt me, as some measure of exchange
in which I gain all the advantages, to attempt this biographical
sketch. I visualize this book as a sort of modern Suetonius’ Lives of
the Caesars, complete with fore-and-aft pictures of all those rollicking
bon vivants and scholars.

As you may recall, 1934 was an economically unsound year to
leave college; it was an ideal time to go on to graduate school. Since
my finances would not permit this, I became a reporter on a Con-
necticut daily which paid scarcely enough to cover gas for my car.
From that I marched on New York City to look for a city desk job
on a bigger paper but found that I could eat more frequently by
selling in a huge New York department store —an excellent but
harrowing experience, especially in “toys” at Christmas. Some-
how this led to advertising and sales promotion at Collier's, where
I plugged out sales broadsides and ad copy for the Harvard
Classics for over a year. By this time I had become, naturally, a
public relations expert, able to go pretty fast to my left for the
corporate incense pot or adman’s smelling salts.

At the end of 1936, I was a fleck in the public relations depart-
ment of Western Electric, subsidiary of the Bell System. Married
and living in some ancient Harvard man’s former brownstone estate
on Tenth Street in New York, I found life stimulating but noisy,
since they were tearing down the old Sixth Avenue "El bolt by
bolt, seemingly right through our bedroom. My wife and I planned
to go to Europe in 1939 and obtained our passports. We were just
thrilling over the diagrams of staterooms on the poop, or whatever
that lowest deck is called, when Hitler moved on Poland. We de-
cided he wanted to get to Europe more than we did.

There was, therefore, only one thing to do! We moved to Con-
necticut, bought a house in Stamford and I became a sheeplike
commuter. Commuting by train to New York (three hours daily)
is the sternest test of ‘the human body and mind since the Long
Island Railroad was sold by the Indians to the Dutch military. For
fifteen years, this inexorable coming and going, more in sorrow
though some in anger, was my lot during which I moved, crablike,
in the Bell System, finally into public relations in the New York
Telephone Company. Ten years later, I was offered the opportunity
to move to the Northwest and my present work in an electric utility.
Only now I realize that the greatest mistake my wife and I made was

not to come out here long ago.

Gone are most of the pressures and many of the problems of

[431 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

eastern seaboard living. In this vast green area of the Northwest,
temperate all year, our family boats and water skis in summer,
reaches fine snow skiing in forty minutes in winter and can fish
all year. From time to time, some of my work requires my returning
to New York City for a week or so, but I flee back to the cool
that my pores now cannot do without. The casual and friendly
attitude of the West is a distinctive note that all of us find especially
appealing. We aim to make this our permanent home and it is
particularly pleasant to be a member of the wonderfully congenial
Harvard Club of Seattle and Western Washington.

With our son of seventeen we are living through the hopes and
doubts of “verbal” and “math” aptitudes which none of the Class
of 34 had to suffer. Somehow, getting into college required less of
a “program” twenty-nine years ago and I feel that in my case it was
fortunate —I could never get into Harvard today. At the same time,
our fifteen-year-old daughter seems to see Wellesley on her horizon,
which would be a happy note.

As I write this, my forty-seventh birthday is probably rounding
my shoulders a bit more, not to mention my stomach. Some people
are startled to learn my age, saying I look considerably younger.
They are either blind — or I am paying them more than I realized.
All I know is that to judge by the sample pictures sent to us with
this form, I cannot fail to be more handsome at forty-seven than I
was at twenty-two!

I believe that time has done only one thing for me besides bringing
me a wonderful wife and children — it has made me tolerant of
others on the one hand and, on the other, convinced me that the
“eetting-something-for-nothing” philosophy has become a pro-
foundly serious menace to us all. It seems to me that Socialism, as
commonly defined today, is continually tightening its grip on this
country. I feel a responsibility to work in every way possible to

combat this threat and still preserve the rights of the individual.
(Someone just knocked the soapbox from under me and she-is ask-

ing me what on earth P'll say when our Fiftieth comes up. I think
“Amen” will be sufficient unto that day.)

[ 432 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES LOWELL FOSS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 670 E.. Main St., Bradford, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Dresser Manufacturing Division, Dresser Industries, Bradford,

Pa.
BORN: Sept. 8, 1913, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Charles William Foss, *13, Ina

Linscott.

PREPARED AT: Summit High School, Summit, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1934.

MarrieD: Mary-Elizabeth Kerr, Sept. 26, 1936, Newton Highlands, Mass. cHiL-
DREN: Patricia Allison, July 23, 1940; Charles Lowell, Jr. Oct. 22, 1941;

Marilyn Kerr, Oct. 27, 1947.
occuPATION: Manager of profit planning, Dresser Manufacturing Division,

Dresser Industries, manufacturer of pipe couplings; assistant to division
president, in charge of budgets, financial planning and control.

MEMBER OF: Penn Hills Club; Valley Hunt Club; Union Lodge No. 334 F.
& A.M.; Coudersport Consistory, Zem Zem Temple, A.A.O.N.M.S.

AFTER graduation, I spent eight years with Bankers Trust in New
York. I then became convinced that the slowest way to become a
good customer of a bank was to work for it. I worked another eight
years in various capacities with Air Reduction, then moved in 1950
to Minneapolis as assistant to the president of United States Air
Conditioning Corporation. I came to Dresser and Bradford in 1952.
My first major assignment was to set up a budgetary control system
—a challenging assignment because our company had been op-
erating profitably since 1875 without one — but rewarding since
the program has been accepted and is working. Right now, our
principal problems are of future growth. It is interesting to note
that although piping is perhaps the oldest form of transportation,
it is still one of the fastest growing and our company, which makes a
broad line of devices for joining and repairing pipe, is still very
growth-minded.

[ 433 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

As for the family, Patti is a freshman at Chatham College. Lee
is at Mercersburg Academy, with his future in the hands of the
college entrance authorities. Marilyn is in sixth grade. Patti’s inter-
ests have been in speech — she won a state contest last year — and
dramatics — lead in senior play. Lee has letters for track and cross-
country.

Out of several hobbies, we have found travel and fishing to be
the most exciting. We have managed to combine them in such
assorted places as Cape Breton, the Gunflint Trail in northern
Minnesota, Port Isabel, Texas, Bermuda, the Florida Keys and
Guaymas, Mexico. The family championship belongs to eleven-
year-old Marilyn, who outfought and landed a 124-pound marlin .
at Guaymas. My personal prize was a twenty-seven-pound muskel-
lunge caught on very light tackle only forty miles from home, at
Chautauqua,

Until we moved to Bradford, Betty and I had always lived
either in a large city or suburb. Bradford, which is about the size
of a typical New York suburb, is a long distance from any major
metropolitan area. We enjoy this small-city living. It is just big
enough so that we can do most of the things one would do ina
suburban community. We miss the theatre and similar activities, to
be sure, but can substitute the advantages of Allegheny Mountain
scenery, hunting, fishing, boating and skiing. All this within a few
minutes from our door and no big-city traffic. There isn’t much
difference from Madison Avenue in office pressures, but worries
cease as soon as you start for home.

This attitude is reflected in discussions of national and world
affairs — people here don’t get excited about them. This is true
even though there are several companies here which market their
products world-wide. Maybe this is a good philosophy, not to get
too upset about problems which are beyond your control, but to
concentrate on doing your own job well.

[ 434]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EUGENE NOBLE FOSS, II

 

HOME ADDRESS: 26 Wampatuck Rd., Dedham, Mass.
OFFICE apprEess: Hersey Manufacturing Co. 250 Elm St. Dedham, Mass.
BORN: Nov. 4, 1912, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Benjamin Sturtevant Foss, ’08,

Dorothy Emelie Chapman.
PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934(35).
MarRiepD: Mary Winifred Brown, Sept. 17, 1938, Sugar Hill, N.H. cHitpren:
George Edmund, 3d, Oct. 9, 1940; Paul Wheeler, Aug. 21, 1943; Lyman

Sturtevant, Nov. 1, 1948.
HARVARD BROTHER: Benjamin Sturtevant Foss, Jr., ’35.
OccUPATION: Director of new products research, Hersey Manufacturing Com-

pany.
OFFICES HELD: Member, American Society of Mechanical Engineers, since 1934;
vice-president, Air Filter Institute, 1957-58; captain, U.S. Naval Reserve

(Retired).
MEMBER oF: Dedham Country & Polo Club; Profile Golf Club, Franconia,

N.H.; Harvard Club of Chicago, 1946-55.
PUBLICATIONS: U.S. Patent No. 2231826, thermostatically-controlled heating

system.

CERTAINLY the business and professional world was not particu-
larly auspicious when the Class of 1934 was launched into it, al-
though, more fortunate than most, I could enter a family business
in the air-conditioning field. A salary of $100 per month was quite
princely, and the lure of a raise of ten per cent after a year or so
was irresistible. The New Deal had started a huge construction pro-
gram of new buildings, schools, etc., and in 1936 I was transferred
to Washington, D.C., where a major portion of the work was going
on. Here I had the fortune to meet my present wife, and a courtship
of a couple of years culminated in our marriage in the fall of 1938,
in Sugar Hill, New Hampshire, where her mother had a summer

[435]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

home. This important event took place four days before the famous -
hurricane, and as a result our honeymoon was distinctly enlivened
before we could get back to Washington.

A year later saw us returning to Boston, with the clouds of war
on the horizon, and parenthood more imminent, Only a few months
after our first son was born, it was obvious that the Navy intended
to cash in on the NROTC course it had given me at Harvard, and
my “Greetings” from the President duly arrived in June, 1941. So
my civilian clothes were moth-balled — never again to fit me, but
still finding usefulness on growing sons — and replaced with a blue
suit, some gold braid, a sword and the other trappings of a naval
officer.

Indoctrination courses at Boston Navy Yard and Key West were
followed by fitting-out duty on a new destroyer, USS Ezmons,
at Bath, Maine. She was commissioned just before Pearl Harbor
Day, and I was destined to be aboard her for her entire life of nearly
four years until her demise before heavy kamikaze attack off
Okinawa in 1945. In the interim, we were variously cruising, con-
voying and fighting over the north and south Atlantic, Arctic,
Mediterranean and Pacific. A ship and her crew create a distinct
personality for themselves, and her loss plus the tragic death and
injury to 150 fine officers and men was a severe blow. I was among
the wounded myself and spent the next year in various Navy hos-
pitals getting new skin on hands and face, before being mustered out
on the retired list in August, 1946.

Other events to influence my future had been occurring. Our
second son was born in mid-war, family responsibilities seemed to be
growing, my golf game.was getting staler, and my former company
had been acquired by Westinghouse Electric. When I finally got
out of the blue suit and into some snappy civilian models, I had an
offer to go to Chicago for Westinghouse, and once again go west
of Dedham, Massachusetts. Any Bostonian knows the gravity of
such a decision, but in retrospect I recommend it highly.

Somehow the nine years we spent in Chicago have a blurred look,
and not from cocktail parties, lots of travel, fine people, another
son, nor prosperous business. Perhaps the present encroaches on the
recent past, and it’s probably unfair to brush off such a pleasant
interval so lightly and casually, In any event, we enjoyed it.

In late 1955, back we came to Boston after nine Mid-western

years — three growing sons and dog included. The old suburban
frontier of Dedham lured us again, and here we still are.

[ 436 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

A couple of years of division headquarters routine in a vast
corporation was finally enough for me. Too much paper work,
committee management and personal empire-building got more
frustrating than stimulating, so I finally parted company with West-
inghouse in the spring of 1958. Now I feel well settled with a fine
100-year-old firm in the water meter business, and full of confidence
in its future and my own.

We don’t feel settled or mellow with age yet, but I suppose the
inexorable pressure of years will slowly catch up. With one boy in
college, and another two approaching it, we get the feeling every
now and then that we are being considered as the older generation.
Even so, bridge, golf, reading, fishing, socializing and similar di-
versions keep us busy and, we hope, still young. I trust I’ll be able
to say the same when I come to write my Fiftieth Anniversary Re-
port in 1984.

ALBERT YORK FOSTER

 

HOME AppREss: g Sachem Rd., Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE appREss: Socony Mobil Oil Co., Inc., 150 E. 42d St., New York 17, N.Y.

BorN: Aug. 6, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: William George Foster, Elspeth
Ann Munro.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934(35).

MARRIED: Jane McGown Salisbury, Sept. 11, 1937, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Susan Jane, Nov. 29, 1938; Albert Michael, Jan. 19, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Assistant manager, Methods Research Department, Socony Mobil
Oil Company, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Milbrook Club, Greenwich, Conn.; Systems & Procedures As-
sociation; Institute of Management Sciences.

[ 437]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ELIOT RUSSELL FOWLE, JR.

 

s: 2 Greystone Rd., Nahant, Mass.
Dec. 6, 1910, Winchester, Mass. PARENTS: Eliot Russell Fowle, Bertha

shby.

N COLLEGE: 1930-1931.
»: Carolyn Lewis, Oct. 4, 1952, Worcester, Mass. camp: Carolyn Make-

ce, Aug, 12, 1953.
10N: Business.

estionnaire returned.

HERBERT LINCOLN FOX

 

: 259 Ward St, Newton Center 59, Mass.
3: Rapids Furniture Co., go Canal St. Boston 14, Mass.
, 1912, Newton, Mass, parents: Abram Bernard Fox, Minnie M.

3rookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

GE! 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.
ces R. Brown, July 18, 1943, Boston, Mass, cHILpREN: Marjorie

» 21, 1944; Shelley Jo, July 17, 1951.
[ 438 |]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: Alvan Bernard Fox, ’39.
OCCUPATION: Vice-president and secretary, buyer and merchandise manager,
Rapids Furniture Company, wholesale furniture distributor and factory

representative.
OFFICES HELD: Director and first vice-president, National Wholesale Furniture

Association, since 1949.
MEMBER OF: Commonwealth Country Club.
PUBLICATIONS: Articles in trade papers.
SO I shook hands with Dr. and Mrs. J. B. Conant and left the Yard
for pretty nearly the last time. I hied myself back to Newton’s
Playground Department where I had been a life guard the previous
two summers.

Some of my friends who are engaged in what might be called an
honorable business or profession are disappointed when their sons
show no desire to join them. But my father is different — he was
disappointed because I wanted to join him. I did not blame him,
because in still badly depressed 1934 the wholesale furniture business
was a rather frustrating way to pursue the elusive dollar. Since I had
done best in a graduate half-course that I had somehow persuaded
the great Professor Frank W. Taussig to allow me to take in my
senior year, my tutor, Dr. Henry Dyer Locke (for some years now
vice-president of Liberty Mutual), advised me to take my father’s
advice to go to the Law School. So that’s where I went.

To this day, I have an aversion to natural-color toilet tissue be-
cause it reminds me of abstract paper. In fact when I go into a
lawyer’s office (which fortunately has not been very often), the
smell of the law books still makes me slightly nauseous. Although
dear old Dean Pound and his cohorts are terrific brains, they were
too damn abstruse for me, and the only one who bore any re-
semblance to Professor Taussig was the one and only “Mr. Contract”
(Professor Sam Williston). |

That summer of 1935, being a creature of habit, I returned hope-
fully to guarding the lives of Newton’s budding juvenile delinquents.
Since my Civil Service papers for three years had said I was qualified
to start at thirty-five dollars per week, I argued with the department
director that I should be getting more than about half-pay per week.
“Who the devil is paying you, me or the Civil Service Commission?”
was practical Director Ernst Hermann’s retort. “I’ve got able,
huskier boys who would be glad to fill the position for ten dollars
per week.” So we parted friends; and I became the Rapids Furniture
Company’s assistant shipper (and warehouse sweeper), but only
until the Law School reopened.

[ 439 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

made my share of mistakes, but given a second chance would

probably make all the same ones over again .. . only sooner,

CHARLES SIDNEY BRADFORD FRALEY, JR.

  

we

 

HOME ADpRESS: 310 S. Chester Rd., Swarthmore, Pa.

OFFICE ADpREsS: West Area, Health and Welfare Council, 635 S. qzd St., Phila-
delphia 4, Pa.

BoRN: Dec, 26, 1911, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Charles Sidney Bradford
Fraley, Effie Fleming Disston.

PREPARED AT: Avon Old Farms, Avon, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. 1934.

married: Adeline Brown, June 3, 1939, Doylestown, Pa. (divorced 1955);
Esther Elizabeth Morris Courtney, October, 1955. CHILDREN: Natasla Brad-
ford, March 3, 1947; Patricia Courtney, March 20, 1947 (stepdaughter) ;
Gene Matilda Courtney, Jan. 6, 1951 (stepdaughter).

HARVARD BROTHER: Pierce Cresson Fraley, °37.

occuPaTION: Social worker; director, West Philadelphia community organiza-

tion, planning for health, welfare and recreation; Community Chest-sup-
ported.

IN my senior year, while looking for interesting or different courses
I ran across one labeled Sociology 15: criminology and penology;
Law School; Thursday 2 to 3:40. Everything about this appealed
to me, not the least of which was the contrast in time and con-
venience between this and Mon., Wed., and Fri. 9 to 10! So even
though I hadn’t even taken Soc. 1, I applied. Apparently in a good
mood, Sheldon Glueck, one of the real giants in the field, allowed
Horace Sheppard, 34 and me to enroll. I got a B, instead of the
usual “gentleman's C,” and became so fascinated that I decided to
become a penologist. Through some of my father’s contacts I
finally got to a district secretary of Family Service who suggested
that to become a good penologist, 1 should get graduate training in

L 442 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

social work. Where should I do this? At the Pennsylvania School
of Social Work, right here in Philly! Thus it was that, with no
more sense of what I was getting into than a billy goat, I embarked
on a social work career. And I am still at it!

I suspect that my experience has been a good deal different from
that of the average Harvard man, if such a beast there be! During
the depression, as a relief visitor I had to help lone men try to live
on $4.80 a week. I was a shop steward in a union (but our con-
stitution forbade strikes). I helped a thirteen-year-old boy who
stole and played hookey stop doing both of these through half-hour
interviews with me weekly over a six-month period.

In World War II I worked as a Red Cross man in a naval brig.
This was the place where a common sentence was thirty days bread
and water, and homosexual sailors were dressed in Wave dungarees
for the amusement of the Marine guards. I have worked with
schizophrenics in remission at the Veterans Administration, and tried
to help a woman who properly feared that her paranoid husband
would kill her in a fit of insane jealousy.

I have been a community worker in a settlement house for six
years. My “beat” was a Negro slum where two-thirds of the hous-
ing was bad and one-third had no inside toilet, bathtub or hot water.
The goal here was to help people improve their lives through work-
ing together.

Because of the years of work put in through the agency by other
workers and myself, we were able to persuade the mayor's de-
velopment coordinator to choose my area as a pilot project for
urban renewal through housing code enforcement. As a result,
major changes took place giving the community-minded residents
and myself enormous satisfaction.

I do want to add a word about my family, over and above the
bare vital statistics as recorded. My wife, Betty, is a Quaker from
Salem, New Jersey. A raconteur of note, when I tell her I had
never heard of Salem, New Jersey, she tartly reminds me that it
was founded before Philadelphia. Apparently her family has been
there almost from the start and her father was the perennial sheriff
_ of the county. This has given her an unusual understanding of
county affairs which has been both amusing and enlightening. A
particular facet of my respect for her is that she was offered the
job of first sergeant in the first WAC company to go overseas in
World War II.

This has been a hectic and impoverished life, but it has brought

[ 443 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

me very close to the real life problems of the common man, I feel

that it has broadened and deepened my life vastly, and for this I am
most grateful.

DUNCAN FORBES FRANCIS

 

HOME apbRESS: Quarters “U,” U.S. Naval Training Center, Great Lakes, Ill.

OFFICE apprEss: Headquarters, Ninth Naval District, US. Naval Training
Center, Great Lakes, Ill.

BORN: May 18, 1914, Cape May, N.J. parents: Joseph Sidney Francis, 97.
Kate Winthrop Nelson.

prepareD at: William Penn Charter School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; S.B. IN LIBRARY SCIENCE (Drexel
Inst. of Technology), 1939.

marriep: Marianne Fowler Matthews, Dec. 31, 1940, Ancon, Canal Zone.

CHILDREN: Elizabeth Anne, Oct. 21, 1941; Marianne Matthews, March 18,
1944.

HARVARD BROTHERS: James Bicheno Francis, ’29, Winthrop Nelson Francis, "31.

occupation: Captain, U.S. Navy; assistant chief of staff for Naval Reserve and
Training, Ninth Naval District.

MEMBER OF: U.S. Naval Institute.

PERHAPS it was Uncle Frank Babson’s stories of his boyhood years
sailing around the world in the bark Lizzie H.,; perhaps a pre-
school-age visit to the battleship Mame (the second one). What-
ever the cause, a yearning to follow the sea has been an obsession as
far back as I can remember.

Early in grammar school days I was skipped ahead two years, _
under the misapprehension that I was a smart little lad. From then
on I was the class baby mimicking my older classmates in an un-

successful effort to be accepted. I was generally left out, and
learned to kill lonely hours reading omnivorously and dreaming of
the sea. Mother and Dad nudged my unwilling carcass along the

L 444 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

well-beaten family path to Harvard. At the time, the fo’c’s’le of a
merchantman seemed much more attractive. There was one ray of
light: the Navy ROTC. I could learn to navigate, and the steam-
boat inspectors would let me sit for my third mate’s ticket earlier.
For the rest, it didn’t matter. I ended up in English as the best major
for one not otherwise motivated. Happy choice! Memories of Pro-
fessors Kittredge, Lowes, Greenough, good Gale Noyes, and the
Dunster House library were the unearned and abiding treasures
consequent to my casual decision.

After graduation I shipped out in one of Horace Shepard’s father’s
intercoastal lumber steamers, the SS Timber Rush but my father’s
death brought me ashore again after a single voyage. Three years’
try at shore-going life, clerking and teaching, couldn’t erase the
old longing, so back to sea I went, for a year in the South and East
African run on the SS Challenger, a very good year, in the course
of which some long overdue growing up occurred. The long night
watches, arguing every facet of every subject in the world with a
tolerant and conversationally-inclined chief mate, and the endless
discussions of the off-watch fo’c’s’le gang on number five hatch in
the dog watches, were wonderful opportunities to consolidate one’s
point of view and hammer out a philosophy of life.

I came ashore to stay, convinced that though I still loved the life,
it would be less and less rewarding with the years. In those days, a
mate or a master was lucky if he saw his wife and family ten days
in the year, year in, year out. What to do ashore? I was pretty sure
I would be a flop in the money-making game, and was sensible
enough not to be particularly anxious to make a lot. As a teacher I
had felt a tremendous boost working with youngsters who were
genuinely curious, but lacked patience with those who didn’t want
to learn. I loved books, and was well read. Librarianship seemed the
best means of putting by abilities to work and being of some service
to people who wanted to learn.

A small legacy financed a year’s preparation at the Drexel In-
stitute School of Library Science. Public library work beckoned.
A public librarian can be an independent force in the field of adult
education. I found a place in the Public Documents Department
of the Free Library of Philadelphia, a fruitful year professionally
and a wonderful year personally, for I fell in love with and became
engaged to Marianne Matthews, a Philadelphia girl who has ev ery
quality I don’t, including good looks, good sense and a happy, otf-

hand way which everybody likes.

[445 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Afv own theory is that while all manly Frenchmen were at the front,
control of the fashion industry fell into the hands of the womenly
men and manly women, who have been venting their spite on the
female sex ever since, and exploiting the pressure of conformism to
make women vie with one another in appearing like mockeries of
themselves. Rise, men, and assert your preference for plump and
shapely beauty.

With regard to my own profession, I believe the armed forces
are suffering in morale and professional competence from the ef-
fects of too long continued peacetime conscription, with resultant
misunderstanding of true military discipline, which is inner disci-

line, and misrepresentation of it to the public, followed by inept
political meddling whose general tenor is support of the conscript
point of view, at the expense of the professional. Gresham’s law is
inexorably working here, and given time, we could arrive at a
condition similar to that of the French army at the beginning of
World War II: strong in numbers and weak in motivation.

Though I owe much to Harvard, I haven’t been very good about
rallying to its financial support, though loyal to its principles to the
extent of committing all my time, attention and money to ensure
that the children get the best education they can possibly attain.
I hope to do better when all the college bills have been paid.

This has been a wonderful chance to get up on the soapbox, and
I have stood up too long. Still, I hope ye editor won’t use his blue
pencil too liberally on me, or on my classmates, for I am just as
eager to read what they are thinking and doing as I appear to be
reluctant to shut up and sit down!

[ 448 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN ALFRED FRANK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 16 E. 71st St., New York 22, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2 E. 85th St., New York 28, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 23, 1913, New York, N.Y. PARENTS: Jerome William Frank, Bess
Sutro.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933. DEGREES: s.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1935; M.p. (Yale
Univ.), 1939.

marriep: Ulrica Von Eggers, June 16, 1936, New York, N.Y. (divorced 1943);
Mary Zacharczuk, Sept. 16, 1946, New York, N.Y. cHitpren: Nina, Jan.
14, 1939; John Alfred, Jr., March 6, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Jerome David Frank, 30, A.M., °32, PH.D. 34, M.D. 739.

OCCUPATION: Physician, specializing in psychiatry and neurology.

OFFICES HELD: Senior psychiatrist, Bellevue Hospital, 1947-48; assistant professor
of psychiatry, University of Colorado School of Medicine, 1950-51; in-
structor in psychiatry, Vanderbilt Clinic, Presbyterian Hospital, New
York, 1951-57.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology; American Medical
Association; American Psychiatric Association, Physicians’ Scientific So-
ciety; New York Hospital Alumni Association.

PUBLICATIONS: “Some Properties of Sperm Extracts in Arbacia punctulata,”
Biology Bulletin, 76, 1go-218, 1939; “An Acute Psychosis During ACTH
Therapy,” American Practitioner, 2, 400, 1951; “A Critical Evaluation of
Carbon Dioxide Therapy in Mental Disorders,” American Journal of
Psychiatry, 110, 93-100, 1953; several other medical articles, book reviews,

etc.

[ 449 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

MAURICE LIONEL FRANK

 

HOME AppRESS: 165 E. 72d St., New York, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Henry Glass Co., 1071 Sixth Ave. New York 18, N.Y.

BoRN: Nov. 28, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Abraham S. Frank, Caroline
Casper.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., Cu laude, 1934.
markiED: Ruth Dreyfus, Aug. 21, 1941, New York, N.Y.

occupation: Sales manager, Henry Glass Company, converters of cotton
fabrics, trade name: Peter Pan.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

MY postgraduate career started in the department store field at
R. H. White Company in Boston. It took me three years to find out
the pay was poor and the hours long. It took them twenty years
to miss me. They closed their doors in 1957.

In April, 1937, I left Boston to seek my fortune in the Big City.
New York was kind. In a very short time I was employed by
United Merchants and Manufacturers. I spent fourteen years there,
with three years out for the Army. My time with United was well
spent. It was divided, appropriately for me, in the mill, mer-
chandising and financial departments. When I left in 1951, 1 was
well schooled in all phases of textile merchandising,

‘The nicest thing to happen to me at U.M. & M. was meeting Ruth.
Our early dates, since she was a customer, were on an expense ac-
count. (I wish they still were.) It will be eighteen years this
August. What do we have to show for it? Happiness.

Six years, 1951-57, were spent following the old American Ideal,
business for myself. I gave up this dream to become sales manager
for Henry Glass Company. My duties here give me an opportunity

L 450 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to-visit most of the country and a voice in styling and merchandising,
all of which makes my job most interesting and enjoyable.

My army career: For the most part, I fought the Battle of Georgia.

I managed to sail from San Francisco two days before V-J Day —

mad as hell —I had it all figured out — at least two years of Oc-

cupation duty. After all, I had only stateside points. Six months
later, I was back in Tacoma, Washington. Two months of my over-
seas duty was on a slow boat to the Philippines. We were so slow
that flotsam or jetsam (I never know which is which) passed en
route. My fellow-soldiers were able to fish over the side, clear
across the Pacific. Please don’t ask me what they caught, I know
less about that than flotsam, etc. Many varieties of poker, red dog,
black jack were played. I landed in Manila about $13.29 richer, plus
two cartons of Piedmont cigarettes, first prize in a bridge contest.

(The only one I’ve ever won.) I managed to see a little of Luzon

and Japan, particularly the Tokyo-Yokohama area, before returning

home.

In 1956, on my first trip to Europe, Ruth’s third, we visited
London, Rome, Florence, Venice and Paris. Ruth, a Fine Arts
major at Barnard, boned up for this trip. She was a wonderful guide,
and her French got us through most places in Italy and France. We
had a wonderful time. We plan to go back in 1960, after the
Twenty-fifth.

In the spring of 1957, I had my first chance to run a Class
Dinner. I can’t think of any assignment I enjoyed more. I got to
know a lot of our classmates. I spoke to over eighty in the New
York area. April 4, 1957, was a miserable rainy day, but sixty-six
turned out. I was most grateful to each and every one who came
that night. The next year I assisted Gory Kinnicutt in running
the New York dinner, and we had a lot of fun and even a better

turn-out.

Ruth has been a great help, joy and comfort to me. Most every-
thing (except bridge playing), we do together. For many years,
she was a successful stylist at Cohn, Hall & Marx Company. She
retired in 1954. We have the best card index file of classmates in
the New York area, thanks to her efforts. Since our European
trip we have made two cruises to the Caribbean. We like the opera,
theatre and good books. We have no children, but four god-
children, all boys; one 1s at M.LT., but we hope the others will
choose Harvard.

[451]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

HAROLD FRANKEL

 

HOME ApDprESS: 68 Westchester Rd., Newton, Mass. .

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dawes Distributors, Inc., P.O. Box 191, Arlington 74, Mass.

porN: March g, 1912, Boston, Mass, parents: Frank M. Frankel, Lena Brodsky.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: AB., €11772 laude, 1934.

MARRIED: Edna Tirelman, March 30, 1946, Boston, Mass.

occupation: Importer and distributor of bicycle parts.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Varsity Club.

RICHARD MAURICE FRAZIER

   
 

<A a ee

  
    

% ’
‘lias as id

i Spe
HOME aAppress: P.O, Box 111, Kukuihaele, Hawaii.
OFFicE apprEss: Honokaa Sugar Co., Haina, Hawaii.

BORN: Jan. 15, 1910, Honolulu, Hawaii. parents: Charles Russell Frazier, Fanny
Osborn.

PREPARED AT: Punahou School, Honolulu, Hawaii; Phillips Academy, Andover,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.

[ 452]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Nancy Brix, March 14, 1935, Honolulu, Hawaii. cumpren: Richard
Whitmore, Jan. 29,1936; James Alexander, July 21, 1937; Bonnie Elizabeth,
Oct. 20, 1938.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles Russell Frazier, Jr., ’27; Thomas Osborn Frazier, 731.

occupation: Manager, Honokaa Sugar Company & Hawatian Irrigation Co.,
Ltd.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of governors, Hawaiian Sugar Technologists,
Hawaii Employers’ Council, chairman, Advisory Board, Hamakua Corps,
Salvation Army; chairman, board of trustees, Honokaa County Hospital;
chairman, Governor’s Territorial Disaster Committee; past chairman,
Hamakua District, Boy Scouts of America; member, Governor’s Advisory
Committee, Noxious Weeds.

MEMBER OF: Hamakua Rotary Club (charter president); Hamakua Country
Club (director).

ON returning to Hawaii after my freshman year, I started to work
with the sugar industry 1 in Hawaii and fell so in love with the work
that I decided to continue without the benefits of additional years
at Harvard.

It was not long after that that I married Nancy Brix and we had our
three children in rather rapid-fire succession as shown under the
statistical part of this Report. We found that life agreed with the
whole family and we were able to spend enough time in Hawaii’s
great outdoors, to which we are grateful for our healthy family.
Life on a Hawaiian sugar plantation presents a full life for each day
and ample time for hunting, fishing and the other sports necessary
to keep one truly interested in the outdoors. The different Hawaiian
sugar plantations supply enough competitive Sports to keep one
interested in the best part of college life, if he is inclined that way,
and I found my outlet in building some very successful football,
baseball and boxing teams.

Having entered the sugar industry just after the period of decision,
we were fortunate in not having too much competition and our
advancement was rather rapid. Our first area of employment was
at Waimanalo on the Island of Oahu and not too far from the city
of Honolulu. This gave our children a good foundation in school-
ing and ourselves enough social life to keep our minds from becoming

entirely rural.

The war brought an airport into our cane area and allowed us to
share the responsibilities of defense by becoming Coordinator of
Civilian Labor for the windward side on the Island of Oahu, and
also to serve as commander of a company in the Oahu Defense

Volunteers.
In 1946 we moved to the Honokaa Sugar Company on the Island

[ 453 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

of Hawaii where we were again fortunate in working into the posi-
tion of manager. This is the most picturesque plantation in the
Territory of Hawaii and certainly most interesting as far as work
diversification. We not only produce about 30,000 tons of raw
cane sugar each year, but up to this writing we are also the world’s
largest producer of the fabulous Macadamia nut. This gourmet
treat has received wider claim through the better specialty food
stores in the United States and we believe that its popularity was
established through its introduction to the armed forces stationed in
Hawaii during our war with Japan. We also have a sizable cattle
ranch and merchandising operation. One of the most spectacular
parts of our work is the shipping of molasses through a floating hose
line to chartered tankers. Our port is at the base of a spectacular
cliff and we find that each shipment draws a large crowd of fascinated
spectators. Our sugar company also owns and operates the Hawaiian
Irrigation Company which, in itself, is a beautiful and interesting
operation.

With this life, we cannot help but find great happiness and rec-
ommend it to our friends from the cold lands of America to show
them how really fortunate we are.

Our children have found colleges other than the one recommended
by the old man; this March our elder son graduates from Oregon
State; in June our second son will graduate from Colorado State
College and our daughter, who attended Wheelock College in Boston
for two years, has now moved to San Jose State in California where
conditions are similar to those of Hawaii.

LAURENCE BROWNELL FREEBURN

    

HOME ApprEss: Oak Road, Saddle River, N.J.
[454]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lederle Laboratories, Pearl River, N.Y.

BORN: June 14, 1909, Somerville, Mass. PARENTS: Thomas Irwin Freeburn, Etta
Brownell.

PREPARED AT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: S.B., 1934; ED.M. (Tufts Coll.), 1938.

MARRIED: Phyllis Dalrymple, Oct. 8, 1937, Boston, Mass.

OcCUPATION: Councilman, Saddle River, N.J.; industrial and community rela-
tions section, Lederle Laboratories.

OFFICES HELD: Councilman, Middlebury, Conn.,; member, Committee of Codi-
fication of Ordinances, Saddle River, N.J.

MEMBER OF: Phi Delta Kappa, Upper Ridgewood Tennis Club.

NATHANIEL STOWERS FRENCH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 347 Forest Ave., Winnetka, II.

OFFICE ADDRESS: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, Ill.

BORN: April 21, 1912, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: John Robert Putnam French, ‘oq,
Eleanor Campbell Fisher.

PREPARED AT: Derby Academy, Hingham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.

MARRIED: Ruth Barton, June 24, 1938, Peterborough, N.H. cHiLpREN: Jeremy
Barton, Oct. 16, 1943; Alison, Dec. 25, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Robert Putnam French, Jr., 4.M., 739, PH.D., ’40.

OccuUPATION: Headmaster, North Shore Country Day School.

OFFICES HELD: President, Secondary School Fund of Greater Chicago, Ala-
moosook Island Camp, Inc.; board member, Morgan Park Academy, Co-
operative Bureau for Teachers; member, Examiners Committee, Advanced

Placement in American History.
MEMBER OF: Country Day School Headmasters Association; Indian Hill Club.

LATE in the evening of the first day of my sophomore year at
Harvard, I crossed the river to Boston and was admitted to the
Massachusetts General Hospital with poliomyelitis. Since cold
weather is not good for circulation nor ice good for crutches, I

[455]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

never returned to Harvard but completed my education at Rollins
College and at Black Mountain College in North Carolina, and
went into teaching at the Park School in Baltimore.

In 1938, I was married to Ruth Barton of Chestnut Hill, Massa-
chusetts, and moved to Winnetka to join the faculty of the North
Shore Country Day School. This was to have been a two-year tour
of duty, offering experience in a famous school and a chance to see
at first hand the battle for Chicago. Twenty years later it seems
clear that Al Capone was a product of the Volstead Act and that
Carl Sandburg’s greater influence may be found in music and art,
in universities and occasionally in drama.

During my twenty years of tenure at the North Shore Country
Dav School, the job has offered continual satisfaction and reward.
The chance to deal with children from six to eighteen years, the
chance to deal with boys and girls in a school that has maintained
high academic standards while demanding of all some effort in music,
art, drama and, of course, in sports, has supported a full and happy
life. During the last five years as headmaster, I have been able to
continue some teaching and thus to maintain the relationships which
make education such an exciting gaine.

Summers we have spent in Maine at a children’s camp which
changes the milieu but not the goals, and we have enjoyed im-
mensely the chance to cruise. This latter sport has reached propor-
tions for us which are near to the obsession level. In the last fifteen
years we have sailed our own boat into most of the known and many
of the unknown harbors on the coast of Maine, and feel at home as
far west as Buzzards Bay and east to Nova Scotia. My son ran his
first successful compass course in a Maine fog at the age of seven.

We drive a station wagon through Suburbia and have read about
the horrors of this kind of life, but we have no desire to move

either to the city or to the remote country. Commuting distance
for me is about 200 yards; 1 am an independent who has voted for
very few Republicans; and I wear out more tweed jackets than gray
flannel suits. We do not belong to the Book-of-the-Month Club and
read more history than fiction. We don’t play bridge, but we do
sail frostbite dinghies. If there be any moral to this little fable, it
is this —— urge your sons to enter the teaching profession,

[ 456]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANK FREDERICK FRIBERG

 

ApprEss: American Embassy, Helsinki, Finland.

BORN: Jan. 11, 1912, Westminster, Mass. PARENTS: John Avid Friberg, Wilhelmi-
nia Maki.

PREPARED AT: Fitchburg High School, Fitchburg, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.

OCCUPATION: Foreign service.

NO questionnaire returned.

SIEBOLT HENRY FRIESWYK

 

HOME AppRESS: 28 Overlook Ave. West Orange, NJ.

BORN: Feb. 15, 1912, Northbridge, Mass. Parents: Henry Sicbole Frieswyk,
Lena Finnema.

PREPARED AT: Northbridge High School, Northbridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1934. DEGREES! A.B, Cum? Lride, 1934; AMA 1936.

MARRIED: Frances Allard O'Brien, 1936, Cambridge, Mass. cttttoren: Siebole,
Dec. 6, 1936; Elizabeth, Ove. 24, 19383 Fileen, Dees 7, 1gge; William, April
39, 1944; Frances, Dee. 28, 1945; Evelyn, Jan. rt, ty4o.

[457]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

orrices HELD: Music Field Representative, National Reercation Association,
New York, 1936-41; director, Community Recreation Service of Boston,
Inc, 1941-473 educational director, Griftith Music Foundation, 1947~58;

choir director, King’s Chapel, Boston, graduate manager, Harvard Glee
Club.

MEMBER OF: Harvard University Choir (six years); Rotary Club of Newark
other civic groups.

puBLicaTtions: Articles on music for Recreation Magazine, Pennsylvania Educa-
tion Digest, Michigan Education Digest, American Guild of Organists
Quarterly; participated in writing music sections for Recreation Program
Book published by Athletic Institute, Chicago; “Forty Approaches to In-

formal Singing,” published by National Recreation Association,

1940
(suill in print).

FROM 1936 to 1941, 1 was music field representative for the Na-
tional Recreation Association in New York, planned, organized and
conducted music groups in forty-four states. I also worked for
University Extension, Boards of Education, Park and Recreation
Departments, Youth Agencies, etc.

From 1941 to 1947, 1 was director of Community Recreation
Service of Boston, Inc.; managed and dirccted activities for USO,
Civilian Defense, Red Cross, Public Recreation Agencies and Youth
Agencies.

From 1947 to September, 1958, I was educational director for
Griffith Music Foundation. I planned, organized, directed and pro-
moted auditions for music students, courses and special events for
teachers and parents, youth concerts for children and chamber music
for adults.

I took courses with Edward Burlingame Hill, Walter Piston, the
late Dr. Hugo Leichtentritt, Dr. Willi Apel, Dr. Otto Kinkeldey,
Edward Ballantine and others. My son, Siebolt, is a senior at Notre
Dame and on the dean’s list. My daughter, Flizabeth, is a junior at

the College of St. Elizabeth in New Jersey. My wife just got her
college degree this summer.

[ 458 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

KAARE EUGENE FROLICH-HANSSEN

GR ere eer ey
¢ ;

&

bd

      

HOME ADDRESS: 3 Antenneveien, Lambertseter, Oslo, Norway.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 30 Cort Adelers Gate, Oslo, Norway.
BORN: Oct. 16, 1911, Oslo, Norway. PARENTS: Carl Frolich-Hanssen, Bertha

Anonsen.
PREPARED AT: Riis, Oslo, Norway.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932. DEGREE: Candidatus realia (Univ. of Oslo), 1939.
MARRIED: Mathilde Andersen, March 16, 1940, Oslo, Norway. CHILDREN: Kamin,
May 25, 1943; Marit, Sept. 16, 1946.
occupation: Head of Physics Department; lecturer in Oslo Tekniske Skole

(a technical college).
OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Association of Technical Teachers in Norway, 1948-52.
MEMBER OF: Royal Norwegian Automobilclub; Bridge Clubs; Skiing Clubs;

Tourist Association.
PUBLICATIONS: Various technical textbooks in Norwegian; a book on Bridge.

I LEFT Harvard in ’32 as a result of the general economic condi-
tion, which in my case was somewhat special as I held only a stu-
dent’s visa and therefore could have no paid job in the United
States. Back in Norway I got a job im an electrical manufacturing
company. Slowly advancing to assistant to the production man-
ager, I quit in ’35 to take up studies at Olso University. I finished
my work at the university in ’39 with a degree corresponding some-
what to an S.M. (I may probably qualify my “somewhat” to
“somewhat more than.”) I majored in physics and spent some in-
teresting years during these still non-classified development times in
modern physics. I tried my hand in education for a year before |
again accepted a job in industry.

As seen from my vital statistics, I married in ’yo, and returned
from my honeymoon just in time to see the Germans enter Oslo.
I resigned from my job as manager of an electric company in *4:,
as the firm was profiteering too much on German contracts to mv

[ 459 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

liking. I accepted an offer of a teaching job in a technical college,
wanting to keep away from manufacturing during the German
occupation, However, having started in technical education, I found
the work so interesting that | was trapped and have been teaching
ever since. .

Dealing with the time between 1940 and 1945, [ suppose some-
thing should be said about what I did as a member of an occupied
nation. But other people have written books about what they did,
there have been movies about heroic underground men and women,
so ] feel my own little experience is something better not com-
mented on.

In 1952-53, I spent six months in the United States on a Fulbright
grant, studying American technical education. I met a few of my
Harvard friends and even visited Cambridge. And in 55, I was em-
ploved by UNESCO to go on a mission to Ankara, Turkey, as a
so-called “Technical Assistance Expert. ” | thoroughly enjoyed my
two vears in Turkey, my hosts were interesting acquaintances and
I have the feeling I made only friends. But maybe the best result
of my stay was the many American friends I now have both among
my former UN colleagues and among the large contingent of U.S.
Government personnel in Turkey. As a result of our American

“environment” in Ankara, my two daughters came back to Norway
speaking English fluently, but knowing hardly a word of Turkish.
The only trouble is that they are steadily asking me to find myself
something to do over in what they have learned to regard as the
wonder country of the world. I may add that the L.C.A. is con-
tinuing the work of the UN Mission (I.C.A., the International Co-
operation Administration, or what soon may be known as the
AS.CN., the Administration of Steadily Changing Name). The
I.C.A. seemed to be satisfied with what this UN expert had done;
I was even offered a position with the organization as a “third
country specialist.”

I feel I have written too much already. Let me conclude by
stating that 1 welcome even the least sign of interest in a contact.
I promise any of my classmates who write me a line or two a very
prompt answer.

And, Jast but not least, L wish you all a real happy Reunion, and

I only regret that the Atlantic Ocean is going to be between me
and Cambridge this coming June.

[ 460 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE CHAPIN FULLER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 38 Calvin Rd., Wellesley 81, Mass.

OFFICE ADDREss: United Shoe Machinery Corp., 140 Federal St., Boston 10, Mass,

BORN: Nov. 18, 1911, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Henry Holton Fuller, ’96,
Mary Coleman Harris.

PREPARED AT: Berkshire School, Shefheld, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: $.B., 19343 LL.B., 1937(40).

margiep: Helen Elizabeth Idell, Sept. 28, 1940, Brookline, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Holton Fuller, ’23.

OCCUPATION: Patent attorney; member of patent department of United Shoe
Machinery Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, Saengerfest, since 1948.

‘MEMBER OF: Wellesley Club; Wellesley Country Club; Nehoiden Golf Club,
Saengerfest; American Bar Association; American Patent Law Association;
Boston Bar Association; Boston Patent Law Association.

THEY told me I would get to need glasses when I became a patent
attorney, but I thought it couldn’t happen here. Then sure enough,
and just in time for my Twenty-fifth, such intimations of mortality
befell me. Just the same, though, Pm glad I am now a patent at-
torney.

I wasn’t planning on becoming a patent lawyer when I was in Law
School, although I had had pronounced scientific tastes as a lad. It
was, perhaps, the reawakening of these interests through wartime
work at M.LT. Radiation Laboratory that decided me to try to
combine science and law.

If I were asked which of the many things I have to be thankful
for are most important to me, I w ould — I think — point to two: a
happy marriage, even if Efelen and I are not blessed with children,
and a congenial occupation. I imagine, however, that it is “old in
the art” to consider these facets of life important, and thar no
patent is to be had thereon.

[ 461 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

The shortness of time and my tendency to proliferate hobbies
scem to be in constant conflict: in winter 1 enjoy making things,
experimenting in electronics, playing bridge, and listening to music;
in summer I would like to play golf and tennis, fish and loaf, but
we just got a small boat! If each fall the outdoor chores get done
before the freeze sets in, I] am satisfied.

After the freeze, we look forward to a winter vacation where
it's warm. Currently, we are looking forward to a sojourn in the
Caribbean and then to my Twenty-fifth Reunion.

GILBERT EDMUND FULLER, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 19 Brimmer St., Boston, Mass.
OFFICE appREss: Gilchrist Co., q17 Washington St., Boston, Mass.

Bors: April 1, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: Gilbert Edmund Fuller, ’o5, Sid-
ney Michaelis.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934.
marriep: Faith Helen Kidder, June 21, 1942, Cambridge, Mass. (divorced

1954). CHILDREN: Nicholas Hughes, Feb. 17, 1944; Timothy Woodbridge,
Nov. 2, 1946.

occupation: Transfer manager, Gilchrist Company, department store.
PUBLICATIONS: “Chanute and Points West,” Atlantic Monthly.

LEFT Harvard December, 1933. Briefly sampled Macy’s, travel
business, investment house; obscure advertising copywriter, Boston
and New York agencies, 1935-42. Married 1942. Entered Glider
Corps; nothing came of it. Floated to surface as Army Air Corps
weather observer. Three months of domesticity in cellar of Congre-
gational minister's home in Kansas. Two years in India and Burma,
somewhat like hasheesh-eating. Golf and tennis skills improved
notably. Ping-pong champion of Upper Assam,

[ 462 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Returned to family, now including son, weighted with loot of the
East in miniscule star sapphires, proved on appraisal to be of con-
siderable sentimental value. Resumed advertising in Boston; sub-
urban ambience; old-fashioneds distinctly browner. Second son,
1946. A year in Arizona red-rock country. Back to Boston, travel
business for four years. Divorced, Took up chess. Unsatisfactory
surrogate for remuneration.

Joined Gilchrist’s, Boston department store, early in 1957. Handle
disposition of merchandise and stock personnel. Highly evangelical
research in how large a number of operations can be performed
with interest by how few. Conclusion: the greater the interest, the
larger the number, and vice versa. Vice versa important. Late in
life to find first fascinating job, but satisfying.

WILLIAM OTIS FULLER

 

ADDRESS: 1874 S. W, 12th St., Miami, Fla.

BORN: Nov. 17, 1903, Portland, Maine. parents: William Daniel Fuller, Nellie
E. Cary. ,

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1921-1922, 1930-1932. DEGREE: LL.B. (Univ. of Miami), 1949.

OCCUPATION: Law.

NO questionnaire returned.

[ 463 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ROBERT HASTINGS GALLAGHER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 5414 Arlington Ave. Riverdale 71, N.Y.
3FFICE appress: The Port of New York Authority, 111 Eighth Ave., New
York 11, N.Y.

30RN: Feb. 25, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: Walter F. Gallagher, Elizabeth
A. McGinnis.

REPARED aT: Milton High School, Milton, Mass.
"EARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1034; LL.B. 1937 (38).

aarRieD: Helen McNulty, June 28, 1947, New York, N.Y. cHitp: Patricia C.,
March 26, 1948.

CCUPATION: Negotiate leases on marine terminals, Marine Terminals Depart-
ment, The Port of New York Authority.

IEMBER OF: Downtown Athletic Club, Tough Club, Riverdale Neighborhood
Association (all New York).

.FTER about three years of private practice as a single practi-
oner with an office at 80 Federal Street, Boston, 1 was appointed by
nited States Attorney Edmund G. Brandon to be one of his as-
stants. I was assigned to the Land J)ivision and was instrumental

| the acquisition by eminent domain of many of the military in-
allations in Massachusetts. For example: The South Boston Navy
ard, Hingham Shipyard, Hingham Naval Ammunition Depot, Otis
irfield and others. |

Because of this background, after receiving a commission as a
utenant (j.g.) in the Navy, I was assigned to its real estate de-
tment in the Bureau of Yards and Docks, and wound up as a
‘utenant commander. Subsequently, I had charge of all real estate
quisitions in the First, Third and Fourth Naval Districts. While
¢ work was interesting, and I thought had to be performed by
mebody, I saw absolutely no military action except for an oc-
sional sortie upon the Stork Club, Tam still concentrating upon
c real estate aspects of my background because here at the Port

[ 464 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Authority my work is specialized in that I am primarily concerned
with leases with steamship companies upon new marine terminals.
The rents are fantastic and the detail enormous.

As for hobbies, ] am quite interested in Americana, early jazz

and politics. . .

ROLLIN McCULLOCH GALLAGHER, JR.

 

HOME aAppREss: Sea Street, Manchester, Mass.; Princeton, Mass. (temporary
address).

‘OFFICE ADDRESS: Percy G. Crocker & Co., 19 Congress St. Boston, Mass.

BORN: March 31, 1912, Concord, Mass. parents: Rollin McCulloch Gallagher,
"06, Julia Goodspeed Reed.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass. ;

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., ct laude, 1934.

MarRiED: Anne Hamilton Burnett, Oct. 26, 1940, Manchester, Mass. CHILDREN:
Maria Lowell, Jan. 21, 1942; Rollin McCulloch, 3d, July 30, 1943; Charles
Hayden, Aug. 29, 1946; James Russell Lowell, March 17, 1949.

occuPATION: Co-director, South Pond Cabins; head, History Department, Ban-
croft School, Worcester, Mass.; broker, Percy G. Crocker & Company,
private trustee, State Street Trust Company and others.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Chamber of Commerce, Pioche, Nev., 1943-45; chair-
man, Downtown Central Committee, Greater Boston Community Chest,
1947-49; member, Special Gifts Division, Unitarian Service Committee,
1950-51.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; U.S. Naval Institute (associate mem-
ber); Navy League of the United States; Harvard Varsity Club; Iroquois
Club; Lincoln’s Inn Society.

PUBLICATIONS: “The International Gold Standard-Inflation,” a letter inserted
into the Comgressional Record, December 13, 1943, by the Hon. Compton
I. White of Idaho, former chairman of the House Coinage, Weights and
Measures Committee.

CHIEF activity since 1934 has been in helping run South Pond
[ 465 ]

prociccnceettl ,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Cabins, camp for boys, Fitzwilliam Depot, New Hampshire. It has
been gratifving to have had numerous classmates’ sons as campers
and now some of them as members of our counselor staff. The
life is extremely healthy and it has been an advantage for our own
three boys to have been brought up at the camp, especially as to
sports, camping trips and having been exposed to a fine group of
other bovs and counselors.

In recent years, our chief interest has been in the education of
our children; our daughter is graduating this year from Chatham
Hall, Virginia; we have one boy at St. Mark’s, with two more we
hope will “follow. As part of this educational program, T have been
teaching the past two winters at the Bancroft School in Worcester,
Massachusetts, a country day school taking boys to eighth grade and
young ladies to college, We have just moved into a brand new
million- dollar-plus plant designed by St. John Smith, ’33, and I am
currently wrestling with college board preparation as head of our
history department.

Business activities have continued as per the Twentieth Anni-
versary Report, as broker and trustee, with mining interests in
Nevada and California. See Who’s Who in Industry and Commerce,
A. N. Marquis, roth edition, 1957.

We have been unable to have our entire family live abroad for
a vear, preferably in Switzerland, which can be an invaluable phase
of any balanced education, however, our daughter was able to live
in Austria last summer, having won an American Field Service
scholarship, and, in the fall of 1955, our family, minus the youngest,
took a three-week camping trip by station-wagon to San Francisco
and return. Aside from a honeymoon trip to Hawaii, my wife and
I have traveled nowhere save for ten days at Port Hope, Ontario,
this fall playing golf.

Our social life (mainly in the fall, Christmas vacations and late
spring) is centered in Manchester, Massachusetts, at our residence
there which we were fortunate to obtain before the substantial rise
in property values when Manchester began to become popular as
a commuting center for people working in Boston.

[ 456 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN WILLIAM GANNON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 955 Niagara St., Denver 20, Colo.
OFFICE appREss: C. T. Corporation System, 1700 Broadway, Denver 2, Colo.
BORN: Jan. 8, 1912, Aberdeen, S.Dak. parents: Fred Hall Gannon, Edith

Elizabeth Mather.
PREPARED AT: Central High School, Aberdeen, S.Dak.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.
MARRIED: Marion Philbrook Hatch, June 1, 1940, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
John Hatch, Jan. 22, 1944; William Mather, Nov. 19, 1951.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Frederick Mather Gannon, ’32; Richard Hall Gannon, °38.
OCCUPATION: Assistant vice-president and manager, Denver district office, C. T.

Corporation System.
OFFICES HELD: Precinct captain, Republican Party, 1952; director-at-large, La
Canada Valley Welfare Council, 1953-55; vice-president, La Canada

School Advisory Council, 1954-55.
MEMBER OF: University Club, Denver, Colorado.

LOOKING back on the milestones in my life since graduation, the
first is definitely my decision not to return to my home state, South
Dakota, to live.’ The second was my choice of an intended career
in stocks and bonds made at that same time. This second choice in-
volved treading water for a year and a half in a job for which I had
no liking while waiting during the depths of the depression for an
opening in a small investment securities company in Boston. W hen
this opening finally came, it required another vear and a half ‘(and
two sharp drops in the market) to convince me my choice of a
career had been a mistake. Then followed another year in a job
for which I had no taste or talent while trying to find myself and
another field for a career. Aly next change into a new job early in
1939 was a happy one for I am stall w ith the same company ‘and

intend to stay for the duration,
I was married the following year in the chapel of Memorial

[ 467 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Church and, as in my final choice of a career, this too was a happy
one for I am still contentedly married to the same gal and the father
of two sons who, University Hall and my bank account permitting,
will follow their Dad’s footsteps to Cambridge.

The milestones in my career show another detour shortly after
the advent of World War II, when I was commissioned in the Naval
Reserve. I served in the Navy just over three years, mainly in the
Pacific on an LST, first as executive officer and later as command-
ing officer. During this period we participated in five combat land-
ings commencing with Leyte in the Philippines and ending with
Okinawa. I was discharged i in early 1946 as a lieutenant.

I then returned directly to Boston, my family and to my old
job in Boston. The following year I was transferred to the Los
Angeles office of my company where I spent nine years almost to
the day when I was again transferred to Denver to open a new office.
My family agrees with me that Denver is a delightful place to live
and work, and of the twenty-five cities in which my company

maintains offices it is definitely our favorite.

With the mountains so conveniently close to Denver, for the
first time in many years I have the opportunity to indulge my
passion for hunting, fishing and the outdoors.

Since moving to Denver two years ago I have taken a long-
promised sabbatical leave from serious involvement in community
affairs — schools, Boy Scouts, precinct level politics, etc., which
took so many of my evenings and weekends in our former home
community. T must say lam thoroughly enjoying the vacation.

My political views can probably best be described as Taft Re-
publican — slightly to the right of center. I still believe that the
law of supply and demand cannot be entirely circumvented, and in
the homely virtue of a day’ s work for a day’s pay.

By and large I feel quite content with life as I now find it, in
spite of the constant struggle to meet the ever-increasing cost of
day-to-day living and the greater needs of growing boys, the elder
of whom will all too soon be ready for college.

[ 468 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IRVING WILLIAM GARDNER

 

ADDRESS: 4311 E. Sixth, Tucson, Ariz.

BORN: March 1, 1912, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Edward Benjamin Gardner,
Sophy Himmel.

PREPARED AT: Pond School. :

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. 1934.

OCCUPATION: Business.

NO questionnaire returned.

JOHN JOSEPH GARDNER

 

ADDRESS: 15 East Ave., Brockton, Mass.

BORN: March 10, 1912, Brockton, Mass. parents: Anthony Joseph Gardner,
Alice Mulready.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.

OCCUPATION: Government service.

NO questionnaire returned.

[ 469 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

CHANDLER KNAPP GARLAND

 

HOME appREss: 49 Bay St., Squantum 71, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: First National Bank of Boston, 67 Milk St. Boston 6, Mass.

Bors: April 27, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Harold Berry Garland, ’10,
Edna Pauline Knapp.

PREPARED AT: Milton High School, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1034.
MarRIED: Louise Livingston Rich, Feb. 12, 1938, New Rochelle, N.Y. CHILDREN:

Nancy Louise, Aug. 31, 1939; Malcolm Chandler, Dec. 23, 1942; Virginia
Eleanor, June 26, 1946.

occupation: Safe deposit manager, First National Bank of Boston.

OFFICES HELD: Various offices, president, since May, 1958, Massachusetts Safe
Deposit Association; director, Lincoln House (Federation of South End
Settlements), past several years; trustee and Sunday School teacher, First
Church of Squantum, various years; treasurer, Troop 9, Boy Scouts of
America; vice-president, P.T.A., 1955; adviser, Junior Achievement, Inc.
1953-

MEMBER OF: Wollaston Lodge, AF. & A.M.,; Harvard Club of Quincy;
Squantum Yacht Club.

MY personal history for the past quarter-century has largely re-.
volved about my family. Financial hardships of the early years
have left scars but the memories are sweet. I am blessed with a wife
whose patience and loving virtues have far exceeded my just deserts.
The kids are showing a self-reliant maturity I could never boast at
their age. My health, over which I have needlessly fretted these
many moons, is holding up exceedingly well. My faith in human

nature remains somberly optimistic. My faith in God — never
shaken.

Starting with R. L. Day & Company here in Boston, as a “runner”
late in 1934, I slowly progressed up the investment ladder to the
job of municipal bond salesman for A. C, Allyn & Company, Inc.,

[ 470 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

covering Nassau and Suffolk Counties on Long Island. In and around

1940, a shuffle of the cards found me in the credit department of

the Manufacturers’ Trust Company, New York City, where I served

a commercial banking apprenticeship. During this Manhattan inter-
lude, I lived variously in the West Side “Y,” Greenwich Village,
Upper Broadway, Bay Ridge, New Rochelle and the Bronx. When
J think back to those days, I remember mostly those “kind hearts
and gentle people” who were the best friends a fellow could ever
have — real people — no sham, no pretense. The pull of native New
England, however, proved too strong and I brought my brood back
to Quincy, Massachusetts, where we have been living for the past
fifteen years under the aegis of the First National Bank of Boston.
Credit work, branch management and safe deposit have been my
principal preoccupations here at the First National; and I find that
life in a big institution has many gratifying, warm, personal mo-
ments.

Many of us are deeply concerned with the quality of the ever-
burgeoning crop of youngsters and it is in this area that I have tried
to add my nickel’s worth. At various times I have taught Sunday
School, worked with Boy Scouts, supported P.T.A.’s and affiliated
myself with a Settlement House. For the most part, my outside
energies have gone into the activities of our Congregational Church,
from which my rewards have been as rich as they have been un-
expected. If nothing else, my years at Harvard gave me a certain
intellectual honesty and it has been my earnest endeavor ever since
to help others bridge the gap from knowledge to wisdom.

HENRY BASCUM GARRIGUES —

 

HOME apprEss: 3156 E. Laurelhurst Drive, Seattle 5, Wash.

[471 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1116 Summit Ave. Seattle 1, Wash,

worn: Dec. 25, 1912, Detroit, Mich. parents: Alfred Henry

Garrigues, Anna
Burns.

perparep at: Newton High School, Elmhurst, Long Island, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1933. DEGREE: M.D, crm laude, 1937.
wrarRieD: Frances H. Holmes, Feb. 7, 1938, Wellesley, Mass. CHILDREN: Renée,

Aug. z, 1940; Nicole, June 24, 1943; Henry Jacques, Dec. 6, 1947; Michele,
Feb. 28, tgst.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

MEMBER OF: Seattle Surgical Societv, American Board of Surgery, University
Club of Seattle; Seattle Yacht Club; Washington State Medical Association,

POSSESSING a name as long and as difficult to pronounce as mine
has been a distinct drawback from time to time, yet on one particu-
lar occasion it indirectly spared me a great deal of mental anguish.
Having always had the desire to attend the Medical School at
Harvard, and realizing the disadvantages of a name which one
initially finds difficult to pronounce, I applied for admission to the
Medical School in my third year, with the thought that if the
entrance committee had a double opportunity with my name
(namely during my third and fourth years), I would stand a greater
chance of being admitted in my fourth year. When I was accepted
at Harvard Medical School after three years in the College, no one
was more surprised and pleased than I. While this served to shorten
by one year the long training period involved in becoming a doctor,
it also deprived me of one year of my pleasant associations at the
College. However, four years at Harvard Medical School and my
hospital training in surgery at the Massachusetts General Hospital
kept me in an academic atmosphere akin to that in Cambridge.
Near the end of my first year in the hospital, at a time I was working
in the emergency ward and hence having few hours away from the
hospital, for reasons known only to a little fellow named Cupid, I
elected to get married. While my sense of discrimination in all
matters may not be of the keenest, my choice in this instance was
strictly “blue ribbon.” Of course, like most of the other young
doctors in their hospital training, we were as poor as church mice
and it didn’t seem to particularly bother us that two years after our
marriage we had our first daughter and were unable to pay the
hospital bill involved in her birth. As a matter of fact, it was some
four or five years later before we were able to take care of the
financial aspects of having a daughter.

All of these events transpired at the time the war clouds were
gathering, and in 1942 I entered the Army as a first lieutenant in

[ 472 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the Medical Corps. On August ist of that year I knew nothing
about army matters, and four weeks later, after an intensive school-
ing at the Carlisle Field Medical Service School, I was expected to
know everything that a first lieutenant should know about being an
officer and a gentleman. Some four years later and with a second
daughter in tow, I emerged from the Army with a greater desire
than ever to start practising my chosen field of surgery. Never-
theless, I deferred for two more years while I did postgraduate work
in surgery with Dr. Reginald Smithwick at the Massachusetts Me-
morial Hospitals in Boston.

At this point a great decision had to be made in our lives, for mv
medical associations were all centered in the Boston area, while my
inner desires for an area to live in clearly favored the Pacific North-
west. This was an area which I had never seen prior to my tour of
duty in the Army, but its appeal to all of the members of our family
was so great that we moved to Seattle, Washington, in December,
1947. Shortly after arriving our third child and only son was born,
and some three years later our fourth child, a daughter, was also
born in Seattle. During these past eleven years I have enjoved the
practice of surgery in this area and trust that I have a few more
years ahead of me in the same field.

It is hard for me to believe that the years have slipped by so
readily and that now our Twenty-fifth Reunion is just around the
corner, I can recall in my undergraduate days commenting on the
subject of the twenty- -fifth reunions that were occurring at that
time, that “wasn’t it nice that those old fellows could gather back
at the College for one final fling,” and yet here [ am at that same
stage with the feeling that I am just barely getting started. Never-
theless, all around me are signs that time ‘does not stand still, Our

first little daughter, who was owned for several years conjointly by
my wife and me and the Alassachusetts General Hospital, is now a
freshman at the University of Washington and recently made her
debut here in Seattle.

In the great Northwest one can have many outdoor activities and
hobbies, and I suppose my chief hobby has centered around the
thousands of miles of water in this par ticular region, Shortly after
coming to Seattle we acquired a small sailboat and enjoved racing
as well as cruising among the various islands in these environs, As
the family grew larger, not in number but in individual size, it was
necessary to get a larger boat, Having always enjoved woodwork-
ing, and with my T hursday; afternoons off, I fele rhe only thing to

[ 473 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

do was to build a larger boat, Hence, about four years ago, with the
help of one other person, we began to build a thirty-cight-foot
sloop. T was soon to learn that it rook more than just Thursday
afternoons and before the first vear was over IT was workin
practic ally every weekend, holiday and Thursday afternoon. Some
two and a half vears atter beginning and with many more gray hairs
added, our ship was launched. She has proven to be everything
that we wished and we have sailed her far and wide. Nevertheless,
my advice to anyone thinking of building his own boat is in the
negative.

Throughout the vears my philosophy has changed very little, as
[ have alw avs felt thar if one lives by the Bible and sincerely tries to
do the very best in every endeavor, happiness should be his reward.

Finally, Tam pleased to report that my health has remained ex-
cellent throughout the vears, and while a few extra pounds have been
added around the mid-section and a moderate number of gray
hairs on the top section, still I am able to keep up reasonably well

with my four active youngsters as well as my wife, the same one
with whom I started out.

LUCIO ERNEST GATTO

  

HOME Appress: 445 Kensington Drive, Biloxi, Miss.

orFice apprEss: USAF Hospital Keesler, Keesler Air Force Base, Miss

BORN: Dec. 13, 1911, Cambridge, Mass.
Aveni.

puepakrp at: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1034. DEGREES: AB, curt laude, 1934, M.D. 1938; S.M. IN
PSYCH, (Temple Univ.), 1951.

Marnie: Janice Scdorchuk, Feb. 12, 1939, East Jaffrey, NEL. cotpren: David

[474]

PARENTS: Vincenzo V, Gatto, Mary

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Keith, Sept. 23, 1940; Lucio Ernest, Jr., June 20, 1944; Jaffrey Gerald, Jan.

13, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Victor E. Gatto, "go.

OCCUPATION: Physician, USAF: deputy commander and chief, Professional
Services, USAF Hospital Keesler; consultant in neuropsychiatry.

OFFIces HELD: Medical professor of military science and tactics, Temple Uni-
versity Medical School, Philadelphia, 1949-1951; clinical associate pro-
fessor in psychiatry, Louisiana State University, 1957-58.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Aeromedical Association, Asso-
ciation of Military Surgeons of the United States; American Association
of Industrial Physicians and Surgeons; American Association for the
Advancement of Science; American Psychiatric Association (fellow);
American College of Preventive Medicine (fellow); New Orleans So-

ciety of Neurology and Psychiatry.
PUBLICATIONS: Fear of Flying; The Nestling Patient.

SINCE leaving college and completing Medical School at dear old
Harvard, my life history is perhaps truly a part of the history of the
development of the Air Force. In twenty-five years I have traveled
far and wide — borne on the “wings of the falcon”; “fly with the
falcon” is now practically the slogan of the Air Force, particularly
since the Air Academy football team within two years became
powerful enough to play in the championship games at the Cotton
Bowl. So, too, the Air Force in twenty-five years has emerged
from the pupa state of lumbering, doddering, slow aircraft to the
powerful, thunderous, sleek and fleet superjets that soar majestically
over the entire world.

It has been my good fortune to participate actively in this ad-
vance; particularly it has been my good fortune medically to ob-
serve and study the human behavior of those individuals who have
become the pilots of this age.

Little did I know in the early part of World War II, when I
proceeded to the Greenland Arctic as part of a medical group pro-
viding medical care for the vanguard of intrepid airmen and soldiers
protecting the eastern approaches to the United States, that those
frontiers would have the tremendous import in world history that
they have today. While allegedly awaiting the attack of the invasion
of enemy forces in that apparently desolate region covered almost
completely by icecap, we flew majestically in B-25’s and Norsemen
aircraft over the vast reaches of the Arctic. Surprisingly, our greup
included other Harvard members, but not of our Class. One of
them, Victor Balboni, acted as Chief of Medicine under my erstwhile
command of the only military hospital above the Arctic Circle,
where we treated members of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Coast

[ 475 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

JACOB GEISINGER

   

IME ADDRESS: 15 Lawrence St. Chelsea, Mass.

oy
a ‘|
FICE ADDRESS: 18 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

RN: Oct. 24, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Louis Geisinger, Ida Kaufman.
EPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

ARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; LL.B. (Boston Coll.), 1939.

RRIED: Betty Sidman, Nov. 9, 1952, Boston, Mass.

:VARD BROTHER: Benjamin Geisinger, ’35.

UPATION: Attorney.

IE two years following our graduation were uncertain ones

eer-wise, but it was a happy day when I decided to become an
smey. Somehow, it was not at all difficult to resume formal
lies after a two-year absence. Upon passing the bar in 1939, 1
red a general private practice but it wasn’t long before Uncle
fitted me to an army uniform in March, 1942.

fter serving as an enlisted man in the Medical Department in
rinia and New Jersey (this being job placement in the early days
ie war), I went to New York City where I did some investiga-
work. The U.S.0., free theatre tickets, etc., absorbed some of
pare time there until 1 went to O.C.S, at Grinnell College. After
sual period I pinned the bars on my shoulders and was assigned
2 Fourth Service Command, where I served as a claims officer
lanta and the Tennessee maneuver arca and Camp Davis, North
ina. It was a new experience in settling of claims of local
tants for damage to, or destruction of, cattle, crops and other
types of property, In August, 1944, I was transferred to the
Transportation Corps. I served out of Brooklyn Army Base,
ny as cargo security officer and transport commander. be-
European ports and the states. It seemed that everybody
J to get home and out of the Army as soon as possible when

[ 478 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the war ended. Hence, those of us in the Transportation Corps were
generally among the last to be separated from the service. Also, at
various times I had some courts-martial duty, serving as counsel and
on the court, Personally, this was the most interesting part of my
Army career.

After the war I resumed private practice in Boston where I have
been ever since. After a few years I got married and I’ve been really
living since then.

During the war years I, like so many others, became interested in
photography, especially since my duties carried me to many places.
I have a very nice collection of pictures taken by me, from Africa
to Scotland. I still take the camera along when my wife and I go on
vacation but frankly my interest in this hobby seems to have w vaned.
It’s stall fun though when I snap some.

RALPH ERNEST GEISSLER

 

HOME Appress: Birch Lane, Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE AppRESS: Diamond Gardner Corp., 122 E. 42d St., New York 17, N.Y.

BORN: April 12, 1912, Methuen, Mass. parents: Herman Carl Geissler, Helen
Teschner.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: S.B., 1934; M.B.A., 1936.

MARRIED: Celia Von Grebenstein Seward, Sept. 22, 1950, New York, N.Y.
CHILDREN: Helen Frances Seward, Richard Seward (stepchildren).

occuPaTION; Manager of planning, Diamond Gardner Corporation,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Greenwich Country Club; American
Society of Accountants; National Association of Accountants.

BEFORE my marriage in 1950, I lived in New York City. I did
spend one year ( 1946) in Caracas, Venezuela, working for a manage-

[479]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ment consulting firm. Four of my bachelor years were spent as
“subway” naval officer.

In 1948 I joined Diamond Gardner Corporation as the com
pany's internal auditor. In 1955 1 was given an assignment in on
of the company’s divisions in Northern California (Chico). Afte
three years of grass-roots living, 1 am again a suburbanite. Unfortu.
nately, while we were on the Coast, both children were in school ir
the East. They are now both attending college in California!

SYDNEY SAUL GELLIS

    

   

tng

‘1, ee

ame es |, - 5
” é

4 & _ £
oe Mise, f+ ;
i ka ff \

HOME abpress: 77 Alderwood Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 818 Harrison Ave., Boston 18, Mass.

BoRN: March 6, 1914, Claremont, N.H. parents: Morris Aaron Gellis, Minnie
Bernstein.

PREPARED AT: Stevens High School, Claremont, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1934; M.D., 1938.
marrige: Matilda Lichter, March 7, 1939, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Beth Louise,
March 21, 1943; Stephen, Jan. 16, 1948.
occuPATION: Professor of pediatrics, Boston University School of Medicine.
OFFICES HELD: Instructor of pediatrics, Johns Hopkins Medical School, 1942;
instructor of pediatrics, 1946-49, assistant professor of pediatrics, 1949-55,
lecturer on pediatrics, since 1956, Harvard Medical School; director of
pediatrics, Boston City Hospital, since 1956, professor of pediatrics and
chairman, Dept. of Pediatrics, Boston University School of Medicine, since
1956. :
MEMBER oF: Phi Beta Kappa; Sigma Xi; Alpha Omega Alpha (hon.); American
Pediatric Society; The Society for Pediatric Research (president, 1958-59)-
PUBLICATIONS: Articles on various diseases of children; contributor to textbooks;

editor, The Year Book of Pediatrics; associate editor, American Journal of
Diseases of Children.

 

COMPOSING a statement covering the twenty-five years which
[ 480 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have passed since graduation is traumatic. If there were no tw enty-
fifth reunions it’s doubtful that any of us would bother to tote up
the years and discover that so much time has elapsed. When I con-
sider that four years went into my training at the Harvard Medical
School, four years into hospital work (Yale, Cincinnati, Johns Hop-
kins), four into the Army, thirteen years out of school seem a much
more reasonable period. I just can’t believe that I’m as old as the
figures show, and am not yet accustomed to being addressed as “sir”
by medical students and house officers who, to my way of thinking,
are contemporaries. Perhaps this is a sign ‘of immaturity but the
constant need for reading and study makes me feel that I’m still a
student. On the other hand, daily contact with young people who
are interested and hard-working does help keep one young; so per-
haps it’s this and not the relatively short period of time in my work
that makes me feel youthful despite the aging body.

After hospital training came to an end, I entered the Army and
was made a member of the Army Epidemiology Board and a con-
sultant to the Surgeon General in Infectious Diseases. I had a v ariety
of assignments: testing of gamma globulin against epidemic hepatitis
in Italy with the Fifth Army, working with various diseases in vol-
unteers from the state prison in New Jersey, investigating an epi-
demic of jaundice in troops in Alaska. After four years with the
Army and the end of the war we returned to Boston.

Life is very pleasant; we have two children who present the
standard problems and joys. We enjoy good theatre and music. My
wife and I travel a great deal, mostly because of requests for lectures,
so my absences don’t trouble my conscience. We summer on the
Cape at Woods Hole where we own a cottage and shall continue
to go there if the New Haven keeps the railroad running.

My work, like that of everyone else, is a mixture of satisfactions
and frustrations. Three years ago I left the solid comforts of the
Children’s Hospital, w here I had been physician and chief of the
Out-Patient Department, to take over the Chair of Pediatrics at the
Boston University School of Medicine and became director of
pediatrics at the Boston City Hospital. This is one of the last strong-
holds of the ward patient, and the great amount of clinical material
makes the teaching of medicine both easy and rewarding. The
frustrations consist primarily in getting phy sical improvements in
an aging plant constructed by the late James Michael Curley, but
the large numbers of patients and my house statf of tw enty-five

residents make my work completely satisfactory, lf it will continue

[48r ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

3s pleasant during the next twenty-five years, I shall have little cause
for complaint.

Though I like to think I haven’t changed in the twenty-five years
my suit is four sizes larger: this is probably caused by the fact that
mv wife has finally overcome my childhood food dislikes. I have
undoubtedly matured: 1) [ have given up gardening which I never
liked to begin with; 2) I have sold my wife at long last on my in-
competence as a do-it-y ourselfer; and 3) I can look the desk clerk

in the eve and say w hat I had alw ays wanted to — “No, a double
bed, please.”

MATTHEW JOSEPH GIBNEY, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 5733 61st St., Sacramento, Calif. (temporary).
OFFICE aDpREss; PMST, New York University, University Heights, New York
53, N.Y.

BorN; April 19, 1912, Reading, Pa. parents: Matthew Joseph Gibney, Gertrude
Amold.

PREPARED AT: Reading High School, Reading, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1034. DEGREFS: A.B., 1934; A.M. (Univ, of Pennsylvania),
1952.

MARRIED: Jessie R. College, Aug. 22, 1940, Chambersburg, Pa. CHILDREN: Patricia
Ann, March 27, 1941; Matthew Joseph, 3d, March 27, 1943; John David,
May 26, 1944; James Arnold, May 19, 1949; Mary Ann, May 16, 1951;
Michael, May 31, 1952; Eileen, July 18, 1954; Sally Jeanne, Oct. 25, 1956.

occupation: Assistant professor of Military Science, New York University.

MEMBER OF: Faculty Club, New York University.

ON the Twenty-fifth Anniversary, when one is or should be “in
orbit,” he can’t help but go through “an agonizing re-appraisal, ”
The conclusions reached vary in direct proportion. to his propensity
for “Veritas” which has not been prostituted by persuasive propa-

[ 482 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ganda or evasive Pilate pretexts. A pretentious profundity presents

no answers, so let’s get on with it.
Most men, even young Yale men, start out in life to do good —

many do well and some, both. Being too partial, it would not be fair
nor objective, as the educated would say, for me to decide in which
category I belong.

After leaving Cambridge and having tried my hand at law school,

I went on duty with the Civilian Conservation Corps until 1941, at

which time Pearl Harbor changed my duty station to Washington,

Detroit and the Pacific. Following World War II, I spent five years

teaching economics at Mount St. Mary’s College in Emmitsburg,
Maryland, although on occasions student exam reports left me in
doubt as to the accuracy of that job description. During the sum-
mer months I attended the graduate school of the University of
Pennsylvania. |

In 1952 I was recalled to duty with the Inspector General’s Office,
Department of the Army, where I served until | transferred to the
Signal Corps in 1956. In 1957, duty took me to the Pacific again,
this time Korea, from which I have just returned to find a frantic
file of requests from Bertram Loewenberg to complete this report.

I have just reported to New York University as assistant professor
of Military Science, where I hope to spend three more years teaching,
as chief of the Signal Branch.

It is customary to save the best until the last, so I must add that
during these years I acquired a lovely and wonderful wife and
eight children of whom I am pardonably proud. So perhaps I did

good and also well. Will verify this on our Fiftieth!

[ 483 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

WILLIAM HAMILTON GIBSON, II

 

BorN: April 20, 1910, Shetheld, Mass. parents: William Hamilton Gibson, ’06,
Brooks van Dyke.

PREPARED aT: Gunnery School, Washington, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

MaRRiED: Marguerite Rogers, Jan. 16, 1932, New York, N.Y. cHitp: Wilham
Hamilton, 4th, Oct. 9, 1938.

ep: April 8, 1947, Morris, Conn.

WILLIAM HAMILTON GIBSON, III, spent two years with our
Class. After leaving college, he went to Bermuda where he was
associate editor of The Bernnidian, a monthly magazine. In 1938
re returned to the United States to start a contest magazine called
Vin. In 1940 he became a salesman for Harper Oil Company in

ong Island City, New York. He was killed in an automobile
cident.

FREDERICK AUGUSTUS GILBERT

 

OME appRess: ty Scarles Rd, Darien, Conn,

[ 484 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

oFFIce ApprEss: Food Machinery & Chemical Corp., 161 E. 42d Se, New York

17, N.Y.
BORN: May 2, 1912, Buffalo, N.Y. parents: Lester Frederick Gilbert, Josephine

Ballard Hoyt.
PREPARED AT: Phillips E: xeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.; Taft School, Watertown,

Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-10934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Nancy Porter, June 17, 1937, Buffalo, N.Y. cHitpreN: Charles R,
Nov. 29, 1940; Samuel L., Oct. 17, 1944; Nancy, Aug. 3, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Hoyt Gilbert, '50, LLB. °53.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and general manager, Inorganic Chemicals De-
partment, Food Machinery & Chemical Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Park School of Buffalo, 1948-51; secretary, 1951-53,
member board of directors, to 1957, Children’s Aid Society, Buffalo,
industry division chairman, 1954-55, trustee, 1954-57, Buffalo Community

Chest (United Fund).
MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Institute of Chemical En-

gineers; Chemical Institute of Canada; Society of Chemical Industries;
Chemists Club; Union League Club; Multinomah Athletic Club, Portland,

Ore.; Tokeneke Club, Darien, Conn.

TWENTY-FIVE years is a long time in anyone’s life — it’s some-
what disconcerting, therefore, to find how few events in my per-
sonal quarter-century seem worthy of recording in these august
pages. Like perhaps many others, my career has been neither spec-
tacularly good nor spectacularly bad. It can be summarized as con-
sisting of working at a job I enjoy, spending as much time as pos-
sible (not nearly enough) with a wonderful family, and wondering
where the time (and money) will come from for all those things I’ d
like to do.

Chronologically, the time since 1934 sounds about like this. After
considerable effort, by others as well as me, I landed a job in Feb-
ruary, 1935, with a small chemical company in Buffalo. While I
started in the research laboratory, it was soon obvious that my
chemical training was not strong enough to support a lifetime of
research work. Therefore, I transferred to production and ev entually
to the administrative end of the business. All unbeknownst to me
I had joined an organization which was about to enter upon a
rather spectacular growth period, Through no fault of my own I
had, in a minor way, “hitched my wagon to a star” — it's lots of
fun!

In 1951 we built a second plant in Vancouver, Washington, across
the river from Portland, Oregon, My family and TE moved our there
in the fall of that year and, as happens to lots of people in similar
circumstances, fell completely in love with the Northwest. Also,

[ 485 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

to follow a pattern which occurs all too often, we had to move again
in fifteen months, coming back to Buffalo. In 1952 our company was
purchased by the Food Machinery & Chemical Corporation and I
am now in New York City in charge of part of our chemical opera-
tions. ‘

One of the side trips taken during this quarter-century of busi-
ness activity was a three-month sojourn at the Harvard Business
School in their Advanced Management Course. Not only is this a
wonderful educational experience and an opportunity to meet many
fine people, but it also constitutes what, to many of us, may be the
longest uninterrupted period of reflection and “stocktaking.” I
highly recommend it.

The Gilbert family life has followed a normal pattern — bringing
up children, having fine friends and making new ones in our in-
frequent travels, summer vacations, PT'A’s and all the rest.

Writing this Report brings to mind many of the things that have
occurred since 1934. However, in spite of the speed of the passing
years there should be, God willing, a lot to which to look forward.
I, for one, am counting on many more years with a wonderful wife
and three fine kids, sailing on Long Island Sound, trying to learn the
game of golf, traveling —the Caribbean, Europe, etc., perchance
an occasional bourbon and branchwater—all assuming that we
humans have the wit to solve our problems by some means other
than the misuse of the atoms.

THOMAS ELLWOOD GILLINGHAM, JR.

wee

     

       

  

HOME AND OFFICE AppRESS: 615 Market St., Oxford, Pa.
BORN: Aug. 25, 1912, Oxford, Pa. parents: Thomas Ellwood Gillingham, Em-
ma Louise Nieweg.

[ 486 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Oxford High School, Oxford, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1034. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1934; 8.M. (Univ. of
Arizona), 1936; PH.D. (Univ. of Minnesota), 1946.

MarRIED: Barbara Alice Sickels, Jan. 30, 1943, St. Paul, Minn. cHipren: Stephen
Thomas, May 30, 1944; Wendy Louise, Aug. 15, 1947; Sandra Alice, Feb,
12, 1949; Frank Thomas, Oct. 25, 1952.

occuPATION: Consulting mining engineer and geologist.

OFFICES HELD: Scoutmaster, Wallace, Idaho, 1946-47; program chairman, in-
dustrial minerals division, American Institute of Mining Engineers, 1957-
58; administrative consultant to Lincoln University, 1958.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Mining Engineers; Mining and Metallurgical
Society of America, Society of Economic Geologists, Geochemical So-
ciety; American Mineralogical Society; University Lodge, AF. & A.M;
Sigma Xi.

PUBLICATIONS: “Solubility of Silica and Other Non-Volatiles in Steam,” Eco-
nomic Geology, 1948; “Filing and Indexing of Mine Maps and Drawings,”
Engineering and Mining Journal, 1952; “Opportunities in Uranium Min-
ing,” Mining Congress Journal, 1953; “Mineral Exploration in 1957,” Min-
ing World, 1958.

FROM the cloisters of Cambridge, I ventured forth as an embryonic
mining engineer into the woods of northern Ontario. My home was
a prospector’s cabin, miles from the nearest hamlet, with access only
by lake. In the winter the lake froze, the snows and the wolves came,
the mercury fell to 58 below. Gold was there, but not enough; the
prospect failed, I went to Arizona.

In Arizona the mercury hit 120 in the shade. There were gold
mines there and copper mines too, but at that time no one wanted
copper, and the gold miners weren’t much better off than the Okies
who were trekking to California along Route 66. I went to the
Philippines.

There was gold in the Philippines, but not as much as the pro-
moters claimed; stocks were sold on half the buffalo pastures in the
islands, the boom collapsed. My boss sent me to Malaya to look for
gold and tin. I found gold in the Malayan jungle, scouted Siam,
Indo-China, Hongkong and remote Yunnan, and went back to
Manila, half-dead from malaria. The Japs were shooting up the
Chinese along the Hongkong border; the clouds were darkening.
I had finished my contract and had a small stake; I came home.

The subsequent years, excepting three of the war when the Navy
carried me from New Guinea to Shanghai, have been more tranquil
than those bachelor days of the ’30’s. At Minnesota, while studyi ing
for the doctorate in economic geology, I met a lov ely lady w ho
became my patient partner in a yet unsettled life. We spent five

[ 487 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

happy vears in the mining camps of Idaho, eight in the New York
area, and only last September moved with our brood to the beautiful
Pennsy Ivania countryside from which I went off to Cambridge
almost three decades ; ago.

Afy vocation has been mining from the start and so will it likel
remain. As a mining consultant I have found freedom and challenges
unknown in earlier years. Assignments have taken me north, south
and west to examine mining properties and, strangely enough, in
recent weeks into the field of education. :

Near our Oxford home is a small college, Lincoln University,
which was founded by a local pastor over 100 years ago for the
higher education of the Negro. Among its noted alumni are the
poet Langston Hughes, the advocate Thurgood Marshall, Prime
Minister Nkrumah of Ghana and Prime Minister Azikiwe of eastern
Nigeria. The school is now integrating, expanding and, of course,
seeking funds. Into all these facets I was invited to delve as a sort
of part-time assistant to the president who, incidentally, is a Prince-
ton man. This variance is as stimulating as the discovery of a new
vein of ore.

Our nomadic life has precluded anything more than a per-
functory interest in civic affairs, although we have participated
when possible in PTA, AAUW, benefit drives and the like. I have
always been fairly active in my professional societies, which are
naturally attuned to the wanderer. Our politics are middle course,
our religion is Episcopalian, our general viewpoint is tolerantly con-
servative.

On the domestic scene, the reiteration of one’s own childhood in
the joys and woes of lively youngsters is a prime source of pleasure,
pride and, alas, bewilderment. No amount of higher education can
prepare one to cope with the levities and language of the next
generation, though — I suspect — most of us see in these youngsters
no decadence of mind or spirit.

Out of this odyssey, in retrospective moments, the mind’s eye re-
calls persons and places of many degrees and climes — the amicable
Chinese merchant Ho Loi Shin in his little shop in Malaya; the
fabulous soldier of fortune, “One Arm” Sutton, whose pet fancy
at the time I knew him in Hongkong was to build a wheelbarrow
monorail over the Burma Road for Chiang Kai-shek, men of quite
the opposite bearing, Admiral Kinkaid of the Seventh Fleet and the
late Gordon Dean of the AEC, with both of whom it was my
privilege to be associated in relatively minor, but none the less

[ 488 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fascinating, roles. With few exceptions, these memories are pleasant
ones.

At this milepost, I am inclined to believe that the majority of men
the world over are basically good, that life has at least as much
pleasure as pain and that happiness comes from quietly doing simple
things well. Harvard could not have taught what experience has
gleaned, but she did much to make life more than just tolerable.

WILLIAM SCOTT GILMORE, JR.

 

LAST KNOWN appress: 440 E, 56th St., New York, N.Y.

BoRN: May 19, 1911, Evanston, Illinois. parents: William Scott Gilmore, Agnes
. Lattimore.

PREPARED AT: Evanston Township High School, Evanston, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1934(35).

OCCUPATION: Publishing.

GILMORE has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since
1944.

[ 489 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

t+ BENJAMIN GINSBERG

 

Born: Oct. 4, 1913, Newark, N.J. parents: Jacob Ginsberg, Annie Kalb.

PREPARED AT: Seabreeze High School, Daytona, Fla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: S.B., 1934; M.B.A., 1936.

pip: Killed in action, Nov. 17, 1944, over Germany.

BENJAMIN GINSBERG received an S.B. with our Class and then
attended the Graduate School of Business Administration. As an
undergraduate he was a member of the Winthrop House swimming
team, the Debating Council and the squash team. After receiving
an M.B.A. degree, he entered the merchandising field and was as-
sociated with R. H. Macy & Company in New York City. During
the war he was a lieutenant in the Tank Corps and was killed in
action over Germany. He was survived by his parents.

ALAN GINSBURG

 

HOME Apokess: st Fifth Ave, New York, N.Y,
OFFICE AppaEss; Lionel Corp., 16 E. 26th 5t., New York, N.Y,

[ 490 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BoRN: Aug. 9, 1914, New Rochelle, N.Y. parents: Joseph Ginsburg, Rose

Marks.
PREPARED AT: New Rochelle Senior High School, New Rochelle, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: a.B., magna cum laude, 1934.

MARRIED: Rose Lewis, July 4, 1940, New York, N.Y.

OccUPATION: Vice-president, in charge of marketing and sales, Lionel Corpora-
tion, manufacturers of electric trains, Airex fishing tackle.

MEMBER OF: New School and Village Temple, New York City; American
Marketing Association; Hobby Industry Association, Toy Manufacturers
Association; National Mental Health Association; Toy Wholesalers Asso-
ciation; Research Institute of America.

AFTER graduation I went with R. H. Macy & Company in the fall
of 1934. Upon completion of Macy’s training squad assignments, I
was given the post of assistant buyer in several successive depart-
ments (boys’ furnishings, girls’ sportswear, men’s shoes) from
which position I was transferred to L. Bamberger & Company in
Newark, New Jersey, a Macy affiliate store, as buyer of toys. After
a stint as toy buyer and then as buyer of candy, liquor and groceries,
I shuttled back to Macy’s for a short stay as buyer of women’s
gloves, from which position I returned to Bamberger’s as merchandise
manager of a group of departments and in 1943 was elected executive
vice-president and merchandise administrator.

In 1946, I left Bamberger’s to become merchandise manager and
vice-president of James McCreery & Company in New York City.
In 1950, I resigned the McCreery position to head up the Merchan-
dising Division of Amos Parrish & Company, a merchandising and
retail consulting firm in New York City. In November, 1952, I
joined the Lionel Corporation as assistant to the president and was
elected vice-president, December, 1955, the position in which I am
now responsible for the marketing and sales functions of the com-
pany.

In retrospect, it seems to me that the two most exhilarating parts
of the years spent in the distributive process at both retail and
manufacturing levels are: first, the constant demands made to stay
alert, to do better, to “stretch” in order to keep pace with an ever-
changing distribution picture and with an always keener, tougher
and better-informed group of competitors, Second is the very “real
satisfactions that come from working with people — particularly
those younger men who are able, dedicated and responsive, It is
in the training, stimulating and working through of problems with
such men on the way up that P’ve found the truly satisfying pleasures
in the years spent in the business world.

[ 491]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

As for non-commercial pursuits, Pve maintained an interest in
sports — particularly baseball and pro football. My own participa-
tion in active sports is confined to fishing and swimming. These I
can indulge during the summers only, w hen we generally take a place
in the Ridgefield- Danbury area of Connecticut.

Theatre “ranks high on our extra-curricular list. My wife and I are
regulars and generally “see everything” on Broadway during the
course of a season. During the summer, this is replaced by summer
stock where we travel far and wide so that I can wander around
backstage and in the prop barns to see the inner workings. In the
fall season we also take a few lecture courses at the New School in
New York, attend the symphony concerts at Carnegie Hall and,
when business permits, do some traveling — several times to Cali-
fornia in the past few years, to Nassau and a European trip last
summer.

An active but not always rewarding interest in the stock market,
a campaigner’s interest in the National Mental Health Association, 4
“spectator” but nonetheless active interest in national politics and,
last, the pleasure that comes from belonging to and being with wife,
family and good friends (with whom must be included a devoted

and uncritical Shetland sheepdog) complete the picture of my post-
college years.

FRANCIS HOWES GLEASON

 

HOME appress: Beaver Pond Road, Lincoln, Mass.
orFice appress: J. F. McElwain Co., Nashua, N.H.

BORN: April 6, 1912, Newton, Mass. parents: Charles Bemis Gleason, ’94, Helen
Zabriski Howes.

prepakeD at: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. 1934.

[ 492 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Mary McElwain, Sept. 22, 1934, Cohasset, Mass. (divorced 1951);
Nancy Jackson Peabody, June 20, 1957. CHILDREN: Frank Howes, Nov. 5,
1938; Joanna McElwain, Feb. 5, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Howes Gleason, ’30; Donald Howes Gleason, ’35,
Sidney Gleason, ’35.

OCCUPATION: President, J. F. McElwain Company, shoe manufacturers.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Children’s Medical Center, Boston, 1948; director,
Melville Shoe Corporation, 1951; vice-president, New England Shoe &
Leather Association, 1957; chairman, Quartermaster Industrial Advisory
Committee on Leather Footwear.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club; Algonquin Club of Boston; Nashua Country
Club; Concord Country Club; Kittansett Club.

FOLLOWING our graduation, the Harvard baseball team went to
Japan. Since I was being married in September, I gave up the trip
and went to work. In view of the developments of December 7,
1941, I am rather sorry I did not go with the team. On July roth,
I reported to the main office of the J. F. McElwain Company (manu-
facturers of Thom McAn men’s and boys’ shoes) in Nashua, New
Hampshire. While being trained in the intricacies of sorting and
cutting upper leather, I lived at the YMCA that summer and played
ball after work in the very active factory league. Being from
Harvard, I was naturally a marked man for the spectators. As a
pitcher I got by, but as a hitter I was a howling success since I struck
out to end the deciding game of the season with men on second
and third and trailing by one run. Perhaps this was a strategic move
inasmuch as in recent years I have had to handle the labor negotia-
tions for the company and my college background has not as yet
entered the discussions.

We settled in Winchester, Massachusetts, and I commuted to
Nashua daily. The factory starting time of 7:20 4.M. used to present
some problems. For the next several years I filled my weekends with
golf and sailboat racing at Cohasset in the summer, and bowling
and hockey in the winter. In 1939 we moved to Concord which cut
down the commuting somewhat but added horseback riding to my
recreation. In 1941 I came up with stomach ulcers which 4 d me
for the war. By this time I was in charge of upper leather buying,
and the shortage of merchandise and government controls on in-
ventory accumulations kept us hopping. I well remember riding a
trailer truck in the back alleys of Boston’s leather district during a
wildcat truck strike while picking up army leather to continue our
12,000-pair daily combat boot production.

In Concord we attempted raising thoroughbreds as well as riding

[ 493 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

them. At one time we achieved a total of six horses on “the farm.”
It was not a successful enterprise, To liquidate the stable we put
three mares on the track with the hope of having them claimed in
cheap claiming races. Unfortunately, the feed and training bill was
much bigger than their winnings and the only mare with a fair
racing record was barred from tracks in this area for not leaving
the starting gate. She was sold to a dealer for shipment to the tracks
in Puerto Rico. Live and learn!

In 1946 I became executive vice-president of the J. F. McElwain
Company and in 1951 was made a director of the Melville Shoe
Corporation of which we are now the manufacturing division. In
1956 I was made president of McElwain and a vice-president of
Melville.

In 1951 I was divorced and returned to Newton to live with my
parents. My son is a sophomore at Trinity College and my thirteen-
year-old daughter is at Beaver Country Day. I finally forsook
sheltered bachelor life and was married a second time in June of

In so doing I acquired three stepdaughters whose progress,
together with that of my own children, will provide much excite-
ment in the years ahead when hockey and thirty-six holes of golf
are no longer possible. The change from my own youth — being

one of the four Gleason boys — to the present atmosphere is con-
siderable, but very stimulating.

SETH MORTON GLICKENHAUS

 

HOME AbpRESS: 100 Dorchester Rd., Scarsdale, NY.
OFFICE AvDRESS: 55 Liberty St., New York 5, N.Y,

born: March 12, 1914, New York, N.Y. parents: Morris Glickenhaus, Anna
Barney.

[ 494 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Evander Childs High School and Fieldston School, New York, N.Y,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1934; LL.B. (New York
Univ.), 1938.

marrieD: Sarah Brody, 1944, Columbus, Ga. cHmpren: James Morris, July
24, 1950; Nancy Brody, March 30, 1953.

occupaTion: Dealer, broker and speculator in securities.

MEMBER OF: Y.M.H.A.; New Rochelle Tennis Club; Municipal Bond Club of
New York; Bankers Club of New York, P.T.A., Davis School.

UPON leaving college, I became a bond trader for a large Wall

Street firm. After a few years, I entered into a partnership of dealers

and brokers in securities and have prospered. At times I am quite

startled at the disproportion between the minor public service we

perform and the gross overpayment we receive.

I was graduated from New York University Law School at night
and admitted to the bar in 1938. Have never practised law, and
it has been of little use to me in my career. In 1943, forced my
way out of 4-F and into the ski troops by memorizing the eye chart.
After a year in the Rockies, was transferred to Military Intelligence
and learned Norwegian in an excellent army course at the University
of Minnesota. The method we used was far more effective than
the traditional ones in use at secondary schools and colleges, and in
a few months I could read, write and speak Norwegian fluently.
Naturally, the old guard language teachers have effectively blocked
its adoption in most schools.

Met my wife while taking this course, and we were married in
1944. Ended up in Oslo, Norway, in the military attache’s office,
where I was stationed for over a year. Found the Norwegians
kindly, energetic and very intelligent.

Since the war, have lived in Westchester County with my wife
and our two children, in a comfortable and surprisingly stimulating
suburban milieu. Our battles for more and better schools, better
local officers, etc., plus our hobbies of skiing, tennis, reading and
music have kept us happily engaged. Plan to retire from business
next year, and travel and study.

On the subject of religious convictions, I want to say Tam a Jew
who is completely dedicated to living under the Golden Rule, and

who is opposed to institutional forms of religion of all denominations.
I have been shocked at the harm formal religion does to people by
giving them rationalizations for wicked behavior and by leading
them into superstition and idolatry, Although in no way impugn-
ing the good intentions of the authorities who are responsible for
its nourishment, I am not, naturally, sympathetic to the strengthen-

[495 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ing of the School of Divinity. Despite this trend, it is heartening, in-
deed, to find President Pusey and his team carrying Harvard’s in-
tellectual and liberal traditions to new heights.

To answer your question about politics, I would say it’s apparent
that the greatest distinction between one party and the other seems
to be that one is in, and the other out. It’s also discomforting to see
the public elect and re-elect, as their president, a father image of
great personal popularity, but alas, of doubtful ability. One could
forgive his failure on the economic and international fronts, if only
his golf were better. Our system is the best of all possible systems,
and this points up just how dreadful the other systems must be.

RICHARD PAUL GLOVE

 

HOME appress: 3273 E. Monmouth Rd., Cleveland Heights 18, Ohio.

OFFICE apprEss: Warrensville Center Rd., Shaker Heights 22, Ohio.

BORN: Sept. 23, 1912, Cleveland, Ohio. Parents: Paul Edward Glove, Elmida
Isabella Mueller.

PREPARED AT: John Adams High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 930-1934 DEGREES: $.B., 1934; M.D. (Western Reserve Univ.),
1938.

MaRRIED: Lois Lucille Yost, ‘July 10, 1948, Wooster, Ohio. CHILDREN: Richard
Wayne, Jan. 5, 1950; Ronald Jeffrey, Jan. 14, 1953.

occupation: Obstetrician and gynecologist, private practice of medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Associate obstetrician and gynecologist, St. Luke’s Hospital,
since 1948, University Hospitals, since 1948; consultant obstetrician and
gynecologist, Booth Memorial Hospital, since 1948; assistant obstetrician
and gynecologist, Cleveland City Hospital, 1948-56; clinical instructor in
obstetrics and gynecology, School of Medicine, Western Reserve Uni-
versity, since 1948; member, advisory board, Alice Hunt Center, since
19§2; assistant secretary, Cleveland Society of Obstetrics and Gynecology,
1953-56; commanding officer, 4th and 256th General Hospitals, USAR,
since 1956, colonel, MC, USAR; member board of trustees, Children’s

[ 496 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Services, Cleveland, since 1956; secretary, Cleveland Society of Obstetrics
and Gynecology, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Cleveland; Ashlar Lodge, F. & A.M.; Fullerton
Council, F. & S.M.; Vernon Chapter, R.A.M.; Rhodes Commandery; Al
Koran Shrine; A.A.O.N.M.S.; American College of Obstetricians and
Gynecologists (founding fellow); American College of Surgeons (fellow) ;
Academy of Medicine; Cleveland and Cuyahoga County, Ohio State
Medical Associations; American Medical Association (fellow); American
Association for Maternal & Infant Health, Inc.; Cleveland Medical Library
Association; Cleveland Health Museum; Cleveland Society of Obstetrics
and Gynecology; Reserve Officers Association of the United States, As-
sociation of the United States Army; 1st Cavalry Division Association;
YMCA; Y-Indian Guides; Silver Spur Ranch Club; Nu Sigma Nu Medical
Fraternity; Salvation Army Association (sponsoring member).

FURTHER education after graduation from Harvard started at the
School of Medicine, Western Reserve University, where I graduated
with an M.D. in 1938 and then started the long hospital training:
rotating internship at St. Luke’s Hospital, Cleveland, 1938~—39;
assistant residency in obstetrics and gynecology, Women’s Hospital,
Detroit, 1939-40, Cleveland City Hospital, 1940-41; assistant resi-
dency, obstetrics, Maternity Hospital, University Hospitals, Cleve-
land, 1941-42.

I had taken four years of C.M.T.C, in Cavalry at Camp Knox,
Kentucky, and was commissioned a second lieutenant of Cavalry
Reserve in 1933, was promoted to first lieutenant in 1936 and held
a certificate of capacity for captaincy when called to active duty in
February, 1942. I reported to the Officers’ Orientation Course,
Armored Force, Replacement Training Center, Fort Knox, and
upon graduation was ordered to the 8th Armored Division, Fort
Knox. While with this Division, I received my commission as a
first lieutenant, M.C., and then served as surgeon, 399th A.F.A.,
division medical inspector, acting division surgeon and surgeon,
Division Artillery, all 8th Armored Division, and staff medical in-
spector, qth Army Director Headquarters. The 8th Armored Di-
vision served as the training division for the succeeding eight armored
divisions and an armored corps and trained at Fort Knox, Camp
Campbell and Camp Polk, Louisiana, before sailing from Camp
Kilmer in 1944. I served as the surgeon for the Advance Party
which made an uneventful crossing on the Leviathan, landed in
Scotland and then traveled by train to Bournemouth where we
organized for the stationing of the Division at Tidworth Barracks.
We landed on the continent at Le Havre in January, 1945, and took

[ 497 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

part in the Rhineland, Ardennes and Central Europe campaigns and
ended the war cleaning out the Harz Mountain of S.S., Werewolves
and Hitler Jugend. After that we served as the occupation force at
Gottingen where I spent some time with Prof. Dr. Med. Heinrich
Martius, director of the University Women’s Clinic, Gottingen.
We turned the area over to the British, went to Klatovy, south
of Pilsen, and then I joined New England’s own 26th Yankee Di-
vision as division artillery surgeon. Next I was on my way to take
part in the invasion of Japan when V-J Day fortunately occurred
while we were in mid-ocean, and we changed our course to Hampton
Roads, good old U.S.A. I then served as assistant chief of the surgi-
cal services at Billings General Hospital until released from active
duty in March, 1946, as a lieutenant colonel, Medical Corps. I
earned the American Campaign, World War II Victory, European
Theatre Medal with three Battle Stars, and the German Occupation
Medal.

Returned to my hospital training immediately and completed my
assistant residencies in obstetrics and gynecology, 1946-47, and the
chief residencies in obstetrics and gynecology, 1947-48, at Mac-
Donald House, University Hospitals, Cleveland.

My work as a house officer must have been satisfactory because
I was able to persuade one of our head nurses to become my house
partner in 1948. Also started my private practice of obstetrics and
gynecology at the same time and established our home. We had our
first son in January, 1950, and in October, 1950, I was unpleasantly
surprised with a ten-day notice for recall to active duty. Joined the
21st Transportation Medium Port Headquarters at Fort Hamilton,
New York, traveled by train to the West Coast and flew to Yoko-
hama. Landed in Pusan, Korea, and was in Masan, Korea, for
Christmas, 1950. We organized the port facilities there, moved
coastwise to Kunsan on the West Coast and ran the port there. In
April, 1951, 1 was called to the rst Cavalry Division as the division
surgeon and went through the Chinese C.F. Intervention, 1st U.N.
Counter Offensive, C.CF. Spring Offensive, U.S. Summer-Fall
Offensive and the 2d Korean winter campaigns with the famous
ist Team. In January, 1952, we were relieved and went to garrison
Hokkaido — the northernmost Japanese island. There was a great
deal of organizational work required, which kept us all busy. Came
back to the States by ship in February, 1952, and was mustered out
with the Legion of Merit, Korean Service Medal with five Battle
Stars, U.N. Service Medal, Japanese Occupation Medal, the National

[ 498 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Defense Service Ribbon and the Republic of Korea Presidential
Unit Citation.
Took up my practice again and have kept busy at that, teaching
house officers and medical students and doing all the other work
that goes with hospital staff appointments.
We had our second son, Ronald Jeffrey, in 1953. With many
ears in the Army Reserves, I continued with that and in 1955 was
ordered to command the famous 4th General Hospital, USAR of
Lakeside Hospital. ‘This 1000-bed Com. A. hospital was redesignated
the 256th General Hospital and is constantly growing in size and
efficiency. This takes up a night a week and two weeks for summer
active duty. Another night Lois and I go to a woodworking and
furniture-refinishing class. Rickey and I are in the Indian Guides —
father-son organization of the YMCA —and Ronnie is anxiously
awaiting his turn to join. Of course, home maintenance, remodeling,
a little photography, leather carving, medical and army reading
help to take up any unclaimed moments.

Travels have included auto trips up through Wisconsin, the
Soo, Detroit; Florida; the Toronto Exhibition, Fort George G.
Meade, Maryland; and a flight to Los Angeles and Frisco in April
of this year to attend the American College of Obstetricians and
Gynecologists meetings. The next trip on the agenda will be the
pilgrimage to old Bean Town in 1959 — see you then.

ALFRED SVEN GNOSPELIUS

 

HOME appreEss: 25 Arnold Rd., North Quincy, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bethlehem Steel Co. Quincy Yard, Quincy, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 15, 1909, Sweden. PARENTS: Gustav H. Gnospelius, Ester Lundmark,
>REPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass,

[ 499 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

VEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933, 1934-1935. DEGREE: A.B, 1934(35).

starriro: Frances Crossley, 1935, Portsmouth, N.H. cHiLpren: Stephen Alfred,
June 28, 1939; Jean, April 5, 1943.

occuPaTION: Incentive coordinator.

I HAVE become neither rich nor famous but have enjoyed life and
have no ulcers.

EDWARD SETTLE GODFREY, a

BRE ARE EM 5 tes Ome IML AS gpk aed

  

“
|
|

 

HOME ADDRESS: 235 Lenox Ave., Albany, N.Y.

OFFICE AppRESS: Albany Law School, Union University, 80 New Scotland Ave.,
Albany, N.Y.

BoRN: July 21, 1913, Phoenix, Ariz. parents: Edward Settle Godfrey, Jr.,
Alma MacDonald.

paépareD AT: Albany Academy, Albany, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., Suna cum laude, 1934; LL.B. (Co-
lumbia Univ.), 1939.

UN MARRIED.

occupation: Professor of law, Albany Law School.
puBLications: Miscellaneous professional articles.

TAUGHT school a couple of years after getting out of Harvard.
After law school worked in Washington in the General Counsel’s
office, Federal Home Loan Bank Board, 1939-40. In the Army from
Iggi to 1946: desk jobs in Georgia, Maryland, Washington, D.C.,
and Manila, P.1. Damn glad to get out. Private practice in Albany,
1946-48. Professor of law, Albany Law School, since 1948. Con-
sultant on repeals, Uniform Commercial Code for New York Com-
mission on Uniform State Laws and Jater for New York Law Re-
vision Commission, off and on from 1951 to 1955. Executive secre-
tary, Bar Examination Service Committee of the National Conference
of Bar Examiners, since 1953. Attended Harvard Law School,

[ suo J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1957-58, on a fellowship grant from the Ford Foundation. Candi-
date for the doctorate there. Dissertation still due. Must be done
within five years of completing the year of residence.

Prime hobby: bridge. Also gardening and boating.

JULIUS ABRAHAM GOLDBARG

 

HOME ADDRESS: 204 Rangeley Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Beth Israel Hospital, 330 Brookline Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 19, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Alexander Goldbarg, Sarah Cohen.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., C27 laude, 1934; M.D. (Boston Univ.),
1940.

MARRIED: Shirley C. Berlin, Sept. 23, 1951, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: Jeffrey
Robbins, Oct. 25, 1948; Jonathan Alexander, Nov. 1, 1953; Jill Claudia,
Feb. 22, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Research associate, Harvard Medical School and Beth Israel
Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Histochemical Society; American Medical Association.

puBLications: “A Method for the Colorimetric Determination of a-p-Glucosi-
dase with a Chromogenic Substrate”; “The Colorimetnc Determination of
Leucine Aminopeptidase Acuvity in Urine and Serum of Normal Subjects
and Patients with Cancer and Other Diseases”; “A Method for the
Colorimetric Determination of B-Glucuronidase in Urine, Serum, and Tis-
sue; Assay of Enzymatic Activity in Health and Disease.”

AFTER graduation I spent a year in chemistry at the Harvard
Graduate School and four more in medicine at Boston University.
Next came a year of internship at the Massachusetts Memorial Hos-
pital and almost two years at the Boston City Hospital. The latter
period was punctuated by Pearl Harbor Day and the Cocoanut

Grove disaster.
In 1943, T volunteered for military service and was duly com-

[ sor ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

missioned a first lieutenant in the Army Air Corps, as it was then
known. [ was base surgeon at several air bases and in 1947 was a
student at the School of Aviation Medicine, Randolph Field, Texas,
when the Texas City disaster struck. Students and staff were flown
to Fort Crockett to establish the first organized relief in the area.
Shortly thereafter, I was commissioned in the Regular Army (Air
Force) and sent to Germany where I spent three fascinating years
as Wing Surgeon of the 36th Jet Fighter Wing at Furstenfeldbruck.

Returned to civilian status, I was most fortunate in finding the
perfect wife at my advanced age of thirty-nine and settled down to
raise a family. A full-time researcher since 1953, I have been enjoy-
ing the colors produced by the enzymatic hydrolysis of chromo-
genic substrates. Primarily, this has involved the development of
colorimetric methods for the measurement of enzymatic activity in
normal individuals and in patients with cancer.

Almost all of my time away from the laboratory is delightfully
spent with my young family, which keeps me from feeling a quarter-
century older than in 1934.

BERTRAND GOLDBERG

 

abprEss: 721 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill.

BoRN: July 17, 1913, Chicago, Ill. parents: Benjamin Goldberg, Sadye Getz-
hoff.

PREPARED AT: Harvard School for Boys, Chicago, Ill.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

MARRIED: Nancy Jane Florsheim, Dec. 4, 1946, Chicago, Il. cuitpren: Lisa,
March 28, 1950; Nan, Oct. 31, 1952.
occupation: Architect,

NO questionnaire returned.

[ 502 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LEO GOLDBERG

i 3
¥e

   

HOME aApprEss: 13 Heatheridge St. Ann Arbor, Mich.

OFFICE appREss: The Observatory, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich,

BORN: Jan. 26, 1913, Brooklyn, N.Y. parents: Harry Goldberg, Rose Ambush.

PREPARED AT: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREES: S.B., cut laude, 1934; A.M. 19373 PH.D.
1938.

MARRIED: Charlotte B. Wyman, July 9, 1943, Pontiac, Mich. cHILDREN: Suzanne,
Dec. 22, 1944; David Henry, April 23, 1946; Edward W., March 24, 1951.

OccUPATION: Professor and chairman, Department of Astronomy, director,
Observatory, University of Michigan.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Cranbrook Institute of Science, since 1956, Associated
Universities, Inc. since 1957; vice-president, International Astronomical
Union, since 1958; chairman, U.S. Delegation to Tenth General Assembly
of International Astronomical Union in Moscow, August, 1958.

MEMBER OF: American Astronomical Society; American Physical Society;
American Academy of Arts and Sciences; American Philosophical Society;
National Academy of Sciences, Space Science Board.

PUBLICATIONS: Atoms, Stars and Nebulae, co-author with L. H. Aller; about
seventy research articles in technical journals, chiefly, Astrophysical Journal
and Physical Review.

I SUPPOSE that all of us can look back over the years to crucial
decisions that shaped our lives. In my own case, there were two
that were made in rapid succession, during the spring and summer of
1930. The first, of course, was to enroll in the Harvard Engineering
School (then still an undergraduate department), rather than at
M.LT., and the second, to seek employment during that depression-
ridden summer on the island of Nantucket. There I fell under the
spell of the magnificent star-studded sky that was frequently visible
from the dark shore-line of the island. After two such summers, |
could no longer resist the urge to learn more about astronomy and
enrolled in the beginning course at Harvard, with Professor B. J. Bok,

[ 503 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

who had a wonderful talent for conveying the excitement of
astronomy to undergraduates. By the time the course ended, I was
an ex-enginecr and a budding astronomer. Immediately following
graduation, I began intensive graduate study and research under
Professor D. H. Menzel, now director of the Harvard College Ob-
servatory. Under Menzel’s inspiring guidance, | first experienced
the matchless excitement of original research and learned of a world
in which one could not only spend most of his time solving problems
but be paid for it as well.

Following the completion of my Ph.D. work in 1938, there were
three additional productive years at the Harvard Observatory, as
postdoctoral research fellow and instructor. In July of 1941, I left
Harvard to accept an appointment as assistant in the McMath-
Hulbert Observatory of the University of Michigan, near Pontiac.
This observatory specialized i in solar research, a field that seemed to
offer very great promise. However, the arrival of World War II
abruptly terminated my connection with solar research and, .al-
though I was able to remain at the observatory, my work consisted
entirely i in the development of fire-control devices of various sorts,
most notably a bomb-sight later adopted by the Navy.

From my point of view, the most momentous event of the war
period was my marriage and the happy family life that has resulted
from it.

At the conclusion of the war, 1 was promoted to assistant pro-
fessor, but had barely time to become familiar with astronomy again,
when I was called to Ann Arbor to assume my present position. I
do not see how the past twelve years at the University of Michigan
could have been any more exciting and rewarding in terms of the
opportunity I have had to conduct “research and to rebuild a depart-
ment of astronomy and an observatory. Astronomy has undergone
two revolutions since World War II, the first resulting from the
introduction of the new technique of radio astronomy and the
second from the advent of artificial satellires in which the observa-
tories of the future will survey the universe high above the dirty
blanket of air that obscures the view from the ground, This is not at
all what I bargained for twenty-five years ago, when it seemed im-
possible that any science could advance at such a breakneck pace.

Among other things, astronomers are busy these days in planning
and constructing cooperative national observatories in out-of-the-
way arcas, such as Kitt Peak, Arizona, and Green Bank, West
Virginia, My participation in both of these enterprises and in other

[ 504 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

committee activities requires me to travel widely in the United
States, In addition, I generally travel to Europe every three years
for meetings of the International Astronomical Union, the most
recent of which was held in Moscow, in August, 1958. This was an
unforgettable experience in a variety of ways, and, fortunately, my
wife could share it with me.

Raising and playing with three fine and vigorous youngsters just
about fills up most of our spare time. In the winter, we figure-skate
together and cheer David on in the Bantam Hockey League. During
the summers, we live at Base Lake, near Ann Arbor, where we dash
around in outboards, water ski and fish. I also dabble with a guitar
and study Russian, during otherwise idle moments. We expect to
turn up at the Reunion.

HAROLD SANFORD GOLDE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4404 Arcola Ave., North Hollywood, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Daniel Reeves & Co., 14221 Ventura Blvd., Sherman Oaks,
Calif.

BORN: Nov. 21, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: Louis J. Golde, Harriet Spiro.

PREPARED AT: Franklin School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MarRRIED: Mary Ellen Buskirk, Aug. 11, 1944, Washington, D.C. cut-pren: San-
dra Lynn, Nov. 28, 1946; Lewis William, March 14, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Elihu Albert Golde, °33.

OCCUPATION: Stockbroker.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California.

THE years between graduation and World War II were occupied
with a variety of activities, mostly in the real estate field.
Four years of the war were spent with Army Air Force Incelli-

[ 505 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

gence within the confines of the Pentagon. During this time |
acquired a wife and, subsequently, two children,

Shortly after V-J Day, we headed for Southern California and
here we ‘engaged i in several m: anufacturing enterprises, These were
followed by My present occupation w hich is my association with the

firm of Daniel Reeves & Company, members of the New York
Stock Exchange.

ALLAN GERSHON GOLDENBERG

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3076 Earlmar Drive, Los Angeles 64, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mission Furniture Manufacturing Co., 7911 Beach St. Los
Angeles 1, Calif.

BorN: Dec. 29, 1912, Chisholm, Minn. parents: Samuel W. Goldenberg, Jessie
Gale.

PREPARED AT; North High School, Minneapolis, Minn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., Cut laude, 1934.

MarriepD: Adele Averbook, June 12, 1938, Los Angeles, Calif. cu1tpren: Samuel
William, Dec. 24, 1939; Judith Sue, Dec. 16, 1942.

occupaTiON: Vice-president and general manager, Mission Furniture Manu-
facturing Company.

MEMBER OF: Southern California Furniture Manufacturers Association; Ameri-
can Field Service.

[506 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ARTHUR MORTON GOLDSTEIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 404. Madison Ave., Lakewood, N_J.

BORN: Jan. 7, 1914, New York, N.Y. parents: Abraham Goldstein, Jeannette
Zuckerman.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-34. DEGREE: a.B., cum laude, 1934.

NO questionnaire returned.

CHARLES FOLSOM GOODALE

 

BORN: Oct. 24, 1912, Weston, Mass. Parents: Francis Greenleaf Goodale, Mar-
garet Davis.

PREPARED AT: Gunnery School, Washington, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; LL.B., 1937.

MarRiED: Nancy Pushee, Sept. 9, 1939, Wayland, Mass. cHitpren: Nancy;
Wendy; Ellen.

DIED: Jan. 11, 1950, Wayland, Mass.

wipow: Mrs, Charles F. Goodale, Bow Road, Wayland, Mass.

AFTER graduation from the Law School and admission to the

[ 507 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Massachusetts bar, Goodale practised with two Boston law firms
and in 1939 joined the legal staff of the American Mutual Liability
Insurance Company in Boston. During 1941-42 he was Massachu-
setts state chairman of the Junior Bar Conference of the American
Bar Association. In 1944 he was appointed acting manager of the
American Mutual legal department and in 1946 was elected assistant
vice-president. He was a member of the American and Boston Bar
Associations and the International Association of Insurance Counsel.
He had served on the Federal Trade Commission Subcommittee
since its organization in 1945. He had also served on the legal com-
mittees of various insurance companies. He was survived by his
wife and children.

JOHN WALLACE GOODRICH

 

HOME abpress: 16 Essex Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass,

OFFICE ADDRESS: T, Dennie Boardman, 56 Ames Bldg., 1 Court St., Boston 8,
Mass.

BORN: May 12, 1912, Manchester, Mass. PARENTS: John Wallace Goodrich,
Madeleine Boardman.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934.

MARRIED: Priscilla Alden Dennett, May 14, 1937, Boston, Mass. (divorced
1947). CHILDREN: John Alden, June 16, 1938; Dennett Wallace, Oct. 7,
1940.

OCCUPATION: Real estate; partner in firm, T. Dennie Boardman.

orFices HELD: Clerk of the corporation, Boston Real Estate Board, 1940; di-
rector, Boston YMCA, 1948-51, corporation member, 1949-54, director,
since 1954, Robert Bent Brigham Hospital; member executive committee,
1949-51, Secretary-treasurer, 1952-53, Ist vice-president, 1954, president,
1955-56, Massachusetts Golf Association; corporation member, Children’s
Hospital, since 1950; secretary-treasurer, New England Golf Association,
since 1956; committee member, U.S. Golf Association, since 1957.

[ 508 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: The Country Club, Brookline, Kittansett Club, Marion, Mass.;
Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St. Andrews, Scotland.

SHORTLY after finishing college, I was fortunate enough to be

able to start my business career in a real estate firm founded by my

grandfather, and bossed by three Boardman uncles, all Harvard men

(Richard de Blois Boardman, ’oo, Reginald Boardman, ’o1, Gerald

Dorr Boardman, ’03). I don’t know how they worked it out, but
my first week’s salary was twelve dollars! I have been with the same
firm ever since, except for a three-and-a-half-year hitch with Uncle
Sam, but things have changed materially. Two uncles have died and
the third has retired, so that only last March | found myself the sole
owner of the business. I have since been fortunate in having another
Harvardian, Classmate Richard “Cobby” Walcott, join with me, and
now we as partners are continuing the business under the same firm
name, specializing in residential real estate throughout Greater
Boston.

In 1937 I was married and two husky boys arrived in 738 and ’4o.
Then came World War I], and having been commissioned as a second
licutenant in the Army Air Corps and with no previous military .
experience except a month of CMTC at Fort Devens, I found that
through a mistake in my active duty orders, my first assignment
was to be with a fighter squadron alerted to go overseas. Over I
went, as C.O. of the Air Echelon to participate in the initial invasion
of North Africa, and three and one-half years and seventeen coun-
tries visited later, I came home to a long awaited leave, during which
I learned, of all things, how to fly, needless to say not at Uncle Sam’s
expense! Shortly thereafter my wife and I separated and we were
finally divorced in 1947. I have been a bachelor since, but I am still
hoping!

Being in the real estate business and hating apartment-living in the
city, I was delighted to find in 1948 an old garage with caretaker’s
quarters, on a large estate in Chestnut Hill, and after the usual prob-
lems in remodelling, etc., I finally moved later that year into what
I dubbed, and I am certain correctly so, “Head Acres.” I have since
added a small greenhouse, which has kept me out of trouble to some
extent, and it has given me much pleasure during the winter months
that might otherwise be dreary, inasmuch as I have lost any interest
I had in skiing.

I have become most enthusiastic about winter vacations and, with
close friends, have made several trips to the Virgin Islands, Jamaica,

[ 509 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Bermuda, Florida, etc., where I have had ample opportunity to in-
dulge in another of my pet hobbies, color photography.

Since World War II, I have also devoted a great deal of time to
golf, and not being blessed with a topnotch game, have derived a
great deal of satisfaction in serving in various capacities with several
associations, endeavoring to contribute whatever I could in the
furtherance of the best interests of the game.

I regret that my sons are not Harvard material, but I have at-
tempted in various ways to lend my own support to Harvard, meager
though it might be, such as faithful attendance at football games and
other athletic events. As I write this Report, the Yale game is but
four days away; Classmates Beale, Madden and Ritchie are wonder-
ing how to handle the hordes we have signed up for our pre-
Reunion luncheon in Carey Cage (an unexpected and most pleasant

problem! ), and I am sure that all of us will still be enjoying the sweet
taste of victory when we gather next June.

GEORGE MICHAEL CARROLL GOODWIN

HOME Appréss: 26 Priscilla Circle, Wellesley Hills, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Co. 50 Congress St,
Boston, Mass.

BORN: May 30, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Harry Lawrence Goodwin, Nel-

lie E. Carroll,
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931. DEGREE: 4.B. (Boston Coll.), 1936.

MarrieD: Elinor M. Colburn, June 11, 1938, Watertown, Mass. cHiip: Gran-
ville Dean, Jan. 19, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Associate general agent, Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Com-
pany.

OFFICES HELD:, Alember board of directors, Boston Latin School Alumni As-
sociation.

MEMBER OF: Woodland Golf Club; Boston College Alumni Association.

AFTER leaving Harvard early in 1931, I worked for two years as
a soda clerk, following which I entered Boston College and subse-
quently graduated in 1936 with an A.B. degree. I then spent three
years with the Firestone Tire & Rubber Company as a general line
salesman, and during this period I married Elinor M. Colburn of
Dover, Massachusetts. In 1939 I joined the Metropolitan Life In-
surance Company as a debit agent and remained with this company
until June, 1942, when I joined the Navy. I was discharged in
November, 1945, with the rank of lieutenant senior grade. On

[510]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

March 1, 1946, I joined the Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Com-
pany in Boston, as an agent. In 1949 I accepted the appointment of
general agent for the State Mutual Life Assurance Company in
Boston, where I served for eight years. In February, 1957, I re-
turned to my old company as associate general agent in Boston, and
Tam still serving in that capacity.

Although my life so far has not been meritorious, in retrospect it
has been a most happy one. I have enjoyed twenty years of a most
successful marriage, have a fine son, many good friends and feel
with sincerity that I am in the best business in the world.

RICHARD MURPHEY GOODWIN

 

HOME AppREss: 1 Belvoir Terr., Cambridge, England.

OFFICE AppRESS: Peterhouse, Cambridge, England.

BORN: Feb. 24, 1913, Newcastle, Ind. parents: William Murphey Goodwin,
Mary Florea.

PREPARED AT: Newcastle High School, Newcastle, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 1934; B.A. (Univ.
of Oxford), 1936; B.Lirr, (ibid.), 1937; aM. (Harvard Univ.), 1939; PH.D.
(ibid.), 1941; M.a. (Univ. of Cambridge), 1951.

MaRRiED; Jacqueline Wynmalen, June 24, 1937, Reading, England.

OCCUPATION: Teacher.

STRAIGHT from graduation I went to Europe and an experience
which both continued the intellectual awakening that Harvard
College had been for me, and yet which altered and impaired it.
England (and Oxford) I disliked in a typically American way; for
Italy I conceived a passion that, though it may have cooled some-
what with age, has always promised, and often yielded, rapture. I
neglected my studies, immersed myself in impractical politics and

[ $11 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

joined the Communist party. Almost all of the things I have believeq

in and worked for have turned out to be, in varying degrees, lost

causes. On the whole I don’t like the smell of success in others and,
while I might quite happily accept a bit more as a gift, I have never
sought it.

My three years in Europe ended in marriage and a return to

Harvard where I pursued the study of economics and began the

teaching of it. Just then was an auspicious moment, Harvard had

accumulated, more by accident than design, I now think, perhaps the

best economics faculty in the world, so that top class graduate stu-

dents followed naturally. I found it an exciting and satisfying com-
munity to be in, though I never felt as deeply committed as the
others. For sheer intellectual quality economics cannot compare
with physics, which I taught to myself and then to others during the
war. Most other disciplines, however important or interesting, seem
flat and amateurish after that experience. Physics is the Italy of the
mind for me, though I find the pursuit too arduous for middle age.
After the war I relapsed into economics, a better man than I had left
it. The postwar students seemed, and still seem, alien to me. My
pupils have kept at it until they have finally trampled to death all my
idealism about education; I now look upon it as principally one of
the most important ways of continually re-creating a class hierarchy
in a society which tends to melt it down —a useful function, no
doubt, but not one that wraps me up.

I found the years after the war very disillusioning, indeed even
frightening, as I watched the evaporation of resistance to the tide
of political and spiritual intolerance. Perforce I have sought salvation
in personal and private ways after such a dramatic and unpleasant
collapse in my more public attitudes. To add to my depression
there lay before me the final day of reckoning with Harvard — up
or out. I had not done the kinds of things that send one up, so it was
no great surprise when J received a curt note one dreadful day telling
me that I was out. At one clean stroke all of the delicate threads
of friendship were severed and with a heartbreaking finality. Most
of my older friendships had been dissolved in this way, but they
had been gradually replaced by new ones in the course of the thirteen
years there. Two crops of friends I can grow, but not three; I now
feel too old and too choosey to make new friends, and I feel the loss.

After so many years I had finally, though involuntarily, come to
regard Cambridge, Massachusetts, as my home; the rupture hurt.
But perhaps I should really love my superiors for it, and for two

[ 512]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

reasons. Unintentionally I thus escaped a public manhandling by a
political blackguard. Second, I was given just the push I needed
to return to England. After disliking it in my student days, I ex-
perienced a delayed appreciation of certain qualities in English life.
This reaction. was heightened by my distaste for the direction in
which American public life was going. So it was with no reluctance
that in 1951 I accepted a job in Cambridge University, where I still
am. Each time I return to the U.S., I find that I am more out of
sympathy with the superficial aspects of living which I find. In my
own community of Indiana, I am appalled by the quality of life,
though I never cease to be affected by the human warmth that sur-
vives the great flood of wealth.

At forty-six, I remain as much, but not the same sort, of socialist
as T was as a student, which implies my alienation from American
life. Having floundered after a variety of lost causes, I console my-
self that American capitalism is the greatest lost cause of them all.
Though my convictions lie with what I think is the future, my life
and predilections lie with the past. Some of my best friends are
reactionaries. Furthermore, though I hate to confess it, I find politics
less interesting and Jess comprehensible than I used to. I turn in-
creasingly to painting, with the same brilliant lack of success as usual.

LINCOLN GORDON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 68 Snake Hill Rd., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Harvard Business School, Soldiers Field, Boston 63, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 10, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: Bernard Gordon, Dorothy
Lerned.

PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933. DEGREES: A.B., Samimia cum laude, 1934(33); pr.
PHIL. (Univ. of Oxford), 1936.

[513]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

searriro: Allison Wright, June 25, 1937, Brookline, Mass, CHimpreN: Anne,
Sept. 17, 1940; Robert Watson, Nov. 4, 1941; Hugh Bernard, May 16,
1945; Amy Abigail, Jan. 22, 1949.

occupation: William Ziegler Professor of International Economic Relations,
Harvard Business School.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor and faculty instructor in government, Harvard Uni-
versity, 1936-41; research technician, National Resources Planning Board,
1939-40; economist, National Defense Advisory Commission, 1940, mem-
ber, 1042-45, deputy program vice-chairman, 1944-45, program vice-
chairman, 1945, War Production Board; director, Bureau of Reconversion
Priorities, Civilian Production Administration, 1945-46, member, USS.
Delegation to United Nations Atomic Energy Commission, 1946; con-
sultant to State Department on development of the European Recovery
Program (Marshall Plan), 1947-48; director, Program Division, Office of
Special Representative in Europe, Economic Cooperation Administration,
1949-50; associate professor of business administration, 1946-47, professor
of government and administration, 1947-49, William Ziegler professor of
international economic relations, since 1955, Harvard Business School,
economic adviser to the Special Assistant to the President, 1950-51; as-
sistant director for programs, Office of the Director for Mutual Security,
1951~52; director, U.S. Operations Mission to the United Kingdom and
minister for economic affairs, U.S. Embassy, London, England, 1952-55;
consultant to the Committee of Three, North Atlantic Council, 1956;
consultant to the Departments of State and Defense and Office of Defense

Mobilization, since 1955; trustee, World Peace Foundation, since 1957,
Longy School of Music, since 1957; member board of Syndics, Harvard
University Press, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: American Economics Association; American Political Science
Association; Royal Economic Society, American Association for the
Advancement of Science (fellow); Cosmos Club, Washington, D.C.
Council on Foreign Relations.

PuBLicaTions: The Public Corporation in Great Britain, Oxford University
Press, 1938; Government and the American Economy (with M. Fainsod),
W. W. Norton, 1940, revised edition, 1948, 3d edition, 1959; “Myth and
Reality in European Integration,” Vale Review, autumn, 1955; Jnter-
national Stability and Progress: United States Interests and Instruments,
editor, The American Assembly, 1957; “Economic Aid and Trade Policy
as an Instrument of National Strategy,” House Ways and Means Com-
mittce Compendium on Foreign Trade Policy, 1957, “NATO and Euro-
pean Integration,” World Politics, January, 1958, other articles and book
reviews.

t

AS is doubtless the case with most of us, my life since graduation
has been much influenced by large events on the national and inter-
national scenes. It has gone “according to plan” only in one major
respect: at the time I graduated (in 1933) I had decided to pursue an
academic career — preferably at Harvard —and I am in fact now
doing so. But this academic life has occupied less than half the total

L514]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

span since 1936, when I obtained an Oxford doctorate after three
most agreeable years as a Rhodes Scholar. Of the subsequent
twenty-three years, twelve have been spent in full-time government
service, first in resource planning and wartime industrial mobiliza-
tion, and later in international affairs, economic, military and politi-
cal. As a result, the focus of my academic interest has shifted from
domestic relations between government and industry to matters of
foreign economic policy.

‘Taking the external events — including the world war and the cold
war — as given, would I want to do many things differently? On the
whole, I think not. With hindsight, I would have preferred a wider
variety of war experience, leaving the War Production Board in
1943 or 1944 when I now know that the industrial mobilization job
was substantially done. But in general, the combination of academic
and policy-making interests has suited me very well. So many years
in public affairs have kept me from becoming a true scholar, but I
am by no means certain of having had the capacity to do so. In any
event, | am gradually becoming reconciled to the awareness that
henceforward I may find myself doing more in promoting and
guiding the researches of younger, brighter and more energetic
men than in basic creative work of my own.

Among a fairly wide variety of activities, major participation in
the development and implementation of the Marshall Plan and of
NATO stand out as my most satisfying career experiences. They
offered a combination of intellectual challenge, collaboration with
like-minded persons in a cause much larger than any of us as indi-
viduals, and visible results of great consequence to the future of
Western society — a combination which much more than compen-
sated for the fantastic working hours and the various frustrations of
governmental employment and international negotiation.

At the moment, I find in the Business School an exceptionally
favorable environment for pursuing a parallel line of interest in the
promotion of foreign investment and economic development. This
offers many similar satisfactions. The tangible results may prove
to be more elusive, but I have no reservations as to the interest or
the importance of the effort.

On the more personal front, I am also happy to be able to report
favorably. I have been married only once to a wife very much to

my taste. We have had our share of problems in the raising of four
children, two of each sex, but we have considerable reason to be con-
tent with the results so far. (Two are expected to enter college in

[sts]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

1959, and this part of the story can perhaps better be completed in
a later Class Report.) There have been difficulties in shifting so
large a family to Paris, Washington, London and Cambridge, and
we are well content to be established for a time in a Belmont house
of Classmate Carl Koch’s design. But we also hope and believe that
our travels are by no means at an end.

We would of course be pleased if the academic profession were
better rewarded, especially as we contemplate the educational ex-
penses of the coming decade, but I have not yet seen an alternative
career which I would choose on strictly material grounds, Our
hobbies are numerous but simple. We are devoted to the theatre
and have put much blood and sweat into landscaping. My major
personal hobby is chamber music, and I do have real regret at taking
up the ’cello only in 1954 instead of as a boy. I would also like to
know as much as my wife about the graphic arts. We are un-
reconstructed individualists, and view “togetherness” with alarm.
Like characters in The New Yorker, we like best to be at least as
non-conformist as everyone else, and more cheerful than most.

In politics, I have no party affiliation, having served both Demo-
cratic and Republican administrations and having seen good and bad
leadership on both sides. In religion, I am a humanist without
formalized convictions. In matters of social policy, I have strong.
views as to the need for more effective integration of our national
community, both at home and in relation to a wider world society.
I believe that we have made much headway in this direction during
our twenty-five years out, and that a great deal of credit is owed
the New Deal, marred though it was by unnecessary friction between
government and business. As of today, it seems to me not only
nonsense, but monstrous folly, to believe that we “cannot afford” an
adequate defense or an adequate educational system. I am not
persuaded that creeping inflation is incurable, and “creeping Social-
ism” seems to me an entirely empty menace. I believe that it will
take the best kind of leadership we can find to adapt free institutions
to the constant revolution in technology and foreign relations. The
world has become too dangerous for us to be squandering our
energies on unnecessary conflicts among ourselves.

Harvard has played and is playing a great part in generating this
leadership. At each return from public life I have again been im-
pressed with its continuing vitality as an intellectual pioneer. We

_ have every reason to be proud of it, and those of us who continue to

[ 516 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

be active members of the Harvard family can count ourselves
especially fortunate.

GEORGE GORE

 

HOME AppRESS: 216 N. Glenroy Ave., Los Angeles 49, Calif.

OFFICE AppREss: Northrop Aircraft, Inc., 1001 E. Broadway, Hawthorne, Calif.

BORN: April 30, 1912, Antofagasta, Chile. parents: James Bancroft Gore, ’oo,
Georgia Sarchet.

PREPARED AT: Rapid City High School, Rapid City, S. Dak.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934, DEGREES: S.B. magna cum laude, 1934; LL.B. 1937.

MarRRieD: Virginia Frances Laist, July 9, 1938, Anaconda, Mont. CHILDREN:
James Bancroft, April 19, 1941; Jeffrey Laist, Aug. 10, 1943; Rosalba, Nov.

17, 1948.

occuPATION: General counsel, Northrop Division, secretary, Northrop Air-
craft, Inc.

MEMBER OF: American, California State and Los Angeles Bar Associations;
American Society of Corporate Secretaries; Harvard Club of Southern
California.

AFTER graduating from the College, I remained in Cambridge for
three more years of study and received my degree from the Law
School in June, 1937. I immediately headed west, with the intention
of locating somewhere on the West Coast. That “somewhere” turned
out to be Los Angeles, where I have lived and worked for the past
twenty-one years. During the first three years I worked in several
law firms in the city and then, in November, 1940, I became resident
legal counsel for a newly-founded aircraft company, Northrop Air-
craft, Inc. There I have remained ever since, in the dual capacity of
counsel and secretary. Last year the company was reorganized into
four divisions. I remained as secretary of the corporation and in
addition became general counsel of the principal operating division,

[517]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934
in charge of the departments of law, patents, industrial relations and
security.

In July, 1938, after living a year in Los Angeles, I married Virginia
Laist, whom I had known both in Montana when I was a boy and
later on in Boston and New York. We settled in Westwood, a
section of Los Angeles lying between Beverly Hills and the ocean.
Among other reasons which attracted us to this area was the fact
that it was the location of UCLA, the University of California at
Los Angeles. This gave Westwood some of the aspects of a college
town, with the attendant advantages, including easy access to many
interesting and worth-while events such as musical programs,
lectures, plays and athletics. We have attended many of these, in-
cluding a number of night classes for adults.

The children’s activities, including all of those connected with
school, have absorbed much of our time and attention. We have
served, occasionally even with distinction, with the Cub Scouts, the
Brownies, the Girl Scouts, the Boy Scouts, the YMCA and the PTA.
We go to the theatre often and particularly like the new Huntington
Hartford Theatre, Class of 1934. For five years, we had a home in
Ojai, California, seventy-five miles from Los Angeles, where we spent

many happy weekends, holidays and vacations. We relinquished this
home when the children’s activities in the city made it difficult to
lure them to Ojai. We have visited most of the scenic and interesting
places in California and in 1956 had a wonderful trip to Hawaii.

HOWARD MILLARD GRAFF

 

HOME appress: 619 N. Fifth St., Ishpeming, Mich.
OFFICE AppRESS: Inland Stecl Co., Box 360, Ishpeming, Mich

[ 518 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BorN: Aug. 4, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: Charles John Graff, Gertrude

Ethel Lander.
PREPARED AT: New Canaan High School, New Canaan, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: S.B., summa cum laude, 1934; CERT. IN

Trans. (Yale Univ.), 1935.
MarRiED: Beryl May Downs, March 20, 1937, Belmont, Mass. CHILDREN:
Deborah, Feb. 5, 1939; Jane, July 21, 1941; Marcia, Dec. 28, 1950; Barbara,

April 29, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Russell Graff, ’32.

occuPATION: Manager, Ore Mines, Inland Steel Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Pacific Isle Mining Company, 1957; vice-president and
director, Michigan United Fund, 1958.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Mining, Metallurgical and Petroleum Engi-
neers; WWawonowin Golf Club.

HAVING now lived twenty-three years in northern Michigan,
.my years here are beginning to outnumber those I spent earlier in
Connecticut and Massachusetts. Following graduation and a year
and a half of graduate study, I headed west, with all my worldly
goods in the rumble seat of my 1931 Model A —the best car ever
made. My destination—the Lake Superior mining district — lay
at the end of many miles of graveled. roads, through sparsely popu-
lated territory. The years have changed all this. Now we live in the
midst of the wild beauty of lakes and woods, but have modern com-
munities, fine transportation facilities, and all the convenience of
suburban areas.

I felt somewhat adventuresome in 1936, to be trekking 1200 miles
from family and friends, but much braver was the girl who con-
sented a year later to leave sheltered Belmont to become a mining
engineer’s wife. Through the years our eastern ties have been re-
placed by strong bonds of affection for our adopted region and the
friends we have found here. Four wonderful daughters comprise
our unusual family —two in college this year and two starting
early grades. My only male support in the house is one of our dogs.
Although still faced with the ordeal of four college careers and four
weddings, we have the feeling that our family problems are diminish-
ing — and we can indulge quite regularly in our favorite recreations,
skiing, golf and hunting.

My work has been extremely interesting. Being engaged prin-
cipally in the production of raw materials for a growing midwestern
steel company, my work brings me into frequent contact with the
exciting industrial climate of the basic steel industry. During the
twenty years ahead, between now and my retirement date, I look

[ 519 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

forward to witnessing the growth and transformation which must
take place as the steel industry prepares to meet the tremendous needs
of our expanding economy. It seems quite appropriate, at the half-
way point, to get together with college friends and take a long look
backward — and forward. We certainly hope to make the Reunion.

JAMES ELDREDGE GRAINGER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 300 Salisbury St, Holden, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 286 Lincoln St., Worcester 5, Mass.

BoRN: July 12, 1912, Canton, Mass. PARENTS: William Grainger, °o4, Anna
Henshaw Holbrook.

PREPARED AT: Lenox School, Lenox, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: AB., 1934; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1938.

Marriep: Constance Cochrane, June 24, 1939, East Hampton, Long Island,

N.Y. cuitpren: Dean Randall, March 7, 1940; James Eldredge, Jr., March
16, 1943; Peter David, Oct. 9, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Holbrook Grainger, ’29.

occuPaTION: Physician; internist.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer and business manager, Worcester Medical News,

since 1952; physician-in-chief, Worcester Hahnemann Hospital, since
1955.

MEMBER OF: Worcester District, Massachusetts Medical Society; American
Medical Association, American Heart Association; Harvard Club of

Worcester; Worcester Players Club; Worcester County Squadron, United
States Power Squadrons.

HAVING been born with a stethoscope in the mouth, rather than
a silver spoon, it was more than gratifying to see the “shingle” hung
out in late July, 1939. This was finally accomplished after a titanic
struggle on my parents’ part since there were two brothers and a

sister to be “put through” school and college ahead of me, but
shortly after our marriage, Connie and I were able, at last, to sit

[ 520 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

down and await the first patient! Happily, the waiting was not too
long, although the horse and buggy sign was, at least once, in-
terpreted as indicating the practice of veterinary medicine! As the
years passed, our family and practice grew, along with some prestige,
so that for the past three years it has been my privilege to hold the
position of physician-in-chief at the Hahnemann Hospital in

Worcester.

During the war years, the Armed Forces were of the opinion that
my life was about to be terminated abruptly at any moment, so
that our traveling has had to be all at our own expense, but even
so we have been able to get to and fall in love with Bermuda, and to
visit Nassau, as well as a considerable portion of these United States,
and to have various members of the family accompany us on some
of these excursions.

About five years ago, a long-subdued yearning for the salt water
was able to be released, and since that time we have been able to be
the proud owners of a “yacht” (twenty-seven feet) and to summer
on Buzzards Bay, At about the same time I was introduced to the
United States Power Squadrons and have found the work of this

group and its courses a fascinating hobby, having progressed to an
official position in the Worcester County Squadron, teaching in the
piloting courses, teaching elementary navigation and studying ad-
vanced navigation.

This, together with the oldest boy away at Tilton, the middle
boy preparing for prep school next year and the youngest following
rapidly after, Connie trying to regulate the houschold, carry on her
Auxiliary work and control a vivacious French poodle; all this
AND the practice of medicine make our life a full one!

[ 521 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

SELWYN CHARLES GRANDBERG

  

HOME ADDRESS: 21 Gannett Terr., Sharon, Mass.

BoRN: Mav 15, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: David H. Grandberg, Minnie
Barron.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., cunt laude, 1934.

marrieD: Ruth S. Anbinder, Sept. 28, 1941, Brookline, Mass. cuttpren: Martin
George, March 29, 1944; Barbara Merle, Aug. 6, 1950.

occupaTion: Manufacturers’ representative.

ROBERT GRANT, Ill

    

Se hs

Home aporess; Willets Road, Old Westbury, Long Island, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Clark, Dodge & Co., 61 Wall St. New York, N.Y.

boN: April 27, 1951, London, England. parents: Robert Grant, ’06, Priscilla
Cresson Stackpole.

PREPARED AT: Eton College, Eon, England,

YEARS IN COLLEGES 1930-1934. DELKEE: AB, 1934(35).

Makwiep: Elena Villa, Aug. 20, 1938, Newport, RL camoren; Robert, June
28, 1gqo, Stuart, June 22, 1946.

[ 522]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: David Grant, ’47.

occupation: Broker, partner, Clark, Dodge & Company, New York Stock
Exchange.

MEMBER OF: Racquet and Tennis Club, New York; Meadow Brook Club, Long
Island.

AFTER graduation I went to work, ending up in the brokerage
business in 1937. I was leading a happy life with my wife and one
young son until the outbreak of war.

I joined the Navy in February, 1942, the Air Combat Intelligence.
branch, and served until September, 1945. I went into the war with
considerable enthusiasm. It took me to the Pacific, Guadalcanal,
Washington and London. Despite the initial enthusiasm, I emerged
with the feeling it was a terrible and wasteful experience even
though it had to be done.

Like many of us, I did not know what I was going to do after
the war. Eventually, on our classmate Arthur Choate’s suggestion, I
went to work in Clark, Dodge & Company, where I have been
happily employed since.

My interest in racquets, court tennis and golf continues, although
advancing years have cut these activities considerably! As a hobby
I do some very amateurish bird watching from which I get con-
siderable enjoyment.

ROGER SHERMAN GREENE, II

 

HOME apvprEss: 15 Hicks St., Springfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: St. Luke’s Episcopal Church, 961 St. James Ave., Springfield 4,
Mass,

BORN: Sept. 28, 1912, Newton, Mass. parents: Daniel Crosby Greene, '95,
Marion Lockwood.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

[523 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B, 1934(37)3; LL.B. (Univ. of Ilinois)
1938; B.D. (Episcopal Theological School), 1949. ,

MarrieD: Eunice Pauline Gordon, April 19, 1950, Watertown, Mass. cuiprey.
Daniel Crosby, March 31, 1952; Mary Jane, March 3, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Daniel Crosby Greene, 32; Jeremiah Evarts Greene, 30,
MD., "33.

OCCUPATION: Episcopal clergyman; vicar (minister-in-charge), St. Luke’s Epis-
copal Church.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, 1950-51, radio chairman, 1952-54, Fall River Ministerial
Association; member, Committee on Church Unity, since 1956, Division of
Children, Department of Christian Education, since 1955, Diocese of
Western Massachusetts; member, North End Area Committee and Public
Meetings Committee, Greater Springfield Council of Churches, since
1958. .

MEMBER OF: Springfield Clericus (Episcopal); Springfield Ministerial Asso-
ciation,
MY career since graduation has not been remarkable for accomplish-
ment or attainment of position. In quest of a life work useful to
society and congenial to myself I spent three years at law school
in the Middle West. This was followed by admission to the Massa-
chusetts bar and three years of law practice in Boston. I was making
slow progress in learning the application of legal principles to real-
life situations and the kind of law-in-action not found in books and
was approaching the point where my study and experience might
begin to be of some substantial value to clients and to society at large.
At this point I was inducted into the Army and had a small part
in the war effort, mainly in office routine carried on in the field.
Entering the service as a private, I finished as a “T'/3,” serving suc-
cessively in a Signal Battalion, the Signal Section of an Army
Headquarters, and the Signal Center of General Eisenhower's
Supreme Allied Headquarters in Europe. My service gave me an
opportunity to see parts of North Africa, Sicily, England, France
and Germany and their peoples which I probably would never have
seen otherwise. It also ripened within me the conviction that both
the causes of men’s woes and our failure to find satisfactory cures
and solutions stem from our prior failure to apprehend and follow
the Eternal God’s purposes for us revealed in His Son and to use the
resources He offers us to help us reach our fulfillment in glorifying
and serving Him — and, incidentally, in coming closer to realizing
the Good Society on this Earth.
It was this conviction which prompted me to offer myself for the
ministry. At the time and, to a greater or lesser extent ever since, I
have been acutely aware of my own inadequacies for this work but,

[ 524 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in spite of recurring misgivings, I have up to the present continued
in it because I have also felt that this is what the Lord intended for
me and this is where there is the greatest possibility of my being or
becoming a profitable instrument of His will.

I attended Episcopal Theological School, close by Harvard. After
ordination I served a short curacy at St. Paul’s Church, Brockton,
then as rector of St. John’s Church, Fall River, for four and a half
years and about the same period as vicar of St. Luke’s, Springfield.
T hus, all my ministry has been in large industrial communities and
most of it in smallish parishes mainly composed of employees of
large corporate industrial employers.

During nearly all my ministry, my chicf helper, i in fact the stronger
member of the team, both in church and in family, has been my
wife. We are blessed with two children whom we love dearly though
we feel we might be better parents if we had begun our family
earlier.

Even in a ministry far from outstanding, I have had the experience
of being a humble instrument in bringing individuals to know the
love of God often enough to make me feel that it has been worth-
while.

I still enjoy good music and athletics though I do not indulge in
either as a participant as much as I would like. One of my chief

regrets has been that, mainly through my own negligence, associa-
tions with many fine friends in college have not been kept up.

HAMILTON PERKINS GREENOUGH

   

a /
tS ‘VS

HOME ADDRESS: 935 Mariposa Lane, Santa Barbara, Calif.
BoRN: May 20, 1912, Boston, Mass. ParENTs: Charles Pelham Greenough, 2d
’06, Margaret Bliss Perkins.

y

[ 525 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

preparrp at: Cate School, Carpinteria, Calif.

VEARS IN COLLFGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. 1934. .

mearriep: Helen Af. Jensen, Sept. 27, 1939, Santa Barbara, Calif. ctiprey;
George Hamilton, Nov. 6, 1941; William Scollay, Jan. 26, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Trustee.

MEMBER OF: Santa Barbara Yacht Club; Coral Casino Beach & Cabana Club.

AFTER graduation, having been unable to find any work in Boston,
I traveled quite extensively throughout the United States and
Canada. Volunteering for the Coast Guard, without success, |
moved, at the beginning of the war, to Newport Beach, where I
worked in a shipyard, later returning to Santa Barbara to build
spare wings for Douglas Aircraft. Since then, investments and
sailing with my family around Southern California have occupied
most of my time. |

EMIL LEONARD GRILLI

 

Abpress; 147 Lafayette St., Paterson 1, N_J. :

porN: April 1, 1912, Paterson, N.J. parents: Leonard Grilli, Antonetta Fozza.
PREPARED AT: Eastside High School, Paterson, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934.

OCCUPATION: Business.

NO questionnaire returned.

[ 526]

~ Ea, - itll liaaetinttpnaainnaatiaieia etait |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ERNEST JOSEPH GRIMM

 

HOME AppRESS: 7 Hallam St., Dorchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Fire Dept., Engine Company No. 50, Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 4, 1911, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: Ernest August Grimm, Mary
Jane Murphy.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

MaRRIED: Dorothy M. Gibbons, June 26, 1941, Dorchester, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Lieutenant, Engine Company No. 50, Boston Fire Department.

MEMBER OF: Unquity Sportsman’s Association, Milton, Mass. —

UNFORTUNATELY, due to adverse financial circumstances, I
was unable to finish more than two years at Harvard, and did not
graduate with the Class of ’34. I was employed at the Boston City
Hospital in 1933, and worked there for seven years, caring for the
sick. On October 16, 1940, I was appointed to the Boston Fire De-
partment and assigned to Rescue Company No. 3, in the downtown
area. On December 7, 1949, I was promoted to the rank of fire lieu-
tenant at Engine Company No. 50 in Charlestown, where I have
been assigned for the past nine years.

While working at the Boston City Hospital, I met my wife-to-be,
Dorothy M. Gibbons, who was in training to be a nurse at that time.
She is a graduate nurse from the Massachusetts State Infirmary,
Tewksbury, Massachusetts, and a registered nurse. We were married
on June 26, 1941. We have no children.

Our hobbies are traveling through New England and New York
State, participating in fishing, photography and mountain climbing.
I am indeed fortunate to be married to a woman who is a wonderful
wife and an ideal companion. We certainly have enjoyed the past
eighteen years together, and we are looking forward to many more
pleasant years to come.

[527]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

RICHARD MOTT GUMMERE, JR.

 

HOME ApprEss: Station Road, Barrytown, N.Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Office of Admissions, Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson,
N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 23, 1912, Haverford, Pa. parents: Richard Mott Gummere, PH.D.,

’o7, Christine Robinson.

PREPARED aT: William Penn Charter School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1934; A.M. (Haverford
Coll.), 1951.

MmarrieD: Margaret Mowry, March 14, 1941, Providence, RJ. CHILDREN:
Richard Mott, 3d, Sept. 19, 1943; Elisha Mowry, Aug. 10, 1945; John
Bartlett, Feb. 15, 1950; Christine, May 17, 1953.

occupation: Director of Admissions, Bard College.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Haverford College Corporation, since 1956, P.T.A.
Program Committee, Red Hook Central School, 1958; secretary, Troop
Committee, Troop 42, B.S.A., 1956-58; chairman, Workshop Planning
Committee, New York State Association of Deans and Guidance Personnel,
1958.

MEMBER OF: Shaw. Society, mid-1950's.

WARM thanks to F. O. Matthiessen who took teaching so seriously;

Professor Fritz Robinson who read Chaucer so beautifully; Allston

Chase and R. I. W. Westgate, in Freshman Latin, who made it seem

fit for the young; E. K. Rand, a great teacher, who made it sing;

A. Lawrence Lowell who had done vastly more for Harvard than I

knew then; Harold Kemp, with whom I never took a course but who

may have taught me most. Thanks to these and others.

Recently, I’ve found out how much I owe also to Henry Dunster
who gave the College such an energetic start on pine tree shillings,
wampum and the proceeds of the Charlestown Ferry; to Charles W.
Fliot who made her a great university and to Samuel Eliot Morison

[ 528 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

who has written so beautifully about her past (as about so many

other very important things).
Since college I’ve learned most from G. B. Shaw, John Dewey

and F. Matthias Alexander, all of whom really wrote and worked
for the twenty-first century, but at whose findings we may nibble
any time. Also, I’ve learned constantly from people I work and live
with — associates, friends, relations, parents, children and wife, in
that order, crescendo. The Romans called relations necessarit, a fine
word if you think about it. To these and others, heartfelt thanks.
To God, thanks for this universe, a dangerous but promising place
for humans if we use our gifts decently. Thanks to All.

Since college I’ve been in education and therefore broke always,
but bored never. I’ve taught everybody from first-graders through
college sophomores — third-graders having been the most teachable.
I’ve done admissions for the last eight years. The thing that in-
terests me most right now in education is the issue drawn between
“academicians” and “educationists.” I was brought up among
“academicians” who disapproved of the others. I’ve since fallen
among “educationists,” by comparison with whom (the good ones)
“academicians” seem half-baked; for the “A’s” are interested in
scholarship and teaching, but know or care little about education.
This is a great weakness. The “E’s” aren’t all angels, either, but tend
to be more humble. I think, therefore, our destiny lies more with
them, though if the two parties don’t start soon to work better to-
gether, everybody’s done for.

The six of us live in Barrytown, near Red Hook, a small town
in northern Dutchess County, New York. Barrytown is exquisitely
beautiful and we live in a romantic gem beside the Hudson. I ride to
and from work every day on a bike.

With our youngest now in school, my wife is planning to take
up painting, which she dropped with the arrival of number one,
fifteen years ago. She’s highly trained and clearly gifted. She has
managed to keep up her viola all along, working with Emil Hauser
of the Bard College music department, a great man and great chamber
music teacher. O’Neill said his wife must be a mother, wife, mistress
and valet. Seeing my own true love step from a fancy education into
that apparently crushing assignment and yet continue to grow in
warmth, power and femininity, taught me the lesson that may be
my most valuable one: that women are a great sex. I'd also guess
that educated American mothers who manage to ride the whirlwind
imaginatively may be the finest example.

[ 529 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934 2
My two oldest boys say they don’t know what they want to do.:
My eight-year-old say's he wants to make a rocket. My youngest

says she wants to be a space girl, whatever she may mean by that.

MARCUS LOEB HAAS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4585 Chickasaw Rd., Memphis, Tenn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 3226 Summer Ave., Memphis, Tenn.

BorN: March 23, 1913, Atlanta, Ga. parents: E. Arthur Haas, Viola Elizabeth
Loeb.

PREPARED AT: Boys’ High School, Atlanta, Ga.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MarRIED: Joan L. Wolfe, Feb. 10, 1940, Atlanta, Ga. CHILDREN: James Wolfe,
July 9, 1944; Margaret Joan, Oct. 9, 1948.
HARVARD BROTHER: Jacob Haas, M.B.A., "32.

occupation: Owner, Haas Furniture Showroom, Inc., retail furniture.

WAS a stock broker from 1934 to 1942 and in the U.S. Army,
1942-45. Entire service was with 8th Infantry Division as assistant
division finance officer. Discharged as major. Served in E.T.O.,

two years. Have been in furniture business, first as a manufacturer
and now as retailer, since 1945.

[ 530 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT NORLIN HAGER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 687 Avenida Norte, Siesta Key, Sarasota, Fla.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Pace Real Estate, 1495 N. Tamiami Trail, Sarasota, Fla.
BORN: June 25, 1912, Chicago, Ill. PARENTS: Zdislaw G. Hager, Harriette Norlin.

PREPARED AT: Chicago Latin School, Chicago, II.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933.

MARRIED: Jeanette S. Scudder, Jan. 14, 1939, Providence, R.I. cxrpRen:
Penelope S. (adopted), April 6, 1936 (7. Jay W. Mercer, Dec. 7, 1957);

Robert Norlin, Jr., Jan. 14, 1940.
OCCUPATION: Associate realtor, specialist in investment properties, ranches and

acreage.
OFFICES HELD: Associate, Field, Richards & Company, Cincinnati and Cleveland,

Ohio, 1939-44; industrial relations manager, Cincinnati Balcrank Com-

pany, 1944-47.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Sarasota; Ivy League of Sarasota; Board of

Realtors.

BACK in 1939, we spent our honeymoon on Sanibel Island, off the
west coast of Florida. I didn’t expect to see Florida again, until
retirement age (sixty-five ?). Tam in Florida ahead of time; or per-
haps in tune with time.

I spent the early part of this history in the investment banking
field (Haydock, Lamson Company to Field, Richards Company)
concerned primarily with analysis and statistics. A most wonderful
family started in this era, as well as a “back to the earth” desire on the
part of a “family.” A small investment in land culminated in a
seventy-five Guernsey-Holstein cow barn. From one cow given to
my wife Janie, as a birthday present, we ended up being the largest
individual shipper into the Cincinnati milk-shed area. (By the way,
Janie could milk by hand—I was completely dependent upon
DeLaval Electrical Milkers.) What with two children growing up

[531]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

on our farm and the four of us working it, life was very rich! As for
“down-town” at this period, I went through several cycles.

Wartime, I was matériel control manager for the production of
zomm. and early rockets under Navy Ordnance in our area, as well
as contracts for A.C. spark plugs for Spitfires, G.M. overseas con-
tracts. This period was followed by being industrial relations
manager for Cincinnati Balcrank Company and working with and
under the old Wagner Labor Act. With fifty-seven unfair labor
practices against us, we finally came up with a clean bill of health
and the independent union won over C.L.O. and A.F.L.’s intense
promotion.

But, we didn’t come to Florida because of such temporal matters.
My wife Janie had what the doctors decreed as arthritis and she
needed constant warm temperature. In a nutshell, her well-being is
returning and happy decisions are ahead for her. My daughter
Penny is “wonderfully” married to a husband of merit and we are on
“pins and needles” awaiting that nifty grandchild. Son Robert
Norlin, Jr., is staying in the missile area, our great southeast, he is a
sophomore at Georgia Tech, in the aeronautical engineering school.
M.LT. and Harvard Business School are included in his long-range
planning.

ME? I sell Florida!

CHARLES ELLIS HALCOMB

  

HOME ADDRESS: 518 Academy Ave., Sewickley, Pa.
OFFICE AbprEss: First Boston Corp., 614 Union Trust Bldg., Pittsburgh 19, Pa.

BoRN: March 2, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: Charles Halcomb, Edith May
Ellis. °
PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

[532]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

mMarRiED: Margaret Hinrichs, April 21, 1944, Gourock, Scotland. critpren:
Patricia M., Jan. 19, 1945; C. Andrew, June 4, 1947; David S., Dec. 29,
1949-

OCCUPATION: Investment banking; vice-president and manager, Pittsburgh
office, First Boston Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Member executive committee, Western Pennsylvania Group,
Investment Bankers Association.

MEMBER OF: Allegheny Country Club, Edgeworth Club; Duquesne Club, Pitts-
burgh Club, H-Y-P Club of Pittsburgh.

HAVING left college during my sophomore year, I was fortunate
to find a job with the First Boston Corporation in the fall of 1932.
I have been with them, in the investment banking business, ever
since, in Philadelphia, New York and, for the past two years, in
Pittsburgh.

During World War II, I was on active duty in the Navy, from
October, 1941, to December, 1945, serving in the United States,
United Kingdom, France and Germany. I was married in Scotland
in 1944, and after the war moved to the small college town of
Princeton, New Jersey, where we lived for some twelve years. We
are now ensconced in Sewickley, Pennsylvania, where we hope to
remain for some time at least. My three children are growing apace,
and are looking forward to visiting Cambridge next spring.

CHARLES TRAYNOR HALL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 6315 Massachusetts Ave., Wood Acres, Md., P.O., “Washington
16, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sam E. Bogley of Md., Inc., 7000 Wisconsin Ave., Chevy Chase,
Md.

BORN: Oct. 21, 1910, Natick, Mass. parents: Martin Thomas Hall, ’or, Grace
Ann Traynor.

[ 533]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGRER: LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1937.

Marriep: M, Roberta Sweeney, 1943, Ridgewood, N.J. cimp: Carole Ann,
1946. ‘ ;

occupation: Real estate.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington, D.C., Kenwood Country Club,
Kenwood, Md.

UNDOUBTEDLY, my life has been very similar to that of many
other classmates — quict and uneventful except for marriage, family,
and four years in the Navy. I practised law in Boston prior to the
war, and for a few years thereafter I was a U.S. Securities and Ex-
change Commission lawyer in Washington. I have since departed
from the legal scene and now find myself very happily engaged in
various real estate activities in the Washington area.

ALFRED BOWDITCH HALLOWELL

 
 

sate Stele emg it pe tard

Ao eae

 
 

RSE pe Gata IE
SIE Ae BNI BD AB dite Ea NE 8554S

fatten te

 

HOME AppRESS: 9743 Litzinger Rd., Ladue 17, Mo.
OFFICE appRESS: Scruggs, Vandervoort, Barney, Inc., St. Louis 1, Mo.

BORN: Nov. 11, 1911, Milton, Mass, parents: Norwood Penrose Hallowell, 97,
Margaret Ingersoll Bowditch.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934, A.M. (Washington Univ.
St. Louis), 1949.

Margiep: Olivia Morgan, June 15, 1936, Dedham, Mass. (divorced 1941);
Francine N. Priest, Nov. 25, 1948, St. Louis, Mo. CHILDREN: Olivia Laurence,
May 10, 1938, Susan Cabanné Priest (stepchild), Sept. 15, 1936 (m. David

Mesker); Sarah Lloyd Priest, Sept. 27, 1939 (stepchild); Henry Samuel
Priest, Jr., Sept. 14, 1943 (stepchild). |
HARVARD BROTHER: Norwood Penrose Hallowell, Jr., "32,

occuPATION: Industrial editor, Scruggs, Vandervoort, Barney, Inc., retail de-
partment store.

[ 534]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Director, Industrial Press Association of Greater St. Louis; mem-
ber, International Council of Industrial Editors.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of St. Louis.

PUBLICATIONS: Editor, Vandervoort’s Topics, since October, 1955, “The Role
of the Messenger in Ancient and Selected Elizabethan Tragedies,” a.m.

thesis, June, 1949, St. Louis, Mo.

UPON graduation, I became one of Professor James B. Munn’s
assistants in English at Harvard. That was a glorious venture,
enabling ‘me to associate closely with one of the greatest, most
lovable personalities 1 have met.

After two years, marriage cut short temporarily any aspirations
for further teaching. I entered the investment banking business as
a salesman with Lee Higginson Corporation, Boston. With customers
in Massachusetts and Rhode Island, I traveled considerably, before I
was knocked unconscious for twenty-one days by a frontal skull
fracture. My daughter Olivia (Muffin), who graduated from Con-
necticut College this June, was born May 10, 1938. At the time, her
father had started to recover from a complete paralysis of his right
side, combined with loss of speech and memory.

Separated from my wife in 1940 and divorced a year later, I moved
to New York where I continued to represent Lee Higginson. In
1942, I became engrossed in civil defense as an air raid warden squad
leader. That summer I returned to Milton Academy as an English
master, dormitory master and head track coach. Little did I realize,
at the time, one of my dormitory boys would marry one of my
many nieces. He is now Rev. Thomas G. Cleveland who married
Charlotte Crocker, the daughter of Rev. John Crocker (Harvard
’22), headmaster of Groton School.

_In 1945, I became restless and wanted to move. I accepted an
appointment to teach English at St. Louis Country Day School.
This I did for a year, before deciding a Master’s degree in English
would be a valuable possession. I received the degree from Wash-
ington University in June, 1949, and it is ironic that I have never
taught since. My ever-present restlessness dictated that I return to
the eastern seaboard. However, I met a beautiful, brunette divorcée
with two daughters (eleven and seven) and a four-year-old son.
I never did return to the eastern seaboard to live. Bunny Priest and
I were married on Thanksgiving Day, 1948, and we celebrated our
tenth anniversary last fall.

After becoming engaged, with no teaching job in the offing and
with the thought of soon assuming the responsibilities for a family

[535]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

of four, I quickly took an opening as section manager in Scruggs,
Vandervoort & Barney, St. Louis’ finest department store. Now in
my tenth year, I have been climbing slowly but steadily. After two
months in the store, I became associated with the book department,
where I still have an office. Tacked on from time to time have been
additional duties. I believe in the adage “once a schoolteacher, always
a schoolteacher.” I think the same thing is true in selling, as long
as you really believe in the merchandise you sell. I love selling books
and the name Vandervoort’s — especially the latter.

In the summer of 1955, I was appointed industrial editor of the
store’s official newspaper, Vandervoort’s Topics. After my new
assignment, I joined the Industrial Press Association of Greater St.
Louis to learn as much as possible about editing a newspaper. |
have been a director of the organization for two years. Somehow
company publications have been known for some time as house
organs. To me, this term is distasteful and lacks dignity. My own
paper comes out monthly and is written solely for the employees.
I have reporters, but I edit what they give me and write the rest
myself. I do the layout and snap the pictures. I take the copy to
the printer, proof-read it for corrections and then deliver the final
edition to the engraver. The paper has a circulation of between
2500 and 3000.

My civic duties have been interesting and fun. Air Raid Squad
leadership during the early part of World War II helped compensate
for my 4-F classification. I was active in the first “Series E” bond
campaign, also in New York, under the leadership of Mrs. Harvey
Gibson. When the children were young, I put in the usual P.T.A.
stint for their schools in St. Louis. For the last two years, I have
been a loaned executive for the United Fund of Greater St. Louis.
I contacted a total of fifty-five laundry, dry-cleaning and linen
service companies and worked with these companies in conducting
their in-plant employee campaigns. The laundry industry in St.
Louis is sub-par when it comes to giving. My results were gratifying,
however. In 1957 they gave 100% more than in 1956. At this writ-
ing, with the campaign half over, my companies are running well
ahead of last year.

I must not forget the Program for Harvard College. Working
under Dick Amberg, ’33, publisher of the St. Louis Globe Democrat,
I am fortunate, indeed, to have a batting average of one thousand
among those graduates expected to give $1,000 or less.

Unfortunately, my mother died very suddenly in March, 1953.

[536]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

She was very close to me and her great understanding, rich sense of
humor and her ability to cope with any situation will always remain
fresh in my mind.

Otherwise, life has been good to us. My St. Louis children have
done well in school and college. Susie graduated from Vassar in
1957 and last December was happily married to David Mesker —a
delightful son-in-law. Sally is a junior at Wellesley College where
she has constantly been on the honor roll. Sammy, nearly sixteen, is
a sophomore at St. Louis Country Day School. He specializes in
tennis and in getting very satisfactory grades. 1 emphasize my
stepchildren’s high grades because it is not boasting. I had nothing
to do with the formation of their brains. My wife did though, and I
love her for it. Incidentally, Bunny is in the real estate business,
which is a real asset to our moderate financial strength,

That about does it. 1 still love and play golf on weekends. My
political feelings lean toward the Republican side, We are members
of the Episcopal parish of St. Michael and St. George. My own
daughter and my wife are my proudest possessions. Each in her
way inspires the best in me.

CARL HALPERN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4o11 Veazey St., N.W., Washington 16, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Room 236, Bldg. 8, National Bureau of Standards, Washington
25, D.C.

BORN: May 28, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Jacob Halpern, Lillian Jawitz.

PREPARED aT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Physical chemist.

[ 537]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society.
PUBLICATIONS: Various scicntific papers.

AFTER leaving college, | wandered about, metaphorically speaking,
and wound up teaching pharmacy and chemistry at the Franklin
Technical Institute in Boston. The war put an end to that. After
getting my greetings, | found myself one hot summer’s morning in
Miami Beach, a private in the U.S, Army Air Corps. Some three
and one-half years later, I reverted to civilian status, this time at
Camp Beale in California, In between, there were sojourns both
long and short at about a dozen Air Corps installations here and in
Italy. Eventually I reached the grade of sergeant.

I came to the Bureau of Standards in 1947 and have been there
since, engaged in research in some aspects of the phenomena of
combustion. My hobbies are listening to classical music (I’m not a
hi-fi bug though, medium-fi is as far as ’'ve got), and reading, my
favorite “subjects at present being history and art.

ARTHUR TENNEY HAMLIN

 

HOME AppRESS: 211 Greendale Ave., Cincinnati 20, Ohio.
OFFICE AppREss: University of Cincinnau Library, Cincinnau 21, Ohio.

BoRN: Feb. 8, 1913, Haverhill, Mass. parents: Christopher Robert Hamlin,
Edith Redman.

PREPARED AT: Blair Academy, Blairstown, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., cur laude, 1934; S.B. IN LS. (Co-
lumbia Univ.), 1939.
MarrigD: Pauline Randolph, Sept. 16, 1939, Cambridge, Mass. cHILDREN: Peter

Randolph, Jan. 14, 1941; Sally Randolph, Sept. 16, 1943; Rebecca Ran-
dolph, Dec. 4, 1946.

oocuraTion: Director of libraries, University of Cincinnati.
OFFICES HELD: Director, Junto (Philadelphia’s adult school), 1941-42, 1945-48

L538]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Midwest Incer-library Center, since 1956; chairman, various committees,
American Library Association; minor offices, American Council on Educa-
tion, International Federation of Library Associations, Bibliographical So-
ciety of America; sundry church offices.

MEMBER oF: American Library Association, Bibliographical Society of
America; Torch; Council on World Affairs; Harvard Club of Cincinnati;
state and local library and educational associations.

PuBLicaTIONS: About twenty-five articles in professional journals and as chapters
in books; four articles in Alumni Bulletin, centennial history of Harvard
Club of Chicago, 1957; three studies of college and research libraries for
institutional use.

CERTAINLY some of the pattern of my life has been established
by the need to provide for much of my own support from early
childhood, From the age of ten, | regularly worked a ten-hour day
on truck farms during the summer (how terrible it seems!) and
took pleasure in the exercise and the accomplishment. I got a similar
satisfaction from routine tasks performed as a student assistant in
Widener Library, just as I do today from the problems, routine or
otherwise, which come to me from eight to five. Only a very inti-
mate acquaintance with migraine headaches has kept me from being
a narrow grind, focussed on the job of the moment, As it is, I
exercise a careless green thumb, hike a good deal and, very occa-
sionally, drum up a partner for tennis. I enjoy the role of handyman
at home, but my only real status is in my chosen profession.

I didn’t choose library work, I drifted into it. I drifted into it
out of necessity and stay ed with it because it was pleasant, it was
socially useful and it gave me, over the years, increasing recogni-
tion and even increasing salary (a beginning salary in the thirties
couldn't decrease! ).

This emphasis on the day’s work is not narrow. I take a very
active part in student affairs as adviser to the senior class, as adviser
to Phi Delta Theta and in minor ways. My work involves regular
contact with the thirteen colleges and professional schools, which
constitute this university, and a small, but increasing role in the busi-
ness and cultural life of southern Ohio. Occasionally, I am called
to other institutions as a consultant on library problems and through
committee assignments, | work on problems confronting librarian-
ship throughout the nation. I find all this stimulating and reward-
ing in a non-financial sense.

As I was lucky in stumbling into a good vocation, I was equally
lucky in marriage. I picked up my wife, fresh from Radcliffe, in no
less a place than the Treasure Room of Widener. Since she was the

[ 539 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

nicest thing there, I got her out through the turnstile on a short loan
and just never took her back. We now have three children, none
of them perfect, but reasonably well-regarded, locally. For them, we
are in truth very grateful to Divine Providence.

For six years, | was executive secretary of the Association of
College and Reference Libraries in Chicago. This job took me all
over the country and on visits to several hundred campuses, While
the duties were fatiguing, the opportunities for service were tre-
mendous. I worked very hard during this period and the return to
a university campus seemed at first (but not for long!) like retire-
ment on full salary. Prior to that time, I was assistant librarian at
the University of ‘Pennsylvania, at the Office of Naval Intelligence
in Washington and at the New York Public Library.

Now, if you want my politics, I am a very liberal Republican,
who often votes Democratic. Locally, ’m heart and soul for the
Charter Party, the cleanest and soundest political organization that
ever was. In ‘religion, we have changed from the Presbyterian to the
Episcopal Church, mostly to take part in the fine work with the
underprivileged done here by Christ Church. We lead a fairly
active, social life, not limited to university circles.

My wife and J are still young enough to enjoy most of the student
dances, but no longer stay to the bitter end. I’ve lost much hair,
but keep my weight under 160. I can fell a good-sized tree and not
worry about my heart (and I trust I won’t regret that sentence). I
look young enough so that only an occasional student all but hands
me a cane, with due deference, when I arrive at a party. Favorite
family fun comes from a whole series of card games which we all
play together.

The one philosophical thought which I cannot suppress is the
urgent need for creating worth-while scholastic interests in college
students and giving them opportunity and help in the pursuit of
these interests. “Throughout higher education, there is still an empha-
sis on forced feeding by lectures and by required reading, the whole
to be regurgitated periodically at examination. The best education
is the continuing education, and indoctrination only stifles initiative.
Harvard is one of the few colleges which have a good record on this
point, but there is room for improvement every where.

[ 540 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

i WILLIAM HENRY HAMMAN

 

porn: July 18, 1913, Houston, Texas. parents: John Hamman, Frances
some.

PREPARED AT: San Jacinto High School, Houston, Texas.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932,

WaRVARD BROTHERS: John Hamman, Jr, '29; George Frederick Hamma
(deceased).

pieD: Oct. 5, 1932, Houston, Texas.

WILLIAM HENRY HAMMAN died at the begining of our ju

year. During freshman year he was a member of the swimming te

MARTIN HANNON

 

HOME AND OFFIcE appress: Hotel des Artistes, 1 W. 67th St, New York 23,
N.Y.

BORN: July 27, 1911, New York, N.Y. Parents: Martin Edward Hannon, Grace
Martin Canfield.
PREPARED at: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

[s4t]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.
marrieD: Clare Chisholm, Feb. 24, 1947, Boston, Mass.
occuPATION: Portrait painter.

SEVERAL years on Boston newspapers and Associated Press,
Then returned to first love, painting. Also became active in family
glass manufactory. Used to play tennis and shoot a bit, but haven't
the time for it now and don’t miss it. Fought bravely with the draft
board all through the war. We never understood each other.

The social, political and religious convictions you ask for are
vague but apparently far to the right: patriots and humanitarians |
keep meeting at cocktail parties always relegate me to the eighteenth
century. I like it there.

WILLIAM VAN ADRIAN HANSEN

    

HOME appress: 382 N. Arrowhead Lane, Barrington, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Central Standard Life Insurance Co., 211 W. Wacker Drive,
Chicago 6, Ill. .

BORN; Sept. 11, 1910, Ridgefield, Conn, parents: Ejnar Hansen, Sara Curtis
Jenner.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: $.B., 1934(35).

MaRRIED: Nancy Cabot, Dec. 14, 1935, Jamaica Plain, Mass. (divorced 1947);
Georgiana MacArthur Gardner, Nov. 8, 1947, Providence, R.I. CHILDREN:
Robert Gardner, April 22, 1937; Georgiana Gardner, April 15, 1939; David
Gardner, July 18, 1941; Martha Gardner, Oct. 25, 1944 (all stepchildren),
Nancy, July 22, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Secretary, Central Standard Life Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, treasurer and director, Standard Life Insurance Co.

of America, Pittsburgh, Pa., 1947-51; president, Parent-Teachers Council,
Barrington, Ill, 1955. )
MEMBER OF: HYP Club of Pittsburgh, Harvard Club of New York.

[ 542 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IN brief here is the record for the past twenty-five years. The ifs,
buts and maybes are left out.

Soon after leaving college I went to work for Stone and Webster
in New York City. I was a member of a student training group
which consisted of six persons. Instruction was quite general and
lasted for almost a year. Upon completion of this indoctrination
period I was transferred to Blackstone Valley Gas & Electric Com-
pany in Rhode Island, where I worked in various departments for
about five years. The work was enjoyable and interesting and con-
sisted of accounting, engineering and working with the public.
After the 1938 hurricane I was amazed to see how quickly the com-
pany could get back on its feet, thanks to hard work, a spirit of
cooperation and good organization.

Then in February of 1941, I received a registered letter which

chopped things off like a knife, six days’ notice, active duty with
the Air Force. This lasted for five years. After the war I went back
to Blackstone Valley Gas & Flectric for about a year, leaving the
Stone and Webster organization, March, 1948. I had the highest
regard for Stone and Webster but an unusually good opportunity
knocked at the door.

We moved to Pittsburgh and I went to work for a small life in-
surance company that was in pretty sick shape. The company was
reinsured by Central Standard Life Insurance Company of Chicago,
during May of 1951. During these three years I had a wonderful
Opportunity to take part in changing the company from a sorry
mess to a sound financial organization. So in 1951 we moved to
Hlinois, setting up our home in Barrington. I have been secretary of
Central Standard Life Insurance Company for the past seven years.
My job is exceptionally interesting and varied as new problems and
interests appear in rapid succession. The head of the company is a
dynamic, hard-driving, capable person, so there is no loitering by
the wayside.

Family and community life in Barrington ts about as close to
perfect as I could hope for. Three of our children graduated from
the Barrington High School and two of them are up there now.
Three dogs, two cats, a horse and a skunk help us run up the food
bill.

Politics —I have always voted the straight Republican ticket. I
was a supporter of the late Senator Taft. In case anyone is interested
all Republican candidates were Swept into office in our county at
_ the last election.

[ 543 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Other interests, one might call them hobbies, take up most of
my spare time. By means of a well-equipped workshop and a tractor
I take care of most of the house repairs, keep the wood supply up,
plow out the drive and fight the weeds. Also my wife, brother-in-
Jaw and I are developing a little over 2000 acres in the eastern part
of North Carolina, The map places our farm in the East Dismal
Swamp but we hope to harvest our first soy bean. crop next fall.
Lastly, I’ve been trying to publish a book, but so far no luck. I shall
rewrite it for the fifth time and keep on trying. It is about dollar
values, financial affairs and business matters. My objective in doing
this is to pass on such information to our children.

My wife Georgiana is the mainspring behind all our activities.
She definitely deserves first prize.

JOHN BRIARD HARDING

 

ADDRESS: 28060 Pacific Coast Highway, Malibu, Calif.

BoRN: Oct. 15, 1911, Dedham, Mass. parents: Charles Lewis Harding, Harrietta
Knowles.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

MarrieD: Isobel Lennart. cHiLpREN: John Briard, Jr., 1934; Joshua Lennart,
1947; Sarah Elizabeth, 1951.
OCCUPATION: Creative arts.

NO questionnaire returned.

[ 544 ]

a emanate it

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CASIMIR HARRIS

 

Appress: 2357 Galbreth Rd., Pasadena 7, Calif.

BORN: Aug. 6, 1911, Pelham, N.Y. ParENTs: Paul Harris, Frances Wood.
PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1930, 1931-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.

NO questionnaire returned.

JONATHAN LEONARD HARRIS

 

HOME ADpRESS: 42 Harding Drive, South Orange, N.J.

OFFICE appREss: Veterans Administration Hospital, East Orange, N.J.

BORN: May 10, 1914, Newark, N.J.° parents: Alexander Harris, Hannah
Lightenburg. -

PREPARED AT: Newark Academy, Newark, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1934; M.D. (Columbia
Univ.), 1938.

MaRRiED: Ann Louise Rosenfeld, June 12, 1938, Elberon, N.J. cHILpREN: Jona-
than Ted; July 6, 1941; Francine Elizabeth, July 27, 1945.

occupation: Ophthalmologist; ophthalmic surgeon; chief, Eye Section, Surgical
Service, Veterans Administration Hospital, East Orange, N_J.

[545].

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Theodore Paton Harris Foundation.
MEMBER OF: American Board of Ophthalmology (diplomate); American
Medical Association; Essex County (N.J.) Medical Society; Academy of
Medicine of New Jersey; New Jersey Academy of Ophthalmology and
Otolaryngology; National Medical Foundation for Eye Care.

pusLicaTions: “Glaucomato-cyclitic Crises,” Report of two cases, Journal of
Medical Society of New Jersey, October, 1953.

THE late Will Rogers once said in a fit of pique, “It takes eight
vears to make a Harvard man — four years in and four years out.”
For most of us it is now a matter of twenty- -five years out. ‘T'wenty-
five years to add to and build upon, and in some ways to counteract,
those four important years at Harvard.

Probably impressed by my Harvard degree, the faculty of the
College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University per-
mitted me to enter that respected school to take my M.D. degree
in 1938. What might have been an otherwise happy experience was
marred by the death of my only brother, six years older than I,
during my second year of medical school.

Life is made of good and bad, and the good came with marriage
a few days after graduation from Columbia. Perhaps our marriage
was all the better for the many short and long separations imposed
by internship, residency and, later, military service. For the first
nine years of our married life 1 was away half of the time. At any
rate, | am more than content to be happily married after twenty
years. Our daughter, they say, looks like me.

In 1940 I began to study for my specialty of ophthalmology, a
medical jawbreaker for eye work. Following a year of formal study
and the beginning of my residency in eye at Bellevue Hospital, I
broke off to enter the Army in May, 1942. Four years as an army
ophthalmologist saw me traveling up and down the state of New
York for an estimated distance of one hundred thousand miles.
(Really, it’s fantastic the things that can happen in military service.)
Finally, though reluctantly, tired of the beauties of Albany, Utica,
Syracuse, Rochester and Buffalo, and with the cooperation of the
Army, which was helping to pay my travel expenses, I was sent to
France about five months before V-E Day. Here again I managed
to pile up mileage, shuttling about to such places as Paris, London,
Oxford, Reims, Marseilles, and even for three days on the Grande
Corniche. Eventually, I was flown home and the war ended.

In May, 1946, I resumed my eye residency and finished up in
November, 1947. Probably my residency was one of the longest on

[ 546 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

record at Bellevue. It began in April, 1941, and ended six and a half
years later. Talk about hospital bums!

Since that time my medical experience may have been a little
unusual in its variety. There were five years of group practice, two
years of private practice and, most recently, four years of full-time
work as an eye surgeon with the Veterans Administration. At least
I can talk from experience about several important phases of medical
practice in the United States today. No one has asked me to as yet.

For hobbies, there have been travel, reading and that wonderful
electronic invention for would-be musicians called the chord organ.
Throw in a little bridge and an occasional touch of stamp collecting.
One of our most satisfactory trips was an auto tour through the
western parks when our children were thirteen and nine. This was
all the more rewarding, as I was sure it was going to be an ordeal and
a dud. And so I live happily near the top of the Orange Mountains,
and begin to accumulate data for the next twenty-five.

CLEMENT LOWELL HARRISS

 

HOME apprEss: 14 Plateau Circle, Bronxville, N.Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Hamilton Hall, Columbia University, New York 27, N.Y.

Born: Aug. 2, 1912, Fairbury, Nebr. parents: Riley Clement Harriss, Alice
Mary Hunt.

PREPARED At: Omaha Central High School, Omaha, Nebr.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: S.B., summa cum laude, 1934; PHD. (Co-
lumbia Univ.), 1940.

marrigD: Agnes Bennett Murphy, June 1, 1936, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:

Patricia Louise, March 9, 1945; Lowell Gordon, June 21, 1936; Martha Ann
and Brian Clement (twins), Feb. 13, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Professor of economics, Columbia University; writing; consulting.

[ 547 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Conference on Research in Income and Wealth, Na-
tional Bureau of Economic Research, 1940-43; director, International In-
stitute of Public Finance, since 1950, American Finance Association,
1954-56, Tax Institute, since 1957, president, Metropolitan (N.Y.) Eco-
nomic Association, 1956-57; chairman, Educational Needs Committee of
Bronxville Citizens’ Advisory Committee; U.S. Correspondent, Institut du
Developpement Economique Africain.

MEMBER OF: American Economic Association; National Tax Association; Royal
Economic Society; Econometric Society; American Finance Association,
American Association of University Professors, Metropolitan Economic
Association, Tax Institute; International Finance Association; Interna-

tional Institute of Public Finance; Men’s Faculty (Columbia); Bronxville
Field Club; numerous others.

PUBLICATIONS: Gift Taxation in the United States; Size Distributions of Incomre,
editor; American Public Finance, with W. J. Shultz, sth, 6rh and 7th
editions, History and Policies of the Home Owners’ Loan Corporation;
The American Economy, two editions, Basic Economics, with A. D.

Gayer, Selected Readings in Economics; over fifty articles, including a
study of New York State taxes.

A SHELDON fellowship at graduation, enabled me to spend a
year of travel in Europe, North Africa and the Near East, an incom-
parable experience which in many ways helped direct the course
of my life. During this time, I took examinations for fellowships
for graduate study — successfully, so that I had funds adequate for
three full years of study. One condition was that I attend a uni-
versity other than my alma mater. First, I] went to Columbia, then
the University of Chicago; shifting from history to economics, I,
in a sense, started my study from the beginning. Things went well,
however, and I progressed about as rapidly as anyone could hope —
there was then considerably less economic theory to try to master
than today. The major event of this period, however, was meeting
and marrying a lovely and accomplished lady.

In 1938, Columbia invited me to join its economics staff, and
[ have been a member ever since, going from one rank to another
and benefiting in many ways from a rare association. (But teaching
in a big university is anything but the life of college teaching one
sees in the movies!) My first teaching was in the general education
courses, where my undergraduate work in history helped immensely.
Soon, however, my work was confined essentially to economics.
With the publication of a dissertation, I became a Ph.D. in 1940. In
1936, I decided to specialize in public finance and had begun re-
search on a few parts of the subject. This I have continued, but with
many excursions, The first was becoming the secretary — essen-

[ 548 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tially, the chief staff officer — of a group pioneering in research on
national income and wealth.

In the summer of 1941, I received leave to work in the U.S.
Treasury Division of Tax Research. (My first job there was a de-
tailed study of estate tax payment problems; in 1958 Congress in-
corporated my major recommendation in the tax code.) The war,
of course, meant heavy and interesting work, plus increasing re-
sponsibility. The pressure, unfortunately, took away much of the
potential pleasure and prevented all of us from the scholarly study
we might have pursued if conditions had been more favorable. But
I did get to know a great deal about a few parts of our tax system.

The draft put me in the Army in 1943, and by good fortune, I
was assigned to Wright Field, where I worked on problems of Air
Force procurement. Thus, I could put a bit of my knowledge of
economics to direct use and with some accomplishment. OCS at
Miami Beach brought me a commission, and I eventually became
a captain. The last year and a half found me working chiefly on
problems of economic demobilization; although some of the work
was unnecessary because no large gap developed between the end-
ing of hostilities in Europe and Asia, a few things we did may have
helped a little, not only in hastening the reconversion of industr
during 1945-46, but also in speeding up Korean mobilization later.

My wife had continued her professional work as a psychiatric
social worker from our marriage until our first child was born in
1945. With the second on the way, we had unusual luck in solving -
the housing problem when I returned to Columbia in 1946. I also
joined a research organization on a part-time basis — too much to do,
bur bills gor paid. For a time, I worked personally for Mr. H.
Morgenthau, Jr, on a history of the U.S. Treasury in the 1930's.
One tempting offer, as a department head in a fine California col-
lege, led to much soul-searching, but we decided to stay at Columbia.
For the academic year 1948-49, I was awarded a research grant and
wrote several articles. The next year we spent at Stanford, where
I was a visiting professor, also giving one seminar at the University
of California. That year was most pleasant, but also busy, for our
twins were only a few months when we went out. When we re-
turned to Columbia, we bought a house in a nice suburb, where we
have lived since. On my first sabbatical, I had a F ulbright profes-
sorship and taught in the Netherlands. We had a comfortable house,
made many fine friends and did considerable traveling in Europe.
The summer of 1954 included another Fulbright lectureship at

[ 549 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Cambridge University, giving us a pleasant occasion to see more
of England.

The economic facts of teaching require professors to do man
other things. Most of mine have been closely related to my academic
work. Since the war, I have acted as consultant on taxation to the
U.S. Treasury and have done major research jobs for New York Cit
and New York State — and for an official group studying the finan-
cial relations between these two huge governments. A great deal of
my time has been devoted to textbook writing in recent years; a
modest start got me involved more and more deeply, and as I write
this, I am taking time from final work on revisions of a text in
elementary economics and one in public finance, both due at the
publisher's in a few days. Such work presents great problems. The
chief, I think, is how to select what is most important out of an
overwhelming mass of knowledge. The field is intensely competi-
tive, but I cannot complain of the reception my books have received.

My present teaching consists of a section of elementary economics
(I am in charge of what corresponds to “Ec A”), a seminar for
seniors on government and economic life, a eraduate-undergraduate
lecture course in public finance, and participation in a joint law-
economics-business seminar on taxation. I am also a member of the
Admissions Committee and have a few non-teaching responsibilities.

Good fortune has taken me to Europe several times since the war.
My wife has gone four times, all the children on our sabbatical,
and my elder son with me in 1958. My association with international
professional organizations provides the occasions (but not the
money). The most unusual trip came in 1957, when I participated
in a conference on transportation and economic development which
was followed by a 6,000-mile trip over and through parts of French
Africa, A few months later, the foreign professors of this group as-
sembled again in Paris to review a set of proposals for the economic
development of Algeria. By now, I have quite a list of articles pub-
lished in half a dozen foreign lands (some especially written, some
translations). We have many friends abroad.

My work in the community has not been extensive, except for one
major project on the local school’s building needs. Among other
things that impressed me was the fine quality of our teachers and of
the people in the community, We belong to a local club, with tennis
and swimming facilities, and spend a good deal of the summer there.

Our children are all doing nicely, but I continue to wonder whether
I do as well for them as I should. Is their life not too easy? (The

[550]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fact that they express horror at this question, only convinces me
that they should perhaps have to face more of the responsibilities
their mother and father did, as youngsters.) I myself must confess
to distress at how to cope with life in the modern matriarchy cul-
ture- with whatever it has done to the role of the male and father,
combined with the difficulty of getting household service, the no-
tion that standards should rise more rapidly than income and hours
in the day, and the subtle differences and incompatibilities of values
within myself and all around. Marked differences in the personalities
of the children suggest that we have a variety of experiences ahead.

Teaching is, for me, a pleasant form of activity. Without ques-
tion, we provide vastly better instruction in economics than was
possible in the early 1930’s — not because we are any smarter, but
because the discipline has progressed. Of course, our knowledge
is by no means what it should be; but it is extensive enough to en-
able us to start today’s youth with a much better comprehension of
the economy than even the greatest of economists could provide the
Class of 1934. Unfortunately, I have not done so much as I have
hoped to advance the frontiers of economics. Here is one of the
troublesome conflicts of a person in my position— teaching and
earning a living take so much time that research suffers. But each
year has seen at least a little accomplishment. My working week is
long, to the disappointment of my family and, increasingly, myself.
When one has such nice children and such a wonderful wife, it is a
pity to be so busy. Perhaps the Reunion will reveal how others
have solved more sensibly what must be a not uncommon problem.

MERLE WILLIS HART

ADDRESS: 402 E, Wallace Ave., New Castle, Pa.
BoRN: March 3, 1912, Ashtabula, Ohio. parents: Willis A. Hart, Madeline

McNally.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREE: AB., 1934(35).
MARRIED: Divorced.
occuPaTION: Manufacturer.

NO questionnaire returned.

[5st]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

GEORGE HUNTINGTON HARTFORD, II

 

OME ADDRESS: 1 Beckman PL, New York, N.Y. ror
ovaice apprtss: Yo Miss Agnes Hardecker, 420 Lexington Ave. New York,
NN. ford
porx: April 18, 1911, New York, N.Y. parents: Edward Vassallo Hartiord,
Henrietta Guerard.
PREPARED AT; St. Paul's School, Concord, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934. 4
maraigp: Mary Lee Epling, 1931, Covington, Va. (divorced 1939) Marjorie
Steele, Sept. 10, 1949, Gardnerville, Nev. cHupren: Catherine, Aug. 125
1950; John, July 2, 1953.
occuPATION: Business; theatre, art patron; graphology; writer.
orrices HELD: Chairman of the board, Oil Shale Corporation, Beverly Hills,
Calif, Speedpark, Inc, New York, founder and owner, Huntington Hart-
ford Theatre, Hollywood, Calif., founder and trustee, Huntington Hart-
ford Foundation, Pacific Palisades, Calif., founder, Gallery of Modern
Art, New York; founder and president, The Handwriting Institute, New
York.
MEMBER OF: River Club, New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles on art, “Jane Eyre,” on Broadway (a play), 1958-

MY inferiority complex (and I fear it was not unfounded) started
around the time I went to fashionable St. Paul’s School (not entirely
a coincidence) and ended, I guess, sometime during the war, when
1 was over thirty. Why should I, a young boy who, in the eyes of
the world, had everything have felt so inferior in boarding school
and, in fact, been quite miserable all long after I got out of college?
A combination, I believe, of a loving and determined mother whose
feelings | would never have deliberately hurt (my father died when
1 was twelve); of being the possessor of what the rector of St.
Paul's called “that most dreadful thing, a sensitive disposition”; of
being spoiled in some quarters and resented in others because of
the fact that at twenty-one I was going to come into a lot of money;

[552]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and, finally, because of the inordinate emphasis at St. Paul’s on
church and Christianity which turned me into an embarrassingly

shy and humble little mouse.
Just before the war started around the end of the thirties (while

the depression was still fresh in the mind of even someone as isolated

from it as I), I asked myself one day, what would I do if I suddenly

lost my money? I had no idea. I had been married at Harvard and
divorced a few years later — without having children — but it was
fortunate for my wife that she had never had to depend on my

earning a living for support. After graduation I had dabbled in (1)

a desk job in the A&P, the family company, (2) following the trail

of the buccaneers aboard a full-rigged yacht, the Joseph Conrad,

in the West Indies, (3) writing a novel, which I’m still writing, and

(4) working as a reporter on an ill-fated publication called P.M

With al] this puttering about, perhaps a war was just what I needed to

grow up in a hurry. At any rate, I spent three and one-half years
in the Coast Guard, mostly overseas, and soon after I got out, my
life suddenly began to take shape.

I became a business man wrapped up in the fate of the A&P, the
Oil Shale Corporation (whose methods for extracting oil from rock
may surprise the world if the government does not beat us to the gun
by using atom bombs), and a company called Speedpark which
produces automatic parking garages— if you would like to see one
in operation, take a walk along Forty-second Street, west of Eighth
Avenue in New York City.

I became a patron of the arts (or, if you prefer Time Magazine's
adjective, artsy-craftsy), built a theatre and an art colony in Los
Angeles, and am currently building a new Gallery of Modern Art
on Columbus Circle in New York, designed by Edward Stone, and
for which I am busy collecting paintings.

I became a scientist — if you will excuse the stuffy word, but
people are inclined to look down their noses (and often rightly so!)
at graphology —and formed the Handwriting Institute in New
York, where seven or eight of us diligently study the mysteries of the
human brain and nervous system as shown by pen: and pencil under
the microscope, graphody ne and naked eve.

Last but not least, I became for the second time a husband. Not a
very good one, if this is to be a true exposé, but a most loving one!
To an adorable wife, Marjorie by name, who divides her time
among the stage, the easel, the bottom of the ocean and our two

children, Jackie, aged five, and Cathy, aged eight,

[553]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Mv philosophy? I believe in goodness, but not to the extent of
the church and the State of Connecticut when, in the face of one
million illegal abortions in this country a year, they ban birth control.
I believe in equal rights for negroes, and I have a pet theory that
perhaps there should be more towns and areas in North America
controlled and dominated by them, I think revolution is occasionally
admirable in this world, but only if tempered with loving kindness,
and it is here that Communism fails.

I think England is the greatest country on earth (excepting the
United States, of course!), but could stand a few new highways. I
think the English have culture and character, but lack vitality; the
French, culture and vitality, but not much character (though they
are beginning to get it under DeGaulle); and the United States has
character and vitality, but little culture. Culture, in my opinion,
is not measured by how many museums or opera companies you
have. It means, well, being a lady or gentleman, for example, having
a sense of humor, being able to discuss without seeing everything 1 in
black and white. But then the USS. is a very young country!

ALFRED STEDMAN HARTWELL

 

HOME AbbRESS: 5621 Kalanianaole Highway, Honolulu, Hawaii.

OFFICE, apprESS: Straub Clinic, 1020 Kapiolani St., Honolulu, Hawaii.

bows: May 24, 1910, Newton Lower Falls, Mass. parents: Charles Atherton
Hartwell, ’03, Cordelia Judd Carter,

PREPARED AT: Westminster School, Simsbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934; M.p., cum laude, 1938.

Maggirp: Nancy Herrick, June 27, 1935, Southampton, N.Y. (divorced 1954)
Helena Pond, Sept. 9, 1954. CHILDREN: Mary Foster, April 30, 1939;

Cordclia Carter, Oct. 23, 1938; Alfred Stedman, 3d, Nov. 1, 1940; Julie,
March 2, 1946.

L554)

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Atherton Hartwell, Jr., ’52.

OccUPATION: Physician; internal medicine and cardiology.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Honolulu County Medical Society; member board
of directors, American Heart Association; member board of trustees,
Strong Foundation, Hawaii Heart Association; delegate, American Medical
Association, 1950-54; member of council, Hawaii Medical Association,
1950-51. ,

MEMBER OF: Honolulu County Medical Society, American Medical Associa-
tion; Hawaii Medical Association; Nu Sigma Nu; Waialae Country Club;
American College of Physicians (fellow); Hawaii Society of Internal
Medicine.

PUBLICATIONS: (since 1950) “Peripheral Vascular Diseases and Hypertension,”
Proc. Staff Meetings The Clinic, 17:29 (March) 1951; “Surgical Treat-
ment of Mitral Stenosis,” Proc. Staff Meetings Straub Clinic, 18:117 (Sep-
tember) 1952; “Experiences with Cardiovascular Surgery in Hawaii (with
C. M. Burgess, G. C. Freeman, J. W. Cherry and C. S. Judd), Proce.
Staff Meetings Straub Clinic, 19:45 (March) 1953; “Aneurysm of the
Thoracic Aorta in Infancy” (with G. M. Ewing), Postgrad. Med. 16:546
(December) 1954; “Lumbar Sympathectomy for Hypertension: Case Re-
port,” Proc. Staff Meetings Straub Clinic, 21:33 (January-March) 1955;
and several others.

I AM a physician in Honolulu, Hawaii, practising internal medicine
with a special interest in diseases of the heart. For the past fifteen
years, I have been with a group named after its founder (1920),
the Straub Clinic. Of the thirty-eight men engaged in various
branches of medicine and surgery who now are associated with it,
four of us (J. W. White, H.M.S. ’17, Colin C. McCorriston, H.MS.
"39, John J. Lowrey, H.M.S. ’40 and myself) are graduates of Harvard
Medical School; we refer to this balance, half-jokingly, as 50-50.
As this is a good place to record one’s thoughts, I would like to
thank my partners from the bottom of my heart for their kindness
and generosity to me.

To retrace some of my steps, thanks to the direction of Gerald
Graham, my tutor in Ehot House (now chairman of the Department
of History at the University of London), I was able to get a high
enough grade in my senior year to graduate; in fact, Graham was
most pleased with the final effort. Because by junior year my grades
were not of the highest, I had some difficulty getting into the
Harvard Medical School, although this school had been my dream
since childhood, really. I had done poorly in a medical aptitude
test, partly because I had studied the history of England and many
of the questions were mathematical, and secondly because of a fling-
ding at the Somerset the night before. I went to see Dr. Worth
Hale, to whom I shall always be grateful, and told him that I did

[555]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

One parting word of aloha: If anyone of ’34 comes to Honolulu
(and you should), please call me up.

MEAD HARTWELL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 709 Boston Post Rd., Weston, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 16, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Harry Fairbanks Hartwell, ’95,
Olive Madeline Barber.

PREPARED AT; Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1034. DEGREE: A.B, 1034.

MARRIED: Sarah Elizabeth Lloyd, Oct. 19, 1935, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Mead, Jr., May 4, 1937; Harriet Fairbanks, June 20, 1942; Sarah Lloyd,

May 19, 1947.
HARVARD SON: Mead Hartwell, Jr., ’59.

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Barber Hartwell, ’28.

occupaTioN: In the process of organizing a firm for manufacturing chemicals
used in the electronics industry.

MEMBER OF: Weston Golf Club.

AFTER graduation I was a partner in a sales organization until
Uncle Sam called me in 1941. Spent five years in the Army, with
service in England and France, being released with the rank of
major. Since then I have been in the automobile, electronics and
real estate business, and am now about to go back to electronics. At
least no lack of variety. .

Tennis and squash take up a good part of my spare time and we
spend as many weekends and vacations as possible at Lake Sunapee
in New Hampshire.

[558 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WYNDHAM LIONEL HASLER

 

HOME apprEss: 437 N. Green Bay Rd., Lake Forest, Ill.
OFFICE ADDRESS: First National Bank of Chicago, 38 S. Dearborn St., Chicago 3,

Hl.
BORN: Jan. 19, 1911, Lake Forest, Il]. paARENTs: Edward Lionel Hasler, Helen

Persis Lord.
PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Cornelia Ranney, Jan. 23, 1937, Chicago, Ill. cumpren: Wyndham
Lionel, Jr., June 10, 1940; John Williams, Oct. 5, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, First National Bank of Chicago.

OFFICES HELD: Governing member, Glenwood School for Boys; chairman,
Chicago Nursery and Half Orphan Asylum; treasurer, Illinois State
Chamber of Commerce, 1955-57; member of the board, Salvation Army,
Stepan Chemical Company; member, Plan Commission, City of Lake Forest;

president, Onwentsia Club, 1955-57.
MEMBER OF: Chicago Commonwealth Club; Onwentsia Club; Union League

Club of Chicago; Winter Club of Lake Forest.

THE year 1934 found me with a diploma in my hand and far too few
thoughts in my mind as to a way of earning my keep. This state of
blissful inactivity lasted only a short time, however, and I soon
was studying the geography of Chicago from the point of view of a
member of the messenger force of the First National Bank of
Chicago. This association was interrupted by some two years on
LaSalle Street and in 1939 I returned to the bank. The years spent
in the operational departments of the bank and more recently as
a loaning officer have been stimulating and have led to many inter-
esting and worthwhile associations.

For three years I was on active duty as a member of the US.
Naval Reserve. With the passage of time, my experiences in the
service seem to become even more interesting but, nevertheless, did

[559]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

give me a fine opportunity to see the rest of the world as navigator
and executive officer of a troop transport.

My sons are now, I hope, hard at work in school and the elder
is realizing that the difficulties of getting into college today are
more than mere topics of conversation. During our holidays they
share my enthusiasm for sports, particularly shooting, fishing and
golf.

We are looking forward to attending the Twenty-fifth; the whole

family, except three Labradors who by then will be impatiently
awaiting the next fall.

STANLEY HERBERT HASTE

    

HOME AppREss: 116 Hope St., Providence 6, RL

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rhode Island School of Design, Providence, R.I.

BorN: Feb. 14, 1913, North Smithfield, R.I. parents: Charles Herbert Haste,
Evelyn Walker.

prepareD AT: Clinton High School, Clinton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; ED.M., 1953.

marRRIED: Dorothy Rand, July 24, 1932, Millerton, N.Y. cumpren: Penelope,
March 1, 1934 (m. Oscar Lewis Snow, 1954); Jeffrey Willard, Oct. 11,
1952. GRANDCHILD: Jaime Snow, January, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Assistant professor of English.

OFFICES HELD: Coordinator of Civilian Pilot Training for Rhode Island, 1940-42;
lieutenant commander, USNR, retired.

MEMBER OF: Providence Art Club, University Club of Rhode Island; Rhode
Island Historical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Over one hundred featured literary reviews in Providence Sun-
day Journal, “Contrast for Four Strings in D Minor,” first performed by
Rhode Island String Quartet, November 1, 1956; “An American Rhapsody
for Clarinet and Four Strings,” scheduled to be performed in spring of
1959.

[ 560 }

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT |
PREVIOUS to World War II, which, like the preceding period of

depression, we all shared, most of my time was spent squeezing a
livelihood out of playing the piano, teaching English and fiying § -
airplanes, roughly in that order. And as you might suspect, this
varied life led us to many parts of the United States and introduced
us to many people who are now resting on their fame.

The second war, too (pun intended only for those of my college
friends who used to groan at such puerile outbursts), led us to
many parts of the United States — and me, to many unalluring atolls
in the South Pacific. Said war I began in the Naval Aviation
Transport Service and ended, as assistant personnel officer, on
Fleet Admiral Nimitz’ staff. Over four years of such service and
I was ready for roots in one place.

And the place has been Providence, Rhode Island, where I have
been actively engaged teaching English (and a seminar in James Joyce)
at Rhode Island School of Design, recently accredited a college;
in writing, as a regular reviewer for the Providence Sunday Journal;
in composing chamber music and in playing occasional Dixieland
jazz concerts. Mostly though, I have been absorbed in the growth
of my young son, an uncle at six, who has been teaching me an
awareness of things I have long taken for granted.

To him I owe a debt of gratitude. And to my wife, who in the
finest tradition of cooperation has been working as an assistant
librarian, so that my perceptions of his teaching might be more
acute. (Somewhere in all this, creditors are involved, but I cannot
remember exactly where.) And to South Wellfleet, Massachusetts,
where each summer I rediscover that life is more than a struggle
to meet the cost-of-living index— and where my grandson Jaime,

now a native Cape Codder, makes me feel good all over when he
addresses me as “uncle” Stanley and wife, “gramma” Dotty.

[ 561 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

WILLIAM HENRY HATCH, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 109 Thurton Drive, New Canaan, Conn.
OFFICE apprEss: F. W. Dodge Corp., 119 W. goth St., New York 18, NY.
BORN: July 25, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: William Henry Hatch, Martha

Ann Grady.
PREPARED AT: Morristown School, Morristown, N.J.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.
MARRIED: Mary Cook, Jan. 8, 1937, Pelham, N.Y. cuitpren: William Henry,
3d, July 23, 1941; Bentley, Feb. 6, 1947; Robert C., June g, 1948.
OCCUPATION: Regional vice-president, F. W. Dodge Corporation, construction
news and marketing specialists. |
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

THE past twenty-five years have generally been normal and happy
ones. My interests have centered almost entirely around family
ind business. Our oldest boy, Hank, is off to college this fall —
ust which one is still a matter in the lap of three admissions com-
nittees. Our second boy, Ben, has a few more years of school ahead,
0 that problem is still not a pressing one.

After many happy years in the Boston area, I was recently trans-
erred to New York headquarters, so now our home address is

New Canaan, Connecticut.

[ 562 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD HAYDOCK

 

HOME ApDpREsS: 190 Laurel Hill Rd. Mountain Lakes, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 42 W. 44th St., New York 36, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 4, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: Edmund Haydock, Mary Lid-
better.

PREPARED AT: Barnard School for Boys, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: AB. 1934; LL.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1937.

MARRIED: Katherine S. Snyder, May 22, 1943, Norfolk, Conn. cuitpren: Roger,
Sept. 8, 1946; William Halleck, March 18, 1949.

occuPATION: Executive director, Legal Referral Service.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Jersey; International Society for General
Semantics; New York Society for General Semantics.

AFTER graduation, as I had planned, I entered Columbia Law
School. I chose Columbia rather than Harvard because I thought
it was time to get back to New York on a more permanent basis.
During the subsequent summers, before graduating from law school,
I helped out in the rather informal type of legal aid service rendered
in my then home town, Yonkers. The cases were handled by lawyers
in private practice. These attorneys needed some help with the leg
work, That is what I did. The legal aid was an adjunct of the local
family service society. It was called into operation when it appeared
to the social workers that a client could be helped through an “au-
thoritarian approach.”

I was graduated from law school in 1937 and admitted to practice
in New York that same year. I had not been more than a mediocre
student in law school. I felt that perhaps it would be better to apply
my law training in some other field. I had several jobs in the next
four years. One was in a small advertising agency where I was a
trainee; another was selling cars and just before I was drafted into
the Army, public relations.

[563]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

I believed myself fortunate in being assigned to the Air Force,
I was selected for weather school. Subsequently, I was a weather
man in England, France and Germany with the Ninth Air Force.
I had been in England years before for three years when iny father
had spent some time there on business. I was able to get in touch
with some of my friends of the previous visit. As weather men the

English climate kept us on the alert and the combination of bad
weather and crippled planes returning to their base was exacting.

Back home in late 1945, I heard that the Association of the Bar
of the City of New York and the New York County Lawyers’ Asso-
ciation were planning to set up a new project to assist people to get
legal counsel when for one reason or another they did not find it
easy to obtain. This would differ from legal aid as it was expected
that the people with whom we would work would be able to pay
some fee. A flat fee of five dollars forthe first half-hour of the
lawyer’s time was to be established. After that period, if more as-
sistance were needed, the lawyer and client would try to work out
a reasonable and fair charge for further work. The lawyers were
to be volunteers, I was appointed executive director. I have been
associated with the project ever since.

In 1945 this plan had been tried in two cities. There are now
over one hundred such services. I have found the work most re-
warding and I think the bar associations have, too. It makes a good
positive contact with members of the public. It has been my privilege
to talk with some 50,000 people who have come to our office and to
guide them on their way to, I hope, a satisfactory solution of their
problems. To me law is one of the devices we have for solving
problems. It is one of the oldest but not for that reason the best.
We now have many to choose from. I believe that the individual can
be served best by an opportunity to broaden his perceptions when
confronted by a problem. The law seems to force an already formu-
lated answer upon him. I am speaking now of the typical non-
business personal problem that forms the bulk of our work. In any
event, our part in the process is to discover if the problem is one that
is subject to legal solution or adjustment but not to suggest the
procedure to be followed.

At home, in Mountain Lakes, New Jersey, which is just within
practical commuting range of New York, we live in a gigantic
eighteen-room house with an acre or so of ground. We did nothing
to earn this, we just inherited it. Since there are no other Mountain
Lakers in the Class of 1934, any comments I make will probably

[ 564 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

not be subject to critical examination. It is a town made up mostly
of engineers, insurance men and research men. It is very education-
conscious. Dr. Margaret Mead, the anthropologist, on a recent visit
found it to be deplored as a one-class community. This is probably
a drawback which deprives the children and the adults of valuable
experiences.

I have been back in school again or I am going forward in school
— whichever you prefer. | was curious to see what it would be like
to go to class again. I have attended both New York University and
the New School for Social Research. I particularly enjoy the courses
which have active participation on the part of the students. I
joined a seminar in interviewing which I found most stimulating in
the way it raised the problems, mostly unstated, which arise when
A wishes to get information from B. Well, come to think of it,
that is just what has been happening now!

GUY SCULL HAYES

 

HOME appreEss: Blue Hill Falls, Maine; 25 rue Vautier, Geneva-Carouge, Switz-
erland (temporary).

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Rockefeller Foundation, 49 W. 49th St., New York 20,
N.Y.

BORN: March 10, 1912, Andover, Mass. parents: Bartlett Harding Hayes, ’98,
Marjorie Scull.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934; M.D. 1939; M.P.H. (Johns
Hopkins Univ.), 1947.

MarrieD: Dorothy Hitchings Barbour, June 21, 1947, Blue Hill, Maine.
CHILDREN: Lucie Hitchings, March 13, 1948; Anna Scull, Aug. 27, 1949;
Priscilla Bartlett, March 18, 1951; Guy Hamilton, May 29, 1953; Edward
Barbour, Feb. 29, 1956; Bartlett Harding, 2d, March 20, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHER: Bartlett Harding Hayes, Jr., ’26.

[ 565 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ooctpatios: Assistant director for Medical Education and Public Health, the
Rockefeller Foundation,

orrices WHop: Reed Ellsworth fellow, 1gyt—42, instructor in medicine, 1942-
43. Johns Hopkins University Medical School, member board of directors,
Mfexican-North American Cultural Relations Institute, 1952-56.

wieMtneR oF: American College of Preventive Medicine; Harvard Club of
Boston; Club de Golf, Mexico City; Alawiya Club, Baghdad.

PUBLICATIONS: Few scientific papers.

AT some indefinite time during college, the idea of going to medical

school took hold. I don’t now remember just what started it all, but

the emotion was suppressed sufficiently just after graduation to

permit what amounted to a year’s vacation in Munich, where I learned

enough of the language to avenge the slurs cast previously by the

German A professor, and dev eloped a taste for vacations, which has

stood me in good stead ever since.

Four eventful years in Harvard Medical School, including several
lively consultations with the dean at his request, were followed by a
few months’ interlude in Rumania. The war in Europe had just
started and, under the tutelage of a classmate, I was familtarized
with the antics of journalists and international agents at play in a
Bucharest hotel. Most of the time, however, was spent in the pro-
vincial city of Iasi where the Rockefeller Foundation was winding
up a three-year study of scarlet fever and the hemolytic streptococci.
Looking back, I guess this was a “cross-road” because the staff, the

objectives and the organization of the field work made a deep im-
pression. |

A year and a half of internship in medicine at the Boston City
Hospital removed the last vestige of desire for a career in surgery.
Thereafter, conditioned by the experience in Rumania, I snatched
eagerly at an offer of a research fellowship at Johns Hopkins.
Mobilization after Pearl Harbor so depleted the faculty ranks that
in 1942 the university appointed me as an instructor in medicine.
Various of the armed services had been rather uncomplimentary
about my physical status, but the Rockefeller Foundation was more
broad-minded, and on August 1, 1943, I joined the staff of the Inter-
national Health Division with the prospect of participating as a
civilian in a campaign against typhus in North Africa. For some
obscure reason the signals changed and I was sent to Brazil, only to
spend the rest of the war period on the Copacabana beach with
accasional sortics into the hinterland in pursuit of jungle yellow
fever. By 1946, the need for more education was apparent and I
was sent to take the course in public health at Johns I fopkins. Little

[ 566 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

did I realize that this would lead straight down the road to matri-
mony, but happily it did.

After a brief June wedding trip to Canada, Dottie and I spent the
summer of 1947 in the hottest corner of Tennessee, where I had
been farmed out temporarily to the State Health Department for
“practical experience” — which indeed it was. Since then | have
been less prone to criticize conditions in “under-developed” coun-
tries and slightly less smug about our own.

By fall we were returned to Rio, thence to Sao Paulo, and the
following spring our first child, Lucie, was born. Within a year a
new assignment to Iran was in the offing, requiring briefing periods
in Chile and Peru. When our second anniversary rolled around we
had made five moves, and Dottie had become resigned to the lot of
a Foundation wife.

The tour in Iran was broadening in several respects, caviar for
breakfast did its dirty work despite lots of tennis; our second
daughter, Annie, came into being; it became clear to me for the first
time that development programs, no matter how technical, can’t
be isolated from the political and socio-economic environment.
Eventually the Russians, the West and Mossadegh, tangling together
under a deep blanket of oil, created a potentially unhealthy atmos-
phere for raising a family, so our third daughter, Wissie, was born
in the United States while I stayed on in Iran until June, 1951.

_ Vacation in Maine that summer was followed by a five months’
“tour” in the New York office. The dubious pleasure of the com-
mute palled rapidly. The daily fight with the furnace, the constant
fight with the landlady, the outrageous price of everything from
babies to bourbon, plus a disinclination to adapt to the “do- -it-your-
self” philosophy — these and similar problems were there for almost
five years, during which two sons, Jojo and Inky, were added to the
family. Work focused on medical education, the Foundation’s ob-
jective being to develop local scientific training facilities and a few
selected medical schools in Mexico, Central America, Colombia and
the West Indies, through a program of grants and fellowships. This
meant a good deal of travel but only occasionally did it interfere
with guitar lessons and Saturday afternoon golf.

In the fall of 1956, we left Mexico for ev -entual transfer to Iraq,
and the interim was taken up with a return to the Yard for a few
months of auditing courses on the Afiddle Fast. To sav that things in
Cambridge hadn’t changed would be a nasty slur to the fair sex.

Following a request to the Foundation from the Traq government,

[ 567 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

I was assigned as adviser in the Ministry of Health and arrived jn
Baghdad with the family, in April, 1957. Eleven months later our
youngest son, Bunky, was born, adding to the general family uproar
and merriment. As far as work is concerned, the past year and a
half have been fascinating though not highly productive, in part be- |
cause of political unrest. Giving advice, I now realize, is an art;
getting people to follow it is sheer wizardry. A long way from
mastering either, I can still claim that the attempt is fun.

At this w riting, I am still officially assigned to Baghdad, although
the family is temporarily housed in Geneva pending developments
in Iraq. The children are happy as larks with all that Geneva offers,

but we look forward to June, to the Reunion, and once again to a
summer vacation in Maine.

JOHN JOSEPH HAYES, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: Cedarmere, 117 Beechwood St., Cohasset, Mass.

orFice appress: Haves, Field & Hayes, 29g Washington St., Boston, Mass.

Bown: May 7, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: John Joseph Hayes, Roberta M.
Branwhite.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGRERS: A.B. cum laude, 1934; LL.B. (Boston
Univ.), 1937; rom. (ibid.), 1938.

Makraivo: Anne M. Merrick, July 22, 1937, Boston, Mass. crmpren: Roberta,
Aug. 31, 1938; John Joseph, 3d, May 7, 1940; Anne M., April 25, 19455
Katherine J., June g, 1947; Gretchen K., Nov. 15, 1948.

Haavary proTHER: Robert Hayes, °37.

oucepaTION; Lawyer.

ornces Menp: Director, South Shore Playhouse Association, since 1950; presi-
dent, Suuth Shore Music Circus, 1955~56,

MeMbea ov: Harvard Varsity Club, Cohassee Golf Club; Cohassec Yacht
Club.

[ 568 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THE last twenty-five years seem to have passed very quickly.
When first practising law, I decided to become a professional
economist, so [ spent a couple of years at the Harvard Graduate
School, but while engrossed in the study of the larger economic
problems I suddenly became acutely conscious that my own
economic situation was fast deteriorating because of the increased
demands of a growing family. So shortly I became active in busi-
ness. I still am in the food business in Philadelphia, practise some
law in Boston and have lived in Cohasset, Massachusetts, now for
some twelve years. .

My boy Johnny is a freshman at Lehigh; my eldest daughter is in
Paris for the year, under the Smith College third-year-abroad
program, while the three other girls attend Derby Academy in
Hingham, Massachusetts.

I enjoy travel with the family (also with my wife alone), golf
and tennis and skiing occasionally. Am looking forward with great
expectation to the Reunion.

WILLIAM KENNETH HAYES

 

HOME ApDbRESS: 15 Auburndale Rd., Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: William E. Hayes & Co., 199 Washington St. Boston, Mass.

BorN: April 6, 1912, Lynn, Mass. parents: Wilham Edward Hayes, Margaret
McDermott.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932, 1933-1935. DEGREES: A.B, 1034(35)3 M.BA, 1937.

MARRIED: Marjorie Lee Madera, Feb. 13, 1946, Fort Meade, Md. cHipren:
Constance Ann, Nov. 13, 1946; Wiliam Edward, May 22, 1949; Alice
Maureen, July 27, 1951; Patricia Margaret, March 23, 1955.

OccuPATION: Partner, William E. Hayes & Company, certified public ac-
countants.

[569]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

MEMBER OF: Tedesco Country Club, Marblehead; Harvard Club of North
Shore.

IN my case, graduation from college did not mean the end of one
life and the start of another; I moved across the river and continued
on at the Business School for two more years. Finally, I went to
work in Boston at public accounting. The balance of my time until
1942 was spent playing golf, traveling and attending friends’ wed-
dings.

The Army took over the job of directing my activities for the
next four and one-half years. I spent the first two years in various
states doing various things. The last two and one-half years were lost
on several islands in the Pacific as the company commander of a
bakery company and eventually as army quartermaster ofa particular
island.

Immediately upon my release from the service, I was married at
Fort George G. Meade in Maryland to Marjorie whom I had met
while on duty there. We now live in Marblehead with our four
children — three girls and a boy. My work is still public account-
ing —I am a partner in a Boston firm of certified public accountants.
Sports and traveling — family style, that is— constitute our major
outside activities. We're all looking forward to the Reunion.

GEORGE HAROLD HAYWARD ©

apprEss: Cornwell Beach Rd., Sands Point, Port Washington, N.Y.

BORN: Oct. 21, 1911, Brooklyn, N.Y. PARENTS: Beehard James Hayward, Nellie
Marsh.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Garden City, N.Y,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931. ,

NO questionnaire returned,

[570]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM PEACE HAZARD

   

HOME appress: P.O. Box 4174, Tucson, Ariz.
OFFICE ADvREsS: Terry Atkinson, Architect, Tucson, Ariz.
BORN: Aug. 15, 1912, Syracuse, N.Y. Parents: Isaac Peace Hazard, ’o5; Kather-

ine Munrve Burnet.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.1.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1934(35).

MarrieD: Mary Burnett Grosvenor, Sept. 14, 1935, Middletown, R.I. cHipren;
Katherine Burnet, March 28, 1937; Alice Grosvenor, April 6, 1939.

HARVARD BROTHER: Benjamin Munroe Hazard, '42.

occupation: Architectural draftsman.

OFFICES HELD: President, 1952, chairman, Schools and Scholarship Committee,

1953~5§7, Harvard Club of Southern Arizona.
MEMBER OF; American Institute of Architects; Old Pueblo Club.

PROCRASTINATION is the thief of time. ... At thirty, man
suspects himself a fool; knows it at forty and reforms his plan; at
fifty .. .” but wait! that’s four years ahead.

At college, while trying to follow President Lowell's ambitious
educational plan for me, that I learn something about everything
and everything about something, I also followed my father’s advice
(perhaps because it seemed so attractive at the time), studying what
interested me, without thought of preparation for a profession or
even a livelihood. I majored in history of architecture. I was not a
scholar, but some of what I learned from Kirsopp Lake, Kittredge,
and Kenneth Conant has stayed with me.

After marrying, the year of my graduation, I started earning a
living in a large chemical plant in Syracuse, New York, gradually
rising through the ranks, first a laborer, then a pipe-fitter second
class, next a shift repairman second class, finally a laboratory helper
until, in the wake of the 1938 hurricane, I returned to New England
to help my father operate a “peckerwood” sawmill in the hinterland

[571]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

of Rhode Island. When the windfalls were gone, I went to work
at the Electric Boat C -ompany in nearby Groton, Connecticut. The
first four all-welded submarines were then on the ways and the
almost defunct company was rapidly coming back to life. I found
in my new desk there a notebook embossed j in gold with the name
of a ‘recently departed Japanese admiral who had been invited to
watch the new techniques, Things changed considerably after
December 7, 1941.

But in July, 1942, we moved to Tucson, Arizona, for my wife’s
health. (The climate has been beneficial for her.) I pursued my
livelihood at an aircraft modification center just opened here by
Consolidated Aircraft Corporation until she was well enough for
me to feel that I could join the armed forces. I was commissioned
a lieutenant (j.g.) in the USNR and walked down our street to the
Indoctrination School at the University of Arizona.

Upon graduation, after the prescribed ninety days, I was ordered
to the School of Military Government at Princeton, perhaps _be-
cause of my Harvard background. There, in the utmost secrecy,
together w ith about three thousand other army and navy officers of
all ranks, I was intensiv ely trained for the occupation of Formosa.
After tedious months waiting for embarkation orders at the Presidio
of Monterev, a beautiful post, ic became evident that none of our
group were ever to see Taiwan. I was more fortunate than most.
I was sent on detached duty to a San Francisco shipyard which re-
paired submarines returned from combat patrol. Here at least I
got out on trial runs. And here the end of the war found me.

Back in Tucson, I built and operated a residential court and sold
steel until I decided to follow my inclination at last to become an
architect.

My eight years of apprenticeship have now been served, and I
have passed five of the seven examinations for state registration as an
architect. I hope it is true that architecture is the old man’s pro-
fession.

“At fifty chides his infamous delay, pushes his prudent purpose to
resolve...”

Here the West’s infinite spaciousness and bright sun have changed
us in sixteen years. Its climate helped my dear wife. We are a very

long way from our New England, much farther away than the map
would show.

Vacations have been spent trout fishing in the mountains of New
Mexico. Our dream is to cruise the Gulf of lower California.

[572]

-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN JOSEPH HEALEY, JR.

      

HOME aAppREss: 1801 Drakestone St., Nichols Hills, Oklahoma City, Okla.
OFFICE appRrEss: Oklahoma City Linen Service, 1717 S. Pennsylvania Ave., Okla-

homa City, Okla.
BORN: Nov. 26, 1910, Lowell, Mass. parents: John Joseph Healey, Grace D.

Cavanaugh.
PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.
MaRRIED: Elizabeth Laura Watson-Scott, May 15, 1935, Atlanta Ga. cuiLp:
Joan Weidemann, March 2, 1938 (72. Spencer Evans, July 15, 1957).

HARVARD BROTHER: William Edward Healey, ’38.
occupation: General manager, Oklahoma City Linen Service; vice-president
and director, Tulsa Linen Service; president, Jack Healey Linen Service,

Inc.
OFFICES HELD: Member, Committee of 100, Austin, Texas, 1950; co-chairman,

Oklahoma City Bond Drive, 1957.
MEMBER OF: Linen Supply Association of America; Southwestern Linen Supply

Association; various local clubs.

FIRST five years spent (wasted might be a better word) at Nash
Kelvinator in Detroit, doing everything from pushing a hand truck
to playing golf with the top brass and wishing I were somewhere
else. This wish I transformed into reality when, two weeks before
our daughter was born, all salaries at Kelvinator were cut a third.
Next came a year and a half of traveling most of the country for
the National Linen Service Corporation. While I didn’t care too
much for it at the time, I look back on this traveling job as the
. turning point of my life, It taught me salesmanship — which is an

absolute must in any successful operation, personal or otherwise. It
is my earnest conviction that no student should be awarded a degree
from any institution of higher learning until he is thoroughly
grounded in salesmanship and public speaking. I have personally
interviewed hundreds of job applicants. Their inability to express

[ 573 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

themselves clearly and their “what can you do for me?” attitude is
indicative of a complete lack of understanding of even the rankest
fundamentals of human relations. Educators, please take notice
(Harvard included).

The late great unpleasantness broke up the National Linen idyll
and your correspondent embarked on a most undistinguished “war”
career, which included submarine patrol off Cape Hatteras, teach-
ing aerodynamics at Furman University in Greenville, South Caro-
lina, and a stint for the Civil Aeronautics Administration.

In 1946, we started a linen service business in Austin, Texas. It
grew and we prospered; but more important, we had found a
wonderful town, great friends, great fun. Unfortunately, by 1951,
our growth had exceeded our capacity to expand; so we sold the
plant, left Texas and invaded Oklahoma. Here we manage to keep
in touch with the rest of the world by frequent trips east.

After graduating from Mount Vernon Seminary in Washington,
D.C., our daughter Joan married a boy from Maine. In due time
we became grandparents — which is a wonderful excuse to head
east at the drop of a plane ticket. Betty and I have finally discovered
Long Island Sound. Last summer we sailed the Montauk-Block

Island-Newport area and had the time of our lives. If any of you
spot a dismasted sloop in the Sound next summer, please don’t
embarrass us by calling the Coast Guard: we'll get it in somehow.

We've had a grand time. I've been very lucky and am very grate-
ful. What more could a fellow want than a very happy marriage,
a fair share of the world’s goodies and some proven loyal friends?

GORDON RICHARDSON HEATH

 

HOME aAbpreEss:; P.O, Box 300 D, Route 5, Vienna, Va,

[ 574 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BoRN: May 12, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: George Edwin Heath, Marion
Richardson.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932. DEGREE: S.B. IN FORESTRY (Univ. of Maine), 1936.

marrieD: Marion J. Woodman, June 9, 1936, New Sharon, Maine. cHILpREN:
Joan Ellen, Oct. 27, 1950; George Edwin, 3d, June 3, 1952; Julia Ann,
Sept. 21, 1954.

oocupaTIon: Intelligence officer.

MEMBER OF: Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity; American Society of Photogram-
metry.

pusLicaTions: “An Associative Method of Regional Photo Interpretation,”
Photogrammetric Engineering, Sept., 1955; “A Comparison of Two Basic
Theories of Land Classification and Their Adaptability to Regional Photo
Interpretation Key Techniques,” Photogrammetric Engineering, March,
1956; “Correlations Between Man’s Activity and His Environment Which
May be Analyzed by Photo Interpretation,” Photogranmetric Engineering,
March, 1957.

I GRADUATED from the University of Maine with an S.B. in
forestry in 1936. I joined the U.S. Forest Service in 1937 and
worked in the CCC program until 1941, when I went with the
National Forest Administration as a ranger, serving until 1952 in the
national forests of Arizona and New Mexico. I volunteered for
the U.S. Marine Corps as a private in 1943 and was discharged as
a second lieutenant in 1946 after serving in the Okinawa Campaign.
Since 1952, I have been in intelligence work in Washington, D.C.

MELVILLE FRENCH HEATH, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 34 Atlantic Ave., Cohasset, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Casualty Insurance Co., 50 Congress St., Boston
g, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 10, 1910, Worcester, Mass. PARENTS: Melville French Heath, Emily

L. Sparrell.
[575]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Priscilla Washburn Somes, Oct. 1, 1938, Shirley Center, Mass. cup:
John Somes Hardy (stepson), April 16, 1935 (m2. Elizabeth A. An-
derson, Aug. 1, 1956). GRANDCHILD: Robert Anderson Hardy, Sept. 15,
1957-

HARVARD BROTHER: Milan Austin Heath, 733.

OCCUPATION: Secretary and assistant treasurer, Massachusetts Casualty Insurance
Company, accident and health insurance.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Varsity Club; Cohasset Golf
Club; Cohasset Yacht Club.

LETTERS— postcards—phone call—all proclaiming our Twenty-
fifth! It doesn’t seem possible that way back in the fall of ’34 I
joined my father and brother Jock, Class of 733, in the insurance
business. Golf was still our hobby and a few honors were gained
locally both individually and as partners. Marriage (to a daughter
of Harvard ’o8) came in the wake of the devastating hurricane of
'38 and housekeeping was begun back in good old “Cambridge in
1939.

Our peaceful though somewhat struggling existence there was
quickly. interrupted in the summer of ’41 when my Naval ROTC
commission dumped us in Jacksonville, along with Classmate Bob
Winslow and several other Harvard men from later classes. The
pomp and ceremony at this Air Station soon gave way to a hurriedly
organized Section Base in Savannah from whence I later set forth
as Exec and eventually skipper aboard a fleet minesweeper. Our
first class bos’n chanced to be one of the few survivors of Ted
Crocker’s ill-fated ship. After a few Atlantic convoys, I found
myself back on shore in Virginia Beach, never having swept a mine.

"The vastness of naval operations in and around Norfolk brought
many new friends as well as the opportunity to renew old Bostonian
friendships. Decommissioning of the Minecraft Training Center in
Little Creek, Virginia, put me on terminal leave in September 745
and back in Boston to the insurance business and house-hunting.
After the enjoyment of coastal living during the war, Cohasset
provided a logical place to settle. An attempt was made to regain
the old golfing touch, but after capturing two or three club
championships, other interests in fishing and sailing our 25-foot
auxiliary sloop consumed the necessary time for serious golf.

Looking back over the past years, life has been good to us. Our

insurance company has grown slowly but steadily, marred only by
my oldest brother Gordon’s recent untimely death. Soon the

[ 576 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

younger generation will be able to help out. Much of our free time
is spent hunting and fishing, cruising the Maine Coast with friends
and making occasional short jumps on holiday weekends to Nan-
tucket and Buzzards Bay. Golf is now limited to a few holes on
week-day evenings plus two or three sociable weekend tournaments.
We would have “liked a larger family. However, my stepson has
made us proud grandparents (Harvard ’78) and a second is due at
Reunion time. Looking forward to seeing you all there.

RICHARD BIGELOW HEATH

aE RENT EEETY
wos,
J

  

HOME ADDRESS: 334 Adams St., Milton, Mass.

OFFICE appRrEss: Maverick Mills, 89 Broad St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: March 12, 1912, Brookline, Mass. parents: Reginald Cary Heath, ’oo,
Dorothea Bigelow.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934, - DEGREE: A.B. 1934.

MARRIED: Nancy Foss, Oct. 18, 1940, Milton, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Purchasing agent and cotton buyer; cotton textile manufacturing.

MEMBER OF: Northern Textile Association; Textile Club; Weavers Guild of
Boston; Society of Colonial Wars; Beverly Yacht Club; Veteran Motor
Car Club of America (founder member).

WRITING this report for the Twenty-fifth i is like coming to Judg-
ment Day at the three-quarter mark. If you're behind, there is barely
time to catch up; if you’re ahead, you'll have to use all your talents
to stay ahead. Only Harvard College could drive us to do this: re-
view the past, view the present, and examine the future. Why, it is
more than the preacher, the family or the boss ever made us accom-
plish.

Three years in the theatre, four years in commercial real estate,
marriage, and war record: these are all statistics recorded in previous

[577]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Reports. But somehow the emphasis has changed. Instead of being
backstage, it is much nicer now to be in the audience; instead of
having that cotton wool feeling during a war maneuver, it is much
better to sit back and talk about it in the safety of your home.

I am very happily married, have a good job, and live in a house
with too much land. The too much land means too much running
around taking care, The job of cotton buying is interesting. Every
lot of cotton is different, so no two days in business are the same.
Cotton buying takes me to West Texas and California each fall and
four or five trips are made to the mill in South Carolina each year.

In summer we sail our small boat. Nancy’s hobby 1S antiques;
mine is handweaving.

And as for the future? Much more of the same — a few fears and
much hope with the hope beating the fears three to one.

RODMAN ARTURO HEEREN

 

HOME apprEss: 17 E. goth St., New York, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % John Wanamaker, 44 rue des Petites Ecuries, Paris, France.

BORN: Aug 1, 1910, Paris, France. parents: Arturo Heeren, Fernanda Wana-
maker.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.L.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

MARRIED: Aimee Sottomaior, Feb. 17, 1941, Washington, D.C. cup: Cristina,
March 1, 1943.

OccuPATION: Advisory retail buyer, foreign office of John Wanamaker, Philadel-
phia, Pa.

MEMBER OF: Racquet and Tennis Club, New York; British-American Club
Biarritz, France.

LIFE is split between New York and Europe, mostly France, after
five years of Army service in World War II. I am afraid I have

[578]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

nothing of sensational interest to report. Life has been pleasant.
I am interested in sports, participate mildly in a few, and am SOrTy
to have lost contact with many Harvard friends.

JOHN LIONEL HELMUTH

 

HOME ApprEss: 27 Leonard Ave., Tenafly, N.J.
OFFICE apDREsS: Chemical Corn Exchange Bank, 30 Broad St., New York, N.Y.
BORN: March 29, 1913, New York, N.Y. PARENTs: John Helmuth, Beatrice

Barrett.

PREPARED aT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.

Marriep: Shirley Centner, Jan. 16, 1949, New York, N.Y. cHttpren: Robert
David, Dec. 7, 1949; Richard Alan, July 5, 1954.

OccUPATION: Transportation security analyst, Chemical Corn Exchange Bank.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Security Analysts Society of New
York; Transportation Association of America, Investor Panel.

THE 1934 Class Album had me accurately tagged “intended voca-
tion — banking.” After an all too brief summer swing through
Europe I returned to face up with the depression, landing eventually
in the clutches of a major New York City bank. Commercial bank-
ing proved a dull affair, at least the portion of it with which | was
identified — auditing. But a postwar shift brought me into the
investment division where for the past several years I’ve held forth
as transportation industries analyst. Nothing could be more fasci-
nating, particularly for one who loves to travel — even vicariously.

Music (violin) and meteorology absorb most of those few fleeting
moments of spare time, if you want to exclude backyard green-
thumbery. My mainstays outdoors have been skiing and swimming.
The latter in recent years has led to a keen interest in malacology.

[579]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

I have a field day, of course, vacationing along the Bahamian,
Floridian and New England littoral.

In retrospect, how the passage of time has telescoped the early
1940's into our “golden haze of student days.” In my case, the link
between military service and life at Harvard was even closer. I re-
turned to the banks of the Charles in March of 1943, to receive my
Army Air Force commission from statistical O.C.S., which was
housed at the “B” School. Following two and a half busy, but sur-
prisingly pleasant, years at Kearney (Nebraska) Air Base, whose
mission was processing B-17, then B-29 craft and crews, I landed at
Bolling Field, Washington, D.C. My assignment here was “Sunset
Project” — liaison on separations control for the Second Air Force.

My postwar marriage has unfolded a happy way of life, accented
by ’49 and ’54 vintage boys whom I fervently hope to park some-
where during next June’s festivities. See you then!

ROBERT LLOYD HENDERSON

SIRCERTIS SERRE WHR

 

HOME AppRESS: 40 Singletree Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: James D. Henderson & Son, Inc., 1 Court St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 21, 1912, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: James Dougald Henderson,
Gwendolyn Bell.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1934(35).

MARRIED: Mary Fuller, Sept. 7, 1940, Rye Beach, N.H. cnitpren: Judith Bell,
Dec. 8, 1948; James Dougald, 2d, July 27, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Real estate; president, James D. Henderson & Son, Inc., Henderson
& Ross, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Various offices, National Association of Realtors, since 19343
director, Coolidge Corner Cooperative Bank, 1934-37, Brookline Federal

Savings & Loan Association, 1937-40; president, RONS, 1947; member,
Republican State Finance Committee, since 1952; trustee, Rivers Country

[ 580 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Day School, since 1957; member, Board of Vestry, Church of the Redeemer,
since 1957; Chairman, Brookline Republican Finance Committee, 1958.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Boston Skating Club, Wianno Yacht

Club; Oyster Harbors Club; Beth-Horon Lodge, A.F. & A.M.

I HAVE discovered that writing an autobiography is, for me, a les-
son in humility. The quarter-century which stretched into the
limitless future in 1934 has shrunk into a single “yesterday” with
no monument to mark the passage of time.

The transition from cap and gown to the family real estate busi-
ness required three miles of travel and twenty minutes of time, and
I have been at it ever since, with the exception of the war years.
It is, fortunately, an interesting business, concerned with the ap-
praisal of real estate, the analysis of real estate problems and the
development of industrial and commercial areas throughout New
England and beyond. Foreign sales are now entering the picture,
with increased excuse for traveling.

The young lady of whom I had long been enamored said “yes”
in 1940 and we spent the next few years saying “hello” and “good-
bye” at airports and rail terminals and occasionally spending some
time together at a submarine base or naval station in accommodations
that varied from “adequate” to “comfortable.”

Under the circumstances, all of this was a logical development
of the Naval ROTC at Harvard and six years as an active reservist,
the rewards for which were an early call to active duty and un-
comfortable patrol work in the Atlantic, before I was given my
first command. This, incidentally, nearly scared me to death and
I was convinced, for a time, that I would rather face an enemy in
mortal combat, than bring my ship into a landing at the Navy Yard,
in a manner somewhat less than graceful and seamanlike.

After the war, we built a new home in Chestnut Hill, just outside
of Boston and along came Judy and Jamie to help us fill it. Judy is
ten now and Jamie is five, and in common with other fathers, I
pray they will live in a world of peace.

We have a boat, a horse and a dog to liven our summers on Cape
Cod and manage to slip off each year, for a “husband and wife”
trip, which always ends up by wishing that the children were with
us,

I am an experienced but reluctant beggar for the Community
Fund, the Red Cross, the Republican Party, etc., and reached the
zenith of my political career by driving Candidate Eisenhower
through Harvard Square in the 1952 campaign. We were mobbed

[ 581 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

for three-quarters of an hour, in front of Wadsworth ELouse, and he
went on to be president, while I had a whopping bill for damages
to the car. All things considered, [ think T got the better of the
bargain.

We collect books as a hobby and enjoy gardening, fishing, pho-
tography and travel. While pursuing this last hobby, we honey-
mooned in Mexico during a small revolution and flew out of Cairo,
Fevpt, years later when Nasser was consolidating his position with
gun-fre. However, the rest of our travels have been peaceful and
have brought us into some strange and wonderful parts of the
world, where we have met some strange and wonderful people, not
all of whom share our love of the U.S.A.

I am not qualified to philosophize on the past or forecast the fu-
ture, nor am I in a mood to make the attempt. I am thankful for
what I have, will fight to hang on to it and pray that the future holds
peace, prosperity and health for all of us.

WILLIAM FRANCIS HENDERSON

 

HOME appkess: 25 FE. New Lenox Rd., Pittsfield, Mass.
OFFICE AvpRESS: Henderson & Brennan, Attys., 74 North St., Pittsfield, Mass.

porS: March 1, 1912, Picesficld, Mass. parents: William Patrick Henderson,
Sarah A. McMahon.

PREPARED AT: Pittsfield High School, Pittsfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934; LL.B. 1937.

Manta: Dorothy Maskell, May 13, 940, Pittsficld, Mass. critpreN: Betty Ann,
Sept. 26, 1942, Martha L., Nov. 23, 1946.

OcoUPATION: Attorney,

orrices HELD: Member, U.S. Army, October, 1943-February, 1946,

[ 582 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BURTON HENRY

 

HOME appress: 411 Mesa Lila Rd., Glendale 8, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Los Angeles State College, 5151 Murphy St., Los Angeles 32,

Calif,

BORN: May 24, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: Jacob Tarplin, Hannah Isenberg.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1934; EDM.
(Univ. of Southern California), 1945; Pu.p. (ibid.), 1948.

MarRigeD: Lucille Burgess, Aug. 2, 1941, Carson City, Nev. caipren: Eileen
Ruth, Oct. 19, 1942; Tom Burton, July 23, 1945; Suzanne Louise, Jan. 31,
1956.

occuPATION: Professor of education, Los Angeles State College.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Education Committee, since 1954, vice-chairman, Los
Angeles County Conference on Community Relations; president, College
Chapter, American Association of University Professors, 1958-59.

MEMBER oF: American Civil Liberties Union; United World Federalists;
American Association of University Professors; National Education As-
sociation; American Psychological Association; California State Employees
Association, Association of California State College Instructors; Phi Beta
Kappa; Phi Kappa Phi, Phi Delta Kappa; Sierra Club.

IT took me three years from my commencement (one of which was
spent at the Yale University School of the Drama and the rest clerk-
ing in Hollywood motion picture studios) to get a faint insight into
the kind of life that I really wanted to live. This life was found in
the field of education.

I had five full years of stimulating, exciting experiences teaching
social studies and English, and counseling at Burbank Senior High
School; and I learned to respect and admire the potential of American
youth. I would have been willing to spend the rest of my life in a
high school classroom but for a sudden realization — the overwhelm-
ing necessity for a teacher-education program which would keep
pace with the changing needs of students in a democracy. This

[ 583 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

realization hit me full force when, as president of my local ci
Teachers’ Association and delegate to the National Education Con-
vention in Indianapolis in 1943, Eran into Jim Crow treatment of a
Negro fcllow-teacher. I proposed a new by-law, that the N.E.A.
hold its conventions only in those citics where it could provide
equal accommodations for all. its delegates, regardless of race. It
finally passed, but only after vociferous disagreement from about
fifty per cent of the representatives of the teaching g profession of this
country. And my naive assumption had been that this was a pro-
pesal which teachers would hasten to support, if only out of respect
for their profession! After the war, my conviction that teacher-
training needed much more emphasis in the area of intercultural
education was strengthened by the findings of my doctoral dis-
sertation at the Unix ersity of Southern California. Thus did my
life become focused upon facilitating the growth of teachers in the
area of human relations.

I started as assistant professor of psychology at San José State
College in California, fought there for the abolition of discrimina-
tory clauses in on-campus organizations (and was fired by the presi-
dent for being too interested in sociology!); became Dean of Men
and of Guidance at Humboldt State College; and since 1952, have
been professor of education at Los Angeles State College. One
month in every summer, I devote to directing the Intercultural
Education Workshop at the University of New Mexico. At home,
1 am vice-chairman of the Los Angeles County Conference on Com-
munity Relations and chairman of its Education Committee. This
is a unique civic organization which coordinates the activities of
about sixty member agencies, and is dedicated to wiping away the
man-made barriers which exist between groups. We believe that it
has done a great deal to keep this most rapidly expanding county
from exploding with intergroup tensions. Naturally, I am proud to
have received, last June, a Citation of Outstanding Service awarded
“In recognition of devoted effort and distinguished achievements,
dedicated to the advance of Democracy, the improvement of human
relations and the furtherance of unity in our community. ” It seems

to me that this is where world peace must have its roots — in the
hearts of men in their homes and in their communities.

Of course, college teaching has enabled my family and me to live
the kind of pantheistic outdoor life we like. We have toured and
camped and climbed throughout the forty-cight states, Mexico and
Canada. We have shot the rapids on the Green River, floated down

[ 584 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the calm Glen Canyon of Colorado on our own raft, discovered
Rainbow Natural Bridge for ourselves, explored the Four Corners
country, pushed our burros to the top of Mount Whitney and along
the John Muir trail of the High Sierra; and now with our little
outboard cabin cruiser, we are having another life, deep-sea fishing,
skiing, and cruising the San Juan Islands. We have done it all as a

family.

CARL HENRY

 

HOME apprEss: % Ellis & Co., Dixie Terminal Bldg., Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Lucky Stride Shoes, Inc., 322 Union St., Mavsville, Ky.

BORN: May 7, 1913, Cincinnati, Ohio. PARENTs: August Levy, Clara Hutten-
bauer.

PREPARED AT: University School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B, magna cum laude, 1934.

MarriED: Edith Entratter, Dec. 25, 1941, New York, N.Y. cyto: Diana Mara,
June 20, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Manufacturer of women’s and children’s shoes.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Harvard Club of Cincinnati.

HAVING had insufficient time in the past twenty-five years for
too many of the important things to hear, read and see in this
wonderful world, I assume that my classmates, like myself, will
not be interested in the minutiae of my existence. For me, “the
past (twenty-five years) is prologue.” Having reached a certain
financial position in life, whatever that means, I look forward tro
semi-retirement in the next tw enty-five years, most probably in
Rome, Italy, where we have taken an apartment, and where I shall
resume the too-long interrupted education barely started at Harvard.
Classmates are urged to check with the American Express in Rome
for my current address, so that we may renew old acquaintances

[ 585 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

and bask a while together in the sunshine of the eternal truths before
our little lights are extinguished between two eternities.
On Mav 1, 1946, Edith and I established Lucky Stride Shoes,

Inc., in Maysville, Kentucky, of which we have been owners and
principal officers for the past twelve years.

GORDON PLATT HENTZ.

 

HOME AppRESS: Seal Cove Lane, Hingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New England Confectionery Co., 254 Massachusetts Ave.
Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 3, 1912, Jersey Shore, Pa.
Amy Blessing Zettle.

PREPARED AT: Bennett High School, Buffalo, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. 1934.

MARRIED: Frances Elizabeth West, May 22, 1937, Woburn, Mass. CHILDREN:
James Morgan, Nov. 24, 19423; Jane Isabel, March 14, 1947.

occupation: Director of marketing, New England Confectionery Company,
manufacturer of “Necco,” “Candy Cupboard” and private brand products.

TEN years peddling power for Niagara-Hudson in western New
York; two years South Pacific communicating for the Navy; twelve
years postwar sales management in major appliances (most recently
three years with RCA as director of marketing for their appliance
division in Cincinnati, three years with Borg-Warner as eastern
sales manager for their Norge Division), sum up a twenty-four-year
“Life of a Salesman.” This, my Twenty-fifth, is memorable in that
I elected to get into an entirely new business (recommended for
staying young — provided, of course, you live through it).

One of the outstanding by-products of this new job is a long-
looked-for opportunity to have more time with my family and to
live in a house by the sea. Sailing, fishing, water-skiing and swimming

[ 586 ]

parents: Albert Gordon Hentz, ’o9,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

rovide wonderful diversion for everyone in the summer. Jim and
I will soon be hunting duck in the harbor. There will be skating in
a pond nearby, Sunday morning walks or skis around nearby
“World’s End” — these are some of the things which make New
England a delightful place to raise a family.

ISADORE HERMAN

 

HOME ApbrEsS: 119 Quincy St., Passaic, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 201 Lexington Ave., Passaic, N_J.

BORN: Nov. 1, 1913, WVama, Rumania, parents: Leon Herman, Rosa Feld-
hammer.

PREPARED at: Passaic High School, Passaic, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: a.B., cust laude, 1934; M.D. (New York
Univ.), 1939.

UN MARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HE!D: Director, Visiting Nurses Association, since 1952; member, since
1954, president, 1957-58, board of managers, Passaic County Valley View
Hospital; member, executive committee, National Foundation for In-
fantile Paralysis, Passaic County.

MEMBER oF: American College of Physicians; American Board of Internal
Medicine (diplomate); New Jersey Chapter, American Society of In-
ternal Medicine; American Medical Association; American Heart Associa-
tion; 1.O.O.F. No, 215; B'nai B'rith; YMHA.

MEDICINE was my chosen profession even as a child, and after
graduation I entered the New York University College of Medicine
from w hich I received a medical degree. The next three years were
spent in an internship at the Beth Israel Hospital in New York City,
and at the end of this time I was prepared to enter residency train-
ing in internal medicine. Uncle Sam, however, had different plans
for me and I next found myself in uniform and for two years travel-

[ 587 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ing across the country to various army camps. My only link to
medicine came with sick call in the morning; the rest of the time
was spent in marching, drilling, inspecting kitchens and latrines. A
pleasant few months at the Army Walter Reed Hospital in Wash-
ington, D.C., in 1943 were followed by orders. to the Southwest
Pacific. The ensuing two years of combat, jungles, insects, heat and
boredom couldn’t pass quickly enough. My four-year stint in
service could hardly be construed as helpful in the practice of in-
ternal medicine, and before I would dare to expose the unknown
public to my care, | took a refresher residency for a year and a half
and finally opened my office in 1947.

At this writing, the war years seem remote. Whatever ill feclings
I may have nurtured because of the war's sacrifices in life, personal
comfort and gains, time has tempered. But the future again looks
ominous. I can’t help but fear that our generation may have to suffer
through another holocaust, the destructive potentiality of which
defies description.

Medicine is a hard and selfish task-master, and occupies almost
all my time. The personal satisfaction in helping people, prolonging
a life, can’t be put into words. Too often, however, it is also a
very humbling master, and will jolt us out of our complacent self-
satisfaction with the realization of how little knowledge we possess.
The last decade has seen a break-through in the iron curtain sur-
rounding the secrets of our greatest killers, but ever so much more
could and would be done if life and health were not considered among
the cheapest commodities of our economy.

The little free time that I have I devote to golf, reading, the
theatre and TV. Of course I’m still searching for a wife, for as
you see from my biographical sketch I’m still enjoying (?) the state
of bachelorhood. Three years ago I got as far as getting engaged,
but it didn’t take. Hope springs eternal, they say, and I haven't
given up. Participation in civic affairs is slanted toward the care of
the indigent aged, in my capacity as a director in the county hos-
pital and local Visiting Nurses Association.

My political convictions remain unchanged. The Democrats, I
believe, offer the better program for dealing with home and foreign
problems, and certainly are more concerned with the welfare of the
little man, the group with which I must identify myself,

It is difficult to realize that statistically my life is almost two-
thirds over. I’ve enjoyed good health, added some needless pounds
where they show the most, watched the hairline recede and the

[ 588 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

grey creep in. I can’t say that I’ve set any world on fire, but in my
own little world I hold a respected position, have many friends,
have been of aid to the sick and poor — and who could ask for more?

+ PARMELY WEBB HERRICK —

 

BORN: Nov. 9, 1910, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Parmely Webb Herrick, ‘oq,

Agnes Blackwell.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Concord, N.EL.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1034.

MARRIED: Katharine Peabody Gardner, Aug. 17, 1934, Boston, Mass. cHILpREN:
Myron Timothy, May 25, 1935 (died Jan. 3, 1956); George Gardner,
April 8, 1938; Anita Grosvenor, Sept. 21, 1945.

piep: March 12, 1957, Paris, France.

wipow: Mrs. Parmely W. Herrick, 51 Rue de la Faisandcric, Paris XVI,

France.

PARMELY WEBB HERRICK graduated from Harvard with our
Class. He was the grandson of Myron T. Herrick, former ambassa-
dor to France. After graduation Herrick entered the manufacturing
ficld and was associated successively with Union Carbide Corpora-
tion, the Wilson Jones Company in Elizabeth, New Jersey, and the
Standard Dairy Company in Cambridge, Massachusetts. From 1942
to 1946 he worked for the Special War Problems Division of the
State Department, making three trips abroad on the S.S. Grispholm
in prisoner of war exchanges. Since 1952 he had lived in Paris where
he was assistant manager of the Paris branch of the Chase Manhattan
Bank. He was survived by his wife and two children, George Gard-
ner, Harvard ’60, and Anita Grosvenor, Herrick’s son, Myron Tim-
othy, who died in 1956, was a member of the Class of 1957 at Har-

vard.

[ 589 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

FREDERIC HERTZMARK

 

4OME appress: 361 Blue Hills Pkwy., Milton 87, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1246 Blue Hill Ave., Mattapan 26, Mass.

oxx: March 10, 1913, Springfield, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Hertzmark, Esther
Fanny Bardach.

rePareD at: Classical High School, Springfield, Mass.

FARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-32, 1933-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 1934(35); M.D. CUniv. of
Buffalo), 1939.

arrigp: Shirley Faber, Oct. 29, 1944, Boston, Mass. cHttpreN: Louise Ellen,
April 21, 1946; Donald Ian, Feb. 27, 1949.

CUPATION: Physician in private practice of pediatrics and pediatric allergy.

EMBER OF: Alpha Omega Alpha; Gibson Anatomical Society; American
Academy of Pediatrics; American Academy of Allergy, New England
Pediatric Society; New England Allergy Society, American Medical As-

sociation.

RADUATING from college in 1935, after being out of school one
ar, I went to medical school at the University of Buffalo, gradu-
ng in 1939. Then I went into Lincoln Hospital in New York City,
intern and pediatric house officer. In June, 1941, I was called to
ive service as a reserve officer. In July I was teaching scouting

1 patrolling at Camp Shelby, Mississippi. The year 1942 saw the
t of a 57-day ocean voyage to Karachi aboard the USS Brazil.
¢ deluxe cruise featured a stop at Freetown on the west coast of
‘ica. While we were in this harbor, there arrived a convoy of
nty-seven of the largest British Empire passenger ships, Ev-
sses, Queens, etc. a truly magnificent and hopeful sight in early
2, Later features were three days in beautiful Capetown and seven
estful Port Elizabeth. The next two years were divided between
vitals near Karachi and, over the Hump, Kunming, China. These
cities offered strange wonders in a never-ending flow. In April,
1, 1 returned to the United States as a patient and continued serv-

L 590 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ice until March, 1946, when I returned to hospital residence and

graduate course to finish my training in pediatrics. In 1948 I started

practising pediatrics in Boston, with the sub-specialty of pediatric
allergy, and have pursued this vocation happily ever since.

It still seems unbelievable to me that I have had such a happy
family life, starting with a perfect spouse, not only most attractive,
but warmly understanding and forbearing. Great joy in my children
resides in my image of one as a beautiful intellectual, and the other as
an athlete with intellectual curiosity.

Like many boys of that time I was given violin lessons, but
neither practised sufficiently nor had enough talent to play well.
There remained, however, an interest in music which has been
permanent and satisfying, although knowledge has not always been
as strong as interest. In 1930, it was my poor thought that the Radio
City Music Hall orchestra was a great musical aggregation. How-
ever, in 1934, I was sitting in the music room of Lowell House com-
paring the performance of Beethoven’s “Seventh Symphony” I had
just heard in Sanders Theatre and the recording from the House
Library with the score. In 1943 I was playing records which had
been buried for a year in the mud of Assam, on a hand-wind table

model victrola which antedated the merger of RCA and Victor
(about 1927). Since then physical factors forcing me to give up
tennis and then golf have resulted in my spending more time with
music, listening, that is. The equipment used has made the usual
progression from a triple combination television-radio-phonograph
to a console phonograph, The Magnificent Rumblebox, to reasonably
decent components.

A newer interest has been in art, looking and acquiring. At
present, this “collection” consists of one pastel, two water-colors,
two woodcuts, two aquachromes and one mosaic. It is obvious that
my ambition in this field is to own an oil painting. This almost came
to pass in 1958, but cold feet and calmer heads prevailed. Well,
there is always next year. Eddie Robinson, watch out!

[591]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ROBERT EDWIN HICKEY

 

HOME ADpRESS: The Village Inn, Yarrnouth Port, Mass.
IFFICE ADDRESS: Chatham Furniture Store, Chatham, Mass.

3oRN: Aug. 3, 1911, Brookline, Mass. parents: Alfred A. Hickey, Margaret
McCauley.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass., New Preparatory
School, Cambridge, Nass.

"EARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREES: S.B., 1934; M.B.A., 1936.

aarRiED: Esther Ridley Mandeville, June 6, 1944, St. Petersburg, Fla. CHILDREN:
Robert Edwin, Jr., Dec. 4, 1950; Malcolm King, Nov. 12, 1954.

CCUPATION: Sales manager, retail-contract furniture store.

FFICES HELD: Lieutenant colonel, squadron commander, U.S. Air Force Re-
serve, since 1958.

[EMBER OF: Reserve Officers Association; Southeastern New England Chapter,
Mariners Lodge, AF. & A.M., Cotuit, Mass.

{OST of us probably have to work for a living. However, an
teresting discussion on this subject in Honolulu during a wartime
opover established that the best compromise with this necessity
-emed to be the resort business. This was, of course, a group
imittedly biased by two years of war and undoubtedly influenced
y the location. The consensus was that three months’ vacation at
ie end of each bout to recover for the next would be ideal. My
xn personal idea was to retire to Cape Cod, which was something
had had in mind ever since first seeing it while at Harvard. So we
e on the Cape —and all of these plans are farther in the future
an they were when we came here six years ago. During that time
have found it easily possible to work harder, make less money,
d have more fun (satisfaction? ) on the Cape than any other place
have seen. The path to this satisfying discovery has been a bit
‘v10US.

After graduating from college (major: electrical engincering), I

[ 592 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

found that engineers were not in as much demand then as they are
now, so spent two more years at the Business School, hoping that
the engineering situation would improve during the two years and
I could combine engineering and administration when I graduated.
That was my last contact “with engineering until an enterprising
personnel officer dug into my records during the war. At the Busi-
ness School my field was retail distribution, and I went into de-
partment store work with Wm. Filene’s Sons Company in Boston,
until I received my greetings from selective service. During this
time at Filene’s I worked as stock boy, merchandise clerical, and
up to staff assistant to one of the merchandise managers.

In 1941, while a private in the Air Corps, I learned that the Signal
Corps was offering commissions to those with electronic or com-
munications training. Understandably, to a private, this sounded
like a good deal, and it turned out to be just that. I spent parts of
the first two years of the war in England and Scotland with the
Royal Air Force; later returned to the United States to teach the
then-new equipment, radar, While doing this in Florida, I met my
wife who was a research chemist for a citrus company. We were
fortunate to be together for the remainder of my service except for
a few months’ period after the war when I was in charge of all
Air Force communications maintenance at the atomic bomb tests at
Bikini and Kwajalein.

Returning to civilian life in 1947, I also returned to retailing and
department stores, after a brief survey of the local commercial
electronic field. At that time, all of the companies were living on
government contracts, and with postwar cutbacks were wondering
where their next payrolls were coming from. However, people were
still buying things in stores, so I went to work for a small family-
owned store in Salem, where I would be in complete charge of my
whole operation. With business school training and Filene experi-
ence the future there looked good. The plans of the management
were the same as mine: the top merchandising spot. Unfortunately,
in 1951 the store was sold to a chain-store operation and the manage-
ment and I no longer saw eye to eye.

The owner of a retail-wholesale business on Cape Cod learned
of my availability as manager of the business and persuaded me that
the Cape was the place to live. This was an office equipment busi-
ness, and although I am no longer with him, I should thank him for
this persuasion, even though I was already 90% convinced. We
made the move. Finding a place to live, however, was much harder

[ 593 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

than making the decision. Everything was either too large and too
expensive to put in year-round livable condition or too small and
too expensive. We solved this by buying a place much larger than
anything we had looked at — an old sea captain’ s house turned into
an inn. We continue to operate it as an inn during the season, and
love it.

The combination of this and my present position as sales manager
of a furniture store keeps me busier than I ever expected to be on
the Cape, although I must say that by far the largest part of the inn-
keeping 1 is done “by my wife. My contribution is handy-man and
maintenance expert (?) in the winter and behind the scenes paper
work in summer. We both look forward to it, though, every spring.
One of the advantages of the Cape is that it isn’t in the middle of
the hustle and bustle of the mainland. At least, we think of this as
an advantage. While this is fine for visitors, it can also produce an
anticipation, at the end of the winter, of voices from the outside,
coming from all over the country and from other countries. We
like to talk with them as the friends they soon become, and have re-
sisted the attempts many have made for us to enlarge the house.
It is already much too large for us in the winter, and just right for
the personal way we want to run it in the summer.

My ° “vacations” for the past few years have been short tours of
active duty in my Air Force Reserve mobilization assignment, and
at various Air Force schools. Fortunately, I can do this ‘ “off season.”
As commander of a reserve squadron with headquarters in New
Bedford, a good part of my evening time is spent on Air Force Re-
serve activities. So you can see that contrary to an idea widely held
by summer visitors, there is something to do on the Cape all year.
I sometimes wish that there were less. Sometimes, but not often.

Church, yes, but only when someone is staying at the inn, When
someone is here I go with the elder boy. When the house is empty,
I house-sit and baby-sit with the younger one. With the late start
on children, the younger one is too young for church.

ROBERT GRAVES HIDEN

LAST KNOWN appress: 2426 Hegrietta Rd., Birmingham, Ala.

BorN: Aug. 31, 1909, Birmingham, Alg. parents: Robert Graves Hiden, Anne
Earle.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

HIDEN has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since 1952.

[ §94 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+: JOHN THOMAS HIGGINS

 

BoRN: May 14, 1913, Pawtucket, RI. parents: James Henry Higgins, Ellen

Maguire.
PREPARED AT: Moses Brown School, Providence, R.I.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B, 1934} LL.B. 1937.
pitp: Feb 1, 1938, Cambridge, Mass.

JOHN THOMAS HIGGINS graduated from Harvard with our
Class and from the Law School in 1937. While at college he was a
inember of the Debating Council and the Hasty Pudding-Institute
of 1770. At the time of his death he was taking a special law course.

a

+ CHARLES EDWARD HILL

   

hb

BORN: Aug. 31, 1912, Brookline, Mass. parents: Edward Marcy Hill, Nellie

Paine.
PREPARED AT; Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.
piED: Sept. 25, 1939, Brookline, Mass.

[ 595 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934
CHARLES EDWARD HILL spent only the freshman year with

our Class. The Secretary has no information concerning his activities
after he left college.

RICHARD THOMPSON HILL

 

LAST KNOWN AbpRESS: 424 Book Bldg., Detroit, Mich.

BORN: Jan. 12, 1912, Melrose, Mass. parents: Arthur Hill, Sarah Howie.
PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Mclrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933, 1934-1935.

HILL has been carried as a “Jost” man on our records since 19§4-

RICHARD MAY HINCHMAN

 

=
j~

 

HOME aApbRESS: Boston Road, Groton, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Harvard University, 10 Divinity Ave., Cambridge 38, Mass.

BORN: May 1, 1912, Groton, Mass. PARENTS: Walter Swain Hinchman, ’o1,
Julia Henderson.

PREPARED aT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

[ 596 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. 1934(35).

marriep: Phyllis Wrightson Peacock, Oct. 3, 1936, Hudson, N.H. cHipren:
Walter Peacock, July 2, 1937; Lydia Martha, July 20, 1946.

HARVARD SON: Walter Peacock Hinchman, "59.

OCCUPATION: FEdueational administration; administrative assistant, Office for
Research Contracts, Harvard University.

OFFICES HELD: Town Meeting member (elected), 1939-52 (Milton, Miass.);
treasurer, 1940-54, Vice-president, since 1954, Nantucket Maria Mitchell
Association; secretary -treasurer, 1951-54, Vice-president, since 1955, North-
eastern Bird-Banding Association,

MpMBER OF: American Ornithologists’ Union; Cooper Ornithological Society;
National Audubon Socicty; Massachusetts Audubon Society; Northeastern
Bird-Banding Association, Eastern Bird-Banding Association; Nuttall
Ornithological Club; Briush Trust for Ornithology; Hawk Mountain
Associauon; American Philatelic Society; American Philatelic Congress,
Nantucket: Mara Mitchell Association, National Geographic Society,
American Museum of Natural History; Groton Outing Club; Groton
Skating Club, Kobenhavns Philatelist Klub.

PUBLICATIONS: “East-West and West-East Purple Finch Recoveries,” Bird-
Banding, Il, 196, 1931; “A Few Herring Gull Recoveries,” Bird-Banding,
V, 18yf., 1934.

AFTER a variety of miscellaneous jobs (including research orni-
thologist, substitute schoolteacher, and appraisal clerk in a bank), I
worked from 1937 to 1940 as investment analyst for the Employers’
Liabiliry Assurance Corporation. From rg4o to 1942, 1 was an in-
surance broker associated with the Actna Life Insurance Company.
I spent the war years, 1942-46, as an accountant at the Harvard
Underwater Sound Laboratory. Since then I have held my present
job as administrative assistant in the Office for Research Contracts
at Harvard University.

We lived in Milton, Massachusetts, until 1956, when we moved to
an old colonial farmhouse (¢. 1750, in part) in Groton. We have a
small summer place in Greensboro, Vermont. We left suburbia with
no reluctance and find life in the country very pleasant. My wife
has kept up a part-time occupation as secretary-stenographer. My
son is attending Harvard and my daughter is at Concord Academy.
My principal hobbies are ornithology (especially bird-banding),
philately and genealogy.

[ 597 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

HERBERT WALDO HINES, JR.

 

Appress: 2504 Holmes Ave., Springfield, Ill.
Appress: Hines School of Business, 404 S. Sixth St., Springfield, Ill.

Vay 12, 1912, Chicago, Ill. parents: Herbert Waldo Hines, ’o9, Helen .
rtside.

9 at: Springfield High School, Springfield, Ill.

COLLEGE! 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

Vera Haldcen Seaton, July 24, 1943, Camp White, Oregon (divorced
'; Daisy H. Roth, Dec. 20, 1958, Sioux City, Iowa.
x: Chief of Public Information, Division of Vocational Rehabilita-
State of Illinois; owner, Hines School of Business.

tp: Director of publicity, 1938-39, secretary, 1939-42, director of

jun, 19§2-§3, Sangamon Valley Chapter of the National Association

puntants; member, board of directors, president, 1946-48, Springfield

zovernment League; member, board of governors, Young Repub-

‘ub of Sangamon County, 1949-50; member, Sangamon County

an Central Committee; member, Citizens’ Finance Committee,
publican Precinct Committeeman, 1952-54; member, Sangamon
Xent Advisory Board, 1951-53; member, Registration Files and
ction of Registration and Information, Sangamon County Civil
953-55; member, board of directors, since 1952, treasurer, 1952-
‘nt, since 1956, Springfield Goodwill Industries, Inc.; member
Committee, Harvard Club of Chicago, 1956.

‘ational Association of Accountants; Illinois Guidance and
Association; Vachel Lindsay Association, Abraham Lincoln
llowship; Harvard Club of Chicago.

arriage on December 20, 1958, life’s most absorbing

‘ivie and political affairs, church activities and earn-

- far the most absorbing of these has been earning a
d such a good time doing it in several fields,

vith a year of worthwhile experience as private
nel Stedman S$. Hanks, 12, and Mrs, Hanks, with
¢-Sea, Massachusetts, Boston and Washington,

[ 598 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

D.C., as bases of operation, followed by two years in various sec-
retarial capacities in the Engineering Division of the Works Progress
Administration, Washington, D.C. Then, in the quest for stability,
I returned to Springfield to take a job as a teacher and administrator
at Illinois Business College. That was in 1937, and here I have been
for about twenty-two years now.

Business school has continued to be my principal occupation,
but I left Illinois Business College in 1940 to launch out on my
own with the establishment of the Hines School of Business. Since
then, government, once Uncle Sam and later the State of Hlinois,
has called me to other endeavors on two occasions.

The first such occasion was the World War II draft. It resulted
in three years and three months in the Army as follows: at Camp
Roberts, California, from private in basic training and non-com-
missioned Officers School to technician grade 5, file clerking and
typing at Infantry Replacement Training Center Headquarters;
with thegist Infantry Division Headquarters as secretary to the
adjutant general, Division court reporter, and enlisted man chief
clerk (master sergeant) in the Chief of Staff’s office successively
from Camp White, Oregon, to Camp Adair, Oregon, to Hampton
Roads, Virginia, via Gibraltar to Oran and Port-aux-Poules, Algeria,
on to the Bay of Naples and from there to within twelve or fifteen
miles of Bologna, through the Arno River and Gothic Line cam-
paigns in Italy; with sth Army Headquarters in Italy, first as as-
sistant secretary to the General Staff, and then as warrant officer
administrative assistant to the Commanding General, Lucian K.
Truscott, Jr., through the North Apennines and Po Valley cam-
paigns and a summer on the shores of Lago di Garda after war’s
end in Italy; and then home again, via Leghorn, Gibraltar and Boston
in October, 1945. Those were really the traveling days!

But now to stay at home a while and build the Hines School of
Business back up again. Out of that private reconstruction period
the event that stands out most clearly is a call from the Rehabilita-
tion Coordinator at St. John’s Sanatorium to start a business train-
ing program for patients recovering from TB. I used to go out to
the Sanatorium afternoons from 3:00 to 5:30, and with several other
teachers to help, carried on a program of instruction in business sub-
jects. It was a most satisfying experience of several years’ duration.

During that same period I resumed activities in Springfield's
First Congregational Church, where I had been Sunday School
Superintendent before the war. I was in the thick of everything

[ 599 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ment, those that really count, than are appointed managers and other

permanently appointed officeholders who keep themselves aloof

from the people.

Yes, working at government has made of me a firmer and firmer
advocate of as little government as possible as close to the people as
possible. You have undoubtedly guessed, too, by this time, that I am
an ardent Republican.

It is my fond hope that instead of trying to out-New Deal the

New Deal, the Republican party will make a great comeback by

correcting Franklin D. Roosevelt’s and the Democratic party’s fatal
error of relating American foreign policy to Europe instead of to
Asia. The prime importance of Asia in the orientation of United
States foreign policy has become gospel to me because since we
graduated from Harvard tw enty-five years ago, world affairs have
worked out as Professor Hopper told us they would. I shall never
forget the dynamic final lecture in May, 1933, with which Professor
Hopper closed his course on New Factors in International Relations,
when, really predicting accurately some years in advance, he said
that the coming struggle for power in the world would be between
the United States and Russia over the control of Asia and that “who
rules Asia rules the world.”

With that in mind in the realm of practical politics, I hope that
Richard M, Nixon will be the next President of the United States,
and that with a Californian in the saddle the nation will begin look-
ing west to Asia instead of east to Europe.

Well, obviously politics has a peculiar fascination for me, so
much so that between that and earning a living ve almost com-
pletely neglected family life. However, the new house I built in
Springfield has recently become a home with a lovely wife. Who

can tell at this point how like to, or different from, the last twenty-
five years my next tw enty-five will be?

[ 602 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PHILIP WILLIAM ANTHONY HINES

 

HOME appREsS: 606 W. 116th St., New York 27, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 130 E. 25th St., New York, N.Y.

BORN: June 17, 1908, New York, N.Y. parents: James Joseph Hines, Geneva
Elizabeth Cox.

PREPARED AT: Peddie School, Hightstown, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: $.B., 1934.

MaRRIED: Marian Elizabeth Dunphy, Dec. 27, 1936, New York, N.Y. cuHip:
James John, Oct. 6, 1937.

occuPATION: Local No. 3, International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers.

MEMBER OF: New York Athletic Club.

MY son James is now a student in his junior year at Cornell Uni-
versity’s School of Hotel Administration.

VERNON SEYMOUR HODGES

 

HOME Appress: 114 N.W. as5th St., Gainesville, Fla.
OFFICE ADDRESS: College of Architecture and Fine Arts, University of Florida,
Gainesville, Fla.

[ 603 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Born: Aug. 16, 1912, Washington, D.C. parents: Vernon Fstabrook Hodges,
Anna Seymour Hanlin.

PREPARED AT: Western High School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: S.B., cu7y laude, 1934; M.ARCH., 1939.

sarriep: Alice Mary Amis, April 9, 1955, Fort Worth, Texas. cHitpren: Ann
Amis, Oct. 1, 1956; James Randle, Sept. 29, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHER: Emerson Hodges, '24.

occupation: Assistant professor of architecture, College of Architecture and
Fine Arts, University of Florida.

MEMBER OF: Society of Architectural Historians.

THE most interesting fact of my life is that, after years of bachelor-
hood, I have only recently become a family man. While many of
you, my classmates, have college-age children, or even grandchildren,
Tam very proud, as only a long- term bachelor can be, of our two-
year-old “daughter and will be equally so of the son and heir when

we get him home from the incubator by Thanksgiving, his expected
birth date.

I had always thought I would be one of the first to get married,
but it was still depression when I finished studying architecture in
1939 and I thought I couldn’t afford the luxury of a wife. However,
it was during these years between school and the war, while I was
a junior project planner for the U.S. Housing Authority, that I met
and first courted my wife, but some foolish notion prevented me
from marrving the boss’s daughter, until I had “made something” of
myself,

A few years later, the future of a junior officer in the Naval
Reserve seemed much too uncertain for a matrimonial venture.
However, I spent most of my four years from j.g. to lieutenant com-
mander, confined to Washington, as “air stations development of-
ficer.” Then when I got back to civil life, there was too much to
catch up on to settle down. First, 1 had to prove the Navy wrong,
and that I really could fly, by getting a commercial pilot’s license,
then an adventure with three friends sailing from Marblehead to the
coast of Maine in a schooner; and, finally: the “grand tour” —
London, Paris, Rome — and VENICE. All this occurred during the
five years I was peacefully planning airport locations for the Civil
Aeronautics Administration.

Then, four years ago, I started life all over again, as assistant
professor of architecture at the University of Florida and, shortly
thereafter, married the “girl of my dreams,’ when I could least
afford to. I have now settled down to a life of domesticity and

[ 604 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pedagogy, which seems to be exactly what I was meant to have done
all along.

HARRY MAX HOFFHEIMER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 443 Warren Ave., Cincinnati 20, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Nichols, Wood, Marx & Ginter, goo Tri-State Bldg. Cincinnati
2, Ohio.

BORN: Nov. 22, 1912, Cincmnati, Ohio. parents: Harry Max Hoffheimer,
*90, Stella Feiss.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1934; LL.B. (Yale
Univ.), 1937.

marRieD: Charlotte Townsend O’Brien, Dec. 29, 1945, Washington, D.C.
CHILDREN: Daniel Joseph, Dec. 28, 1950, Michael Harry, Dec. 21, 1954;
Mary Sarah, Jan. 27, 1957.

occupation: Lawyer; partner in firm, Nichols, Wood, Marx & Ginter.

OFFICES HELD: Officer, Cincinnati Naval Reserve Law Company, since 1949
(commander, USNR); president, Hamilton County Democratic War
Veterans Club, 1954-55; member, Ohio State Racing Commission, since
1955; director, Columbia Savings and Loan Company, since 1957; chair-
man, Committee on Public Safety and Security, 1957-58, Judiciary Com-
mittee and member, Constitution and By-Laws Committee, 1958, National
Association of State Racing Commissioners; chairman, Committee on Legis-
lation and member, Judicial Selection Committee, Cincinnati Bar Associa-
tion, 1958 and previously.

MEMBER OF: Cincinnati and Ohio State Bar Associations; American Judicature
Society; United World Federalists; American Council for Judaism (mem-
ber, National Advisory Board); Losantiville Country Club; Yale Law
School Graduate Board; Harvard Club of Cincinnati,

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in legal periodicals,

AFTER graduation, I spent three years at Yale Law School, room-
ing with Harvard and Exeter classmate Charles Tanenbaum and

[ 605 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

designed to keep the sport honest and to insure the state’s receipt
of its lawful share of the parimutuel revenue, which is very con-
siderable. My term on the commission expired in June, 1958, but
under the law I continue to serve until the appointment of a suc-
cessor. At the time of this writing, three months later, the present
governor, who is occuped with a campaign for re-election, has made
no selection. Because of political considerations, it is unlikely that
he will reappoint me, although my retention has been urged by
both Cincinnati newspapers and at least one radio commentator.

One of the pleasant features of the racing avocation has been the
annual conventions of the National Association of State Racing
Commissioners. During my term of office, they have been held at
Baltimore, Chicago, Beverly Hills and Miami Beach, in settings
of great lavishness and hospitality. For the most recent convention,
in Florida, as chairman of one of the association’s committees, I
wrote what, so far as I can learn, is the only published report extant
on the court decisions of the various states, dealing with the duties,
responsibilities, obligations and rights of racing commissions to
act in the public interest in regulating horse racing.

Apart from the foregoing jaunts, my travels, since the war, have
not been extensive, except for the automobile trip above-mentioned
and wanderings in the state of Ohio and nearby. I have had no
opportunity to repeat the European journeys | enjoyed while in
college and law school (which carried me as far northeast as
Finland) or my flights and cruises with Uncle Sam (whereon I
went as far as New Zealand in the other direction). Since returning
home, I’ve had a couple of two-week active duty periods as a Naval
Reserve officer in Washington and one at Newport. Otherwise,
vacations have been spent on Cape Cod or in the Adirondacks. As
skipper of the local Naval Reserve Law Company, composed of
reserve officers who are lawyers, I have the not too arduous duty
of presiding over weekly “drills” at the lunch table.

I am grateful to Harvard for the many things I learned there and
have since forgotten (in that I may from time to time have the
pleasure of learning one or two of them again) and for the few I
still remember. More and more of my leisure time seems to be
spent with book in hand, and I appreciate the cultural interests
that I acquired at college, and the capacity to acquire new interests.
In recent years, I have derived a dilettantish enjoyment from study-
ing such subjects as Buddha, bass fishing, the quartets of Beethoven,

[ 608 |

1. ».  tolhaabidediiliang umeaaeanampapapssgyssiiee™

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the genealogy of the race horse, and — lately — the music of Bartok,
and the American Revolution. There remains much to do.

JOSEPH HOFFMAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 729 Broadway, Chelsea, Mass.
BORN: Nov. 7, 1912, Chelsea, Mass. paRENTS: Oscar Bernard Hoffman, Annie

Jane Adelson. :

PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREES: A.B. Cu? laude, 1934; ED.M. (Boston
Univ.), 1951.

MarriED: Lillian Barenberg, Dec. 24, 1941, Boston, Mass. cHILDREN: Arthur,
Sept. 14, 1944; Morton, April 3, 1948; Susan, Feb. 21, 1949.

OccUPATION: Education; teacher of general science.

MEMBER OF: Chelsea Teachers Club; National Science Teachers Association;

Jewish War Veterans.

THE early years following graduation were exploratory, a few
more courses, a part-time job, and entrance into teaching. At this
time my affairs seemed to be well ordered, my prospects secure, if
not glowing, and when the girl appeared, even her brother couldn't
discourage me. He never did make it clear which one of us he was
trying to save. We were married two weeks after Pearl Harbor and
though the draft took some of my colleagues, as well as her brother,
the war seemed remote.

In December of that year the Army began the arduous task of
finding the correct assignment for Private Hoffman. In rapid
succession I was exposed to the M.P.’s, finance, ASTP, military in-
telligence, and personnel, besides a session or two as a casual, while
the Army took a deep breath and considered what next to do.
Puerto Rico was their solution. Under sealed orders I was flown

[ 609 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

down to teach English to recruits. There I got the cable that we
were three.

My domestic period followed, during which my abilities in child
care and building management and repair became active hobbies
from necessity. Each mechanical achievement, so easily measurable,
satisfied a need which was not met in teaching, where the relation
between a specific activity and its result is seldom easily demon-
strated. In the course of events I acquired two more children and,
with less satisfaction, my Master’s degree in education. Basically,
I inclined to the view that I was teaching subject material and thus
was at odds with the reigning educational philosophy which em-
phasized satisfying the needs of the whole child.

There are certain aspects of my work that I value and that help
to make up for its meager financial return. The educational success
of the gifted and the observation of normal mental development
overbalance dismay and irritation produced by the slow and the
shiftless. 1 appreciate the freedom from the need to sell my product
in the public market-place by catering to the whims and fancies of
a capricious and ill-informed purchaser.

My work continues uncomplicated, our pleasures simple, our
wants moderate, So be it.

NORMAN CUTTEN HOFFMAN

 

HOME appress; 12 Sabrina Rd., Wellesley 81, Mass.

OFFICE appress: New England Trust Co., 135 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass,

BORN: June 7, 1913, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Henry Eben Hoffman, Catharine
MacRury.

PREPARED AT: Milton High School, Milton, Mass.

[ 610 |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MarrieD: Deborah Sprague, July 31, 1942, Swampscott, Mass. cHILpREN:
Deborah, Nov. 26, 1947; Harriet, Sept. 5, 1950, Roger Sprague, Jan. 29,
1953; Charles Norman, April 2, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, New England Trust Company, in charge of de-
veloping new business for the trust department.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1955-58, vice-president, since 1958, Wellesley Com-
munity Chest and Council; secretary, Boston Life Insurance and Trust
Council, since 1958; vestryman, St. Andrew’s Episcopal Church, Wellesley,

' captain, U.S. Navy Reserve.

IMMEDIATELY after college I joined the First Boston Corporation
and went through their investment training program. I was still a
bachelor and trying hard to sell bonds when in 1940 I was called
into the Navy to put to use what I had learned in NROTC.

I realize it is probably more fashionable to gripe about military
service, but I have absolutely no gripes or regrets. The Navy gave
me more responsibility than I could possibly have had at the same
age in business. The feeling of being a part in something so big
and vital—that required so much unselfishness from so many —
always gave me a satisfaction which I can never describe exactly.
I was aboard the unlucky Oklahoma at Pearl Harbor, the South
Dakota at Santa Cruz and Guadalcanal, and had my own DE for a
couple of years in the Atlantic. Duty in the Navy also gave me time,
while the South Dakota was building in New Jersey, to pursue and
catch Deb at Sarah Lawrence.

When the war ended, Deb and I thought it would be pleasant to
live and work in the country. We moved to Contoocook, New
Hampshire, bought a house with land and a view, and I started to
work in an old-fashioned mill that made box board out of waste
paper. We enjoyed our friends and country living, but as time went
on felt that the mill and schools presented too many limitations. We
then had two of our present four children. In mid-1951 we moved
to Wellesley as 1 was back in the Navy at Harvard as exec. of the
NROTC and on the other side of the desk from where I had been
twenty years previously. From there I joined the New Fngland
Trust Company, late in 1953.

My religious and political convictions are probably not as
positive as they might have been had I not gone to Harvard. If some-
times I irk my family and associates because I seldom can see any
group as either all good or all bad, I remind them that someone in
the dim Harvard past said that the mark of a really intelligent man

xem

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

is his capacity for suspended judgment. If this does not really prove
anything, it at least reduces argument,

MALCOLM ARTHUR HOFFMANN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 5440 Independence Ave., Riverdale 71, N.Y.
OFFICE appress: Rosenman, Goldmark, Colin & Kaye, 575 Madison Ave., New
York 22, N.Y.

porn: Nov. 26, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: Abraham Albert Hoffmann,
Minna Newmark.

PREPARED AT: White Plains High School, White Plains, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1934; LL-B-, 1937:

Marrifo: Anna Frances Luciano, April 13, 1939, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Gertrude Nina, April 18, 1940; Jessica Ann, Dec. 5, 1943.

occupation: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Special assistant to Attorney General of the U.S., Dept. of
Justice, 1944-45; member, Advisory Committee on Day Care of Children,
New York City Commissioner of Health, 1948-53, Trade Regulations
Committee, Association of the Bar of the City of New York, 1955-58,
chairman, Subcommittee on Developments in the Courts, 1958, secretary,
Trade Regulations Committee, Federal Bar Association of New York, New
Jersey and Connecticut, 1954-58.

MEMBER OF: Sundry bar associations.

PUBLICATIONS: “Fraternity,” Story Magazine, 1938, reprinted in anthology,
“Novel and Story,” Little, Brown, 1939; sundry short stories, articles and
book reviews, including “Ideas Do Not Die,” 1947, and “Old Wine,” 1946,
for Federal Bar Journal, “Monopolies, Markets and Mergers,” 1955 (co-
editor with S. Timberg); “Mergers and the Antitrust Laws,” Advanced
Management Magazine, 1956, “Meeting Government Investigations,” Anti-

trust Monthly Bulletin, 1958, book, Government Lawyer, 1955.

1 WAS able to postpone facing up to economic survival in the
depression for three years with the aid of a law school fellowship
from the Littauer Foundation. 1 next worked in a New York law

[ 612 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

office, wrote short stories and married a miraculous girl. I was able
to postpone the economic struggle for a far more extensive period
by becoming an employee of the U.S. Government in 1939. I
served originally as an attorney with the National Labor Relations
Board, but in 1943 transferred to the Justice Department and then
served for eleven years as a Special Assistant to the Attorney General
in the Antitrust Division, where I tried sundry anti-monopoly cases
and developed an abhorrence for great concentration of power
whether situated outside or in the government. Upon leaving the
government, I switched to the representation of defendants involved
in antitrust cases, a far more lucrative activity and one made neces-
sary in order to steer my daughters safely through the colleges of
their choice. I have described the pleasure and pain of service as
an attorney for the government in my book, Government Lawyer.

In 1944, I moved from Washington to New York and, since that
time, my wife has been the director of a private school which was
founded by my aunt many years ago. This indirect exposure to the
educational problems of young children has given me considerable
interest in the field of public educational standards. I have, from
time to time, served on advisory committees in New York City,
concerned with the formulation of such standards.

My elder daughter (eighteen) is now a Bryn Mawr junior and
my younger daughter (fourteen), in addition to studying at the
Riverdale Country School for Girls, is preparing for the stage
through the American Academy of Dramatic Arts. My elder
daughter just wrote and acted in the junior show at Bryn Mawr.
My “wife and I both hope that there is still time for their interests
to be diverted into archaeology.

My habits are sedentary and J have no hobby unless it is to keep
both mind and body alive and interested 1 in the affairs of a desperate
world. .

It is said that the Class wants to know all about our social, political
and religious convictions. I believe that this is none of the Class’s
business, but being in a mellow mood, point out that I am, and have
been since I could vote, a liberal Democrat, an agnostic with deistic
leanings and one whose only important belief is that it is the duty
of each of us to leave this world a little better than we found it.

[ 613 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

CHARLES HILLIARD HOLLIS

 

HOME Apress: 69 Salem St., Andover, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 57 Jackson St., Lawrence, Mass.

BORN: July 8, 1912, Lynn, Mass. parents: John Hudson Hollis, ’97, Bertha
Poole Chase.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1940.

MARRIED: Marjorie Knowlton, July 16, 1932, Andover, Mass. CHILDREN: Joan,
Feb. 3, 1941; Philip Hilliard, Aug. 7, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Poole Hollis, *33.

occupaTION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in pediatrics, Tufts Medical School, staff member,
Boston Floating Hospital, Lawrence General Hospital, Bon Secours

Hospital in Methuen, Mass. (vice-president of staff); school physician,
Abbot Academy.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Pediatrics, New England Pediatric So-

ciety; Massachusetts Medical Association; Greater Lawrence Medical So-
ciety (past president).

THE years between graduation and the onset of the war were
occupied by postgraduate and medical studies, followed by three
years of interning and residency, two of them at the Boston Floating
Hospital, specializing in pediatrics. In 1943, I joined the Navy as a
medical officer in the Reserve and forthwith received orders for
active duty. This led me first to Chelsea Naval Hospital for a few
months, then to a Navy transport destined for the Pacific. The ship
was a lucky one and sailed unscratched through several of the am-
phibious operations in the Western Pacific. Winding up with a few
months at Norfolk Naval Hospital, my naval career was terminated
and I came home to Andover, Massachusetts, to settle down and
establish a practice.

The first couple of years of medical practice are not usually busy,

[614]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and I was happy to be able to double as an instructor at Tufts
Medical School. This has recently claimed less and less of my time,
but I still enjoy and look forw ard to these contacts, no less than to
my contacts with patients and families and colleagues and organiza-
tions in the community.

The family consists of my wife (we had our Twenty-fifth last
summer), who excels at many things and particularly at horticulture
_and floral design, and two growing children (seventeen and four-
teen), who excel at nothing, except to keep me feeling young. They
all share my summer hobby, sailing, and quite openly criticize the
fruits of my winter hobby, painting. And there is Sally, a devoted
Airedale, who guards the car for me while I am making house calls.

HENRY EDWARD HOLM

 

ADDRESS: 3495 La Sombra Drive, Los Angeles, Calif.

BORN: July 4, 1912, Waukegan, Ill. parents: Jonas Henry Holm, Annie Hen-
dersson.

TRANSFERRED FROM: University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREE: $.B., 1934.

occupation: Law.

NO questionnaire returned.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

HENRY TAYLOR HOLSAPPLE

    

HOME apprEss: 1 Meadow Lane, Old Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: First National City Trust Co., 22 William St., New York 1s,
N.Y.

BORN: May 17, 1912, Hudson, N.Y. parents: Frank Burdwin Holsapple, ’os,
Louise Carolyn Livingston.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934; LL.B., 1937.

MarRiED: Ann Hamilton Curtis, June 27, 1942, Washington, D.C. CHILDREN:
Merritt Curtis, Jan. 9, 1945; Peter Livingston, Feb. 19, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Livingston Holsapple, °33.

occupation: Banking — Business Development Department, First National City
Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Pack Committee, Cub Scouts, 1956; president, Shore-
lands Association, 1956 (both in Old Greenwich); vice-chairman, Christ
Church Building Fund, Greenwich, 1957.

DURING the summer following our graduation, I finally decided
to follow in the footsteps of my father and grandfather and to
become a lawyer. After three tough years at Harvard Law School,
I received my degree in 1937. The next three and one-half years
were spent as a law clerk and associate with the New York City
firm of Rand & French. In June, 1941, I left this position to become
a special assistant to Head of Procurement, Bureau of Aeronautics,
Navy Department, Washington, D.C. : ,

The ensuing war years were marked by my receiving a Naval
Reserve commission, my inshore patrol duty off the Florida coast
on a converted shrimp boat, and ultimately my final duty for six-
teen months in command of USS LST-560 in the Southwest Pacific
Theatre. Of more personal importance, however, were my marriage
in 1942 and the birth of our first son in 1945.

In December, 1945, I became associated with the firm of Medina

[ 616 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

& Sherpick, where I stayed until April, 1952, when I moved uptown
to the office of Beals & Nicholson. In October, 1958, 1 gave up the
active practice of law to accept a position with the City Bank
Farmers Trust Company, where I am now very happily situated,

Bringing up our two boys — one is now a teen-ager and the other
a three-year-old — constitutes our principal interest. We do some
swimming and sailing in the summer and ice-skating in the winter,
but tennis is becoming a bit too strenuous at this stage.

EVERARD HOLSKE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 35 Woodland Drive, Pleasantville, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: C. R. Wallauer & Co., Inc. 20-28 Martine Ave, White Plains,
N.Y.

BORN: Nov. 19, 1910, Hawthorne, N.Y. Parents: Louis Robert Holske, Edna
Marguerite Barringer.

PREPARED AT: Pleasantville High School, Pleasantville, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1934(35).

MarRiED: Anna Helen Graham, Pleasantville, N.Y.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alan Holske, ’27, a.M., °33, PH.D., 736.

occupation: Credit manager.

IT was good fortune that my parents felt that should one attend
college there was but one choice, Harvard. I was to reap the benefits
of that conviction ever after.

A German major, my object of overseas employment was rudely
shattered by the course of ‘events in Germany. My second choice
was with a construction company where I w orked until my entrance
into military service in April, 1942. My position was chiefly field
supervision. It seemed we were primarily working on large federal
and state institutional buildings. It pleases me to think this was no
reflection of aptitude.

[ 617 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

My military career began with the rank of private in an infantry
division and ended with a separation rank of captain in combat in-
telligence. It included overseas duty with a tactical unit in the
Pacific through January, 1946. The whimsy, so often attendant in
the movement of military personnel, brushed me to the Pacific despite
a background of German and thorough schooling for European
activity.

After the war, mv occupational interest turned toward credit and
collection management. I had a brief term with a bank in this
connection prior to securing my present work with a wholesale and
retail paint and wallpaper dealer.

At present, my wife and I live in an area with a pleasant blend
of town and country, Not quite exurbanite, but enough so to lend
zest to our society. Politically, we are non-partisan with Republican
leanings. Our church affiliation is Episcopalian, where we find con-
genial attitudes, though my attendance is far less faithful than
standards require.

Horticulture is my hobby, in which my taste is diverse. I have
dabbled with raspberries, roses, marigolds, muskmelons and many
others with varving degrees of success.

I believe the high spots of my career to date have been covered,
and in this sort of writing literary brevity can be gracious. A final
thought is that in mastering the buffets and vagaries of life my years
at Harvard were an indispensable conditioner for that endeavor.

WILLIAM HENRY HORWITZ

 

HoME appress: Mill Pond Road, R.D, 1, Washington, N.J.
orrice appkess: Guidance Center of Northampton and Monroe Countics, 220
Bushkill Sc., Easton, Pa.

[618 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BoRN: April 8, 1913, Cleveland, Ohio. Parents: James William Horwitz, ‘10,
Minna Heilprin.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., C1 laude, 1934, Mp. (Johns Hop-
kins Univ.), 1938.

MARRIED: Dorothea Bechert, June 15, 1940, Morristown, N.J. CHILDREN: James
William, Jan. 22, 1942; Thomas Henry, Feb. 10, 1944.

occupation: Director, Guidance Center of Northampton and Monroe Counties,
Pa., Warren County Guidance Center, New Jersey; private practice of
psychiatry.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Pediatrics (fellow); American Psychiatric
Association.

AFTER graduating I spent two wonderful summers in Europe,
1934 and 1935, and went to medical school for four years. After
three years of internship and one year hospital residency, I began
practice of pediatrics in Rochester, New York. Within less than a
year I was in uniform, and continued in the Army for over four
years, mostly in Detroit and Chicago. After the war I practised
pediatrics in Boston and Brookline, then decided to switch my
specialty to psychiatry, as many physicians have done in recent
years. I trained at several Boston hospitals and the Judge Baker
Guidance Center. .

Two years ago we moved to our present location. I am psychi-
atrist-director of two small community mental health (child guid-
ance) centers and am also in private practice of psychiatry. We
. have a fine old house with five acres and a stream, sixty-five miles
from both New York City and Philadelphia. Quite a bit of my
leisure time goes into maintenance of the house and five acres.
Summers, we are apt to return to New England. We would like to
go to Europe, but won’t be able to afford it until our two teen-age
boys are through college.

[ 619 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

STANLEY XAVIER HOUSEN

 

HOME appress: 222 Chestnut Hill Rd., Newton, Mass.
orFice appress: A. Werby & Co., Inc., 125 Broad St., Boston, Mass.

Borx: Nov. 25, 1912, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Jacob Housen, Elsie Marion
Rotheim.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: AB., cum laude, 1934.

Marrigp: Mildred Elaine Werby, May 25, 1935, Rye, N.Y. cumpren: Priscilla
R,, May 5, 1940; Gail Carolyn, Aug. 18, 1944.

occupation: President, A. Werby & Company, Inc., electrical power equip-
ment.

MEMBER OF: Belmont Country Club; Institute of Contemporary Art; Museum
of Fine Arts; Busch-Reisinger Museum; Harvard Friends of Fogg; NISA.

AS Shakespeare once wrote—“Much Ado About Nothing.” -
After graduation from Harvard it took me some two years to decide
that I was not meant for the retail business. This proved to be quite
a blow to my parents who had successfully operated in the retail
field for many years.

Just about this time I married a very lovely girl who was enter-
ing her second year at Wellesley. A decision was made to go into
the electrical equipment field and, in order to attain some measure
of success, I felt it best to attend MIT. at night, concentrating
on certain specific electrical and mechanical fields. This.I did for
two years.

The rumblings of war were being heard a short time after and
try as I might I was unable to enter any branch of the armed forces,
due to a childhood history of kidney trouble and asthma. However,
while I was operating in the field of electrical equipment, I became

financially interested in a plant that subsequently went into the
manufacturing of incendiary bombs.

[ 620 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In 1940 our first child was born and the direction of our lives
changed somewhat. We bought a home in West Newton and, al-
though we had traveled quite extensively before to South America,
Mexico, Cuba, Nassau, we now had to curtail our recreational
activities. However, I continued to play golf and was active in a
number of civic organizations.

In 1944 my second daughter, Gail, was born. Life proceeded in
an orderly fashion. Both children eventually entered Beaver
Country Day School and at present my elder daughter, after having
spent two years at Putney School in Putney, Vermont, is a fresh-
man at Skidmore College.

During this period we moved from West Newton to Chestnut
Hill and undertook a strenuous project of rehabilitating and re-
modeling a large old house. Also, during these years I bought up
the company I had been working for and made some interesting
progress. My wife continued her studies in the field of fine arts and,
after graduating from Wellesley, she received a Master’s degree in
fine arts at Radcliffe. She now writes and teaches.

So we are entering what I consider the second phase of our life
and my hope is that in the next few years we shall be able to fulfil
many of our early hopes and ideals. The world is changing so fast
that conjectures as to the future become hazardous. It will be
interesting to see what happens in the ensuing years.

HERBERT MARSHALL HOWE
pov ne en

   

HOME AppRESS: 2011 Chadbourne Ave. Madison 5, Wis.

OFFICE appREss: Dept. of Classics, University of Wisconsin, Madison 6, Wis.

BORN: March 21, 1912, Bristol, RI. parents: Wallis Fastburn Howe, Marcy
Fmily Locke. :

[ 621 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

PREPARED AT: St. George's School, Newport, R.1.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: AB., cum laude, 1934; aM. (Univ. of
Wisconsin), 1941; PH.b. (ibid.), 1948.

MARRIED: Evelyn Grace Mitchell, Sept. 6, 1941, Bristol, R.I. cHitpren: Evelyn
Mitchell, April 18, 1943; Herbert Marshall, Jr., June 17, 1945; Emily
Judson, Aug. 4, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Locke Howe, 718, M.ARCH., '24.

occuPaTION: Professor of Classics, University of Wisconsin,

MEMBER OF: American Philological Association.

PuBLICATIONS: Classics in Translation, (edited with P. O. MacKendrick, 34);
Medical Greek and Latin (with W.R. Agard); a few articles and reviews.

AFTER graduating I was lucky enough to get a job teaching at
Brooks School in North Andover, where for six years I faked im-
mense knowledge of several branches of orthodox learning, and even
managed to be entrusted with a football team. Alas, even the fight
talks I persuaded Rog Scudder to give them could not secure victory
over the pitiless myrmidons of Charlie Salls.

A couple of summers in Athens made me decide to do some
graduate work and in 1940 I came to Wisconsin. The change from’
Harvard to a coeducational university is tremendous; only Cecil B.
DeMille could picture the life of an unmarried graduate student
before the war. But one young female, English, won my astonished
respect when I took her to a ball game: watching the sizzling fast ball
of Bob Feller she pronounced him a fair middling-paced bowler. I
therefore married her and we now have three young.

My chief contribution to the nation in the war was furnishing
immense mirth to the medicine men who gaped at my hollow
chest, flat feet, myopic eyes and allergic nose, and who presently
declared me to be of no use. For six more years I taught at Pomfret
School, working vaguely toward my Ph.D., which I finally got in
1948. Wisconsin took me on as an instructor and I have been here
ever since. My most interesting job has been looking after a bunch
of students who were sent here as freshmen by the Ford Foundation
before they had finished high school, They have done astonishingly
well, at the price to me of a balding head and a ravaged duodenum.

I'm a Democrat, an Episcopalian and a tenor, but don’t belong to
anything; I’ve long since given up trying to convince the kids that
I’m an All-American Dad; and I’m reconciled to the melanchol
truth that even the most willowy striplings of 1934 now look and act
as the pot-bellied ancients of ’og did when we graduated.

[ 622 |

ah oa lll ln

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN NOYES MEAD HOWELLS

 

HOME AppreEss: 14 Aberdeen Rd., Weston 93, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Museum of Science, Science Park, Boston, Mass.
BoRN: March 11, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: John Mead Howells, ‘91,

Abby McDougall White.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: S.B., magna cum laude, 1934; AM. 1935-

MARRIED: Dorothy Butler, Feb. 6, 1937, Washington, D.C. (divorced 1940);
Katharine Dubois Franchot, Dec. 5, 1942, Kittery Point, Maine. CHILDREN:
Antoinette F. Brown, Nov. 15, 1938 (stepdaughter); Polly Hayes, July

26, 1944.
HARVARD BROTHER: William White Howells, ’30, a-at., ’31, PH.D., "34.

OCCUPATION: Staff member, Education Department, Museum of Science.

AFTER taking a Master’s degree in astronomy, I abandoned the
academic life and engaged briefly in two other desperate educa-
tional forays: a summer at the School of International Studies in
Geneva, and two winters at the School of the American Ballet in
New York. Though specifically inconclusive, both ventures were
indicative of interests to which | have remained firmly attached.

In 1937, I married Dorothy Butler of New York and was di-
vorced in 1940. In the same year, I became involved as treasurer
with Milliken Machine Company in West Newton, and spent the
years up to 1943 turning out machine tools and parts in a draft-
proof classification. In 1943 the Sclective Service and T became con-
vinced, almost simultaneously, that the military could no longer get
on without me, and I joined the Navy at SS. Special Devi lees in
Washington, for the duration. In 1942, married Katharine Franchot
Brown who, with her daughter Toni, rattled around with me ina
large and ancient house in Alexandria, Virginia, during my naval
service, Our daughter Polly was born in Washington in t944.

[ 623 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

In 1946, we came north again, I resigned from the Navy, and we
settled in Belmont. I returned to the business world without much
enthusiasm, finally gave it up in 1949 and turned to teaching science.
I finally found my way onto the staff of the Museum of Science in
Boston, which is where I really belong, whether they realize it or
not. We moved to Weston in 1951, and built a house here in 1957.

Extra-curricularly, I served briefly on the executive committee
of the Civil Liberties Union of Massachusetst, and since 1948 have
been chairman of the Liberal Citizens of Massachusetts. Summers
I spend what time I can in Kittery Point, Maine, chopping wood
and messing around in boats. I maintain the necessary edge of dis-
satisfaction “by yearning for distant places which I have no time to

visit, and for long, indolent winter evenings which never materialize.

CORTLANDT VAN DYKE HUBBARD

 

HOME appress: 860 E. Manatawna St, Upper Roxborough, Philadelphia 28, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS; 2201 Chestnut St, Philadelphia 3, Pa.

BORN: June 4, i912, Newton Center, Mass. parents: Robert Arnold Hubbard,
‘os, Nancy Morrison Holland.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exerer Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934(35).

marriep: Margaret Douglas Gribbel, June 4, 1938, Chestnut Hill, Pa. cHipren:
Cortlandt Van Dvke, Jr., Oct. 26, 1939; Margaret Douglas, Jan. 8, 1943;
Louisa Van Dyke, Sept. 4, 1946.

occupation: Collaborating author, architectural and illustrative photography.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Architectural Photographers’ Association, since
19§1; director, Philadelphia Society for the Preservation of Landmarks,
since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Society of Architectural Historians, Military Order of Foreign
Wars; Philadelphia Cricket Club; Wissahickon Skating Club; Negunticook
Golf Club; Camden (Maine) Yacht Club; Harvard Club of Philadelphia.

| 624 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PUBLICATIONS: Co-author with Harold Donaldson Ebcrlein of the following
books: Portrait of a Colonial City: Philadelphia 1670-1838; Practical Book
of Garden Structure and Design; Colonial Interiors, Third Series; Historic
Houses of the Hudson Valley; Diary of Independence Hall.

THE year following graduation, I returned to Cambridge for a try
at the law —a year which didn’t turn out quite as I had hoped it
would. In the fall of 1935, a friend in Philadelphia who was well
established as a writer on historic architecture and social history
suggested we join forces in a literary collaboration.

During the next few years, until the war, we produced several
books and turned out one or. two articles a week for the architectural,
shelter, and consumer magazines. We soon discovered one serious

stumbling block —the pictures we used to illustrate the articles
were not entirely of professional calibre and some of our most at-
tractive houses brought rejection slips from House & Garden and
similar publications because of this shortcoming. When I tried to
remedy the situation, I found myself so involved in photography
that it soon became the principal occupation of my life.

Although our co-authorship has continued, with books appearing
every year or two, I have found the building up of a specialized
business in architectural photography is almost a seven-days-a-week
proposition. The work calls for a mixture of business sense and
artistic talent, and I sometimes wonder if I have any of either.

On June 4, 1938, Margaret Douglas Gribbel and I were married
at St. Martin’s-in-the-Fields, Chestnut Hill, Philadelphia.

When war was declared, I joined the Navy and after the customary
training period served successively on several aircraft carriers.
For the final two years my home was the USS Ranger, which I left
with the rank of lieutenant commander. With the passage of time,
the Navy life I recall seems to have been almost pleasant.

Our house into which we moved shortly after the war stood at
one time on the Ridge Pike, a half-mile from its present site on the
edge of Fairmount Park. Built as an inn in 1785, it was known as
the “Sorrel Horse,” a name we have retained. The house was torn
apart in 1937, the paneling was preserved, and in re-erection the
place was adapted to modern use.

Son Van is now at Dickinson, a much-respected small college in
Carlisle, Pennsylvania. Although, as you might imagine, this was
not his first choice, whatever regret he and I felt at his not getting
into Harvard is fast disappearing. His younger sisters are both still
at Springside School in Chestnut Hill whence, in due time, they hope

[ 625 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

to go to college. The girls love figure skating, squash and bowling,
which become family affairs w ith some regularity. In the summer
they divide their time between golf and sailboat racing. As for
my own leisure time, most of it is spent on the golf course.

Though raised a Unitarian in Boston, a few years ago I decided to
join the Episcopal Church. Since our marriage I had attended St.
Martin's and the children had been baptized and confirmed there, so
it seemed logical for me to become a full-fledged member.

Our most recent book, Historic Houses of George-Town and
Washington City, had the two-fold object of architectural ap-
preciation and an outline history of the houses, along with comment
on the eminent personalities associated with them, Like our
American Georgian Architecture (prepared for the Georgian Group
of London), the book on which we are presently working, The
Historic Houses and Churches of Delaware, aims to give due at-
tention to significant features of that region that have hitherto been
too generally overlooked.

LLEWELLYN HALL HUBBARD

  

HOME AbpREsS: 163 Highland St., Dedham, Mass.

BORN: July 12, igtt, Manchester, Mass. parents: Frederic Tracy Hubbard, ’98,
Mary Bessie Welling.

PREPARED AT: Lenox School, Lenox, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B, 1934.

MakrigpD: Mary Keyes Guy, April 19, 1945, Glasgow, Scotland. CHILDREN:
Deborah Guy, Oct. 22, 1947; Judith Mascarene, May 25, 1949.

occupation: Finding a new one, formerly assistant-treasurer of recently liqui-
dated Northwestern Leather Company, Boston,

orrices HELD: Vice-president, director, East Boston Social Centers, Inc., since

1949 (charitable association operating settlement houses and summer camp).
MEMBER oF: Harvard Musical Association.

[ 626 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I CAN’T get over the feeling somebody or something is pushing
this Twenty-fifth Reunion business a bit faster than the years I can
account for. Admittedly, it is a long way back to June, 1934, when
relieved and hopeful with final exams behind, classmate Charlie
Arensberg and I took off for his home town of Pittsburgh on what
was intended to be but a brief visit. An immediate job opportunity
led to my spending five out of seven pre-war years in that city,
broken by a two years’ return to Boston. Successive experiences in
steel, coal, candy and business machines filled this period and, while
instructive, profitable and enjoyable in varying degrees, in none of
them did I form any firm conviction I wanted to invest my future.
The advent of World War II temporarily delayed the necessity to
solve this problem.

In the summer of 1941, preferring military service in aviation
and being over-age for this country’s program, I enrolled in the
RCAF pilot training course. Called in at the time of Pearl Harbor,
a kaleidoscopic series of names, places, faces and events covered the
following four years, in the last three of which I was attached to the
RAF Coastal Command on anti-submarine work in the Atlantic.
For longer or shorter periods of time, Northern Ireland, Scotland,
Cornwall, Gibraltar, North Africa and the Azores were settings
for squadron activities, not all being necessarily confined to strictly
military requirements. It was a vivid experience obtained at a
minimum cost in boredom and hardship and made additionally
memorable in the person of my Scottish w ife.

Home to Boston, and an inquiry directed to classmate George
Wightman disclosed an opening in the Boston leather firm of which
he was treasurer. Thirteen years of pleasant associations with
varied and interesting finance and accounting duties as assistant
treasurer with this company spanned my post-war business years.
Unhappily, increasingly competitive conditions and an old plant
in the wrong location made voluntary liquidation necessary and
I became a victim of the 1958 recession.

Sugaring this adversity with self-indulgence, I hastened to New
York, bag i in hand, en route to join Kay : and the children who were

spending the summer in Great Britain. Three exciting weeks savor-
ing London, three exhausting days “doing” Paris an injustice, and
five happy, carefree weeks ‘exploring Scotland brought pleasures
previously reserved only fora hy pothetically atluent old age. Alas!
The problem of re- -cmploy ment still faces me.

In scmi-country surroundings, our congenial netehbors and out-

[ 627 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934.

door community and social diversions all add up to a way of living
we thoroughly enjoy. Foremost in our activities, and by far the
most formidable, i is the nurturing of our two offspring, Debby and
Judith, who are — in fact — active and attractive youngsters.

Apart from family doings, I give some time to the directing of
a charitable organization, to generally light reading, to non-technical
hi-fi pleasures and to gardening on a basic minimum standard.

After writing this, it MUST be twenty-five years, so LET'S

HAVE A REUNION!

GEORGE JASON HUBERMAN

 

HOME AbprEss: § Cheswick Rd., Auburndale 66, Mass.

OFFICE apbRESS: Raymond's, Inc., Boston 1, Mass.

BORN: May 1, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: Charles Huberman, Jennie Block.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1934.

MarrieD: Ruth DeNoyer, Sept. 30, 1942. CHILDREN: Virginia Gayle (step-
daughter), Dec. 7, 1938; Pamela, March 27, 1944; Jon Ronald, April 17,
1946; Robert Michacl, Aug. 28, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Bertram Arnold Huberman, °44, M.B.A, '48.

OCCUPATION: Senior merchandising manager, retail department store.

GRADUATION and the depression joined together and put me to
work at Filene’s at the high rate of fourteen dollars per week (six
days and no overtime)! Being able to maintain a sense of humor,
eat sparingly, and work hard, I moved forward in the executive
training program. I spent a year in New York as assistant office
manager where I learned all about the big city —I attended the
theatre, visited museums, Coney Island, the World’s Fair, and did
most of the things that visiting firemen of the ’30s did that didn’t
cost too much,

[ 628 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Shortly after my return to Boston (now as assistant to a merchan-
dise manager), war broke out and I found myself in Chicago, train-
ing to be a naval officer. Got married after I was graduated to a full-
line officer but had no honeymoon as travel time was only two days.
I saw very little of the sea, though I will admit that shepherding a
convoy in a tossing P.C. was not the fun for a j.g. it was supposed
to be. Spent part of my naval career at Princeton (where I had the
good fortune to watch our team wallop them on the gridiron) teach-
ing embryonic naval officers celestial navigation — and we won the
war!

The family grew to six—two boys and two girls, Back home
after the war with five to care for meant harder work. My career at
Filene’s continued. I became the buyer of ladies’ gloves, taught
merchandising at Northeastern University, and went to Europe on
a buying trip in 1952, and am looking forward to the day when
Ruth and I can go there on a pleasure trip.

Left Filene’s in the fall of 1952 to join Raymond’s famous “Home
of Unkle Eph,” the cracker-barrel philosophical merchant. As senior
merchandise manager, I am enjoying retailing more than ever — lots
of work but plenty of fun getting “bargains” to sell at the “Old Fule
Stoar.”

Shortly after graduation, I found time to take up skiing and became
an avid ski “bum” with weekends on the slopes, and by saving my
pennies was able to manage the Laurentians every winter until the
war. Since then, I’ve been an on and off skier as time seems less, and
I guess as we get older the hot sun looks more welcome in the winter.

I have become an enthusiastic (if not too good) landlocked
salmon-and-trout man. Ruth and I scour the Northern Maine lakes
early every spring for a few days looking for the big ones (still
looking). We’ve managed to take the kids on a couple of trips to
Florida, acquired a small boat with a big motor so they can water
ski, have Cub Scouted, Boy Scouted, managed Little League, sold
Girl Scout cookies, batted mosquitoes on overnight hikes, and all
the normal things you do with growing, modern youngsters. We
love to travel but have to work, too, so getting away for a short
time each year is about all we can manage. Our latest jaunt was to
far-off Tobago where there aren’t many A.B.’s or Ph.D.’s, but they

sure know how to relax and take life easy.

The first twenty-five years have been good to us, in spite of wars,
depressions and the problems of postwar years. We're looking

[ 629 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

forward to the next twenty-five with great enthusiasm and hope —
maybe we'll hold our Fiftieth on the moon. Who knows?

JOHN ROBERT HUDSON -

 

HOME appress: 4o Chesterton Rd., Wellesley, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Commerce Clearing House, Inc., 31 Milk St, Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan, 10, 1913, Everett, Mass. parents: Francis Everard Hudson, Mary
J. Conly.

PREPARED aT: Everett High School, Everett, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B. IN C.E., 1934.

MaRRiED: Katherine M. McGehearty, Sept. 17, 1950, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Carolyn, Feb. 13, 19532; Robert Douglas, May 2, 1957.

occuPATION: Sales representative, Commerce Clearing House, Inc., publishing
company,

OFFICES HELD: President, Normandy Club, 1952-56.
MEMBER OF: Normandy Club.

THIS is the autobiography of a “Nebbish.” The Lord’s Prayer has
been written on the head of a pin. My saga could be confined to
the head of a molecule. My innate sense of conceit forbears the
mention of the word atom.

Now, what have I accomplished in the way of “Footprints on
the Sands of Time”? Over the years I have given forth with various
and sundry pronunciamentos which I feel sure were of earth-shak-
ing import. History alone will record whether I was right, or
W hether anybody was even listening.

What has Harvard done for me? It has assured that the mailman
will call ev ery day laden with requests for donations, interspersed
with the windowed envelopes of various creditors, Will I send m
son to Harvard? Yes, if under his present high vitamin diet, he will

[ 630 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

develop into a gent who will at least guarantee a football victory
over Slippery Rock,

My work? I hate work. I find it increasingly difficult to get
up in the morning. It seems so futile to be going to work for at
least three months of the year to provide funds for Washington
Good-Time Charlies to take jaunts to Paris and the French Riviera.

My social views? Let’s shoot Superman and Zsa Zsa Gabor. It
will have a greater effect on the general population than an en-
cyclical of the Pope.

What lies ahead? I listened to six distinguished newspapermen
discuss the future and concluded I must be a bit of a philosopher.
They didn’t know what they were talking about, where I was sure
that I wouldn’t.

If I had it to do all over again, would I have done things differ-
ently? Yes, I no doubt would. But as I look back, I have enjoyed
myself (at least that’s what my wife says) and after all, happiness
is what we all seek. I was a child bride at thirty-seven, and con-
sequently had a late start, but we have a wonderful family. Carolyn
and Robert Douglas are our Social Security in the event Social
Security folds up. End of Saga.

RAYMOND EDWIN HUGHES

 

LAST KNOWN apprEss: % Tobin, Pleasant Valley, N.Y.

BoRN: April 9, 1911, Rome, N.Y. parents: Edwin Hughes, Belle Tompkins.
PREPARED AT: Albany School, Albany, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.

OCCUPATION: Education.

HUGHES has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since
1954.

[ 631 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

RAYMOND SQUIRES HULL

 

ApprEss: 19 Crane St., Danbury, Conn.

Born: Dec. 31, 1912, Danbury, Conn. parents: Charles A. Hull, Minnie Knapp.
PREPARED aT: Danbury High School, Danbury, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

NO questionnaire returned.

BENJAMIN LINCOLN HUNTINGTON

 

HOME Appress: 6 Lincoln Ave., Manchester, Mass. .

OFFICE AppREss: John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co. 200 Berkeley St.,
Boston 17, Mass.

BoRN: April 6, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: James Lincoln Huntington, MLD.,
’o7, Sarah Higginson Pierce.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. CU7M laude, 1934; M.D., 1938.

marrigp: Susan Harris Brewer, June 1, 1940, Beverly Farms, Mass. CHILDREN:
Samuel Porter, July 27, 1942; Robert Brewer, Dec. 24, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Higginson Huntington, ’4o.

[ 632 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OccUPATION: Physician; associate medical director, John Hancock Mutual Life
Insurance Company; assistant physician, Massachusetts General Hospital.

OFFICES HELD: Member of board, St. Luke’s Home for Convalescents, Roxbury,
1949-58; member, 1952-56, chairman, 1954-56, Manchester Finance Com-
mittee; director, Manchester Nursing Service, Inc., 1953-58; chairman,
Insurance Medical Group of New England, 1957-58, secretary, Committee
on Radiation Medicine, Association of Life Insurance Medical Directors;
member, School Committee, 1958, School Planning and Building Com-
mittee, 1958, Town of Manchester.

MEMBER OF: Manchester Yacht Club.

FROM October, 1942, to February, 1946, 1 was in the Army Medical
Corps. Most of this time was spent in malaria control work in the
Pacific far from strife and with ample time provided for recon-
sidering the arduous task of private practice in which I had engaged
for two years.

On escaping from military life, I joined the John Hancock Mutual
Life Insurance Company, thus insuring business hours and freedom
from worry on the weekends. This change has allowed me to
interest myself in local politics in my home town of Manchester —
if not a rewarding avocation, still one that keeps me out of mischief.
I do a little motor-boating in the summertime, some fishing and
cultivate a small corn patch. Through work with my company,
I have become interested in the subject of rising medical costs and
how it affects the health insurance business in which we are involved.
There should be ample problems in this field to keep me busy until
my retirement.

+ HOWARD WARNER HUNTINGTON

 

BORN: Jan, 7, 1912, Galion, Ohio. Parents: Howard Rowland Huntington,
Kathryn Flcise.

[ 633 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. cum lade, 1934; M.B.A, 1937.
marriep: Alicia Rasco, Sept. 30, 1939, Shoshone, Idaho.

pie: Nov. 10, 1954, Santa Monica, Calif.

AFTER graduation, Howard Warner Huntington spent a year at
Washington University doing pre-medical work, before returning
to Harvard where he received an M.B.A. degree. For our Sexennial
Report he wrote that he was manager of the Heise Hot Springs
Hotel and engaged in the breeding and raising of thoroughbred
horses in Heise, Idaho. Later he was at ranches at Shoshone and
Stanley, Idaho, and at Dillon, Montana.

JOHN GAVIN HURD

 

HOME abprEss: 2101 Gustavus, Laredo, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Killam & Hurd, 1020 Salinas, Laredo, Texas.

BORN: July 2, 1914, Sacramento, Calif, parents: Eugene Hurd, Nella Claire
Wilson.

PREPARED AT: Seattle Pacific College Preparatory School, Seattle, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; LL.B., 1937.

MarRIED: Patricia Louise Killam, June 30, 1937, Laredo, Texas (died Jan. 2,
1955); Nancy Lucille Smith, Sept. 14, 1957, San Antonio, Texas. CHILDREN:
John Radcliffe, May 4, 1942; Sara Smith, Oct. 17, 1946, Patricia Laura,
July 27, 1948; Victoria Louise, Jan. 27, 1952.

occupation: Partner, Killam & Hurd, oil and gas production; Killam Cattle
Company, cattle ranching; vice-president, Texpata Pipe Line Company, oil
gathering lines.

OFFICES HELD: Past senior warden, 1949, vestryman, since 1951, Christ Church,
Episcopal, Laredo, Texas, director, Texas Mid-Continent Oil & Gas
Association, since 1949, Laredo Savings & Loan Association, since 19573
past president, Laredo Rotary Club, 1952-53, Laredo Chamber of Com-
merce, 1955-57, chairman, board of trustees, United Day School of
Laredo, since 1953; past chapter chairman, American Red Cross, 1954;

[ 634 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

member, executive committee, Gulf Coast Council, Boy Scouts of America,
since 1956, Texas Independent Producers & Royalty Owners Association,
since 1957; member, board of trustees, Good Samaritan Center, Diocese of
West Texas, San Antonio, Texas, since 1957.

MEMBER OF: Cotillion Club of Laredo; San Antonio Country Club; Argyle
Club of San Antonio; San Antonio Petroleum Club.

OF one thing I am quite sure, the plans made at the end of Law
School have been altered greatly; and I’m sure for the better. Follow-
ing the receipt of my LL.B., I was married and made haste to San
Francisco to accept an appointment to the city attorney’s staff.
Imagine my chagrin to find there had been a shake-up in that office
and with it my position had vanished. After a nervous week and
more of visiting law firms I was fortunate to obtain a position as
number forty-eight with Pillsbury, Madison & Sutro. Two years of
work learning the practical side of corporation practice followed
during which the only addition to experience gained was a sickly
library pallor not unknown in all young attorneys. An opportunity
to work for one of the firm’s clients, Standard Oil of California,
arose and was accepted. This was my first detour from the legal
profession and a lasting one.

Working in the oil business has continued since that date, except
for the natural time out for our group with the armed forces. After
the World War II conflict, I formed a partnership with my brother-
in-law, Radcliffe Killam (LL.B., 35), to engage in the independent
search for oil and gas. Our endeavors, though repeatedly punctuated
with “dry holes,” have in the main been successful and most interest-
ing. We have diversified as recommended by Babson, et al., and have
expanded our operations to include irrigated farming, cattle ranching
and interests in various financial institutions. Laredo, in South
Texas, on the banks of the Rio Grande at the gateway to Mexico, has
been an exciting and wonderful place to live. Oh that I had traded
some Latin and French for three good years of Spanish, so that I
could speak Tex-Mex with a proper flourish.

My naval ROTC activities laid a proper basis for being called to
active duty in May, 1941. My original assignments before Pearl
Harbor were in various divisions of Naval Intelligence on the West
Coast. Ultimately the obvious occurred, since I had a home in
San Francisco — transfer to the North Atlantic. The balance of the
war was spent in DE duty, either as a convoy escort or anti-
submarine killer group, and seemingly always in the North Atlantic
during the winter and the Mediterranean and approaches during the

[ 635 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

hot summer months. Such is my testimony to the general belief that
most wars are fought in reverse. At any rate, in December, 1945,
I was released to inactive service as a lieutenant commander and
since have been retired as a commander.

For outside activities, | am fortunate in living where many can
be enjoyed and I have taken full advantage of the opportunity. Golf,
water skiing, sailing and hunting, each takes its place in the proper
season and all with a near unanimous family participation. I have
found that this manner of spending time with the family is most
rewarding and a wonderful complement to our home life.

Though in many ways the days at Harvard seem far away, more
recent visits east and reunions with classmates have tended to bring

the years closer together. Frankly, I’m looking forward to the
Reunion.

t+ ROBERT SATTERLEE HURLBUT

 

BORN: Jan. 1, 1912, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Byron Satterlee Hurlbut, Eda
Woolson.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 19343; M.D., 1938.
MarRIED: Sally Drew, June 23, 1934, Newton, Mass. cuitpren: Robert Satterlee,

Jr., March 31, 1937; Sally Drew, Oct. 2, 1938; Patricia Adams; Caroline
Merrill.

pep: Lost at sea, March 26, 1945, off the coast of Okinawa.

ROBERT SATTERLEE HURLBUT graduated with our Class.
While at college he was a member of the Owl Club, Hasty Pudding-
Institute of 1770, the Speakers’ Club and the Harvard Instrumental
Club. He spent two summers on the Labrador coast with the Gren-
fell Mission and Dr. Alexander Forbes, and in 1938 graduated from |

[ 636 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the Medical School as permanent secretary of his Class. He interned

at Massachusetts General Hospital where he was assistant resident

surgeon when called to active duty in July, 1942. Following serv-

ice at Chelsea Naval Hospital, the Office of Medical Officer Pro-
curement at Headquarters, First Naval District, and as physician
at the Harvard Naval Dispensary, he began sea duty as a medical
officer on the destroyer Halligan, with the rank of lieutenant, in
September, 1943. He saw service in the Atlantic and North Africa
and was in invasion actions for more than a year in the Pacific. He
was killed in action when the Halligan was sunk off Okinawa. He
was survived by his wife (now Mrs. James Baldwin) and four

children.

+ ARNOLD PHILIP HURWITZ

 

BORN: Jan. 20, 1913, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Samuel Hurwitz, Ethel Grollman.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MarriED: Marcia Cushman, Jan. 5, 1944, Boston, Mass. cnitp: Eugene Stanley.
piED: Dec, 22, 1950, Washington, D.C.

wiwow: Mrs. Arnold P. Hurwitz, 3916 Elbert Ave., Alexandria, Va.

ARNOLD PHILIP HURWITZ had been in government service
since graduation. After a few years with the U.S, Employment
Service, he became personnel technician for the State Technical
Advisory Service of the Social Security Board. During World War
II, he served with the Army — two years in the Infantry and two
and a half years in the Signal Corps. At the time of our Fifteenth
Anniversary Report, he was management analyst for the Federal
Government Navy Department in Washington, He was survived
by his wife and son,

[ 637 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

* ROBERT LEWIS HUTCHINSON

     
   

,o™

\

%

   

    
   

a

*

*

a
a

rod

rr

BORN: Jan. 17, 1914, Lawrenceburg, Ind. parents: Frank E. Hutchinson, Florence
Sortwell.

PREPARED AT: Lawrenceburg High School, Lawrenceburg, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1934; LLB. (Univ. of
Arizona), 1939.

marriep: Ann Jeanette McPhee, June 2, 1940, Washington, D.C. cHILpREN:
Ann Sortwell, Dec. 10, 1942; Frank Godwin, Sept. 1, 1944.

piep: Feb. 18, 1957, Boonton, N.J.

wipow: Mrs. Robert L. Hutchinson, 17 Fernwood P]., Mountain Lakes, N.J.

*
TIMP
beh ios J $

ROBERT LEWIS HUTCHINSON graduated with our Class and
received an LL.B. at the University of Arizona in 1939. He was
admitted to the Indiana bar and engaged in the general practice of
law in Indianapolis until 1942. He then became associated with the
Curtiss-Wright Corporation, as attorney for their wartime India-
napolis plant. In 1944 he was transferred to the home office in
Caldwell, New Jersey, in charge of all wage and salary stabilization
and preparation and trial of all War Labor Board and labor arbitra-
tion cases. Since 1946 he had served as counsel for the company.
He was also assistant secretary of Curtiss-Wright Corporation.
During World War II, he served as industry adviser with the War
Labor Board. He was survived by his wife and children.

[ 638 ]

Meine : 4 1. lt i, ll DL ll. odd inline

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALLEN RISLEY HYDE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 94 Waterside Lane, West Hartford 7, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kingswood School, West Hartford 7, Conn.

BORN: June 26, 1913, Hartford, Conn. PARENTS: Clement Collester Hyde, 92,
Edith Ladora Risley.

PREPARED AT: Hartford Public High School, Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1934; AM. 1938;
am, (Trinity Coll.), 1940.

MarrigD: Florence Dorothea Werner, June 17, 1950, Nutley, N.J. cHILDREN:
Donna Rae, July 25, 1948 (adopted 1956); Monica Lee, Sept. 11, 1950
(adopted 1957).

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Whitney Hyde, ’30, a.M., ’33.

OCCUPATION: Education: teacher of mathematics and Latin.

OFFICES HELD: President, Camp Woodstock, Inc. (YMCA), since 1954.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Connecticut; American Philological Association,
Classical Association of New England; Mathematical Association of Ameri-
ca; Sigma Pi Sigma; Connecticut Forest and Park Association; Wads-
worth Atheneum; Hartford County YMCA.

PUBLICATIONS: Contributions to Problem Department, American Mathematical

Montbly.

THE educational environment of my childhood was largely re-
sponsible for my spending most of my life in study and teaching.
The Classics and mathematics have contended for my academic at-
tention, the Harvard study being mostly in the former field, the
Trinity study and teaching mostly in mathematics. After several
years at Trinity, with a part-time schedule also at Hartford College
and Wesleyan, I left teaching in 1951 to join the Research Depart-
ment of the Emhart Manufacturing Company in Hartford. Last
year I decided to return to teaching, this time at the secondary
level, for which I had originally prepared. I was fortunate in finding
an opportunity at Kingswood School, a soundly conservative day
school with a reasonably Harvardian faculty, where my teaching

[ 639 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Joad ranges from seventh-grade arithmetic to senior advanced-place-
ment work in analytics and the calculus, and includes an eighth-
grade class in first-year Latin, but allows no time to write long,
tedious memoirs! .

My Army service included work as an editor in the Publications
Section at the Engineer School. Here, with the full approval of my
colleagues and superior officers, | managed to never once split an
infinitive!

After spending a part of most of my summers in Maine, I finally
meta lovely New Jersey organist there in 1948. Of our two adopted
children, one was born a week before we met, the other about three
months after we were married,

Though my spare time seems to decrease with the passing years,
I continue my interest in music, swimming, reading and hiking, and
occasionally help a little with my Ww ife’s stamp collection into which
my own was merged. Traveling came to a halt when the children
arrived but it is on the list for the future. Once upon a time I had
the opportunity and good fortune to study Russian with a teacher
who is now a UN simultaneous translator. Afore recently my wife
and I jomed my sister to study Arabic with an Egyptian enrolled
at the Hartford Theological Seminary. These languages are im-
portant for more than travel, and have been too long neglected in
our country,

MARK HYMAN, JR.

  

HOME appress: 11 Garfield Rd., Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE apprFss: Pilot Chemicals, Inc., Watertown, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 16, 1912, New York, N.Y. Parents: Mark Hyman, ’99, Louise
Baer,

[ 640 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934(35); a.M. (Columbia Univ.),
1936; s.M. (Massachusetts Inst. of Technology), 1939.

MARRIED: Carol Rosenfeld, July 19, 1941, Poughkeepsie, N.Y. cuitpren: Susan
Kay, March 21, 1943; Katherine Ann, Nov. 28, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Donald M. Hyman, ’29.

occuPATION: President, Pilot Chemicals, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Ethical Society of Boston.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Harvard Engineering Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles published in technical magazines on such subjects
as infra-red transmitting windows and metal-loaded plastic scintillators;

hold about a dozen patents.

FROM the harsh rigors of 1934’s economic climate to the benevolent
warmth of the “affluent society” of 1959 has been a violent revolu-
tion which has surely affected most of our Class, myself included.
I left college with no very clear idea of what I wanted to do, but
having a somewhat diffuse interest in chemistry and economics,
My first year out, I had a job studying the operation of a hotel in
order to improve its efficiency; also I worked on a farm, driving a
tractor; also I did some studying. Then to Columbia for a Master’s
degree in chemistry. My interest was now well channeled into this
field, but jobs therein proved non-existent. Hence, I took a job in
a Wall Street firm as a combined errand boy and statistician. Thence
back to the Ivory Tower, this time at M.L'T. Finally, I landed a
fascinating job with Polaroid Corporation.

My ten years at Polaroid were ones of hard work on interesting
projects. My responsibilities ran the gamut from research to pro-
duction. During 1941-45 my work was solely on projects for
national defense. One interesting job here was to help develop the
field of precision plastic optics, which helped crack the wartime
bottleneck in glass optics. Another involved work on a heat-homing
missile.

In 1941, I came under the civilizing and mellowing influence
of a charming girl. Carol has never given up hope that this influence
will take effect — and it may yet! We have two lovely girls who
ever intrigue us with their wisdom at one moment and their naiveté
at the next.

My final job at Polaroid was to head up the production of the
components for the picture-in-a-minute camera film. This proved to
be a challenging task both from the point of view of the chemical
engineering and from that of forming a team of workers who could
meet the many demands of this brand new field. When this pro-

[ 641 ]

1 chen eseaeetan SeaDream cenesatannaetineetNidatinnNittacree

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

duction had been organized fairly smoothly, I faced the decision
of whether to stick with a good position in a growing field or to
branch out on my own. .

To end up in a comfortable position as an organization man or
to be a lone-wolf entrepreneur — this was the question, | probably
should have had my head examined, but I chose the latter course,
realizing that 1 would always have a secret hankering to attempt
ny OWN enterprise if | did not hazard it then and there. Hence,
1 started Pilot Chemicals, Inc., in 1950. After several years of real
struggle and with the able assistance of Carol, who has the business
head in the fainily, we finally changed the color of our ink from red
to black, Our field is research and ‘production i in the domain of fine
organic chemicals, many of those we make are for use in atomic
radiation detection.

My hobbies include some reading in history and economics,
bridge, tennis, swimming, and climbing an occasional mountain.

I close with best wishes to my classmates for the next twenty-
five years of this ever-hazardous and ever-fascinating era.

JAMES LEE HYMES, JR.

 

ROME adress; 1621 Oaklawn Cr, Silver Spring, Md.

orrice aporess: College of Education, University of Maryland, College Park,
Md.

BORN: Aug. 3, 1913, Bronx, N.Y. Parents; James Lee Hymes, Elsie Schuessler.

PREPARED AT: Jamaica High School, Jamaica, N.Y,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: AB., cum laude, 1934; a.m. (Columbia
Univ.), 1936; ED.D. (ibid.), 1946.

atarriep: Lucia Manley, Aug. 20, 1938, Yonkers, N.Y. cHILpREN: Lucia Lane,
Feb. 12, 1940; James Lee, 3d, May 5, 1943; Jo Ann, Oct. 24, 1947.

[ 642 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Professor of education; chairman, Childhood Education, University
of Maryland.

OFFICES HELD: President, National Association for Nursery Education, 1945-47;
vice-president, Association for Childhood Education International, 1947-49.

MEMBER OF: National Association for Nursery Education (NANE); Associa-
tion for Childhood Education International (ACEI); Society for Research

» in Child Development; National Education Association.

pusticarions: Understanding Your Child, 1952; Effective Home-School Rela-
tions, 1953; A Child Development Point of View, 1955, Behaviour and
Misbebaviour, 1955, all published by Prentice-Hall, Inc.; Before The Child
Reads, 1958, Row, Peterson & Co.

IN college I majored first in philosophy, then in political theory,
and then finally, in my senior year, in international law and relations.
This was followed two years later by a Master’s degree in child
development and parent education, On the surface, this looks like
wandering and wavering, and then a big jump into a totally different
field. Underneath, I think, there has been some unity: a persisting
concern with trying to help in some way to make this a better world
to live in. Trying to apply a better understanding of children to
public school practices has been exciting and satisfying personally,
and (I think) a step in this overall direction.

The years since Harvard have been good years. Our family life
has been solidly happy. Our youngsters have been healthy and have
enjoyed their lives, each one able and competent in his own way.
Our living has taken us to different parts of the country: many
years in New York, three in Oregon, eight in Tennessee, in Mary-
land since 1957, with the chance for many trips, including one
wonderful summer at the University of Hawaii.

My work has given me more opportunity than many people have
to spend time with my family, and to watch our youngsters in their
schooling. It has given me time for writing, which I have thoroughly
enjoyed — ranging from books for children to books for parents
and teachers, from material in professional journals to articles in
popular magazines. It even allows time occasionally for golf, for
hi-fi. And even in its most serious moments, it has meant the ex-
citement of ideas and the stimulus of good friends.

With so many satisfactions so luckily flowing, perhaps one should
expect a dull contentment. Yet the causes for which I have cared —
in education, politics, manners and morals, religion — have been the
liberal causes. This seemingly is never the path to an easy con-
tentment, “Victories” can seem so few and far between.

[ 643 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

JOSEPH M. TAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 57 Young Ave., Pelham, N.Y. ~

OFFICE ADpREsS: 466 Lexington Ave. New York, N.Y,

BORN: Feb. 24, 1913, Laviono, Italy, parents: Antony Jan, Carmela D’Antona.

PREPARED aT: Amsterdam High School, Amsterdam, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932. DEGREES: S.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1934; a.M. (ibid.),
1936.

MarRiED: Lillian Marzi, 1938, New York, N.Y, cumwpren: Claudia Cecelia,
Aug. 16, 1941; Anthony Joseph, Feb. 21, 1943; Michael John, April 21,
1948.

occuPaTION: Assistant director, real estate, New York Central Railroad, re-
sponsible for insurance and pension functions of railroad and special real
estate projects.

T. AUSTIN IVORY

 

HOME Appress: 5808 Ipswich Rd., Bethesda 14, Md.
OFFICE appress: Bureau of the Budget, International Div., Washington, D.C.
BORN: Oct, 10, 1913, Roslindale, Mass. parents: Thomas Austin Ivory, Lucy

Gerry.
[ 644 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; M.B.A., 1936.

MARRIED: Pattie Virginia Christine, May 27, 1941, Quincy, Mass. cHiLpren;
Kristin, Jan. 9, 1945; Ming Marie, Aug. 29, 1949; Jed Cameron, Jan. 27,

1956.
HARVARD BROTHER: Paul Stetson Ivory, A.M. '46, ED.D. ’50.

occupation: Mutual Security Budget Examiner, Bureau of the Budget.

OFFICES HELD: ‘Treasurer, Catholic Association for International Peace, 1954-
56.

MEMBER OF: Catholic Association for International Peace; American Society for
Public Administration; Harvard Musical Association.

PuBLicaTIONS: “Technical Assistance and Foreign Aid,” in The Role of the
Christian in the World for Peace, 1953.

FOLLOWING the advice of President Conant to study in a field
apart from a career, I concentrated in music in college, afterward
going to the Business School and later becoming a bureaucrat in
the Foreign Aid field.

For me this has worked very well. The early days after gradua-
tion were spent in Boston with an insurance company. I married in
1941 and began a series of purchasing jobs with several manu-
facturers, finally joining the Army Ordnance Purchasing Office in
Boston. I had decided, however, to get into international affairs and
had tried without success to find overseas work where I could take
my family. In 1947 there was an opening in Korea.

Leaving for Korea was difficult. The Army people had said my
wife and three-year-old daughter could join me in three to six
months, Sure, they could! But six became seven, seven became
eight, and so on. When I called home after my year’s contract was
completed and said I was moving to Tokyo and that the Army
would move my family within ninety days, Pattie was pretty much
convinced that I was just too gullible to believe the Army author-
ities. But she found out! Although I told her to get ready for the
long trip, Pattie refused to believe it would happen. When the
port call came, she had ten days to get to Seattle, four of which were
to be on the train. _

This was a hot week in August in which furniture was sold,
clothing purchased and packed, and “shots” acquired. Kristin, then
almost four years old, was crying in the dispensary that she didn’t
want to see her daddy anyway when a nurse stopped to explain
that the vaccination was a pretty green color, Kris stopped be-
moaning her fate only long enough to explain that it wasn’t green
at all, “it was aqua.”

[ 645 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

CLIFTON LANE JACKSON

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Flying Horse Shoe Ranch, Route 1, Box 13, Cypress,
Texas.

BORN: June 23, 1908, Houston, Texas. parents: John Edward Jackson, Jessie
Lane.

PREPARED AT: John H. Reagan High School, Houston, Texas.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934.

MakRIED: Dorothy Bateman Mason, Nov. 1, 1939, Houston, Texas.

occupation: Farming and ranching, chiefly swine (commercial prod uction).

oFFices HELD: Member, City Democratic Executive Committee, 1940-44, super-
visor, District C, Harris Soil Conservation District, 1948-56; member,

Harris County Veterans Land Board, 1956-58; vice-president, Harvard
Club of Houston, since 1958.

MEMBER OF: Friday Club of Houston; Harvard Varsity Club; Harvard Club
of Houston, ,

A COLLEGE product of the depression ’30s, I made up my mind to
engage in a business activity of my own. My first venture, after
leaving Jones McDuffee & Stratton of Boston, in December, 1935,
was to promote the designing, manufacture, importation and dis-
tribution of a set of twelve historical plates of Texas. The Lone
Star State was to observe her centennial celebration in 1936. ‘This
project was completed with a measure of success, as sales in twenty-
seven states and fourteen foreign countries will indicate,

Following this, I acquired business and residential properties
from which I gained a steady monthly income. However, I felt
the need to know more about self-sustenance, and the sense of self-
preservation was uppermost in my mind after witnessing the closing
of the banks of Boston while 1 was a student of money and banking.
In fact, after so many queries by others as to why I am farming and
not banking, I have answered, “After studying money and banking
under the tutelage of the leading bankers of the world and noting

[ 648 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

their inability to keep their own banks open at the time, I resolved
to attempt to be more secure, and farming was the only answer to
self-preservation.” Having repeated this statement so many times
from the political platforms of Houston and Harris County, a sense
of truth seemed to evolve about it, so much so, I really began to
believe it myself.

Hence my farming career started with a small ten-acre tract.
from which the rudiments and fundamentals had to be acquired by
practice. In 1945 I purchased my present spread, The Flying Horse
Shoe Ranch, as noted in my Twentieth Anniversary Report. At
present, I am engaged in expanding my swine operations on a fairly
large scale.

Coincidentally, I have been interested in community, state and
national politics ever since leaving Cambridge. I have worked at the
polls and have been a delegate to most of the county and state Demo-
cratic conventions. My political leanings have alw ays been on the
side of the conservative southern Democrats and this to some extent
accounts for my three unsuccessful campaigns for election to the
State Legislature. I have, however, been elected to the City Demo-
cratic Executive Committee twice, each time for two-year terms, in
1941 and 1943. When the Harris County Soil Conservation District
was organized, I was elected twice as soil conservation supervisor for
District 3, first in 1948 and then in 1951, the second term being for
five years. I did not seek a third term in view of my convictions
regarding two terms only for elected officials. In 1956 I was ap-
pointed to the newly-created Harris County Veterans Land Com-
mittee which resulted from outrageous scandals involvi ing millions
of dollars taken by members of the State Board. I was forced to
resign this gratuitous office last summer, due to increased farming
activit

One of the most exciting experiences of my life, and one with
loads of romance was my recent attempt to drill an oil well. Al-
though a shallow well as oil wells go, I struck pay on my first at-
tempt and likewise with my next four. About that time, importa-
tion of foreign oil rocked the independent oil men, and T, as an
independent oil operator, was lucky enough to dispose of my hold-
ings profitably.

It might be of interest, though relatively unimportant, to mention
my brief army experience. T was drafted while recuperating from a
laminectomy performed to correct a herniated nucleosis pulposis,
and. with a cane in each hand for support, TE was passed by the medical

[ 649 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

examiners at 9 A.M., June 5, 1942, and by 10:30 P.M. the same day
was on the train with other draftees en route to Dodd Field, San
Antonio, Texas, After languishing in Brooks General Hospital for
seven weeks, I was given a medical discharge.

I have no hobbies. Social activities are practically nil, except for
a few barbecues, and the same can be said of our travels. In 1947, my
wife and I took a trip to New York and Cambridge, to renew our
acquaintances and to look at Harvard again, After that experience
] am afraid I'll never get the hayseed out of my hair.

My wife, incidentally, is a New England Yankee (once a Republi-
can!) from Belmont, Massachusetts, who, all of ninety-eight pounds
dripping wet, has become a real Texas cowgirl and has adopted Texas.
Although anything but a country girl, she loves ranch life which has
made our life very happy and I am thankful. We have not been
blessed with future Harvard gridiron prospects nor Radcliffe
scholars, but who can have everything?

Even though we have been back to Cambridge only once, I feel
close to Harvard due to activities in the Harvard Club of Houston,
When the Harvard Glee Club visited Houston last Faster, I served as
chairman of the Housing Committee, as the members of the Glee
Club preferred to stay at the homes of alumni rather than to be
quartered at hotels. There are between 500 and 600 men in the
Houston area who have been connected with Harvard in one way
or another, although our membership is only about eighty-five at
present. I feel honored having been elected last November as vice-
president of the Harvard Club of Houston for 1959.

When it is all said and done, my four years at Harvard were filled
with some of the greatest experiences I’ve ever had and left me
lasting memories, the recounting of which have afforded me much
pleasure over the past twenty-five years, | am looking forward with
the old college spirit and excitement to making new acquaintances
and meeting again the many friends I had the privilege of knowing
so well during those years.

See you all in June.

[ 650]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DON MERRILL JACKSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1520 Lexington Ct., Kansas City 10, Mo.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Rogers, Field, Gentry & Jackson, Attorneys, 600 E. irth St,

Kansas City, Mo.

BORN: Oct. 24, 1913, Kansas City, Mo. parents: Merrill Marion Jackson, Vera
R. Long.

PREPARED aT: Westport High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931. DEGREE: LL.B. (Univ. of Kansas City), 1936.

MarriEeD: Henryetta J. Boese, Sept. 2, 1933, Kansas City, Mo. (divorced 1955);
Caryle J. Martin, Nov. 22, 1956, Kansas City, Mo. cuupren: Don Merrill,
Jr., July 31, 1934 (7. Barbara Petre, Aug. 28, 1955); Martha D., Aug. 18,
1938; Janet L., Jan. 30, 1949. GRANDCHILD: Susan E. Jackson, March 12, 1957.

OCCUPATION; Attorney; senior partner, Rogers, Field, Gentry & Jackson.

OFFICES HELD: City Councilman, Kansas City, Mo., since April, 1951; member,
board of directors and executive committee, Greater Kansas City Mental
Health Foundation, since 1954.

MEMBER OF: American College of Trial Lawyers (fellow, since 1954); Blue
Hills Country Club, Kansas City; Kansas City: Athletic Club; Lawyers
Association of Kansas City; Missouri and American Bar Associations.

PUBLICATIONS: Various legal articles in field of trial practice, for American,
Missouri State and Kansas City Bar publications,

MY formal connection with the Class of 1934 was abruptly ter-
minated by the depression of 1931, but my associations and friend-
ships with many of the Class members have been renewed and main-
tained through the years. During World War II, I was frequently
surprised to find myself repeatedly encountering members of the
Class in the Navy. It has always been an enjoyable occasion.

After leaving Harvard, I took my law degree at the University
of Kansas City and have been engaged in general practice since
1936. During most of that time, I have been principally a trial
lawyer and am steadily and continuously trying cases in all the

[ 651]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

courts of Alissouri and the federal courts, as well as the courts of
many of the other states in the Midwest.

I was commissioned in the Naval Reserve in 1943, attended the
Air Combat Intelligence Schoo! at Quonset Point and was sent from
there to the South Pacific Theatre, where I was attached to the
ACT group in the Solomon Islands, until late 1944. From there, I
went to the Seventh Fleet and, after rotation, ended the war as
operations officer, Air Bases, 12th Naval District, Alameda, Cali-
fornia. When the Korean War began, I was ordered to Washington,
D.C,, to establish a new ACT school, where I taught until released in
1951. After two tours of duty had interrupted my Practice, I re-
signed my reserve commission in 1951.

“My work is my principal hobby, although now that a new
“generation” of young lawyers has gained experience in our firms,
I am enjoying golf and swimming. Since the Navy provided ade-
quate travel for years to come, our travels today are limited to this
country, with a part of each winter spent in relaxing in the desert
sun in Phoenix, Arizona.

LEO LEWIS JACQUES

 

ADpREsS: 15 Elmgrove Ave., Providence 6, RI.

BORN: Sept. 13, 1912, Pawtucket, R.I. paRENTS: Jean Jacques, Zella Harris,
PREPARED AT: Providence Classical High School, Providence, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934(35).

occupation: Law.

NO questionnaire returned,

[ 652 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BLAIR VALDEMAR JAGER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 218 Ambergate Rd., DeWitt, N.Y.

OFFICE ADpREss: Veterans Administration Hospital, Syracuse, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 23, 1913, Wichita, Kans. parents: Thor Jager, Margaret Case.
PREPARED AT: Wichita High School East, Wichita, Kans.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1934; M.D., cum laude,

1938.
MARRIED: Louise Amerman, Sept. 5, 1937, Wichita, Kans. cympre~: Erik,

Dec. 19, 1939; Robert Allan, Nov. 4, 1943; Bruce Valdemar, June 10,

1947.
HARVARD BROTHER: Eric Howard Jager, ’39.
OCCUPATION: Physician (internist); chief of medicine, V.A. Hospital, Syracuse,

N.Y.
MEMBER OF: American Society for Clinical Investigation; American Associa-

tion of Immunologists; American Academy of Neurology (associate).
PUBLICATIONS: Articles relating to medical subjects printed in journals and
one in a medical text.

AFTER graduating from Medical School in 1938, there was hospital
training at the Boston City Hospital, Vanderbilt Hospital in Nash-
ville, Johns Hopkins Hospital. Then there was a short stretch of
chemical warfare work at New York University. Having been
rejected for the Army, I went to Salt Lake City in 1944 in the De-
partment of Medicine at the University of Utah. There I remained
until June, 1958. Our family became fond of the recreation facilities
of Utah — skiing, hunting, mountain climbing (never with ropes)
and just plain picnicking.

Since July, 1958, we have been living in Syracuse, New York,
and are attempting to become accustomed to heavy traffic, cloudy
skies, cold weather and change in job. Our oldest boy, aged nineteen,
is a freshman at Knox College in Galesburg, Illinois. Our other two
are in the public schools of DeWitt, a suburb of Syracuse.

[ 653 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934
CONRAD C. JAMISON

 

HOME appress: 606 Galer Pl., Glendale 6, Calif.

OFFICE abpREss: Research Dept., Security First National Bank, Box 2097, Ter-
minal Annex, Los Angeles 54, Calif.

Born: March 31, 1914, Cove, Utah. parents: William Flavius Jamison, Ethel
Titensor.

PREPARED AT: Venice High School, Los Angeles, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: §.B., £1772 laude, 1934.

maruieD: Shirley Marie Sheldon, July 10, 1938, Los Angeles, Calif. CHILDREN:
Sheryl Lee, Oct. 28, 1944; Janis, April 23, 1952; Deborah, Feb. 25, 1955;
Julianne, July 9, 1957.

occuPATION: Vice-president and manager, Research Department, Security
First National Bank,

OFFICES HELD: Commissioner, Governor Warren’s Commission on Small Busi-
ness, 1950-54; bishop's counselor, Glendale East Ward, 1952-55, high
councilman, Glendale Stake, since 1955, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter
Day Saints; chairman, Residential Research Committee of Southern
California, 1953; director, Glendale Chapter, American Red Cross, since
1957, Los Angeles Chapter, Lambda Alpha, since 1958, member, Re-
search Committee and Industrial Development Committee, Los Angeles
Chamber of Commerce, Industrial Development Committee and Commit-
tee for the Study of California’s Future, California Chamber of Commerce,
Research Advisory Board, Welfare Planning Council of Los Angeles
Region, Residential Research Committee of Southern California, Advisory
Council on Curriculum in Applied Politics and Economics, Occidental
College.

MEMBER OF: American Statistical Association; American Finance Association;
American Management Association, Lambda Alpha (land economics
fraternity); California Scholarship Federation, Ephebian Society.

PuBLicaTions: Editor and principal writer, Security First National Bank’s
“Monthly Summary of Business Conditions in Southern California,”
since 1947; occasional articles in various trade and business publications.

AFTER leaving Harvard, I took graduate work in business adminis-
tration and economics at the University of Southern California

[ 654 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

(1934-36) and at the University of California at Los Angeles (1936—
37). During my year at U.C_L.A., I combined study with being a
Teaching Assistant in Economics.

My career with Security First National Bank began in August,
1937, when I was employed as a research assistant in the Research
Department. I advanced successively to assistant manager of that
department, manager, assistant vice-president, and (in February,
1954) vice-president. Throughout these twenty-one years — except
for a period of military service — I have been in the bank’s Research
Department, at the head office in Los Angeles.

My military service consisted of nearly three years i in the Army
during World War If — from February, 1943, to November, 1945.
A master sergeant in the Finance Department, I saw overseas service
in Wales, England, and France. My unit, the ggth Finance Dis-
bursing Section, was enroute to the Pacific Theater of Operations
when the atomic bomb was dropped on Hiroshima. Our orders were
changed, and our ship sailed to New York instead of the Orient.
Adjusting back to civilian life was the easiest thing I ever did.

For over twenty years I have had a wonderful wife as a helpmate
and companion. We have four fine daughters, ranging in age from
14 years to 18 months.

My hobbies: Church work, photography, and the ancient civiliza-
tions and ruins of Mexico and Central America.

As yet, I have most of my hair — but more waistline than I ever
had at Harvard.

“

NELSON DEAN JAY

 

HOME ADpRESS: Pefia Blanca, N. Mex.

[655 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

BorN: July 3, 1911, Milwaukee, Wis. parents: Nelson Dean Jay, Anne Augus-
tine.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934.

MarrieD: Diana Draper, Feb. 14, 1936, New York, N.Y. (divorced 1947);
N. C. Breese, Sept. 1, 1951, Santa Fe, N.Mex. cuitpren: George B., April
7, 1937; Dean, May 12, 1938; Susan Jay, Aug. 26, 1941; Richard D., Oct.
26, 1944; Wendy! Breese, April 10, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Dean Jay, ’42.

occupation: Rancher and farmer (with oil, gas and uranium exploration and
investment as a sideline).

THREE years in Wall Street convinced me that, despite its fascina-
tion, the financial world was too confining for such a rolling stone
as I. In 1937 I went to work for Continental Oil Company and
dragged reluctant wife and infant son from New York to Oklahoma
and then to New Mexico, As I look back on it the company must
have found me most adaptable as I worked from gas station boy to
mechanical testing technician to refinery maintenance engineer with
occasional spells as co-pilot and then pilot.

During the war, after being turned down by USAAF and Navy
I joined the RAF and started service at a flying school in the
Florida Everglades. Most of 1942 was spent learning to cope with
the climate of the British Isles and 1943 found me based at what
even in wartime was a delightful spot on the shore of the Moray
Firth in Scotland. There, thanks to Harvard’s French and German
departments, I instructed in flying in three languages.

In November ’43, along with most other “Yanks” in the RAF, I
was pressured into the U.S, Eighth Air Force where I was promptly
declared surplus and shipped to Atlantic City of all places, and there
I served out the war doing routine check flying and transport work.
After the war I gravitated to Santa Fe, my favorite place, but my
attempt to settle down only ended in divorce, so back to Continental
Oil, this time with the geophysical department and the whole South-
west for my bailiwick.

Courting the belle of Santa Fe, 1 found that settling down was an
absolute requirement for marriage, so with the help of my father
and the bankers we now live on a beautiful little ranch in the valley
of the Rio Grande near Santa Fe. With hay to put up and calves
to care for we are busy all summer, too busy to think, but in winter
we take off to our house in Aspen to indulge in my whole family’s
favorite sport of skiing. There, too, we can catch up on reading and
listening to recorded music. Most significant recent reading:

[ 656 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Physics and Philosophy by Werner Heisenberg. Most significant
recent recording: Robert Craft’s “Complete Works of Anton
Webern.”

And so “as he knows what to say, so he knows also when to leave

off,” I hope.

THOMAS KAYLER JENKINS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 195 St. James Pl., Buffalo 22, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1708 Rand Bldg., Buffalo 3, N.Y.
BORN: Aug. 18, rgt1, Ravenna, Ohio, Parents: Thomas C. Jenkins, Ethel B.

Kayler.

PREPARED aT: Ravenna High School, Ravenna, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1934; LL.B., 1937.

MARRIED: LaVerne Catherine Moore, June 27, 1942, Kent, Ohio.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, First Pilgrim Congregational Church, since 1956;
director, since 1948, secretary, 1948-56, Amherst Symphony Orchestra
Association; director and secretary, North Aurora Realty, Inc., since
1955, Keats Building Corporation, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Erie County Bar Association; Judge Advocate’s Association; First
Pilgrim Congregational Church; Amherst Symphony Orchestra; Greater
Buffalo Ad Club,

AFTER graduation, I continued on through Harvard Law School
and then joined John Lord O’Brian’s law firm (Slee, O'Brian, Hellings
& Ulsh) in Buffalo. Those were still depression (or was it “re-
cession”? ) days and $100 a month looked pretty good. In fact it
must have been, for I saved more money then than I ever have since.
With time out for the war years, I remained with the same firm
until 1953, when I became associated with the firm of Daetsch,
Pfeiffer, Ryan, Daetsch & Lesher. A couple of years later that firm

[ 657 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

broke up through death and retirements and since that time I have

practised law with Robert S. Lesher.

Like most of my contemporaries, I duly received my “greetings”
in 1942, and spent most of the next four years with the Air Force and
(after OCS) the Judge Advocate General’s Department. However,

I fought the war mostly in Utah and Georgia and did not get any

overseas service.

My marriage, to a girl who grew up just six miles from my old
home town, has turned out to be a very compatible and happy one.
Fortunately, we share the same tastes and enjoy doing the same
things, and we have no intention of joining the mounting divorce

" statistics, r

Hobbies and activities — that could be a long story. Reading 1s

perhaps at the top of the list — mostly history and biography, with
a sprinkling of mysteries, novels and miscellaneous books for variety.
Next is music. I have played with various community orchestras
since coming to Buffalo, and it still happens quite frequently that
they set up a number which I learned with the old Pierian Sodality.
Sometimes that can be embarrassing, as a couple of years ago I was
called to fill in with a local college orchestra and suddenly realized
that the last time I had played that number was with the Pierian,
before any of the kids in that orchestra were born! But with
orchestras, chamber music, concerts and a record collection, music
has been a very satisfying hobby. Other hobbies — bridge, golf,
bowling and what have you. Nothing spectacular, although last
year in the city bowling tournament I did post an all-events total
which would have been good enough to win all but three of the last
twenty-years, but not that year. As to vacations —- my idea of a
perfect vacation, fortunately shared by my wife, is to take a canoe
and head out into the Canadian wilds all by ourselves. Can’t do it
every year, but the last several trips have been outstanding.

All in all, the past twenty-five years have been quite satisfying.
They have not been, and never will be, “normal times.” There have
been wars and “cold wars,” inflation and other problems. I have not
become, and never will be, rich or famous; but I have enjoyed those
years and hope to continue to enjoy life for quite a while yet.

[ 658 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ BRADISH JOHNSON

 

Born: Nov. 28, 1911, New York, N.Y. parents: Bradish Gaillard Johnson,

Emma Grima.
PREPARED AT: Downside School, England. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933.
HARVARD BROTHER: Arthur Grima Johnson, ’41.

piep: Dec. 31, 1937, Caudete, Spain.

BRADISH JOHNSON spent three years at Harvard as an under-
graduate. He was a member of the freshman polo team. After

leaving college he spent two years as a special assistant in the
National Recovery Administration. He had been Paris correspon-
dent for the magazine Spur for a year before going to Spain as a
photographer and special correspondent for Newsweek. He was
killed by a Spanish artillery shell on December 31, 1937, at Caudete,
Spain. He was survived by his parents, a brother, Arthur Grima

Johnson, ’41, and a sister.

\

[ 659 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

CHARLES MONTAGUE JOHNSON

    

HOME ADDRESS: 176 Orange St., Springfield, Mass.

OFFICE aDpRESS: Ford Trucks, Inc., 349 Front Ave., West Haven, Conn. .

BORN: July 2, 1913, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Allen Montague Johnson, Mary
Isabel Miller. 4

>REPARED AT: Needham High School, Needham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

TNMARRIED.

[ARVARD BROTHER: William Wade Allen Johnson, ’36, a.m, ’38.

CCUPATION: Sales engineer of materials handling equipment, Ford Trucks,
Inc.

FFICES HELD: Member, advisory committee, Cambridge Center for Adult
Education, 1945-58.
[EMBER OF: Springfield Bridge Club.

sEING one of the unmarried members of the Class, I find that my

fe lacks the many milestones that others have, and to the family

van must seem rather drab. For what interest it may be worth,

ere is the story of my uneventful life. I cannot report on my

=markable children; I might have missed them more but for the fact
vat I have three very satisfactory nephews and two young cousins.

‘he devotion of my beautiful Irish setter represents my love life.
ly work is interesting. I like music and the theatre, and play a
reat deal of bridge at the Springfield Bridge Club. I have even
egun teaching bridge this winter, and think that I shall do even
ore of it. |

I have a cottage on an island off the coast of Maine and spend all
assible time there from April through November, I have a few
niable neighbors, the fishing is fine, there is some tennis and boat-
g. But the wods always need clearing, fireplace logs need sawing,
¢ cottage always needs remodelling, young relatives and old friends
ed entertaining.

[ 660 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

It does sound placid — almost retired. But it is all more active
than it sounds, and quite pleasant.

G. GRIFFITH JOHNSON, JR.

 

HOME ApDpREss: 19 Nickerson Lane, Darien, Conn.
OFFICE AppREss: Motion Picture Association of America, 28 W. 4ith St. New

York, N.Y.
BORN: Aug. 15, 1912, New York, N.Y. Parents: Gove Griffith Johnson, May

Francelia Russell.
PREPARED AT: Central High School, Washington, D.C.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: AB., suntma cum laude, 1934; A.M. 1936;

PH.D., 1938.
MARRIED: Janet Young, June 23, 1936, Washington, D.C. cyitpren: Carol
Lynne, Aug. 6, 1941; Gove Griffith, 3d, April 2, 1944.
OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Motion Picture Association of America.
_ OFFICES HELD: Member, Visiting Committee, Littauer School of Public Ad-
ministration, since 1957; member, Council of the Harvard Foundation for

Advanced Study and Research, since 1958.
MEMBER OF; University Club of Washington; Sherwood Forest Club of Mary-

land; various professional organizations.
PuBLicaTIONs: The Treasury and Monetary Policy, Harvard University Press,

1939; Various reports and articles.

AFTER graduation I spent a year knocking around Europe, thanks
to a Sheldon Fellowship, frequently in the company of certain more
distinguished members of our Class, such as Lowell Harriss, Bob
Creel, Chuck Arensberg and Charlie Salls, Then back to the Grad-
uate School of Arts and Sciences where I was privileged to par-
ticipate in the newly started program for training for the public
service. This involved two years at Harvard, interspersed with a
year of internship at the Treasury in Washington. From 1938 to

[ 661 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

early 1952, except for a year engaged in some private consulting
work, I was with the Federal Government in various assorted
agencies and offices, including the Treasury, the OPA, the White
House staff and the National Security Resources Board. My last
spots were chief economist of the Budget Bureau and, following the
outbreak of the Korean War, assistant administrator for economic
policy of the Economic Stabilization Administration.

Since 1952, I have been with the Motion Picture Association, but
have very little to do with the glamorous side of the industry. My
work deals primarily with the foreign market and takes me to
Furope several times a year. After years of spending three or so
days a week in New York while living in Washington, I finally made
the break last fall and moved to Darien, where I have rapidly be-
come one of the more stalwart enemies of the New Haven Railroad.
We look forward, however, to sailing on the Sound, which may
even be superior to our old habitat of Chesapeake Bay.

JOSEPH LEUPP JOHNSON

 

HOME AppRESS: 535 S, Grand Ave., Pasadena, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 2305 Hyperion Ave., Los Angeles, Calif.

BoRN: May 23, 1911, Pasadena, Calif. parents: Reginald Davis Johnson, Kathleen
Bushnell Leupp.

PREPARED AT: Cate School, Carpinteria, Calif.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1034. DEGREES: A.B. 1934; B.ARCH., 1939.
MaRRiED: Margaret McDougall Merwin, Aug. 13, 1938, Pasadena, Calif. CHIL-

pREN: Kathleen Merwin, Feb. 26, 1940; Frances Davis, Sept. 5, 1942; Joseph
Alfred, Dec. 29, 1944.

occupation: Architect in individual practice.
orFices HELD: Member, executive committee, Los Angeles County Democratic
Central Committee, 1954-56, member, advisory board, Urban League,

[ 662 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Western Regional Office, since 1954; member, executive committee,
California State Democratic Central Committee, 1957-58.
MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects.
FOLLOWING graduation, my sister and I headed for Europe on
the Holland-American line Veendam with a fine contingent from
Harvard and spent ten weeks falkboating, biking, hiking, flying and
entraining through France, Germany and Italy. This was followed
by two years of combining work in my father’s office and Art
School, a trip to England in the summer of ’36, a year at New Haven
in the Architectural School and a return to Harvard to obtain my
architectural degree when Dr. Walter Gropius was first appointed.

The final year of graduate work was spent living in Shaler Lane
with my recently acquired wife. Our honeymoon had ended on
a tumultuous blast as we had encountered the hurricane of ’38 on
board a train crossing Stonington Harbor in Connecticut. When the
train began to submerge into the stormy waters, we had swum ashore
to find the corrugated metal roofs flying off houses like pie plates
being tossed in the wind. Our bedraggled entrance to the Com-
mander Hotel in Cambridge the following day, the groom in a
thoroughly shrunken blue suit, no luggage, and with a gold button
to indicate the location of the missing collar was S greeted with a re-
quest for payment in advance!

With the degree under my arm, we again headed west, this time
to San Francisco for two and a half years where I was fortunate
enough to be employed by William Wilson Wurster. It was a fine
period for us in a beautiful city where our first daughter was born.
Then, following a lovely sail on the bay, we heard the news in
December of ’41, and our San Francisco life quickly ended. By mid-
1942, I had been commissioned in the Army Engineers and fought
the war in the United States.

By 1946, with discharge, we had our family of two girls and a boy.
Returning to Los Angeles, IJ entered a partnership which has

gradually dissolved over the years to the point where I now conduct

a small practice on my own. Fortunately, for personal satisfaction,
it is one which I enjoy. The children have grown rapidly. One is
at the University of Colorado, one completing high school and one
probably entering prep school next year. And we still haven't
finished the house, now ten years old.

Our interests seem to have been varied. Followi ing the war par-

ticularly, we worked with various groups on the problems of low-
income housing, slum clearance, cooperatives and the transition from

[663 |

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

emergency war housing. The need to recognize new teaching tech-
niques and to plan for a rapidly expanding school population in-
volved us in the Pasadena public school controversy. We have
been involved in work with minority groups in attempts to eliminate
discrimination in housing and employment. As a political vehicle for
implementing our interests, we have considered the Democratic
party most effective and so have spent much time in helping reshape
it into an effective organization. And always for Peggy there has

been a continuing interest in music.

SHIRLEY DEAN JOHNSON

 

ApbrEss: Burlington, Colorado.
BORN: Dec. 19, 1911, Sheridan, Wyo. parents: Shirley Dawson Johnson, Nell

Dennis.
PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.
occuPaTION: Law.

NO questionnaire returned.

[ 664 ]

251TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILFORD HOLLINGSWORTH JOHNSON

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 1889 Cascade Ave., Boulder, Colo.
BorN: Aug. 18, 1912, Kalispell, Mont. parents: Frank Hollingsworth Johnson,

Susan Wallace.
PREPARED AT: Helena High School, Helena, Mont.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 10930-1932, 1933-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1934(35)-
MARRIED: Katherine S. Z. Mitchell, March 27, 1940, Yuma, Ariz.

OCCUPATION: Investments, filbert grower.
MEMBER OF: Sigma Chi Fraternity, B.P.O.E.,; Rocky Mountain Harvard Club.

FOLLOWING graduation in June, 1935 (I had been obliged to
withdraw because of illness during the sophomore year), I spent the
next six months cruising up and down the Atlantic coastline in a
friend’s yacht, thanks to my father’s generosity in providing the
wherewithal, then headed for New York and job-hunting. My tutor
had given me a chit to someone he knew, who in turn introduced
me to the man who was to sell me on the idea of going overseas,
John B. Chevalier, Harvard Class of 1908. Chevy, as we all called
him, had been in India and also in China for Standard Oil, and
knew everyone in New York who was connected with the export
business in the Far East. Companies weren’t hiring youngsters at
.that time for overseas assignments, or at least so they told me, but
I put my name on all the lists, and to my amazement and excitement,
in the fall of 1936, the National City Bank of New York gave me a

call, and late in October I found myself on board a Holland-Amerika
liner headed for Europe, and then India.

Bombay in 1936 was quite a town, indeed a fairly large city of a
million and a half. That was in the last hevday of the British raj,
when the Viceroy of India was still the supreme ruler of the land,
and well I can remember when he was in town, and roared through
the downtown streets, solidly lined with troops, at about forty miles

[ 665 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

very charming. We lived in Juneau, the territorial capital, a very
pretty little town of 7000, nestled between two mountains along one
of the inland arms of the sea. My job covered the whole territory,
so I had to travel constantly; saw a lot of the territory that way, but
felt like a traveling salesman much of the time. After a year and a
half of that, we decided to return to our home in the country, over-
looking the Columbia, and so we did.

And now we are in beautiful Boulder, in colorful Colorado, and
enjoy it. Living on the edge of the main range of the Rockies is like
coming home to me, a native-born son of Montana. It is nice to live
in a college town, and to take whatever part you wish in the goings-
on at the university. Denver is close by — and growing rapidly.

But, of course, life is not just a travelogue, although maybe mine
sounds too much like one. Our world is changing so rapidly now-
adays that our old familiar values don’t always seem to apply. With
the national debt creeping uncomfortably close to three hundred
billion dollars, with the dollar whose purchasing power has shrunk
to less than half its 1934 purchasing power, with current wide-
spread discussion of when and how we are going to reach the
moon (and from what I read that could come to pass even in our
lifetime), one is forced to admit that these are difficult times.

Looking back over the last twenty-five years, 1 can say that |
have been extremely fortunate, fortunate in having seen a bit of
the world, most of it at someone's expense, when I was young
enough to enjoy traveling and before the Orient and other parts of
the world had changed so much due to the effects of World War
II; fortunate in finding a wonderful wife to share it all with; for-
tunate in the many good friends I have found in so many different
places.

Even if I haven't acquired a fortune, I wouldn’t trade my e€Xx-
periences for several fortunes. And, of course, among the greatest
of these experiences was the privilege of attending Harvard College.

[ 668 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HUGH McBIRNEY JOHNSTON

 

HOME apprEss: R.F.D., Valatie, N.Y.

OFFICE appREss: Tilton-Johnston Productions, Inc., % Halperin, Morris, Granett
& Cowan, 1740 Broadway, New York, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 28, 1911, Chicago, Ill. parents: Hugh McBirney Johnston, Ethel

Hulburd.
PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Deborah Butler, Jan. 25, 1936, Lake Forest, Ill. (divorced 1942);
Ellen Wacker, April 10, 1942, Providence, R.I. cattpren: Deborah, March
2, 1937; Hugh McBirney, 3d, Feb. 19, 1938.

HARVARD SON: Thomas Sheffield, Jr., 58 (stepson).

HARVARD BROTHER: Hulburd Johnston, ’29.

occuPATION: Motion picture production.

MEMBER OF: Old Chatham Hunt Club; Pittsfield Country Club.

THAT I am in the motion picture business sometimes seems a little
hard even for me to believe. Yet the movies are, first of all, a
wonderful medium of communication, the field which has interested
— and frustrated — me since college.

First, there was the advertising business. I entered the radio de-
partment of a large Chicago agency as apprentice maid-of-all-work,
did a stint galloping ads in the research department, wrote radio
commercials, and had been elevated to account executive (junior
grade) when I left to form a small soft-beverage company with large
ideas. This side excursion into conventional business collapsed with
the outbreak of World War II and the restrictions on raw matertals.

My naval service was bewildering, frustrating, exhausting and
satisfying. After indoctrination in February, 1942, as lieutenant
(junior grade) at Quonset Point (bewildering), I was assigned to
Navy Pier, Chicago — the famous SS Concrete — apparently forever
(frustrating). Eventually, however, one of my regular requests for

[ 669 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

transfer bore fruit and I was sent to Aviation Communication
School, NAS, Memphis (exhausting avd bewildering: I was the only
officer in a class of 300 enlisted men, all radio hams and electrical
wizards — or so it seemed to me). This period of wild snafu was
followed by orders to set up and operate a communications school
for officers and crewmen of multi-engine aircraft at NAS, Kearny,
California (bewildering at first, but eventually satisfying; when the
Bomb fell, our school was going full tilt). In September, 1945, I
went on inactive duty as a lieutenant commander — about par for
the course.

My burning ambition at this point was to Get Away From It All.
We bought a farm in Upper New York, raised small fruit and
general crops until it penetrated that— for hard work and small
financial return — there’s nothing to beat farming, and finally made
a complex share-crop-rent deal with nearby farmers which maintains
the land and pays the taxes.

Meanwhile, I had invented and patented a sports glove, the prime
virtue of which is that it is free from seams on the contact surfaces
of the fingers—a la moccasin. After experiencing dire manu-
facturing difficulties and other vicissitudes, we entered into a royalty
agreement with the Hilts-Willard Glove Corporation of Glovers-
ville, New York, who are doing a fine job of manufacturing and dis-
tribution. Now Hear This! The gloves are called Stillbunter, and
they’re great for riding, shooting, driving, etc. Demand them! If
your store doesn’t have them, they should — and can get them!

While this was going on, I had returned to communications, mak-
ing industrial motion pictures and slide films for advertisers in the
Albany area. This led to an interest in entertainment films and the
forming of an independent production company. We have now
bought motion picture rights to two novels. One is full of script
headaches; the other is progressing very well and should be in
production next summer. Both are fascinating and exciting stories
of human growth, though entirely different in form and content.
This is a wonderfully rewarding — though hazardous — business.

Our home is still the farm, but we can get there only on weekends
and have a small apartment in New York (Greenwich Village —
Ellen is a painter). Our very satisfactory children, one in college and
two in graduate school, are with us occasional weekends and holi-
days. I ride, ski, play tennis when I can, enjoy three martinis before
dinner and feel that I’m aging gracefully —though we're all old
enough to know better,

[ 670 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN RICHARD JOHNSTON

 

HOME AppRESS: 1 Fenno Drive, Rowley, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Sylvania Electronic Systems Division, Sylvania Electric Products,

Inc., roo First Ave., Waltham, Mass.

BORN: March 28, 1913, Stoneham, Mass. PARENTS: John Johnston, Barbara Marie
Stotz.

PREPARED AT: Dean Academy, Franklin, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930~1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.
MARRIED: Nathalie Bowman Smith, June 26, 1941, Chelmsford, Mass. cHILDREN:

Jeffrey and Jere (twins), Dec. 18, 1941; John Richard, Jr., June 1, 1943;
Jill, June 26, 1944; Jaime L., Aug. 9, 1948; Joy N., June 23, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lawrence Stotz Johnston, ’32, M.B.A., 734.

occupation: Contract administrator, Sylvania Electronic Systems Dhvision,

Sylvania Electronic Products, Inc.
OFFICES HELD: Member, chairman, since 1956, Troop Committee, Troop 1, Boy
Scouts of America; member, Auditing Committee, First Congregational

Church, Rowley, Mass., 1958.
MEMBER OF: Harvard University Band Club; Men’s Club, First Congregational

Church, Rowley, Mass., Officers’ Club, Boston Naval Shipyard.

AS I write this, Jate in November, 1958, tomorrow marks the start
of my second career. The past twenty years have been spent as a
regular officer in the Supply Corps, United States Navy. These
years have been of limitless value, instilling responsibility, orderli-
ness, tolerance and humility in my life. There comes a time in
one’s life, at least it did in mine, when the desire and need to get

one’s roots down become overpowering. The rooting process de-

veloped rapidly in me after I bought a home on some two acres of

land in Rowley in 1954, when I transferred to duty at the Boston
Naval Shipyard, Here, all of us in the family made solid fr iendships;,
we joined in community activities; the children raised some chickens
and a goat; our three dogs and cat had plenty of room; and we all

[ 671 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

felt that we had begun to live as God had intended man to live. So,
in October, 1958, I was voluntarily placed on the retired list of the
Navy. Now I am looking forward to my second career in private
industry with Sylvania.

Right after college I had a job of sorts with a home-town shoe
manufacturer for two years; then I spent the next two at Harvard
Business School before getting a commission in the Navy in August,
1938. World War II began while I was still on my first sea duty in
the Aclantic. A shore leave respite from neutrality patrol had pro-
vided an opportunity to come to Boston from Norfolk, Virginia, in
June, 1941, to be married to my home-town sweetheart of nearly
ten years. Nathalie bore the brunt of bringing up the children during
the war years, and a real burden it was with the twins, John, Jr., and
Jill —all within a space of thirty months. We named Jill by mail
while I was at sea in the Pacific, and I saw her first when she was
six months old.

After the war was over we had some welcome shore duty together
and started the second family of Jaime and Joy, only ten months
apart, We have our hands full raising the family, but at least they
are all in school now while becoming more and more expensive to
feed and clothe. The joys of a close-knit family are unbounded; we
sometimes wish we could have more!

My travels have all been at the Navy’s expense — from the coast
of Africa to the Far East, while the family has been limited to the
continental United States. We have each had at least two round
trips!

In 1946 I discovered the 4” scale model railroading hobby. It’s
really great for keeping a man home nights and weekends, and while
at sea the building of a model car kit makes the time go by faster.
I played tennis fairly actively up to 1950, but limit myself now to
occasional scrimmages with the boys. It seems there is always some-
thing to do around my own house — painting, fixing-up and sundry
other tasks which I really enjoy doing. I feel I should go see the
Red Sox and the Bruins more often than once or twice a season,
especially as the boys enjoy the games so much.

I can’t say that I fee] any older — perhaps the children see to that.
On nights when they want help with their homework I realize that
more than twenty-five years is a long time to retain more than the
bare rudiments of Latin, French, German, chemistry, physics and
math! It would be nice to think of helping them for the next
twenty-five years, but let’s not think of a possible number of grand-

[ 672 ]

~”

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

children until I am old enough. Meanwhile, I'll just concentrate on
the Reunion!

ROBERT JOHNSTON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4302 Chestnut St., Bethesda 14, Md.

OFFICE appRrEss: U.S. Public Health Service, Washington 25, D.C.

BORN: Jan. 21, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: John Charles Johnston, ’oo, Annie
F. Perkins.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; LL.B. 1937.

MARRIED: Mary Jacqueline Clark, Sept. 24, 1938, Arlington, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Charles Johnston, Jr., ’28.

OCCUPATION: Legislative attorney, U.S. Public Health Service.

MEMBER OF: U.S, Public Health Service Officers Association; Naval Medical
Center Officers Club, Bethesda, Md.; Allenbury Club, Boiling Springs,
Pa,

IT seemed natural that I should set my sites on law school, my father
being an attorney in Boston. I did this despite a certain degree of
discouragement concerning the trials and tribulations of a law prac-
tice during the height of a major depression. Fortunately, the vanity
of youth tells each of us that we shall succeed where others fail.
As there was no break between my college and law school training,
the continuation of my education progressed smoothly until my
graduation from the Harvard Law School in 1937. During that
‘summer I applied for and was accepted for appointment as an at-
torney with the Office of the General Counsel of the then Social
Security Board. This appointment was predicated upon my ad-
mittance to the Massachusetts bar, which occurred in November of
that year. So, shortly after Thanksgiving I took off for Washington
to enter my life’s career.

[ 673 ]

eee span ene —

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

In September of 1938, I was the fortunate participator in one of
life’s major events. At that time, “Jackie” Clark, whom I had first
met in the fall of my sophomore year, became my wife.

In the spring of 1942, when it became apparent that it would be
just a matter of time before I would receive a “Greetings” message
from the President of the United States, I decided to apply for a
commission in the Army Air Corps. After some delay, I finally
received my commission as a second lieutenant and my call to active
duty in August of 1942. After brief periods of duty at various
stations in this country, I departed in May of 1943 for England,
where I served for two and one-half years with a B-17 Bomb Group.
During this period my assignments were many and sundry: assistant
station supply officer, courts and board officer, station adjutant and
Various positions relative to courts martial, defense counsel, trial
judge advocate and member of both special and general courts. In
December of ig4s5, [ was returned to the States as a major for
Separation

Upon my return to the General Counsel's office of the Federal
Security Agency, I was assigned to a division which rendered legal
services to the U.S. Public Health Service, and in the fall of 1946
was detailed to that agency to assist in the preparation of legislation
relating to the Commissioned Corps of the Public Health Service,
which is one of the seven uniformed services and is governed by
laws similar to or identical with laws governing the military services.
A year later T transferred to the Public Health Service. In 1950,
shortly after the outbreak of the Korean War, I resigned my Air
Foree commission and accepted a commission and was called to
active duty in the Reserve Corps of the Public Health Service, and
in 1956 T was commissioned in the Regular Corps of that Service,
under which appointment I have since continued to serve in the
rank equivalent to a Navy captain.

My work is and has been similar to that performed by Judge
Advocates in the larger services, but largely related to the personnel
aspects of the Commissioned Corps. The preparation of legislation,
the presentation of legislation to Congressional Committees, the
preparation of regulations to implement legislation and the inter-
pretation of legislation are among the major aspects of this position.
Employment with the government is not for those having ambitions
to become a millionaire, but it does offer opportunities, and one
derives a great deal of satisfaction from public service.

In retrospect, the past twenty-five years have passed all too

[ 674 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

quickly, but they have been years which, for the most part, have
treated me very kindly. I am now looking forward to our Twenty-
fifth Reunion with a mixture of anxiety and anticipation. There
will be many at the Reunion who will not initially recognize, or be
recognized by, their classmates. It is an occasion to which I have
long looked forward and which I would miss only under the most

dire conditions.

FREEMAN FREDERICK JONES

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1329 Flat Rock Rd., Penn Valley, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Textured Yarn Co., Philadelphia, Pa.

BORN: March 21, 1912, Medford, Mass. parents: Edgar William Jones, Alice
Rowe.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: S$.B., 1934, M.B.A., 1936.

MARRIED; Phyllis E. Lamothe, April 18, 1940. cHupren: Carol A., Feb. 23,
1941; Stephen F., Aug. 24, 1944; Alan S., Oct. 28, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Industrial engineering.

WE have just moved to Philly and don’t belong to any clubs, socie-
ties, etc.

[ 675 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

HERBERT WILLIAM JONES, JB.

“es

  
  
 

heii ets BU aad is

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3316 VW. 56th St, Minneapolis ro, Minn.

BORN: Noy. 11, 1910, Minneapolis, Minn. Parents: Herbert William Jones,
Margaret Lewis Daniel.

PREPARED AT: West High School, Minneapolis, Minn.; Lawrenceville School,
Lawrenceville, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933. DEGREE: M.D., 1937.

MarrIED: Charlotte Lee Miller, June 17, 1939, Quincy, Ill.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Griffith Jones, ’40.

occuPATION: Physician.

MEMBER OF: Hennepin County Medical Society; National Rehabilitation As-
sociation; Harvard Club of Minnesota.

PUBLICATIONS: “Incidence of Tuberculosis Among Homeless Men” (with Jean
Roberts, John Brantner), Journal of the American Medical Association,
July 31, 1954.

AFTER junior year, I entered Harvard Medical School and received
the M.D. degree in 1937. I interned in medicine for one year at
Billings Hospital in Chicago and would have liked to complete train-
ing in the specialty of internal medicine. However, my father’s
health was not so good, so I returned to Minneapolis to do private
practice with him. I was married in June, 1939, and to help finance
that happy state, I joined the Minnesota National Guard as a medical
officer.

In February, 1941, I was inducted into federal service with the
National Guard and served as a captain in the Medical Corps with
the 34th Division, This National Guard division served in Louisiana,
North Ireland, Africa and Italy. I left the division in Italy after the
engagement at Monte Cassino in 1944, having been overseas thirty-
two months, I was reassigned to stations in Georgia and discharged
from the Army after the end of hostilities in 1945, with the rank of
major. During the latter part of my military service, I was having

[ 676 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

symptoms of disturbance of balance that I associated with too much
out-of-doors and other forms of riotous living. I returned to medical
practice but my symptoms kept getting worse, a brain tumor was
diagnosed, and I was operated on for the removal of an acoustic
neuroma, right, in January, 1948.

This operation made a rather definite change in my activities as
I showed marked diminution of fine control of the right side along
with other more general disabilities. My life since the operation has
been focused on gradual rehabilitation. My wife has been of tre-
mendous help in my care and in supporting my attempts at vocational
rehabilitation. The fact that I had a medical education has allowed
me access to areas that I might not have had otherwise. At the
present time, I do part-time work of a medical nature.

The rehabilitation of the disabled, which I interpret to mean the
adjustments required to live within the limits imposed by physical
or mental deficiencies, is naturally of great interest to me. It is im-

ortant to maintain an objective attitude and to keep in the best
physical condition possible. In my own case, both my vocation and
hobbies have tended toward those activities which are within my
limitations. I find that gardening is a rewarding hobby. In my
efforts at rehabilitation, I have found chat people are good and want
to help whenever possible.

During the year 1954-55, I was in Boston doing some research
work with Dr. John R. Graham, ’30, M.D., 734, at the Faulkner
Hospital. I had the opportunity to revisit many places that IT had
seen as a student and I found that even Boston changes after a
twenty-year period. I shall be unable to attend the Reunion, but I
send many good wishes to Harvard 1934 at its Twenty-fifth!

[ 677 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

WILLARD COPP JONES

 

HOME appreEss: 74 Mountain Terrace Rd., West Hartford 7, Conn.
orFicE appress: Gray Manufacturing Co., 16 Arbor St. Hartford, Conn.
BorN: May 6, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Clarence Horatio Jones, Cora

Elizabeth Copp.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., cum? laude, 1934.

MARRIED: Harriet Ellis Wilson, Oct, 16, 1937, West Hartford, Conn. CHILDREN:
Ellen Copp, April 27, 1941; Nancy Wilson, April 18, 1944.

occupation: Director of manufacturing, Gray Manufacturing Company, pro-
ducers of dictation equipment and high fidelity components.

oFFices HELD: Member board of directors, Bridgeport Junior Achievement,
1954-55; member board of governors, Black Rock Yacht Club, 1955-56.

MEMBER OF: Black Rock Yacht Club, Bridgeport, Conn.

HARROW SCHOOL’ “Forty years on, and afar and asunder,” or
my contemporary namesake Thomas Jones’ “Across the fields of
yesterday,” spells the mood and background for this accounting of
my years since graduation. What have I done, and what have I
become? Have I accomplished what I set out to do? Have I been
happy? “Well, bave you?” asks my elder daughter. It’s long since
I stopped and searchingly asked such questions. This is how I
answered her.

Another graduate in another year began his accounting for his
Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report, “Little things change the course
of human events.” The things that determined my directions and
activities came along insignificantly, but in a quarter-century’s
oblique light, now assume substantial proportions,

Hartford was no more than a place name — or the last name of a
railroad — when the undergraduate engincering society, on its 1931
spring trip, visited a small aircraft company and a mercury turbine
power plant there. My recollections of its air of prosperity despite

[ 678 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

depression, liveliness and clean beauty were a magnet when 1934's
graduation summer and vacation ended. The small matter of relative
distance and ease of getting to work decided me on one of the then
giants of the office equipment industry — instead of the more remote
and smaller United Aircraft. Should I have foreseen a war and the
coming of jets and rockets? While it’s interesting to speculate on
what my fortune might have been had I gone with this company
of dynamic growth opportunity — and though this life would have
had its moments of happiness, service, excitement and contemplation
— it would have been a different life and, except for the inevitable
disappointments, I’d hate to have missed the way the years actually
unfolded.

The easier transportation to the Underwood Typewriter Com-
pany meant logically living at the economical YMCA, finding
company trainees from Dartmouth and Princeton, and a start at
forming local friendships and ties. A spring flood of biblical pro-
portions made this “home away from home” uninhabitable. So
what better scheme than to show up at a friend’s home with the
hope of being invited for a week's stay by a sympathetic family.
Significant too, in my own case —as with another in my circle of
friends — the sympathetic family became in-laws by the followi ing
year — when my salary finally reached $40.00 a w eek. In retrospect,
those next four years were leisurely, well-ordered and unmarked
by any great changes or accomplishments. At work, diverse assign-
ments as a manufacturing foreman and in time study developed
experience in an almost haphazard way. Outside of w ork, I had my
first adventure with handicraft hobbies. Our informal company
made — all by hand—and sold luggage racks. Fun, at the start,
but tiresome before the last order was finished —and most un-
profitable.

These four years ended in 1941 and brought a daughter, a new
house and the war. The manufacture of office equipment gave w ay
to fuses, carbines and electrical control boxes for B- 29S. I had the
invaluable experience of directing much of the engineering that con-
verted a million-square-foot typewriter factory into a plant that
produced over three thousand carbines a day as well as eleven thou-
sand carbine barrels for our own and other sub-contractors’ use.
In testing and targeting the finished guns, we used over 65,000 rounds
of ammunition a day — enough for our own war. It’s strange to
look again in cartons that moved to Fairfield and then back to
Hartford, at saved ration books, gas stamps and newspaper head-

[ 679]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

lines. Unreal too, the remembrance of car pools, backyard gardens
and raising chickens for eggs as well as meat — this despite nearly
calamitous shortages of ferulizer, feed and mash. Elave you, with
no knowledge of animal husbandry, been frustrated and_ baffled
trying to cope with cannibalism, ovarian tumors and wry neck,
performing autopsies with civil war surgical tools, after having tried
to save sick hens with left-over sulfa pills?

It seems as the years have slid by, always faster, that I have
learned better how to hive, so have lived more fully. That first be-
ginning with luggage racks showed the pleasure that accomplishment
and creation bring along with the change of recreation. These were
followed by bowls, dishes and decorations turned from domestic and
exotic foreign woods, pins, bracelets, earrings in gold or silver,
decorated country tinware and, of course, the usual practical making
and refinishing of furniture.

In this postwar period, I first really understood the durable and
deeper satisfaction that service brings. For four years, one or two
nights a week, ] volunteered as a hospital aide. Disregard the over-
dramatization of “Dr. Kildare” and “Medic.” A hospital at night
is a personal and living watcher and guardian. In its beds, race,
creed, color, position disappear in the glare of need and dimness of
pain. Caring for patients or helping as part of the nursing staff
brought routine and emergency. My extra hands were drafted at

midnight at a Caesarean, my prayer whispered for someone dying,
otherwise alone.

“Well, if you won't agree to build a new and larger house with
a den so I don’t have to go to the basement to practise the piano,
I'm going to buy a boat” and that’s how, in 1950, we came to buy a
Lightning Class sailboat. Class racing, particularly on Long Island
Sound, is an exciting and demanding sport. The first year we nearly
always finished last. Two years later, when [ was transferred to my
company’s Bridgeport plant as chicf engincer, I had learned enough
so that we were at least in the running in the hot competition between
Southport and Larchmont. Of greater pleasure than finally becoming
club champion was the knowledge that both daughters had become
accomplished racing skippers, had their own array of trophies and
could creditably represent their club in the “Girls” and “Midgets”
championships.

During the winter of 1953, a group of us built cight Blue Jays
in the Black Rock Yacht Club, As chief engineer, purchasing agent
and treasurer of the group, I had the fun of planning all the opera-

[ 680 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tions, purchases, tooling — and having articles about our project
printed in Yachting, Rudder and Boats. The high point — an all
day visit with photographers and editors from Life, the low Pont
— their decision not to run the article. Fyen more alike than

in a pod, our Jays still are among the top winners on the Sound.

Three years later, promotion to plant manayer brought us back,
somewhat reluctantly, to Hartford. Then last fall, after a fast series
of management changes and despite twenty-three Vears of service,
the future looked brighter elsew here. My present company, the
Gray Manufacturing Company, a leader in the field of dictation
equipment, is also an outstanding producer of hi-fi components =
so music, one of my loves, is now more than just an avocation.

With this brief recording of history made current, 1 have come
full circle, for next year our elder daughter starts college, as her
mother, at Wellesley, we hope. This renewal of the evcle is the
logical time for assessment.

The accomplishment and episodes of most worth include a
widening circle of friends and acquaintances that geographical and
company changes have produced, that service and hobbies have
generated, and the creation of products, utilitarian and artistic, that
have brought others pleasure and may in themselves well ouclast me.
But beyond this, I hope I can even more strongly mstill the thirst
for know ledge in those now starting this circle, and spur their ile-

sire for the facts that I now so fra lementaril v know,

GORDON LOCKWOOD JORGENSEN

 

aporess: Dox &oo, APO? gon, & Postmaster, San Branco, Cale

[ose]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

BorN: Aug. §, 1912, Kanuzawa, Japan. Parents: Arthur Jorgensen, Lona Bergh.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

NO questionnaire returned, (Ed. Note. Jorgensen’s father has in-
formed the Secretary that Gordon is in the Far East. ]

WILLIAM FOSTER JOYCE

   
 

, , YS q
To
HOME Apprkss: 65 Bedford St., Stamford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pitney Bowes, Inc., Stamford, Conn.

BoRN: Dec. 11, 1911, Stamford, Conn. parents: William Foster Joyce, Annie
E, Jessup.

PREPARED AT; Stamford High School, Stamford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.

UNMARRIED,

occupation: Manufacturing.

WINTHROP OTIS JUDKINS

HOME appress: 4o Hillcrest Ave., Pointe Claire, P.Q., Canada.
OFFICE ADDRESS: McGill University, W210 Arts Bldg., Montreal, P.Q., Canada.

[ 682 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Sept. 5, 1913, Glens Falls, N.Y. parents: Charles Otis Judkins, Eva
Austin.

PREPARED AT: Glens Falls High School, Glens Falls, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 19343; A.M., 1947; PH.D., 1954.

MARRIED: Helen Josephine Almars, Dec. 28, 1939, Minneapolis, Minn. cHiLpren;:
Karin Otis, Feb. 28, 1948; Piri Dolloff, Aug. 24, 1950.

occuPaTION: Associate professor and chairman, Department of Fine Arts,
McGill University.

LITTLE did I dream, when we parted those protective portals in
1934, that I’d be writing this retrospective from the city of Mont-
real. But considering the fact that a teacher belongs to his pro-
fession, ’m actually more than lucky to be writing from a city
which is not only Canada’s largest and one of the western hemi-
sphere’s most cosmopolitan, but which is still just seven hours’
drive from the Harvard Yard.

Probably I’m one of those members of the Class who has felt most
strongly the onus of the “depression baby,” though no doubt both
my involuntary inheritance of practically nothing as a clergy-
man’s son, and my voluntary prospective environment, of not much
more as the altruistic drone of some unknown alma mater, have
had something to do with the lengthy pull of the intervening years.
Teaching jobs were rare, remuneration even rarer, and the open-
ings in the field of the Fine Arts rarest of all—the real clincher
being the need to work to live, but the simultaneous need to gain
the Ph.D in order to advance and succeed. The ensuing yarn, though
ultimately resolved, goes best as a blow by blow account, with
possible significance to the fathers among us of the country’s fu-
ture teachers.

First the uneasy luxury of those two glorious years in Europe as
a Bacon Fellow, when, specifically instructed not to engage in
formal graduate studies, I could spend my days expansiv ely drink-
ing in the artistic treasures of England and the Continent. Then my
first job as a teaching and research fellow in an art education proj-
ect (hardly my line) in the guinea-pig town of Owatonna, Minne-
sota, a project financed by Carnegie and administered by the Uni-
versity of Minnesota. The best parts of those two years were the
discovery of the whopping proportion of the Class ‘of °34, plus or
minus, living in the Twin Cities, with particular emphasis on the
five guys who went by the name of Bob Ward, erstwhile roommate;
and the simultaneous discovery of the subsequent Mrs. J., with the
same five guys acting as best men.

Projects, even Carnegie's projects, must eventually end; but next

[ 683 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

indulgent neighbors’ lawns and train their minds in the top-notch
Canadian public schools. So far as citizenship is concerned, Cana-
dian hospitality 1 is unbounded — one is simply designated a “landed
immigrant” for an indefinite period and left alone. (The only hitch
is an “american one, ruling that if one casts a single vote in any
kind of Canadian election, one’s U. S. citizenship is automatically
forfeited.) Finally, in nostalgic moments, the last foothills of the
Adirondacks in northern New York can easily be seen rising above
the southern horizon.

There are three morals to this yarn. First, you wouldn’t think of
letting your son try to be a doctor without an M.D. — so if he wants
to be a teacher, remember that in academic policy America isn’t
Europe any longer. Secondly, unless you can yourself match this
tale, give till it hurts to the Harvard Program. And thirdly, if you're
still looking for worlds to conquer or somewhere to put your money
profitably to work, Quebec is bigger than Texas and Canada is
Booming. COME NORTH, OLD MAN!

BENJAMIN MAURICE KAHN

 

HOME AbpRESS: 324 S. Patterson St., State College, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: B'nai B’rith Foundation, Pennsylvania State University, State
College, Pa.

BORN: Nov. 10, 1913, Lowell, Mass. parents: Gabriel Kahn, Celia Leibowitz,

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., Magna cum laude, 1934, Master of
Hebrew Literature (Jewish Theological Seminary of America), 1938.
MARRIED; Rosalind Aronson, June 26, 1938, Dorchester, Mass. cuitpren: Simon

Hirsh, April 23, 1944; Jenette Sarah, May 16, 1947.
occupation: Director, B'nai B’rith Foundation and lecturer in Hebrew, Penn-
sylvania State University.

[ 686 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: President, University Inter-religious Council, 1945-36, member
executive committee, National Association of Hillel Directors, since
1946; president, 1948-50, member, since 1950, National Hillel Cabinet,
member executive committee, National Association of Professors of He-
brew, 1950-52; president, 1951-52, chairman, 1958-59, Commitee on Self-
Evaluation, PTA, State College High School.

MEMBER OF: Rabbinical Assembly of America, National Association of Hillel Di-
rectors; American Federation of Teachers; American Association of Uni-
versity Professors; B'nai B'rith; Zionist Organization of America, Na-
tional Association for the Advancement of Colored People; Social Science
Research Council of the University; National Association of Professors of
Hebrew.

PUBLICATIONS: Sabbath Eve Services in Hillel Foundations; “Religious Diversity
in the Hillel Foundations”; “The Jewish Heritage and the Jewish People”;
“Towards a Philosophy of Hillel Work”; contributor to “Best Jewish
Sermons of the Year 1954.”

THREE months after my Harvard graduation I became a freshman
again. In September, I entered the Jewish Theological Seminary of
America to pursue graduate studies towards a rabbinical degree.
The seminary is located on Morningside Heights, then and now,
one of New York City’s intellectual centers, and I found ready op-
portunities for graduate work in philosophy at Columbia, easy
access to theatres and concert halls, and occasions to practise preach-
ing in neighboring Long Island. The Semitics courses I had taken
under Professor Wolfson stood me in good stead at the seminary.
I was ordained in the usual four years.

Of the eight men in my class (among them Harvard classmate
and my perennial roommate, Saul Kraft), my first position took me
the farthest away from the East Coast. Rosalind and I returned
from our honeymoon in July to begin packing for Chicago, where
I accepted a post as assistant rabbi in the Midwest's largest conserva-
tive congregation. After a two-year stint there, I moved into the
particular facet of the rabbinical profession which has since become,
I trust, my life career. I came to State College, Pennsylvania, to be-
come director of the B'nai B'rith Hillel Foundation at the Pennsvl-
vania State University.

The Hillel Foundations (there are z00 of them) are centers for
religious and cultural programming among Jewish students at col-
leges and universities, and the Hillel rabbi thus works with univ ersity
students in a university setting. Ele is spiritual leader, teacher, ad-
ministrator, counselor, friend. The town of State College, which
surrounds the campus, is a uniquely charming one; nestled in the
heart of the Allegheny mountains, it Knows no sound of street ears,

[ 687 ]

ee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

factory whistles, or trains. The pace of living is relatively quiet, for
the town is the university, Yet I often yearn for a 9 to 5, five days
a week job, knowing full well that it cannot be.

Except for one year, 1944-45, when I was on leave from Penn
State to help establish a new Hillel Foundation at McGill in
Montreal, I have continually been at my first Hillel post, and I have
easily been able to resist the lure of the larger city. “This is virtually
the ideal setting for Hillel work, which loses none of its freshness
and excitement despite the multiplication of the years. (Can that be
because all my “constituents” are young people?) Any day now, I
expect to see a new freshman walk into our Hillel House and intro-
duce himself as the child of a former student of ours—then will
I realize the passage of time. And I have no doubt that my wife,
who is practically a Hillel co-director, will remember the parent
from way back. She never forgets a face, a name, or a birthday.

Among my most pleasant related responsibilities is the post I
occupy on the faculty of the university as lecturer in Hebrew,
teaching courses in Hebrew language and Jewish history, and
lecturing on Jewish tradition in a small variety of classes. At the
moment, I am happily involved with two other faculty members,
one a Protestant, the other a Catholic, in a six-session television
series of panel discussions on “Exploring Religious Ideas.” Our task
is to raise questions and relate issues, clarify ideas, and then prepare a
syllabus for a state-wide adult education course on the same topic.

This is very much in line with what I conceive to be a major
task today of Hillel and of religion generally — to keep religion from
becoming too comfortably “respectable,” to approach it with critical
analysis of its presuppositions and implications, and to relate it to
concrete issues of our time.

There are other “extra-curricular” activities in which I find my-
self busily engaged. My children have, naturally, brought me into
PTA —rather two PTA’s, high school and junior high school.
They have also converted me into summer picnicker, and almost
into an overnight camper, and they have even taken me in on a
skating or sledding party. In return, they shovel the snow and mow
the lawn (we have more than enough of both), one of the many
dividends accruing from teen-agers.

As a family, we share innumerable things together, includin
beagle puppy and a prolific cat. The dog is the special pet of our
son Simon, who is going on fifteen, who loves books, sports, car-
pentry, and electronics, among other things. The cat, who has

[ 688 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mothered twenty-four kittens, is in turn mothered by Jenette, al-
most twelve, who dotes on reading, drawing, skating, dancing, and
Girl Scouts.

Though this is a small town, the presence of the university gives
us city fare of good music, lectures, artists, and plays, and abundant
recreational opportunities. I even dabbled briefly in oils, only to
desert the field to my wife, an inveterate student in painting. Both
of us are active in behalf of the Democratic party and civil rights,
particularly in our own area. On off-nights we go to meetings, meet-
ings, meetings.

We get back to native Massachusetts soil at least once a year.
Our next trip, though, promises to be the landmark, when we shall
observe simultaneously two Twenty-fifths, one on each side of
Harvard Square.

MORTON PERRY KAHN

 

ADDRESS: 134 W. 58th St., New York 19, N.Y.

BORN: March 8, 1913, Hartford, Conn. parents: William Mark Kahn, Lillian
Shoor.

PREPARED AT: Hartford High School, Hartford, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE! A.B. ‘1934.

OCCUPATION: Creative arts.

NO questionnaire returned.

[ 689 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ARMIG GHEVONT KANDOIAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 122 Rodney St., Glen Rock, N.J.

OFFICE apprEss: International Telephone & Telegraph Laboratories, 500 Wash- |
ington Ave., Nutley, N.J.

Born: Nov. 28, 1g11, Van, Armenia, parents: Ghevont Kandoian, “Adrienne
Der Boghossian.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Springfield, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: S.B., 1934; S.M., 1935.

MARRIED: Jane Arax Erganian, June 26, 1945, Webster Groves, Mo. CHILDREN:

Janet Adrienne, Sept. 22, 1947; Ellen Arpen, Dec. 2, 1949; Nancy Armen,
Feb. 14, 1952.

occupation: Engineer; vice-president, International Telephone & Telegraph
Laboratories.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-chairman, Northern New Jersey Section, Institute of Radio
Engineers, 1958-59.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Radio Engineers (fellow); Harvard Engineering So-
ciety; Tau Beta Pi.

Publications: A variety of technical articles in the following: Proceedings of
the Institute of Radio Engineers, American Institute of Electrical Engi-
neers Transactions, Electronics, Electrical Communication, Aeronautical
Engineering Review, and others; chairman of editorial board, Reference
Data for Radio Engineers, a widely used reference volume.

FOLLOWING graduation, I spent one more year at Harvard study-
ing at Cruft Laboratory under the direction of Professor George
Washington Pierce, a truly inspiring physicist and a great inventor.
In the spring of 1935, 1 was lucky enough to have a job offer (very
rare in those days) in my chosen field of electronics from the Jnter-
national Telephone & Telegraph Corporation, I accepted and there
I have been ever since, including the war years, The development of
radio aids to aerial navigation and radar, in which I was deeply in-
volved, was considered rather important for the war effort. The

[ 690 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

demand and need for electronics has in no way diminished in the
present “cold war” situation.

In the earlier years of my Career, I managed through research,
development and some fairly useful inventions to make a modest
personal contribution to the state of the art in this highly dynamic
field. Most of this effort was in radio communication and instrument
landing systems for aircraft. I was particularly pleased to receive
the honorable mention award of Eta Kappa Nu, the honor fraternity
of electrical engineers, for the “outstanding young electrical en-
gineer for 1943.” I also was elected to the grade of Fellow of the
Institute of Radio Engineers in 1951.

In recent years my work has been less technical and more super-
visory and administrative — technically less satisfying but somewhat
more remunerative. (They say you can’t have everything.) I have
also spent a few weeks with the American Management Association
and even more weeks at Columbia’s Arden House in an effort to
become a better manager. The time spent has been pleasant, but I
am not sure the results have been outstanding. At any rate, I do
recognize, both as taxpayer and manager, a real major management
problem — how to prevent the devastating effect of Parkinson’s Law
on large projects and organizations.

An important event in my life occurred in 1944 when I met the
girl who was to become my wife in the following year. She was
completing her medical education at the New York Hospital of
the Cornell Medical School. Though still retaining a very great
interest in the field of pediatrics and medicine in general, she is
saving return to the practice of that honorable profession to such
time as our three lovely daughters are more self-sufficient than at
present.

I have had occasion to travel a good deal throughout the United
States and somewhat in the Caribbean, Mexico, Canada and, on a
couple of occasions, in Europe — the last-with my wife in 1956
We saw and were impressed with the Scandinavian countries as well
as Holland, England and France, but it was too brief. We hope for
an occasion to have a more extensive leisurely trip in the not too
distant future.

Now a few final words about Harvard and education before |
close, The world may not be betrer or worse, but it is substantially
different from what we visualized back in 1934, in the Great De-
pression, when we joined the ranks of “educated men.”

I have had occasion to reflect from time to time in the past twenty.

[ 6yt ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

five years that my education, formal and informal, created in me
more interests and desires — culturally speaking — than I have been
able to satisfy. The demands and pressures of business, profession
and family j just do not allow enough time and leisure. Thus a pile
of books partly read, unread, and some not even purchased, remain
for maitana when there will be more time.

One more personal thought on education: I cannot escape the
feeling occasionally that real education — Harvard education, if
you w vill — is too valuable to be “wasted” on youth entirely. A year
at Harvard, say, on our Twenty-fifth Anniversary, would I am
sure be culturally very profitable. Someone should surely find the
mechanism to make this practical!

ROBERT KAPLAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3804 Kelsey St., Silver Spring, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: U.S. Dept. of Justice, Washington, D.C.

BORN: Nov. 20, 1912, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Israel Kaplan, Anna Hoffman.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: AB. summa cum laude, 1934; LLB.
cum laude, 1937.

Marriep: Evelyn Shirley Gordon, July 8, 1945, Boston, Mass. cHitpREN: Richard
Alvin, Jan. 16, 1947; Martin Joel, June 5, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Saul Kaplan, 37.

occupation: Attorney, Government Claims Section, U.S. Dept. of Justice.

OFFIcEs HELD: Chief counsel, Consumer Division, Office of Price Stabilization,
19§2-§3; assistant cubmaster, Cub Scouts, Silver Spring, Md., 1956.

MEMBER OF: Federal Bar Association, Phi Beta Kappa.

5

GRADUATION found me quite undecided as to whether to go
to work or to continue studying at a graduate school, and if the
latter, which school to enter. The award of a scholarship by the

[ 692 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Law School was the perfect solution. In those days my first love
was mathematics in which I concentrated at the College. What ap-
peared to me to be a bleak outlook in that field, plus lack of means
of financing further training, deterred me from continuing in it.
Of course, I could not then foresee the change in the demand for
mathematicians and scientists that would be wrought by discoveries
and events such as have occurred during the past few years.

My three years at the Law School were characterized by hard
work. Throughout the period I felt inadequately prepared for the
study of the law by the type of courses I had taken as an under-
graduate and because of a lack of business education and experience.
This feeling also followed me for some years after graduation, lead-
ing me ultimately to take several business and accounting courses
at various night schools and universities in an endeavor to fill in
the gaps in my background.

Immediately following graduation from the Law School and ad-
mission to the Massachusetts bar, I served for two years as a junior
in a Boston law firm. This gave me quite a bit of practical ex-
perience but, as was the lot of many young lawyers starting out in
similar manner in those days, the financial rewards were meager
and hardly enough to make both ends meet.

When I was offered a position in the Civil Division of the
Justice Department, I seized the opportunity. This was in 1940 and
I have been with the Justice Department since then, except for two
years (1951-53) at the Office of Price Stabilization, where I was
assistant division counsel, and subsequently division counsel, of the
Consumer Goods Division.

I have found work at the Department very satisfying. The Civil
Division handles virtually all kinds of civil claims and § suits by and
_against the Government, and there are probably not many law
firms whose cases match its cases in important legal questions raised,
amounts involved, and wide variety of experience afforded. The
two years I worked at the Office of Price Stabilization during the
Korean conflict gave me a chance to do work of an adininistrative
nature, and to develop an insight into business which I had alw: ays
planned to obtain. I found the experience an interesting and valu-
able supplement to my work at Justice, which centers "principally
around litigation.

In Washington I met and married Evelyn Gordon, who was chief
of a division at the Ordnance Stock Office in the Naval Gun Factory
at the time. We have two sons who are in the second and seventh

[ 693 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

grades, and we own our own home in Silver Spring, a suburb of
Washington. Our boys keep us quite busy with their hobbies, school
PTA activities, Cub Scouts, Boy Scouts, etc. Richard, our eleven-
year-old, is taking piano lessons and, since piano playing has been
a hobby of mine all these years, I greatly enjoy listening to him and
trying to help him in his study of music. My wife and I play
bridge, listen to the hi-fi, and take dancing lessons intermittently,
We enjoy entertaining our friends and neighbors when time permits.

Recently Evelyn established her own real estate brokerage office
and is quite active in Maryland and the District in the transfer of
properties. I try to offer legal advice on occasion, as well as a little
assistance in accounting.

Needless to say, aside from the enjoyment derived from work
one loves, there are probably few greater thrills than the pleasure
of watching one’s children develop. Richard, who is now in junior
high school, is already determined to go to Harvard, and I can
think of nothing which could make us happier than seeing his wish
fulfilled, as well as having the little one follow in his footsteps. In
the years to come, Evelyn and I shall do everything we can to see
that this comes to pass.

HERBERT MAURICE KATZIN

 

HOME AppREsS: 603 Sunderland Rd., Teaneck, N.J.

OFFICE ADDREsS: 11 E. 68th St., New York 21, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 20, 1913, Newark, N.J. parents: Samuel Katzin, Ada Samuels.

PREPARED AT: South Side School, Newark, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933. DEGREE: M.D., 1937.

marriep: Annette Ruth Stollman, May 27, 1942, New York, N.Y. cHivpren:
Richard Lewis, July 23, 1946, Mary Beth, June 26, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Physician; ophthalmologist.

[ 694 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in ophthalmology, Columbia University, 1943-95,
adjunct ophthalmic surgeon, Mount Sinai Hospital, New York City, 1943-
46; director, Eye Bank Laboratory, New York City, since 1946, associate
surgeon, Manhattan Eye, Ear & Throat Hospital, since 1950; emeritus
professor of ophthalmology, Gandhi Eye Institute, Aligarh, India.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; New York State Medical Society;

. New York Academy of Medicine (fellow); American College of Sur-

geons (fellow); Association of Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology, Pan
American Association of Ophthalmology.

PUBLICATIONS: Rehabilitation of a Child’s Eyes, Mosby & Company; Aulus of
Ophthalmic Surgery, McGraw-Hill, thirty-seven scientific articles pub-
lished in various medical journals,

THIS account has to begin prior to graduation time, because |
never did ascend the steps and still don’t have a sheepskin. Re-
member the “bank holiday”? That was the time Harvard Medical
decided to admit me to their hallowed halls. So along I went and
the only degree to my name (so far) is the M.D.

Well, these have been good years. After 1937, when | left Boston,
there were five years at the Mount Sinai Hospital in New York and
one year at Columbia’s Eye Institute. After the years of internship
drudgery there came more of specialization, and by 1943 1 emerged
a “trained” ophthalmologist. The subsequent sixteen years have
been devoted to research and practice. I soon discovered ‘that certif-
ication: in a specialty is only the beginning. Science continues its
restless expansion and even the (apparently) limited field of eye
disease has so much to know that there are specialists even within its
confines.

Shortly after completion of my residency, the opportunity came
to start a research laboratory at ‘the Manhattan Fye and Ear Hos-
pital in New York City, which houses the Eve Bank. This began in
converted storerooms with apparatus made of tongue depressors and
adhesive tape. I was the only worker at first, but the lab grew
nicely, and now we are the proud possessors of a more elaborate
set-up, the latest being our Electron Microscope. Many original
publications have come out of the lab, and I have co-authored two
books. .

My particular interest has been in ophthalmic surgery, which is a
world in itself, all tied up in that little sense organ, The concentra-
tion of the ophth: almologist in this field is almost unbelievable. Ie
Bets so bad that evenings at a convention may be spent “catarac ting”

r “grafting.” Wine, women and song are lost in the scutHle.

Romance and marriage came to ELAR. during the residency

[ 695 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

time. Annette Ruth Stollman (New Jersey College for Women,
1940, and Mount Sinai Hospital Nurses’ Training, 1941) undertook
to support the two of us until more productive times. Annette also
specialized (guess which field). The first years of office practice
were shared. It was proper, moral and legal in those days for me to
hold my secretary on my knee. Richard Lewis put an end to our
professional association in 1946. He was followed by Mary Beth
eleven months later. ‘Those were busy days! These two are the
only branches on the family tree. Richard aspires to Harvard 1968,
and Mary would like the degree of MRS. We give Mary credit for
intelligence enough to get a diploma; she may change her mind.

The past few years, we have taken the children abroad with us on
vacation, We started out in the English-speaking countries, and ex-
panded. Mary is crazy about Spain. Dick likes Spain too, but his
tastes are more diversified. Western Europe has pioneered in a
number of advances in ophthalmology, and by this time it should
be obvious that I usually find my way to the surgical amphitheatres.
Annette enjoys shopping, but also finds the opportunity to grace
the ophthalmological profession. I'm lucky that way. Our plans
for the next years include more of the same.

The children are looking forward with us to the Twenty-fifth
Reunion as a really bright spot in the prospect for next summer. |

am particularly anxious to see what the passage of twenty-five
years has done to the others.

HENRY WILLIAM KAUFMANN

HOME ADDRESS: 340 Chatham Rd., Columbus 14, Ohio.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio.

BORN: Oct. 23, 1913, Cambridge, Mass. paRENTs: Abram Otto Kaufmann, Mary
Korman.

prepareD aT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933. DEGREES: MuS.B. (Yale Univ.), 1945; mus.m. (ibid.),
1946.

MarRIED: Helen Stewart Sanderson, Jan. 30, 1950, Madison, Wis.

OccUPATION: Assistant professor of music history, Ohio State University.

OFFICES HELD: Associate of Berkeley Divinity School (Episcopal), New Haven
Conn.

MEMBER OF: American Musicological Society, The Hymn Socicty; Society of
Ethno-musicology.

I LEFT college during the depression and taught privately (music)
for a few years. After my degrees from Yale, 1 taught at Milton

[ 696 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Academy, the University of Wisconsin and Boston University. 1
had the special privilege of giving two series of radio programs in
Boston, one on “Modern Music” over WBUR, and the other on
“Masterpieces of Opera” over WGBH. I was awarded the Middle-
bury Composers Conference Publication Award for a cantata, and
won honorable mention for an organ piece which was performed
at the Fifth International Organ Concourse at The Hague, Holland.

Marriage to Helen encouraged my work in music, since she was

also a professional musician who had done a considerable amount of
teaching at the Longy School of Music in Cambridge. She is in
great part responsible for my decision to work for a Harvard Ph.D.
in musicology which I am hoping to attain this coming year, So
far, Helen, with her Harvard Adjunct in Arts degree, is the only
voting member in our family, with respect to Harvard matters.

I have just taken a fine post at the Ohio State University — which
I feel augurs well for the future.

‘This hasty scrawl is due in great part to the fact that we have just
moved and haven’t begun to get settled. Perhaps I can look forward
to a more literary account of my life for the Fiftieth Anniversary
Report. There should be more leisure available then — at any rate!
This frenzied type of existence seems to have been my lot for the
years since graduation — but it has been great fun. Wish I had a
chance to do it again.

JONATHAN RANDOLPH KEIM

  

HOME appress; 22 Narbrook Pk. Narberth, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Minneapolis Efonevwell Regulator Co, yor W. Grange Sr.
Philadelphia 20, Pa.

[ 697 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

BORN: July 22, 1912, Narberth, Pa, parents: Hervey Crossley Keim, Emma
LeVan Haws.

PREPARED AT: Lower Merion High School, Ardmore, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; S.M. (Rutgers Univ.), 1937.

MARRIED: Mary Emma Levi, Sept. 29, 1939, Woodbridge, N.J. cump: Joanna
Crossley, Nov. 5, 1947

occupation: Research engineer, Minneapolis Honeywell Regulator Company,
instrument manufacturer. .

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Bourdon Subcommittee, ASME Research Committee
on Mechanical Pressure Elements, 1955-58; chairman, board of trustees,
1957, deacon, Narberth Baptist Church.

MEMBER OF; American Society of Mechanical Engineers.

LOOKING for and failing to find a job in the summer of 1934
convinced me that I would have to get more education. I was plan-
ning to study mechanical engineering at the University of Penn-
sylvania, when at the last moment I received a graduate assistantship
in physics at Rutgers University. This welcome opportunity enabled
me to obtain a Master of Science degree while supporting myself
for the first time.

In 1936 I was employed by the Pioneer Instrument Company of
Brooklyn, New York, as an inspector of aviation instruments. By
1939 | had gotten into engineering with the Eclipse-Pioneer Division
of Bendix Aviation Corporation at Teeterboro, New Jersey. That
same year I married Mary Levi whom I had met at Rutgers.

The week after war was declared against the Axis Powers I was
transferred to the Philadelphia Division of Bendix, a war plant op-
erated by Bendix to mass produce the aviation instruments needed
for the war effort. I stayed at this plant for the duration, continually
deferred by my draft board because of my occupation. With the
war over I decided to stay in Philadelphia and left Bendix to go
with the Brown Instrument Division of Minneapolis Honeywell
Regulator Company, as a research engineer.

I have served on several committees of the American Society of
Mechanical Engineers and on the Automatic Control Terminology
Committee of the American Standards Association. Currently, I
am chairman of the Bourdon Subcommittee of the ASME Research
Committee on Mechnical Pressure Elements.

When I went off to college I was anxious to shake the dust of
my home town, Narberth, from my feet. Five years ago we moved
back to Narberth so that our child could enter the uncrowded public
school and grow up in the wholesome small town environment that
I had been so glad to leave!

[ 698 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT WILLIAM KELEHER

gee SE meee a oy

   

HOME ADDRESS: 12 Lockwood Rd., Riverside, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: % Howes Leather Co., 321 Summer St., Boston, Mass.
BORN: March 2, 1911, Hartford, Conn. parenrs: William Francis Keleher,

_ Elizabeth A. Downs.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933.
MARRIED: Elsa Berg von Linde, Nov. 22, 1932. CHILDREN: Frederick Robert,
June 2, 1936 (m. Karen Keleher, Oct. 20, 1956); Walter Downs, Sept. 18,
1939; Linde Dianne, Feb. 24, 1947. GRANDCHILD: Robert F. Keleher, April

17, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHER: Jerome Louis Keleher, 727.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Howes Leather Company, Boston, Mass.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant to president, Best & Co., 1932-35; general merchandise
manager, Stern Bros., 1936-39; vice-president, Pacific Mills, 1940-55; vice-
president and general manager, Hampton Fabrics, J. P. Stevens, 1956-58
(all of New York City); vice-president, General Management, Howes

Leather Company, Boston, since 1958.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York; Riverside (Conn.) Yacht

Club.

AFTER college I entered the retail field. I became a buyer and
merchandise manager at Best & Company and Stern Bros., in New
York City. In 1940, Pacific Mills, textile manufacturers, asked me
to join the company as a department manager. I rose from this
position to vice-president of the Apparel Fabrics Division. In 1955,
as a result of the sale of Pacific Mills, I became vice-president
and general manager of the Hampton Fabrics Division of J. P.
Stevens — textiles —New York City. This year, Howes Leather
Company of Boston invited me to join their company as an officer
and member of their general management.

My son Fred was graduated from Cheshire Academy and attended
Boston University. He is now a New York City representative for

[ 699 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Chatham blankets. Walter is in his second year at Cornell Uni-
versity. He was graduated from Exeter Academy. Linde attends
Riverside School.

Elsa and [ are interested in sailing and enjoy the small-boat racing
at Riverside Yacht Club. Our family has enjoyed winter vacations
together in the Caribbean and Mexico. We are Republicans, I am

a Unitarian and my wife is Episcopalian. Recently we have been
attending the Episcopal Church at Riverside.

VICTOR NONKEN KELLER

    

HOME ADDRESS: 432 FE. Main St., Moorestown, N.J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Pennsylvania Railroad, 6 Penn Center Plaza, Philadelphia, Pa.

Born: March 20, 1910, Peabody, Kans. parents: William Bryant Keller, Edna
Nonken.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Wittenberg College, Springfield, Ohio.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 6477 laude, 1934.
Married: Dorothy Childs, Sept. 17, 1934, Philadelphia, Pa. cetpren: Christine,

Aug. 15, 1942; Susan, April 22, 1944, Katherine, Aug. 13, 1948; Frederick
Childs, March 28, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Journalist,

LOAFING is still what I like most. But life is much more curricular
than Harvard was. My family, which is about all I need, has more
needs than I, so my only chance to loaf and catch up is in the future
and contingent on my wasting no time now.

I'd rather spend a few years at Harvard now than when I did.
What I was mostly learning then wasn’t what they were teaching;
now, I'd listen better. What I was writing then was pleasant and
foolish. Nowadays I write both ways—for a living and for
gratification — but they seldom coincide.

So much for the truth, At the twenty-five-year mark I figure

[ 700 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

this Report is half obituary and shouldn’t be too candid. It’s hard to
know what you might be willing to hear—and who cares that
doesn’t already know? Yet I’m curious about some good men I
lost after 1934, and better swap statistics. Here are some highlights.

In 1953 on August 20, I think it was, about 4 p.m., a kid on the
street addressed me as follows: “Hiya, Gramps!” Then a couple of
years ago I put on glasses. I have vague symptoms which doctors can
find no physical defect or malady for; unfortunately, I use the
escalators. But you all know all this.

In 1933, I selected a Wellesley girl and we were married late in
1934. In Manhattan she followed her trade, medical research, and
I worked as publishers’ editor: for Harper’s trade books and
magazine; Story Press; and others. Then war, OUR war (I keep
explaining I wasn’t in Cuba). I “wrote” in Washington, then en-
joyed a couple of years as infantryman in combat in Europe. After-
wards I did some public relations and newspaper work, TV, edi-
torial, and other freelancing in New York and Philadelphia; and now
I write articles for railroad employees. Meanwhile I published some
verse for which my name is unknown and wrote odds and ends of
prose, my privacy generally protected by pseudonyms or rejections.

Meanwhile, also, I helped produce a number of lovely, lively,
talented girls and boy. They are their mother’s Quakers. Thev,
and so of course I, like seashore, roughhouse, garden and games.
They are musicians. They talk quite a lot. Domestic life is more
disorderly than that in the Houses and vastly entertaining, as most
of you must know. I favor it and try to do it justice. Each year I
instill good family habits: husbandry, lining up the bicycles on the
porch, reading aloud, and speaking when spoken to.

From a source not explained, my children got plans and am-
bitions; I tread water and wonder how in hell Tl manage to add

education. Whatever that is. (If we can’t be sententious, what's
the good of middle age?) One, I tell them, educates one’s self. 1
inculcate free time; loafing, I reveal, means applying energy in one’s
own way. This doesn’ t get the chores done, so I hedge, Anyway,
the schools haven’t made a comparative study of the Russians’ goofing
off and keep the children on the ball. The upshot i is they keep busy
and I keep quiet.

Outside the home there are few places T make myself at home.
No clubs. I don’t much care — burn this before the Organization
sees it—for travel. Not a recluse, though; now as always people

please me.

[ zor ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

That’s the whole story. Nobody repine. Ask me again if the
mail’s still running in 1984.

+ WATERS KELLOGG

 

BorN: Oct. 18, 1910, Dallas, Texas. parents: Charles Wetmore Kellogg, Clara
Davis.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Juliet Richardson, April 22, 1939, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Charles
Wetmore, 2d, 1940; Elizabeth, 1942; Gardner Perry, 1947.
piep: Aug. 30, 1953, Boston, Mass.

wow: Mrs. Waters Kellogg, 59 Phillips St. Andover, Mass.

AFTER graduation Kellogg spent thirteen years with the Universal
Winding Company, makers of textile winding machines, and five
years with the Reece Corporation of Boston. During World War II,
he served as a lieutenant commander with the Naval Reserve in the
Atlantic and Pacific theatres as a damage control officer. At the
time of his death he was president of the Kellogg Machine Sales
Company of Boston. He was survived by his wife and three children.

[ 702 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM TYSON KEMBLE

 

HOME AppREss: “Torrey Hill,” South Hamilton, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Estabrook & Co., 15 State St., Boston, Mass.
BORN: Aug. 26, 1911, Washington, D.C. parexts: John Kemble, ‘or, Jeanne

Tyson.
PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass. -

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1032.
MARRIED: Madeleine Powers, April 29, 1938, Boston, Mass. cuipres: Whitney,
Aug. 3, 1939; William Tyson, Jr., April 4, 1941; Katherine, Mav 9, 1943;

Nina, Oct. 31, 1946.
OCCUPATION: Investment banking; partner, trustee, Fstabrook & Company.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Industrial Committee, 1949, Budget Committee, 1954,
United Community Fund; incorporator, Massachusetts General Hospital,
since 1952; chairman, New England Group, 1953, governor, 1954-57, In-
vestment Bankers Association of America; member, New England Council,

Boston Chamber of Commerce.
MEMBER OF: Somerset Club; Myopia Hunt Club; Union Boat Club; \Iidocean

Club (Bermuda).

HAVING left college in 1933, I returned to the investment bank-
ing business where I had spent a year prior to joining the 1934
Class as a freshman. I have been with Fstabrook & Company ever
since and became a member of the firm in 1951.

War is a great experience if one comes through it alive and un-
harmed. I did, and this four years in the U.S. Navy me me with
a far broader horizon to life than I would have had. I spent two
and one-half years teaching at NAS, Quonset Point, Rhode Tsland,
in the Officers’ Training School for ground aviation rankings, and
in the Air Combat Intelligence School, TP spent the last year of the
war as intelligence officer at COMAIRPAC, stationed on Ford: Is.
Jand, Oahu, ‘T.EE. Starting as a lieutenant (j.¢), T finished with the

[ 703 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

rank of lieutenant commander and was commissioned commander in
the Naval Reserve in 1948.

Only one of our four children now resides at home, and a house
in the country that started large, grew smaller as the children filled

it up, now has become huge again. My hobbies are golf, my family
and my friends.

JAMES THOMAS KENNEY

 

HOME appreEss: 144 Kuulei Rd., Kailua, Oahu, T.H.

OFFICE Appress: Historical Division, Office of Information Services, Head-
quarters, Pacific Air Forces, APO 953, San Francisco, Calif.

BORN: Jan. 5, 1911, Shrewsbury, Mass. PARENTS: Thomas Francis Kenney, MD.
’o4, Maud Reber.

PREPARED aT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934.

MarrieD: Yuriko Konno, Sept. 30, 1947, Tokyo, Japan. CHILDREN: Thomas
Hideki, May 23, 1944 (adopted); James Thomas, Jr., Sept. 30, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Reber Kenney, 37.

OccUPATION: Historian, Headquarters, Pacific Air Forces, located at Hickam
Air Force Base, Honolulu, T.H.; major subordinate commands: Fifth and
13th Air Forces, 315th Air Division, PACAF Base Command and Hawaiian
Air Defense Division.

OFFICES HELD: President, board of governors, Yuraku Officers’ Club, 1948-50,
Union Club of Tokyo, 1951-57.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and Tokyo; America-Japan So-
ciety, Tokyo, Japan; American Philatelic Society; Air Force Association.

PuBLications: Numerous sociological and historical publications prepared for
SCAP (Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers) from September,
1945, to May, 1952, in the Civil Information and Education Section,
Tokyo, Japan; “The History of the Far Fast Air Forces,” June, 1950,
through June, 1957, “The History of Pacific Air Forces,” July 1, 1957,
to June, 30, 1958, in the Archives of the Air University.

[ 704 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AS part of the global U.S. Air Force, the area of responsibility of

the Pacific Air Forces extends over almost four-tenths of the earth.

With the inauguration of Headquarters, Pacific Air Forces all USAF
fighting forces have been consolidated under a single field com-
mander. With its headquarters in Hawaii, and its “combat-ready
bases in Japan, South Korea, Okinawa, Guam, the Philippines and
Taiwan, PACAF can furnish the fastest available retaliation if the
Communists should strike anywhere in the Far East or in Southeast
Asia. The Pacific Air Forces command is not only the largest over-
seas air command geographically, but is the only USAF command
(under its former designation as the Far East Air Forces) that has
engaged in combat since World War II.

My past eight years as historian to this command have been years
of challenge and opportunity. The chronology of the Korean War
and of the years that have followed that war, the development of
strategy and tactics, the planning for utilization of new weapons of
great variet
while the Communist bloc maintains its undeviating pressure upon
the rest of the free world; all these records have been preserved as
part of history’s function to serve as the memory of the US. Air
Force. It is for the future to decide whether they have been kept
well; I know that I have been privileged in helping to keep them.

Preceding ‘this service, I spent my first three years after Harvard
in investment counsel work in Boston and New York, where I
moved in 1936. The next two years were spent in textile research
and sales in New York; and were followed by almost three years
as an independent business counselor in New ¥ ork and Bev erly Hills,
California. The war (Pacific) occupied three more years, ‘and its
termination found me in public relations on the island of Cebu, in
the Visayan group of the Philippine Islands. I entered Tokvo with
the Army of Occupation on the fifth of September, 1945; and in
December, 1945, was transferred (in civilian status) to the Civil
Information and Education Section of General MacArthur's SCAP
(Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers) Headquarters

My next twelve years, spent in Japan and elsewhere in the Far
East, I count among my most fortunate. While in Tokvo T met and
married my wife, the former Yuriko Konno, who was serv ing as an
adviser on textbooks, designed for the new Japanese school system,

to our headquarters. We have a son, just turned ten years of age,
born in Tokyo, and another son of fourteen whom we adopted i in

1957-

                                           

[ 705 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

During these years, also, I found life in the Far East to be both
fascinating and intellectually rewarding. Among outside interests |
was active in club work, both as president of one of. the earlier
officers’ clubs and later, for seven years, as president of the Union
Club of Tokyo, which occupation members and visitors will re-
member as the largest and finest in the Far East; with a peak member-
ship of over three thousand and a staff of four hundred. I was also
active in the America-Japan Society of Tokyo, which brings to-
gether diplomatic and military members, and business and cultural
leaders of the community, for exchanges of information and social
contacts; and in other organizations of a like nature. My wife
headed her local PTA group, and was active in other educational
organizations.

Here in the Hawaiian Islands where we moved in 1957, we are
pretty well occupied in bringing up our two boys who present us
with all the problems and joys so familiar to parents. Between
flying, swimming and playing my own particularly bad game of golf,
I find my few leisure hours well-filled and satisfying. I find little
inclination to urge Time’s backward flight — toil and tears vex me
not—and I can only hope that the “tide of the years” will prove

to be as personally rewarding in its forward flow as it has been from
its source.

JOHN DEVEREUX KERNAN, JR.

  

ft

ser EARN EISEN Ss
pat

 

HOME appress: 121 Beech St., Englewood, N.J.

OFFICE appress: Appleton, Rice and Perrin, 63 Wall St, New York, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 25, 1911, New York, N.Y. parents: John Devereux Kernan, ’oo
Charlotte Foote Sherrill. ,

PREPARED AT; Canterbury School, New Milford, Conn,

[ 706 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934; £1.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1937.

marrieD: Una Roger Greene, Oct. 21, 1939, Blauvelt, N.Y. centpren: John
Devereux, 4th, June 19, 1942; Brigid Devereux, May 13, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Robert Mills Kernan, ’38,; Henry Sherrill Kernan, °38.

occuPATION: Lawyer; member of firm, Appleton, Rice and Perrin.

MEMBER OF: Englewood Field Club (president, 1953); Englewood Club, Sc.
Nicholas Society; Bar Association of the City of New York; Friends of the
Englewood Library; Down Town Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Some seven articles on antique American silver in the magazine,
Antiques, 1947 through 1958.

EXCEPT for my years at the Columbia Law School and for a period

during World War II, I have been engaged in the general practice

of law in New York City ever since graduation. I became a member

of my firm in 1947.

In January, 1943, I was commissioned a Jieutenant (jg .) in the
Naval Reserve. Following indoctrination and specialized training
at the Air Combat Intelligence School at Quonset Point, Rhode
Island, I was an ACI officer at Naval Air Station, Quonset, and
later with a patrol bomber squadron, VPB-143. It was stationed at
Boca Chica, Florida, New York and San Diego, and finally stopped
the war by moving to Kaneohe Bay, Hawaii, in August, 1944. I was
released to inactive duty in February, 1946, as a lieutenant, and have
since been promoted to lieutenant commander. I am still in the
stand-by reserve and a member of a reserve unit in New York.

I like to travel and have managed to get abroad three times since
college, to Ireland, England, France and Germany. T am currently
planning a motor trip in Italy and France in 1959 with mv w hole
family and am having fun learning Italian in preparation.

My chief hobby in recent years has been silver — collecting and
writing about early American silver and within the last few years
actually working in the metal. Aly output includes a teapot, a
fourteen-inch -punchbowl, a saucepan, dishes, porringers and a
beaker. To control my waistline, I swim and play tennis in the
summer, ice skate in the winter, and garden, chop wood, mow the
lawn, and change storm windows and screens throughout the vear
— my feet and chest are bigger than they were, but every thing else

is smaller.

Socially, I am glad to live ina ‘democt racy and to sce it improve
—I am ashamed of Little Rock. Politically, T am a registered
Democrat who sometimes votes Republican, and I favor the United
Nations. Religiously, I am, as alw avs, a Roman Catholic.

I wish I could go to college again and make up for all that wasted

[707 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

time. I am looking forward to 1960 when I hope my son will be
at college and getting even more out of it than I did.

WILLIAM HASTINGS KERR

 

HOME apbrEss: 153 Hemenway St., Boston, Mass.
OFFICE ADpREsS: City of Boston Law Dept., 11 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: Nov. 15, 1911, Boston, Mass, parents: Neil Tennent Kerr, Anna F.
Weitz.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: AaB. magna cum laude, 1934, LL.B.
(Northeastern Univ.), 1939.

UN MARRIED.

occuPATION: Attorney-at-law; chief legal assistant, City of Boston Law De-
partment.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa.

SINCE becoming an attorney-at-law in 1939, I have been con-
tinuously employed by the City of Boston in its law department.
Suffice it to say that I have found the municipal service to require

much hard work and a great deal of overtime, and not to be a place
to loaf.

[ 708 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES JOHN KERRIGAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 292 Chase St., Clinton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Colonial Press, Inc., Green Street, Clinton, Mass.

BORN: May 2, 1912, Clinton, Mass. parents: Patrick Francis Kerngan, Bridget
Margaret Kerrigan.

PREPARED AT: Clinton High School, Clinton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1934(35).

MARRIED: Evelyn M. Schneider, May 11, 1940, Clinton, Mass. cHiLpReN: James
J.. March 25, 1941; Kathleen, Aug. 7, 1942; Karen, Sept. 22, 1944; Kim,

June 11, 1947.
occupation: Head of schedule department, Colonial Press, Inc., printing and

binding; in charge of machine loading, daily scheduling, etc.

THE years since leaving Harvard have not brought me a place in the
sun but have given me a happy life in the form of my family.

WILLIAM MARTIN KILCULLEN, JR.

 

HOME ApprEss; 520 Hillside Terr., West Orange, NJ.

[ 709 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

BORN: Jan. 23, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: William Martin Kilcullen, Anne
Watson Treacy.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.
UNMARRIED,

OCCUPATION: Letters.

‘

HARRY KIMEL

   

HOME ADDRESS: 8274 Williams Ave., Philadelphia 50, Pa.

OFFICE AppREss: General Electric Co, MSVD, 3198 Chestnut St., Philadelphia,
Pa, .

BORN: Jan, 24, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: Moses Kimel, Clara C. Dick.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933, 1934-1935. DEGREES: $.B, IN ENG., 1935; S.M. IN ENG.
1938.

MarniED: Ida S. Silverstein, March 1, 1936, Lawrence, Mass. CHILDREN: Roberta
Linda, June 26, 1939 (#7. Fred Burton Steinberg, June 28, 1958); Faith
Louise, April 3, 1946.

occupation: Engineer: manager, Projects Technical Support Operation, Mis-
siles & Space Vehicles Department, General Electric Company.

OFFICES HELD: Worshipful Master, Mt. Moriah Lodge No. 155, A.F. & A.M,
1956; member, Military Electronic Systems Committee, Electronic In-
dustries Association, 1958, chairman, IRE Professional Group, Telemetry
and Remote Control (Philadelphia Chapter), 1958; treasurer, Space Pioneers
Chapter, Toastmasters International, 1958.

MEMBER OF: Masons; Institute of Radio Engineers; Ivy Hill Duplicate Bridge
Club; Elfun Society, Toastmasters International.

AT the end of the school year in 1933, I found myself out of
funds, but with still a year to go for the degree. So, I went out to
work for a year, accumulating the necessary money. I finally made
it in 1935. Graduation, however, brought very little reward since
engineering jobs in those days were scarce, It was not a matter of

[710 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

selling apples, but there were many and varied jobs mostly of a
sales nature.

In March of 1936, I married my high school sweetheart, Then I
went back for the S.M. in 1937.

I became interested in remote control by means of radio and
finally in 1940 I landed a job in the Naval Aircraft factory in
Philadelphia as a radio engineer in the design of radio controlled
aircraft, attempting to fly aircraft with no pilot aboard. We now
call them guided missiles. I have watched (and helped?) the de-
velopment from the simple drone aircraft to the mighty Thor and
Atlas ballistic missiles with which I am now involved.

When I applied for a commission in the Navy in 1941, they
laughed at me and sent me back to the laboratory. Consequently,
I fought the war in Philadelphia at the Naval Aircraft factory and
the Korean episode at the Pilotless Aircraft Development Laboratory
in Johnsville, Pennsylvania.

As for hobbies, we now play a little bridge, watch television, and
talk about our first trips to Mars and Venus.

CHESTER HARDING KING, JR.

   

HOME ADpREss: Cazenovia, N.Y.

OFFICE appress: Bond, Schoeneck & King, 1ooo State Tower Bldg., Syracuse,
N.Y.

BORN: March 30, 1913, Syracuse, N.Y. parents: Chester Harding King, ‘02,
Kathleen Comstock.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1030-1934. DEGREES! A.B, 19345 LL.B, 1937:

MarrieD: Mary Ellen Crapon de Caprona, Dee, 18, 1948, New Canaan, Conn.
CHILDREN: Chester Harding, 3d, Feb. 11, 1950; Eleanor Mather, Oct. 8,
1951; Charles Noel, May 14, 1954.

[ir]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

HARVARD BROTHER: Graham King, °36.
OccUPATION: Lawyer.

AFTER graduation from the Law School in 1937, I returned to
Syracuse, New York, where I began to practise law with an estab-
lished firm which was just out of lawyers named King, a senior
partner bearing that name (no relation) having died just prior to
my applying for a job. Following several years of practice, I was
federalized in 1941 with the National Guard unit which I had
joined, From it, via the Infantry School at Fort Benning, Georgia,
I progressed to the 85th Infantry Division, which, after training
sojourns in various parts of the South, was sent to Italy in early
1943 and remained there for the duration. I returned in the fall of
1945, with a lively affection for Italy and the Italians, and resumed
my former occupation.

I was married in 1948 and moved to my present residence in a
small village about twenty miles from Syracuse, to which I commute
daily. My wife being French, we have impeccable reasons for
traveling to France whenever possible, which we do at fairly
regular intervals, although not as often as we would like, as the
practice of law, while absorbing and satisfying, is also demanding.

My family, reading, music, some tennis and a little fishing and
shooting keep my spare time full.

STUART DENNISON KING

 

appress: H. C, Kline Associates, 42 Virginia Pl., Buffalo 2, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 12, 1912, Niagara Falls, Ontario, Canada. parents: Edward Dennison
King, Daisy Day.

prepareD aT: North Tonawanda High School, North Tonawanda, N.Y.

[712 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933.
occupaTion: Manufacturing.

“NO questionnaire returned.

GUSTAV HERMANN KINNICUTT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 520 E, 86th St., New York 28, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDREsS: Continental-American Travel, Inc., 465 Park Ave., New York
22, N.Y.

BORN: Feb. z9, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: Gustav Hermann Kinnicutt, ’98.
May Appleton Tuckerman.

PREPARED aT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. 1934.

MarRIED: Irene Jena Solmsen, Aug. 12, 1948, New York, N.Y. cuiLpren: Liliane
Solmsen, Oct. 10, 1938 (stepdaughter); Michael Tuckerman, May 3, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Parker Kinnicutt, ’30.

occuPATION: Vice-president, Travel Agency.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Boys’ Club of New York.

MEMBER OF: Racquet & Tennis Club; Tarratine Yacht Club.

@

I AM afraid my career since 1934 is not a particularly spectacular
one, although it has been most enjoyable. On graduation, I im-
mediately went to Wall Street, which seemed to be the thing to do,
to work for Clark, Dodge & Company, investment bankers, as a
statistician. The following six years were spent there in various
capacities and I can’t say I became a financial genius, although
it was fun working with classmates who were also trying to corner
the market at fifteen dollars per week.

In 1940 I joined the Naval Reserve and, after spending a short
time at go Church Street, was sent to London as a special naval
observer with a diplomatic passport. The reasons for this are still
unknown, but with such a document I fared very well for the next

L713]

‘

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

few years and enjoyed myself to the hilt. After my return, I was
a much better man for many reasons, full of confidence and a solid
determination not to return to the financial world. At loose ends for °
a while, I finally decided I was most interested in starting a travel
agency. Fortunately, Bill Simpson felt the same way and the firm of
Continental-American Travel, Inc., was born. It turned out to be an
excellent idea and since then I have done considerable traveling
with hopes for a great deal more in the future.

It wasn’t until 1948 that my bachelor days came to an end and
the results were most satisfactory. Outside of my work, my main
interests are the Boys’ Club of New York and a good long vaca-
tion each summer in Dark Harbor, Maine, where numerous class-
mates reside.

CHARLES McMICHAEL KIRKLAND

   

SALTZ FRM MN ON ERE PAE END,

 

HOME apprEss: 191 Hillside Ave., Englewood, N.J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Okonite Co., Passaic, N.J.

BORN: Jan. 7, 1913, Philadelphia, Pa. PARENTS: Frederic Richardson Kirkland,
’10, Caroline McMichael.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MarkiED: Nancy Brinton Lucas, Sept. 28, 1935, Philadelphia, Pa. cumpren: Ann
Brooke, Nov. 1, 1936; Christine, Feb. 21, 1939; Katharine, Feb. 7, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Frederic McMichael Kirkland, ’34, Benjamin Buck Kirk-
land, °39.

occuPaTION: Vice-president, Marketing.

I WENT to work for the Okonite Company in Scptember, 1935,
and have been with them ever since, except for the war years and
one leave of absence. Enlisted in the Air Force in the spring of
1942 and got out in the fall of 1945.

[714]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The leave of absence in 1946 was to permit me to try to work
out an idea connected with the wire and cable business. Two of us
set up a small company, but soon got into some legal and financing
problems we couldn’t handle at that time. Came back to Okonite
and, although much disappointed at the time, now I am very glad
things worked out as they did.

On the more important side, we have been extremely lucky with
health and family. Our eldest has just announced her engagement to
Peter Simonds who is a Harvard graduate and this will give me a
member of the family with whom to exchange condolences regard-
ing Harvard football. My second daughter is at Vassar, with about
an even chance to stay in. My youngest is still in school and doing
well. The decision to live in Englewood has worked out well — we
hope to remain there indefinitely.

Even after twenty-five years, I am constantly reminded of my
good fortune in going to Harvard when I did. I don’t mean that I
realize that I couldn’t get in now and couldn’t get through if |
did get in, although that’s all too true. I mean I still derive much
pleasure and even some practical effect from that experience.

FREDERIC McMICHAEL KIRKLAND

 

HOME ADDRESS: 17 FE. 89th St., New York 28, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Emil A. Schroth Metals, Inc., 39 Hyatt Ave., Newark 5, N_J.

BORN: Sept. 19, 1911, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Frederic Richardson Kirkland,
*10, Caroline Sutherland AleMichael.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-193}.

MarRIED: Sally Phinney, Sept, 10, 1938, Fort Hamilton, Brooklyn, N.Y. chub:
Sally, Oct. 31, 1941.

[715 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles McMichael Kirkland, ’34; Benjamin Buck Kirkland,

39+

occuPATION: Junk-man; non-ferrous metal dealer-broker, salesman.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Racquet & Tennis Club of New
York (1946-56); New York Chapter, American Society for Metals; Na-
tional Association of Waste Material Dealers; Sales Executives Club of
New York.

puBLications: Co-founder, N.B.C, Chines, National Broadcasting Company’s
official network house organ, 1934.

I WOULD like to help you out . . . which way did you come in?
It took me only twenty years, from June, 1933 — when five zeros
in the April hour exams, at which I was absent, failed to qualify me |
for our Senior Class — until June, 1953, when I got into the junk
business, to develop a stimulating, fascinating and “periodically”
lucrative occupation. .

Few things being perfect, there are exiguous negatives pingpong-
ing the above adjectives. Life in the scrap metal jungle is of the
precarious precipice variety. Lose a couple of your best accounts,
and what have you got... sixteen tons? But, add a couple to
your best accounts, and you begin ruminating about the $450-a-day
penthouse occupied by Paul Douglas and Judy Holliday in the
movie, “Born Yesterday.”

We buy and/or sell electrolytic copper wire and cable, briquetted
No. 1 and No. 2 copper, copper nickel, copper scale, copper sul-
phate, cuprous oxide, pig lead, zinc slab, lead and solder dross, mis-
cellaneous including mercury, No. 1 prepared-for-melting railroad
scrap. Also journals and armature bearings, brass and copper tube
and pipe.

In this business, you are assumed (rightly, I think) to be Al
Capone’s grandson until proven otherwise. It’s a real challenge to
an honest organization to sell its services, particularly to manu-
facturers, whose underpaid purchasing agents have spent years
weeding wheat from chaff, only to end up selling their scrap to
Sing Sing alumni. How come? Because too many P.A.s don’t
know the value of their own scrap, don’t know a robber from a
detective, and/or are tractable to offers of a “shiny new Cadillac
at Christmas,” a convenient “loan to pay off the mortgage on the
house,” or a year’s salary under the table in cash!

In addition to metal, the foregoing also applies to marketable
paper — particularly newspaper and magazine — textile and plastic
waste, which I also handle, whenever an interesting accumulation

[ 716 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

shows up. But these categories usually involve too much labor and,
other things being equal, are less profitable than metal scrap.

That I may be the only junk-dealer in the Class of 1934 could
_be because most of us skeptically, “money-isn’t-everything,” insist

on a job which permits self-respect, whatever its shortcomings.
Would you reflect a little, as I have, on the next two paragraphs?
Does the second completely negate the first? If you think it does, ]
guess I’m left with chacun a son gout.

The Technical Service Section, Industrial Salvage Branch, Salvage
Division, War Production Board, in 1946, I think, came up with the
estimate that 40% of the armament, ships, vehicles, etc., produced
in the U.S. during World War II were manufactured from scrap
metal. (2) What industry has no scrap? Who pays for the privi-
lege of removing it? If you don’t think scrap revenue, in many
cases, is a balance sheet item, how would you account for $23 mil-
lion in ’57 and $16 million in ’58, which one public utility (from
whom we buy) NETTED from scrap sales? (3) Go to an
N.A.W.M.D. Convention. See the movies, hear the lectures put on
by Big Business (Alcoa, for example) to educate the dealers re end
uses for scrap. (4) Yawn, with the rest of us, while the U.S. De-
partment of Commerce representative convolves frantically on the
cog-in-the-machine role played by the junk-dealer in the domestic
and international industrial picture, cloudy or sunny.

Any resemblance that the Cadillac and Chrysler Imperial lim-
ousines, and their swarthy, alert owners, at our Detroit, Atlantic
City, New York, Miami gatherings bear to Likewise (Vivian Blaine
in “Guys and Dolls”), exhumed by Ave’s militia at Apalachin, New
York, may or may not be coincidental.

In case anyone — other than my wife, brother, Richard Lawrence
and John Bridges White — reads this, if that someone has a son who .
likes working with metals, wants to transpose avocation into voca-
tion, suggest to him geology at Harvard; and a course in metallurgy
wherever he finds one. I got only a C in geology, know little about
metals, just as I didn’t know much in the Navy; same solution for
both. I do know what phone numbers to call, and do know mv way
around in Iron Age, American Metal Market, The Waste Trade
Journal, The Daily Mill Stock Reporter, etc., and, most important,
American Society for Metals’ bible, the ’48 .Metals Handbook, with
"54 and ’55 supplements.

To make up for missing my senior year at Cambridge, and to
traditionally prepare for a junk-dealer’s career, I extra-curriculared

[717]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

WILLIAM WALLACE KIRKPATRICK

 

JOME ADDRESS: 5235 Nebraska Ave., N.W., Washington 15, D.C.
FFICE ADDRESS: U.S. Dept. of Justice, Washington 25, D.C.

orn: April 8, 1914, New Rochelle, N.Y. parents: Frank F. Kirkpatrick, Mary
V. Treacy.

REPARED AT: Pleasantville High School, Pleasantville, N.Y.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1934; LL.B. cum
laude, 1938.

N MARRIED.

scuPATION: Attorney; Second Assistant, Antitrust Division, U.S. Department
of Justice.

EMBER OF: University Club, Washington, D.C; Army Novy Country Club,
Arlington, Va.; American Bar Association.

FTER college, the next year was spent as an undergraduate at the
ueen’s College, Oxford. In addition to a minor amount of study-
g, and the chance to live in England, this afforded appreciable
ne for traveling in Europe. In the fall of 1935 I returned to
ambridge and started in at law school. In due course, three years
‘er, I was graduated from the Law School and that fall started
ork as a lawyer for the government in the Department of Justice.
For four years I was kept busy learning something about the
osecution of antitrust cases, occupied with a variety of civil and
iminal proceedings in various cities throughout the United States.
‘ashington became home during these years. In 1942 I went into
e Navy as an ensign and came out four years later as a lieutenant,
ving served practically the entire time in the Pacific with about
‘0 years of sea duty with destroyers.

After leaving the Navy, I came back to the Antitrust Division in
ashington and started again working in the antitrust field. This —
ntinued for four years, and involved about as wide a variety of
ofessional experience as any prosecutor in one field of the law

[ 720 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

can hope to get. In the beginning of 1950, when the State Depart-
ment was taking over the responsibility from the Army for the
occupation of Germany, I transferred to State and spent a year in
Frankfurt working on decartelization problems. Then I moved to
Berlin as the chief legal officer for the State Department’s mission
there. The three years in Berlin presented every kind of legal and
other problem, and I found the work there, with the questions
which the quadripartite occupation of that city presented, fasci-
nating. Living in Berlin, more than 100 miles behind the Iron
Curtain, was a very interesting experience. The years in Germany,
in addition, gave me an opportunity to travel extensively through-
out Europe and around the world.

In 1954 I returned once more to the Antitrust Division and soon
thereafter was named Second Assistant. The Division’s work, in-
volving as it does the enforcement of a basic national policy, con-
tinues to present new challenges and to be professionally reward-
ing.

I am still a bachelor, and enjoy living and working in Washington.

LEONARD KLEIN

    

HOME ADDRESS: 10741 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles, Calif.

OFFICE appress: University of California, Los Angeles, Calif. |

BORN: Nov. 1, 1912, Chicago, Ill. Parents: Irving Nathaniel Alem, Blanche
Newgass. .

PREPARED AT: Harvard School for Boys, Chicago, IIl.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930—1934. DEGREE: A.B. wagna cum laude, 1934.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: E.ducator.

OFFICES HELD: Coordinator, Dept. of Liberal Arts, University Extension, Uni-
versity of California.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles and short stories,

[721]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

OLIVER DIXWELL KNAUTH

   

Nn A ]

HOME ADDRESS: 1255 37th St., N.W., Washington, D.C.

BORN: June 6, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: Oswald Whitman Knauth, ’oo,
Anna Dixwell Clements.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933.

MarrieD: Mary Alice Pickett, June 13, 1938, Finchville, Ky. (divorced 1949);
Enid Chamberlain, 1955. cuiLpreN: Caroline Dixwell, March 25, 1941; Anne
Winston, Feb. 3, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Arnold Whitman Knauth, 2d, ’41.

occuPaTION: Writing.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Cruising Club of America.

PUBLICATIONS: “America’s Stake in Foreign Information,” “How to Break the
Disarmament Deadlock,” “Sovereignty, Strategy and the Atom,” and (in
preparation) “Guidelines for U.S. Foreign Policy — 1970.”

bicdaie: ad kale

FOLLOWING the example of the Sample Lives you sent, I have
been trying (as you suggested) to “reflect a little’ on the mean-
ing of life as viewed from the summit of middle-aged wisdom.
After a week of deep cogitation, my mind remains a blank. Sorry.
That’s how the cookies crumble.

Possibly the fact that I seem to have no philosophy of life ac-
counts for my having been somewhat of a rolling stone. My only
constant interests are sailing and foreign affairs. After leaving col-
lege I studied international relations at Heidelberg and the London
School of Economics; put in a stint as obituary editor in Flushing
(which consisted mainly of inspecting the “floaters” that washed
up at College Point) and another stint at copywriting in Louisville;
then I returned to foreign affairs as a member of Fortune Magazine’s
postwar committee. This led in turn to Washington where I labored
for OSS and OWI. After the latter’s demise, I conducted a radio
forum on foreign policy for the Washington Post. After which an-

[722 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

other hiatus involving public relations in my overcrowded natal
town; the marketing of a solid detergent, and the attempted breeding
of a lobster-sized fresh-water shrimp called Macrobracium Jamai-
censis. Although I have not as yet succeeded in the latter, it en-
abled me to meet my present wife, Enid, who has taught me how
to achieve a far more important kind of success—that of an
extremely happy marriage.

Until I can discover how to raise Macrobracium, I am living in
Washington (another long-standing love) writing on foreign policy
and enjoying cruising on the Vezturess. When I become too de-
crepit to play tennis, I hope to take a Jong winter vacation and sail
the West Indies. Where I shall roll after that, heaven knows, but
like ole man river, I hope I'll jes’ keep rollin’ along — at least tll
our Fiftieth rolls around.

MALCOLM SHEPHERD KNOWLES

 

HOME ADDRESS: 125 Fourth St., Wilmette, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Adult Education Association of the U.S.A. 743 N. Wabash
Ave., Chicago 11, Ill.

BoRN: Aug. 24, 1913, Livingston, Mont, parents: Albert Dixon Knowles,
Marian Straton.

PREPARED AT: Palm Beach High School, Palm Beach, Fla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B, Crm laude, 1934, aa. (Univ, of
Chicago), 1949.

marrieD: Hulda Elisabet Fornell, Aug. 20, 1935, Wellesley, Mass. crate:
Erie Stuart, Aug. 13, 1941; Barbara Flizabeth, Oct. 20, 1046.

occupation: Educator; executive director, Adult Fducation Association of the
U.S.A.; Iccturer, University of Chicago and George Williams College.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Midwest Region, Amertean Association for the United
Nations, 1948-50; director, American Unitarna Association, rgse-st,

[723 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Chicago Association for Family Living, 1952-58; director, since 1954,
president, since 1956, Wilmette Family Service Association.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Chicago; Adult Education Association of the
US.A.; National Education Association; Society for the Psychological
Study of Social Issues, American Civil Liberties Union, American Labor
Education Service.

puBLicaTions: Informal Adult Education, Association Press, New York, 1950;
How To Develop Better Leaders (co-authored with wife), Association
Press, 1955; How To Understand Group Dynamics (co-authored with
wife), Association Press, spring, 1959, articles in Nations Schools, The
School Executive, Holiday, Recreation, Journal of Social Issues, The
National Parent-Teacher and other educational and religious magazines.

THE best laid plans of, etc., sometimes get re-laid by events, and
mine did. In the Class Album I said my intended vocation was the
foreign service, and pursuing this intention, I enrolled in the Fletcher
School of Law and Diplomacy (Harvard-Tufts) after graduation.
Two events conspired around the end of the first semester of graduate
school to push me into a different—and, who knows, perhaps
happier — vocational route. One was the deepening of the Great
Depression and the other a catastrophic auto accident involving
my parents.

The best job I could find to tide me over until I could resume
my foreign service studies was a junior executive position with the
National Youth Administration of Massachusetts. Incidentally, I
shall ever be grateful to the Congressman who quietly inserted
into the law establishing the N.Y.A. the provision that every state
office must have on its executive staff a young man or woman under
twenty-five years of age. Otherwise, I doubt if Eddie Casey, famed
Harvard star and coach, and then state director of N.Y.A., would
have looked at me twice when I went in for an interview. And
thanks, too, to Phillips Brooks House for providing me with the
leadership experience that gave me the edge over other candidates.

The assignment I was given at N.Y.A. is really what shaped my
career, You will remember that N.Y.A.’s first mission was to give
unemployed youth part-time jobs. Shortly after I arrived on the
scene, it was decided that this wasn’t enough to save the lost gen-
eration, that they needed continuing education to improve their
equipment for work and life. And I was given the task of organizing
a state-wide program of “related training,” or, as it turned out, adult
education. The program we developed in Massachusetts was pio-
neering and attracted national attention, So when the Boston
Y.M.C.A. decided to go into adult education in a big way in 1940,

[724 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I was invited to become its “expert” in this new field that, fortu-
nately for me, was devoid of experts.

After three years at the Boston “Y” I concluded that I ought to
be contributing more directly to the war effort and moved to the
position of U.S.O. director for the Detroit “Y”. By 1944 it had
become apparent that we couldn’t win the war with me out of
it, so I offered my expert services as an adult educator to the U.S.
Navy. Voluminous tests proved that I could read and write and,
naturally, I was commissioned a communications officer. My illus-
trious naval career can be summed up very simply: I fought the
battle of San Diego Harbor as a member of the Amphibious Forces,
Pacific Fleet.

Upon discharge, I undertook to qualify myself respectably for a
career in adult education and enrolled part-time in the graduate
program of adult education at the University of Chicago, working
full-time as adult education director for the Chicago Y.M.C.A.
By 1949 I had earned my A.M. and by 1951 had completed all work
for the Ph.D. except my dissertation, which I am still plodding on
evenings and weekends when events allow.

Between 1949 and 1951 J helped to lay plans for the establishment
of a single national organization to unify and guide the growing
adult education movement. When it came into being in 1951, I
became its executive director, and still am. My job is one of the
most fascinating in the world — building from scratch a pioneer
movement that is dedicated to the proposition that learning is —
and in this era of technological and social change must be — a
lifelong process. My headquarters are in Chicago, but I’m the guy
who keeps the airlines stock climbing by virtue of my continuous
jaunts around the country beating the drums for the expansion of
adult education programs in colleges and universities, public schools,
industry, voluntary associations, government and labor. .

Fortunately, my wife has many of the same interests that I find
rewarding. We are both active in many different but parallel com-
munity activities; we conduct leadership training workshops to-
gether for all kinds of organizations, and we write books together.
Our interests seem to fork only when we take a holiday — she oil
paints while I fish.

In retrospect, I am appreciative to Harvard for all it taught me,
especially about how to learn. But I am even more grateful for the
insight I got somewhere, sometime, that learning should never stop.
The past twenty-five years have, therefore, been full of the ex-

[725 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

citement I felt at Harvard in discovering new worlds of thought

and knowledge. And I can’t wait to get started on the intellectual

space-flights ahead of me between the Twenty-fifth and Fiftieth
Reunions. How many of you will join me?

THOMAS BARNES KNOWLES

    

HOME ApprESS: 385 Gilpin, Denver 18, Colo.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 624 17th St., Denver 2, Colo.

BorN: Dec. 12, 1910, New Bedford, Mass. parents: Henry Swift Knowles,
’o2, May Barnes.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.

MarrieD: Eleanor Van Schaack, 1938, Denver, Colo. (died 1947); Mary Louise
Kountze, July 16, 1948. cHiLpREN: Diana, Aug. 25, 1939; Thomas Barnes,
Jr, April 12, 1941; David Van Schaack, June 23, 1947.

occuPATION: President, Van Schaack & Company, real estate investments.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Colorado National Bank, Mile High United Fund,
Denver Planning Commission, Denver Chamber of Commerce, Downtown
Denver Improvement Association, and Denver Area Boy Scouts; trustee,
past-president, Denver Art Museum; president, chairman of the board,
Denver Community Chest, 1954-56, trustee, High Altitude Observatory
and Colorado Academy; president, Country Club Gardens, Inc., Johnson
Building Company, Medical Center Building Corporation, The Shopping

Center Corporation, and the Denver Association of Building Owners and
Managers, 1954-55.

MEMBER OF: Denver Club, Denver Country Club; Arlberg Ski Club; University

Club; Kennicott Duck Club; Rocky Mountain Harvard Club; member of
Permanent Class Committee of 1934.

NOT for a disturbing number of years after graduation did I find
it possible in the marts of trade to attain an annual income com-
parable to that which my father paid me to go to college. This was
true notwithstanding the fact that allowances from home to under-

| 726 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

graduates in the early ’30’s clearly mirrored depression conditions.

Two years in a Boston bank, together with life on a shoestring
with a series of equally impecunious co-rent payers on Beacon Hill,
were carefree days, further sprinkled with late afternoons, rowing
from the Union Boat Club and a liberal quantity of gaiety and enter-
tainment at the expense of others.

Broken health from this heavy load of responsibility led to six
months in Arizona and a subsequent homestead in Denver, Colorado.
Two years with the Great Western Sugar Company in the beet fields
and the sugar factories clearly indicated that life in this “brave new
world” offered rising tides of opportunity, and raised some question
as to whether Boston really was the Hub of the Universe after all.

By 1938, the grass appeared to grow greener in the fields of real
estate, and the last twenty years have been spent there — with all
the attendant exposure to a city’s civic, social, political and economic
life. It has seemed that there is hardly a corner of a community’s
economy to which commercial and industrial real estate, coupled
with the mortgage loan business, do not eventually lead. In a growing
and expanding business society this can be fun.

Many or most of our local contemporaries whom we see, know,
and work with have come here from elsewhere to live. Nearly every
state in the Union is represented in the last ten years of western
migration. Overlying the early population, some of whom may
count back three generations, is now a fresh layer of inmigrés,
fugitive from everything from the New York subway, Chicago
weather, the Dust Bowl, old family tradition, the vanishing textile
industry of New England to the dubious benefits of Southern
_ California.

Should this anthology seem more to be the story of a city rather
than a classmate, it is perhaps no accident, since — even though only
a municipality — it has exerted a great and indelible influence on
the life of this reporter. In the middle thirties, Denver, a com-
fortable western town in a mountain state, lazed sleepily in the
pre-war sun. It is now a reasonably thriving metropolis and it is
warming to think that some of us may have grown up with it.

In other respects the last two decades have followed a pattern
of marriage and children, mountain lakes on summer weekends, the
West Indies for winter vacations, and sometimes trips to Europe.

Modest accomplishments and chilling failures have been neither
unfamiliar, spectacular, nor earth-shaking, and much the same list of
Committees, business associations, civic services, clubs and trade

[727]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

organizations obtain. Skiing at Aspen, fishing in mountain streams
and duck shooting on the river complete the case history of a time
when life seems rarely dull.

I miss the East, but wouldn’t trade. I like the West, but as yet
even this may not be the “be all and end all” of what we’re supposed

to do; or even what we set out to do that fair and sultry afternoon
in June of 1934.

WILLIAM ARTHUR KNOX

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADpRESS: Floyd Street, Billerica, Mass.

BORN; Aug. 5, 1912, Somerville, Mass. parents: Charles Wallace Knox, Susie
E. Tucker.

_ PREPARED AT: Howe High School, Billerica, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MarRIED: E, Althea Spaulding, Oct. 12, 1940, Nashua, N.H. CHILDREN: J. Paul,
Feb. 7, 1945; Karen L., May 14, 1947.
occupaTIoN: Insurance broker, self-employed.

OFFices HELD: Master, Thomas Talbot Lodge, A.F. & A.M., Billerica, Mass.,
1956-58.

DURING the span of twenty-five years, since leaving the ivy halls
of Cambridge, my life has followed the more or less usual pattern.
Courting, getting married, bringing up children, have all brought their
share of joy and responsibilities. One of the high spots was when
my very young daughter, Karen, was able to climb Mt. Monadnock,
New Hampshire, with me, to enjoy the wonderful view.

My military service was in the Navy from 1941 to 1943. After a
tour of duty in Washington, D.C.,, I left the hustle and bustle of
stateside duty, and departed for more lonely service in the “blue”
Pacific. The experience at sea on an LCI included riding out a
hurricane, enduring seasickness and wondering what island we

[728 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

would hit next. I was among those who arrived first at Yokohama,
for the Japanese surrender. There I was able to see the snow-capped
peak of Fujiyama.

I have enjoyed the years of Masonic work, culminating in two

ears as master of the local lodge.

With the pile of papers on my insurance office desk always con-
fronting me, I seldom find time to explore the fields of literature,
as I would like to do. However, I usually have a couple of books at
hand, to browse through, at least, and attempt to digest the essential
facts. And so, life moves on inexorably and relentlessly, toward my
sunset years.

PHILIP JAMES KOBER

 

HOME AppREsS: 70 Williamsburg Rd., Evanston, IIl.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Encyclopaedia Britannica, 425 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago 11, Il.

BORN; Dec, 27, 1911, Yonkers, N.Y. PARENTS: Philip Adolph Kober, ‘06, Mary
Agnes Maloney.

PREPARED AT: Evanston Township High School, Evanston, IIl.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MarRiED: Margaret Esther Mason, May 6, 1950, Evanston, IJ. cuitpren: Mar-
garet Bryden, Feb. 5, 1951; Philip Mason, June 20, 1952; Barbara Mary,
Aug. 21, 1953; John Charles, Nov. 20, 1957.

OccuPATION: Assistant director of purchasing, Encyclopaedia Britannica, pub-
lishers; procurement of paper, printing, binding, all items for centralized
purchasing policy; in charge of printing and photostat departments.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, 1952, president, 1954, member, board of directors,
1955, Chicago Book Clinic. ,

MEMBER OF: Chicago Book Clinic; Parent-Teachers Association; National
College of Education Children’s School.

WHILE still in college, I had hoped to get into banking, The de-
pression ruled otherwise, it was close, however, for T went into the

[729 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

banknote business, which started a career in the graphic arts. My
initial connection stopped in bankruptcy six years later.

A five-year stint in the military service took care of 1941-46. I
am still in the Reserve, as a major, Quartermaster Corps. My basic
training was in the infantry at Camp Croft, South Carolina. From
being an administrative clerk in Headquarters, Fifth Corps Area,
Chicago, I went to QM OCS. My first assignment was to remain
there and teach supply.

A lucky break brought me to a wonderful course at the Business
School in advanced supply. A very few weeks at the Kansas City
QM Depot and I was on my way overseas. It was England for seven
to eight months and then Paris. I left there on Armistice Day, 1945;
and arrived home exactly three years after commissioning — De-
cember 11, 1945. My tour had been with Office of the Theatre
Chicf Quartermaster and involved control and stock control.

With a background of stock control and graphic arts, I joined
Encyclopaedia Britannica to use those two functions. I am still
here as assistant director of purchasing, where we have a centralized
procurement policy, buying everything for an international organiza-
tion, owned by the University of Chicago and a Yaleman (Senator
William Benton).

For one who was supposedly to remain a bachelor, in spite of
marrying late (in May, 1950), we have multiplied rapidly (see
“Children” above). With the youngest beginning to walk, our
momentary problem is how to finance a larger home, out where the
air is and will be clearer. The children are presently attending the
Children’s School of the National College of Education. It is some-
times amazing to think of three being in school, but here it is twenty-
five years since graduation.

[730 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

A. CARL KOCH, JR.

 

HOME AppREss: 3 Holden Lane, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Carl Koch & Associates, 55 Brattle St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

BORN: May 11, 1912, Milwaukee, Wis. parents: Albert Carl Koch, ’o06, Ruth
Chamberlain.

PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, Il.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., Cv7?2 laude, 1934; M.ARCH., 1937.

MARRIED: Persis White, 1937, Marietta, Ohio (divorced 1949); Jean Emery,
Dec. 24, 1951, Boston, Mass. cHitpReEN: Cyrus Foss, Nov. 9, 1941; Otto
Frazar, July 2, 1943; Molly Estey, July 18, 1946; Carl, Jan. 29, 1948,
David Emery, Dec. 16, 1952; Samuel Chamberlain, Jan. 3, 1955.

occupation: Architect; principal in Carl Koch & Associates, doing general
architectural practice; lecturer at M.L-T.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, board of directors, Techbuilt, Inc.; director, Acorn
Houses, Inc.; member, design committee, National Housing Center; mem-
ber, educational sub-committee, National Association of Home Builders.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects; Massachusetts State Association
of Architects; Boston Society of Architects; Annisquam Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: At Home with Tomorrow, with Andy Lewis, Rinehart & Co.,
1958, Design and the Housing Industry; contributing editor to Action
(American Council to Improve our Neighborhoods).

HARVARD, in the person of Dean Edgell, was responsible for
making me into an architect. Like many of us, I came to Harvard
more interested in football than in knowledge and it was my first
good fortune, I think, to find that I wasn’t good enough at football
to make the team.

In retrospect, I find myself grateful, rather than otherwise, for
feeling somewhat like an outsider at Harvard to all but its academic
life. The need for a scholarship, and the demands and satisfactions
of acquiring knowledge consumed most of my time and solaced
my soul in compensation for the sudden big college loneliness for

. which I was rather unprepared.

[731]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

my own sail boat large enough to race to Bermuda and to house my
whole family and transport them up and down the Eastern Sea-
board from Bar Harbor to Nassau. This last sammer I was lucky
enough to be able to ship it to Oslo and take all six children and my
wife around the coasts of Norway, Sweden and Denmark. This
sort of activity has been a tremendously satisfactory spirit renewer.
I’m returning “with them right after our Reunion to cruise through
the French Canals to the Mediterranean. There’s no better way in
this day and age to make contact and work with one’s family on a
satisfying basis than on a 1500-mile trip on a 4o-foot boat.

I have been concerned about the possible truth of the oft-re-
peated remark that America is about the first country to go from
barbarism to decadence without having experienced civilization. As
an architect I am troubled by the knowledge that we have such an
unrealized potential for creating a civilized physical environment.
As life becomes basically easier and easier in this country, there
seems less and less excuse for not spending more time asking why
we are here, yet there is all too little indication that we think or
even know as much about this question as we did fifty or one
hundred years ago. This is not to say that there aren’t hopeful
signs of an increasing concern with other than material values. I
feel very privileged, for instance, to be working with our classmate
Nellie Aldrich on a tremendously exciting new Arts Center for
somewhat-but-not-dead-yet old Boston.

All in all, it is impossibl e for me not to act on the conviction
that, whatever the proportion of luck to design, America now offers
a more exciting frontier for expressing the meaning and attainment
of civilization than any other place this, or even the other, side of
the moon.

[734]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DAVID ELI KOPANS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 21 Mason Rd., Newton Center, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 454 Brookline Ave., Boston, Mass.
BORN: April 22, 1913, Boston, Mass. ParENTS: Julius Kopans, Esther Rachel

Abelson.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934; M.D., 1938.

marRieD: Edith Gellis, Aug. 26, 1938, Newton, Mass. cui~pren: Emily, Jan.
24, 1944; Elizabeth, Jan. 24, 1946; Daniel, Jan. 23, 1948, Ezekiel (died Dec.
19, 1953) and Donald, Dec. 14, 1953 (twins).

OCCUPATION: Physician — obstetrician and gynecologist.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Temple Shalom of Newton, 1952-57.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Varsity Club; American Medical
Association; Massachusetts Medical Society; American College of Ob-
stetricians and Gynecologists; Boston Obstetrical Society; New England
Obstetrical and Gynecological Society; Massachusetts Maternal Welfare
Committee, Massachusetts Bay Lodge of B’nai B'rith.

THE pleasant summer of ease of 1934 was very quickly dispelled
by my immersion into the intense curriculum at the Harvard Medi-
cal School. The days (and nights) were full. Merriman, Karpovich
and Hill yielded to Bobby Green, Walter Cannon and David
Cheever. Basic sciences greeted us at seemingly every turn. Anat-
omy, histology, physiology, pathology, bacteriology, medicine and
surgery unfolded their truths. The work was rough, but we were
guided by a talented group: an anatomist who was a renowned
classicist, an histologist who played the violin beautifully; ac-
coucheurs who painted in their precious spare time; psychiatrists
who swam the Hellespont and composed sonnets. Students of
science but also humanists, teachers, tireless and patient, but helpful,
approachable and convivial, they represented the “compleat” phy-
sician.

[735]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Cheever to Henry Pennypacker looked sternly down on us in the
assembly hall, constantly reminding us of our sole mission in our
young lives.

Harvard permeates our everyday life. Its influence is manifest
in local and federal government. It is a champion of freedom and
truth. Its position is unchallenged in the arts and sciences. Its
teachings are flexible and tolerant. How fortunate I am to have been

exposed to the teaching and philosophy of the two oldest educa-
tional institutions in our country!

MORRIE KOPLOW

 

HOME Appress: 20 Lorna Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 29 Kneeland St., Boston 12, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 4, 1910, Malden, Mass. parents: Nathan Koplow, Fannie Weiss.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1931-1934.

marriep: Rose Prebluda, Dec. 19, 1937, Fall River, Mass. cHiLpREN: David

Lee, Feb. 19, 1940; Gale Jacqueline, Oct. 29, 1947; Wendy Ellen, Dec.
I, 1955.

occupaTion: Vice-president, Koplow Trimming Company, jobbers and manu-

facturers of dressmaking supplies for manufacturers of women’s clothing.
OFFICES HELD: Director, Windsor Button Shops.

MEMBER OF: Boy Scout Committee, Troop 17, Norumbega Council, 1951-53.

MY first year after leaving school was spent at my parents’ home
recuperating from a bout with infectious hepatitis. I took advantage
of this “year off” to become interested in flower gardening, now
one of my hobbies. My other hobbies are golf and fresh water
fishing, the latter more a wish than a practice.

In 1935, I began my association with the family business, the
Koplow Trimming Company. My work is concerned chiefly with

[ 738 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the purchase and distribution at the wholesale and retail level of
countless sewing notions that are’ used in the manufacture, altera-
tion and decoration of women’s clothing.

Politically, my tradition is Republican, although I am more truly
an independent.

My interesting wife has provided a comfortable home environ-
ment for raising three children. The wide spacing of the chil-
dren’s ages, approximately eight years, lends considerable variety to
our home life, David, nineteen, a sophomore at Northeastern Uni-
versity, prefers sciences and outdoor activities. Gale, eleven, is
thinking about boys. Wendy, three, goes to bed too late and rises
too early.

Association with a scattering of fine friends has provided balance
and pleasure to our living. I hope at a later date to have more free
time for golf, fishing, travel and some community activities.

JOSEPH ADAM KRACZYNSKI

LAST KNOWN AbpRESS: Grapevine Rd., Wenham, Mass.

BORN: June 17, 1913, Manchester, Mass. PARENTS: Stefan Kraczynski, Victoria
Kaczmarck.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.

occupaTION: Manufacturing.

KRACZYNSKI has been carried as a “lost” man on our records
since 1954.

SAUL KRAFT

 

HOME appreEss: 3 Hilltop Rd., Searingtown, Long Island, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: B'nai B'rith Hillel Foundation, Queens College, Flushing, N.Y,

[ 739]

HARVARD CLASS OF I 934
porn: Dec. 22, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Louis Kraft, Rose W ilkowsky.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: AB. cunz laude, 1934; MH.L. (Jewish
Theological Seminary), 1938.

MARRIED: Beatrice Sacks, Aug. 11, 1946, New York, N.Y.

HARVARD BROTHER: Jacob Kraft, 726.

oocuPATION: Rabbi, B'nai B'rith Hillel Director, Queens College.

oFFices HELD: Rabbi, Beth Judah Congregation, Ventnor (N.J.), 1938-47;
chaplain, US. Army Air Force, 1942-46, Hillel director, Princeton Uni-
versity, 1947-48, Adelphi and Hofstra Colleges, 1948-55; lecturer in reli-
gion, Adelphi College, 1948-55; co-chairman, United Jewish Appeal,
Adantic City, 1946-47; former member, executive committee, Rabbinical

Assembly of America; member, executive committee, National Associa-
tion of Hillel Directors.

MEMBER OF: Rabbinical Assembly of America; Association of Jewish Chaplains
of Armed Forces; New York Board of Rabbis; National Association of
Hillel Directors; American Friends of Hebrew University; Labor Zionist
Organization; Searingtown Civic Association,

pusLicaTions: Booklet for use of Jewish soldiers in the Armed Forces on “The
New Year for Trees.”

AFTER Harvard I matriculated at the Jewish Theological Seminary
of America. In contrast to Harvard’s professorial abundance,
sprawling geography and impersonality, Seminary life had a familial
intimacy, scholastic specialization and sheltered geographic con-
centration. Here we could awaken at 9:05 and just about make a
9:00 o'clock class. We were altogether thirty-two students study-
ing with some of the world’s outstanding Biblical, Talmudic and
historical scholars including the late Louis Ginsberg, one of the
sixty scholars honored at Harvard’s Tercentenary. Contact with
professors was highly personal — senior exams, for example, were
taken orally at professors’ homes —a scholastic relationship which
one wag described as two people drinking tea and one enjoying it.

My first pulpit was Beth Judah Congregation j in Ventnor, New
Jersey, the residential extension of Atlantic City. The congregation
was looking for a neophyte rabbi (a young congregation looking
for greener pastors). I served four years in Atlantic City, involved
not alone in congregational matters, but in community and civic
affairs — including a political imbroglio. I was one of the spokesmen
for the People’s League for Better Government, a group whose
special mission was to oust Nucky Johnson — the political boss of
the county.

In 1942, I volunteered as chaplain in the Army, Tronically enough,
the chaplaincy school was located at Harvard, virtually in the very

[ 740 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

spot where I had as an undergraduate taken the Oxford oath and
pledged myself to pacifism. I was assigned to the Air Force, serving
variously at Sioux Falls, South Dakota, Egypt, Miami Beach and at
Mitchel Field. The Army experience was highly exciting —
evocative of multiple talents beyond the purely ecclesiastical. We
were often bridges between permissive homes and the hierarchical
rigidities of the service — we were counselors, big brothers, liaison
between officers and G.I.’s, and antidotes to first sergeants. The
Sioux Falls post was in a bleakly monotonous stretch of the Mid-
west — and had one of the coldest winters in its history. I was
chaplain over God’s frozen people. The soldiers trained here for
radio gunnery. In addition to religious services and counseling |
would, among sundry other assignments, punctuate the cheerless,
benumbing dot-and-dash drone of the night shift classes with 2
and 3 a.m. radio pep talks that left me sleepless and pepless. Egypt
was climatically and otherwise antithetical to Sioux Falls. Among
the arresting dilemmas posed by Jewish soldiers in Egypt was the
ritual propriety or logic of celebrating the Passover —a holidav
which commemorates the exodus from Egypt — while they were
still languishing there.

I returned in April, 1946, to my congregation in Atlantic City,
also as co-chairman of U.J.A. and the Zionist Emergency Council.
In August, 1946, I married Beatrice Sacks, whom I had met at one
of my pre-war services and whom I used to date on weekly
scholastic jaunts to Philadelphia. Unfortunately, we have no chil-
dren. We did acquire a lovely dachshund from Katharine Cornell
at Martha’s Vineyard — he responds to commands in four languages
and eats voraciously in seven, and loves food, us and other dachs-
hunds in that order.

In 1947, I became associated with the B’nai B’rith Hillel Founda-
tions, which minister to the religious and cultural needs of Jewish
students on university campuses. I was the first Hillel director at
Princeton University. Princeton students, incidentally, felt com-
pelled periodically to assert their superiority over Harvard — and
among the apocryphal stories disseminated that year was the one
about a Princeton student expelled from Princeton for scholastic
deficiency and thereafter admitted to Harvard — raising the stand-
ards of both universities at the same time. Such are the compensa-
tory indulgences of inferiority. My year’s experience was hich-
lighted by several meetings with Albert Einstein, who attended
two of our Hillel functions. At one closed meeting he answered

C741]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

students’ questions — ranging from scientific predictions to reveal-
ingly personal ones concerning his childhood, religious convictions,
social and political outlook. [ found him to be an admixture of
child-like simplicity, perceptiveness, bold candor, and gentleness.
He was wonderfully warm and disarming, and I cherished these
several meetings with him among my most memorable experiences.

From Princeton I went to Adelphi and Hofstra Colleges and
served the dual roles of Hillel director and lecturer in religion.
For the last four and a half years, I have been the Hillel director
at Queens College in Flushing. My Hillel work has carried me to
many universities as lecturer and participant in Religious Life
Week. In some of the hinterland areas a rabbi had virtually never
been seen by students and was regarded as a bearded anachronism.
I've had wonderful opportunities to inform students wholly ignorant
of Judaism of some of its basic tenets.

I have been trained in the Conservative movement which repre-
sents a centrist position in American Jewish life. I am theologically
and ideologically to the left of Reform — though ritually closer to
traditionalism. My single most important religious influence has
been Dr. Mordecai Kaplan, founder of Reconstructionism. Space
cannot permit an elaboration of this ideology beyond saying that
it has shorn Judaism of its miraculous, supernaturalist character. It
regards the chosen people concept as a form of religio-ethnic
narcissism, it has elminated belief in divine revelation, a personal
messiah, bodily resurrection, etc. It disavows pretensions of any
religion as having a monopoly on Truth. We are all searchers
after truths, and no one can claim metaphysical or religious Truth
with apodictic certainty.

Reconstructionism believes in unity within diversity; it deplores
the divisive competitive nature of American Jewish life that has
fragmentized Jewish groups into islands of non-communication.
Reconstructionism emphasizes the right of each religion to maintain
those sancta which give it individuality and tonality. Religions are
like historic cultures having both particularistic and universalistic
elements, Our common goal would be the creation of that social
order enabling man to realize his highest human potential. It would
be the reversal of the Darwinian ethic — survival of the fittest in
jungular competition. Rather it would be making as many people
as possible fit to survive meaningfully and creatively through
international cooperation.

So I have responded to the questionnaire after twenty-seven

[ 742 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

imploring cards and three petitional phone calls. My hobbies are
music appreciation, reading, traveling and procrastinating on ques-
tionnaires. If I am around for the Fiftieth, I promise to respond
with more despatch and less prolixity.

JAMES MARTIN KROTOZYNER

 

HOME appREss: 1450 Greenwich St., San Francisco g, Calif.
OFFICE appREss: 544 Market St., San Francisco 4, Calif.
BORN: Feb. 22, 1912, San Francisco, Calif. parents: Martin Krotozyner, Jenny

Hartman.
PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, San Francisco, Calif.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.
MaRRIED: Helen Dragoye, Nov. 16, 1951, San Francisco, Calif.
occuPaATION: Electrical manufacturers’ representative.

FROM graduation until 1948, I was in the advertising agency busi-
ness in San Francisco. In that year I began my own business as a
representative of industrial electrical manufacturers. For the better
part of four years during World War II, I was in the Army. Most
of my service was overseas, in England and on the Continent, end-
ing in Germany. For me the rapidly-flying postwar years have been
dominated by the founding and operation of my business. Just be-
fore launching this I took the time for a short trip to Europe to
visit friends made in wartime. Outside of business travel within
the United States, lack of time has prevented additional travel of
greater extent.

We turn to music, theatre and reading for a good part of our
recreation and still play tennis as often as possible. I have a wife who
enjoys the mountains—and climbing them—as much as I do
and we generally explore the high country of the Sierra during the
summers,

[ 743 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

J am always grateful for the stimulus of my years in college. This
concept has become stronger with each passing year.

DAVID LOEB KRUPSAW

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1057 S. 26th Rd., Arlington 2, Va.
OFFICE ADpRESS: American Wholesalers, Washington 2, D.C.

BORN: Nov. 25, 1911, Washington, D.C. parents: Abraham Krupsaw, Sarah B.
Kressler.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931, 1932-1934. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1934;
LL.B., 1937.

MarRigD; Irene Falkson, Sept. 14, 1935, Nashua, N.H. cHitpren: Ellen, April
20, 1939; Warren Brandeis, Dec. 21, 1942.

occupation: Managing partner, American Wholesalers, manufacturer of bedding
and wholesale distributors of floor covering, television, radios and electrical
appliances.

OFFICES HELD: Director, 1949-52, president, 1951-52, Burgundy Farm Country
Day School; director, 1950-54, president, 1953-54, Serta Associates, Inc.,
Chicago; vice-president, Harvard Club of Washington, D.C., 1955-56;
member, 1956-59, chairman, 1959, Arlington County Board; chairman,
Arlington Recreation Council, 1956; chairman emeritus, Schools and
Scholarships Committee, Harvard Club of Washington, D.C.

MEMBER OF: Bar of the US. Supreme Court; District of Columbia Bar As-
sociation; Washington Regional Metropolitan Conferences; American
Civil Liberties Union; National Conference of Christians and Jews;
American-Israel Society; Democratic Club of Arlington, Va.; B’nai B’rith —
American Jewish Committee; listed in Who's Who in America; Washing-
ton Board of Trade, Mental Hygiene Society of Northern Virginia.

UNLIKE the heroes in college novels, I left Harvard without a
pang. I was glad to have it over with. Even though I derived great
pleasure from making Group I junior year and winning a minor “H,”
college ended on a sour note for me when I failed to make #BK after

[ 744 |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I had been awarded a magna. The embarrassment was worse than
the disappointment.

Harvard had been cold and pretty impersonal for me. Wet and
cold like the slushy Cambridge streets each winter. Competition
among the bright guys was fierce. The boys who really enjoyed
life in the Yard and in the Houses were the ones who rolled into
Cambridge from the top New England prep schools in happy tight-
knit groups of old friends.

Nevertheless, when I returned home I joined the local Harvard
Club. It turned out to be a collection of elderly gentlemen who made
little effort to be cordial, and the Cambridge climate continued
almost wherever I found Harvard men. But I was accustomed to
this gaff and it didn’t bother me any more. I made a small payment
to the Class Fund each year, but it was mechanical. There was no
feeling for the College. Sure, it was a great university — but —so
what?

Then one evening there was a report of the Club’s Schools and
Scholarships Committee, and that struck me as something worth
while in local Harvard activities. I volunteered and was assigned to
one of the high schools. This turned out to be an absorbing ex-
perience. The Admissions Committee of the College needed help
in the selective recruitment of young men; each year the problem

has become more critical as the number clamoring for admission
and financial aid increases. Eventually, I was made chairman of the
Schools Committee — with Classmate Bill Rodgers as head of the
scholarships group. We built up a good organization and began
embarrassing University Hall (to their delight) with the riches we
turned up. Dean Bender and Dave Henry (Director of Admissions)
began referring to us as one of the best Harvard Club Schools and
Scholarships Committees in the country. For me, this culminated in
an invitation to talk on the subject at the 1957 meeting of the Asso-
ciated Harvard Clubs and a couple of thousand copies of the speech
were mailed to members of the Harvard Club of Washington and
to workers on Schools and Scholarships Committees all over the
country. Upon my retirement as chairman, Bill Bender wrote a
complimentary letter and the Club gave me a medal. I was pleased
as Punch.
Now I come to the point of the whole story. I discovered in the
course of this work that the post World War II Harvard College is
much different from what it was in our day. The snob has been

eclipsed and the Cambridge climate is not as wet and cold as it used

[ 745 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

I’ve said that politics is also annoying. It’s the damned opposi-
tion. They are selfish, stupid, short-sighted, devious and untruthful.
] have already been called a crook — even on television. Perhaps I
should not take it too seriously, but I do boil and Irene raves. I
keep repeating to myself Harry Truman’s dictum, “If you can’t
stand the heat, get out of the kitchen!” I conclude the heat is worth
standing. This year I am chairman, roughly the equivalent of mayor,
and thus right in the middle of the kitchen, Curiously, it all has
something to do with “Veritas.”

+ PAUL HENRY KRUSA

 

BORN: Dec. 5, 1912, Redwood, N.Y. parents: Henry Bischoff Krusa, Johanna
Ebeling.

PREPARED AT: Redwood High School, Redwood, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.

MarRIED: Mary Frances Cranston, Feb. 15, 1939, St. Louis. Mo.
DIED: Sept. 22, 1944, Hays, Kans,

AFTER graduation Krusa worked for a short time as production
director and assistant to the cost accountant for Overman Tire
Company of Belleville, New Jersey, and then joined the Great
Lakes Construction Company, in St. Louis, as a civil engineer.
Later he was an engineer in the sales department of the Sheffield
Steel Corporation in their branch office in St, Louis. He was
survived by his wife.

[ 748 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SELWYN ARTHUR KUDISCH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 38 Gerry Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Kudisch, Wolk & Dunn, Suite 900, 18 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.
BoRN: April 10, 1914, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph William Kudisch, Elizabeth

Salzberg.
PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932. DEGREE: LL.B. (Boston Coll.), 1937.
marriED: Marilyn Ruth Morrill, Aug. 17, 1947, Boston, Mass.
occupation: Lawyer; member of firm, Kudisch, Wolk & Dunn.
OFFICES HELD: President, Brotherhood Temple Beth Zion; incorporator and
_ executive director, Covich Memorial Blood Foundation.
MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Bar Association.

IT is, of course, impossible that twenty-five years have passed. Does
anyone disagree, that is, anyone other than the fathers-in-law and,
dare I write it, the grandfathers?

My own stubborn disbelief in the calendar’s toll. was shaken
somewhat four years ago when my wife began to teach Latin and
two of her class turned out to be the offspring of office associates.
Fortunately they were good students and the potential embarrass-
ment inherent in the situation never materialized. Incidentally, if
any 1934’s have daughters at Milton Academy, they may well be in
one of Mag’s Latin classes.

With time out for the war years, during most of which I was
engaged in the practice of military law with the Air Force Judge
Advocate, I have practised law in Boston since 1937. With all due
respect to the Judge Advocate and the Afantual for Courts-Martial
I much prefer civilian practice. As is the case with many lawyers,
I have had the opportunity on occasion to participate in various
commercial ventures, among them a safety-equipment business, two
small hotels and miscellaneous real estate flyers. The most recent is

[ 749 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

a highway-trailer leasing business, concerned principally with a
comparatively new and fascinating railroading development known
as “piggyback.”

I manage to get plenty of exercise, golfing till the snow falls and
as soon as it disappears. This may have something to do with the
fact that my present weight is exactly what it was at college end
and distributed only slightly differently. On the other hand, Mag
can say the same (since 1947) though she loathes physical exercise.

In all, my health is excellent, my wife is a treasure and life is
good. Nikita and the good Lord willing, I hope to say the same
in the Fiftieth Report.

RICHARD HENRY KUHLKE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 231 Marlborough St., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: June 5, 1909, Akron, Ohio. parents: Otto J. Kuhlke, Leila B. Mely.
PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N.J. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1934.
UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Free-lance writer.

[750]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HERMAN HERBERT LACKNER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 939 Westmoor Rd., Winnetka, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 522 Green Bay Rd., Winnetka, Ill.

BORN: June 20, 1912, Evanston, I]. parents: Francis Alexander Lackner, ’oz,
Clara Louise Kirchhoff.

PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, IIl.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Alexander Lackner, Jr., °32.

occupation: Architect.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Finnish Relief Fund, 1940, chairman, Winnetka Red

Cross, 1954.
MEMBER OF: Chicago Literary Club; Arts Club of Chicago; Cliff Dwellers Club;

American Institute of Architects.

LEAVING Harvard with regrets after my second year, I became
the most frequently fired draftsman of Howard Fisher, ’28 — he
never could make it stick because I left the files in such a muddle
(jobs were scarce in ’32). Intermittently I studied architecture at
Armour Institute, worked for other architects, tutored with a
structural engineer, and finally achieved an architect’s license.

While the taxpayers supported me in a style to which no one had
hoped to become accustomed, | spent an agreeable three years in the
Southwest Pacific. With a needlessly realistic humor the Navy
rated all architects in the Seabees as carpenter's mates.

Returning, I decided to try my hand at the independent practice
of architecture — after all, Buddha had proved that one could live
on a single grain of rice a day. My designs have not supplanted
the Parthenon in the textbooks yet, but every minute has been fas-
cinating and each house and its owner has presented a different

challenge.
Instead of an annual two wecks in Yellowstone or at the Cape, |

[751]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

enjoy infrequent vacations poking about Europe, meeting interest-
ing types and discovering some of the things about which my
curiosity was stimulated in Fogg and Robinson a quarter-century

ago.

WILLIAM LADD

: .

s

   

HOME AppDRESS: 235 Main St., North Easton, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 110 Center St., North Easton, Mass.

BORN: June 2, 1911, Boston, Mass. pareNTS: William Edwards Ladd, ’03, Kath-
arine Barton.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

marriep: Elizabeth Ross, Jan. 3, 1942, Sharon, Mass. cHiLpREN: Elizabeth,
Sept. 5, 1944; William Edwards, 2d, May 22, 1946, James Everett, Aug.
27, 1948.

occupation: Hardware store proprietor.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Easton Community Fund, 1952, Easton Salvation
Army, since 1953, Easton Finance Committee, 1958, and since 1959.

AFTER graduating, my first job was in the wool business in Boston
which, although I enjoyed it, left me somewhat mystified, so
changed after a couple of years to learn the insurance business in
which I remained until I went to work for Uncle Sam as a private
in the Infantry. Pearl Harbor shattered my plans for discharge on
December 8, 1941, as well as wedding plans, but managed to go
through with the latter a few weeks later,

After surviving the petty irritations of OCS, the Chemical War-
fare Service granted me a commission, and then stationed me in
Boston for a short while. I eventually landed at the Deseret Chemical
Warfare Depot outside Salt Lake City where as property officer for
the post I enjoyed a pleasant existence, particularly after my wife

[752]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and newly-arrived daughter joined me. A rugged trip home by car
and trailer terminated my service just before Christmas.

The thought of retracing ground already covered in the insurance
business did not appeal, so after a couple of false starts I settled
down as owner of a small town hardware store, which I thoroughly
enjoy although not as lucrative as I would like and much too con-
fining.

Recreation is somewhat limited by my occupation and participa-
tion in community affairs, but two weeks’ annual vacation plus a
weekend or two prove that I can still hit a tennis ball and negotiate
a mountain side on skis at a reasonable rate of speed.

MARSHALL ALLEN LAMB

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 16 Prospect St., Fitchburg, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 17, 1913, Rockland, Mass. parents: John Alexander Lamb, Mary
Hutcheon.

PREPARED AT: Rockland High School, Rockland, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1939.

MaRRIED: Corinne Commoss, April 4, 1936, Hinsdale, N.H. cHitpren: Marshall
Allen, Jr., Jan. 23, 1945; Duncan, Sept. 14, 1947; Timothy P., March 16,
1953; Sarah C., June 29, 1956.

occUPATION: Physician; obstetrician-gynecologist.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Worcester North District Medical Society, 1956-58;
obstetrician-gynecologist, Burbank Hospital, Fitchburg, Mass.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists.

AFTER graduation things seemed somewhat gloomy. Being broke,
I passed up medical school for a year to earn some money. Em-
ployers didn’t seem impressed by a Harvard degree, although I was
offered one job at $12.00 a week. Finally, I dusted off my tuxedo,

[753]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

reviewed the lessons taught me in the freshman dining halls and
went to work as a waiter in a Boston hotel. Looking back, I
probably had one of the highest incomes of our Class for that year
because I actually saved some too-cent dollars.

The next twelve years were those of medical school, internship,
house officership at the Boston Lying-in Hospital, three and one-
half years in the Army Air Force and two years’ general practice
in a small town. In 1947 I moved to my present location, restricting
my practice. During those years, things had improved so steadily
that I was merely $25,000.00 in debt.

In 1936 I married Corinne Commoss, Radcliffe ’38, and we are
still happy together. Fortunately, I was not sent overseas, so Co
and I had a chance to see the West and South together. I have
my office in our home, and while I am benumbed by the abnormal
life of a busy obstetrician, Co keeps up intellectually by attending
a Radcliffe Seminar each year. Last year she skipped one to run
successfully for School Committee. These things and our four
young children occupy all our time. There is no spare time but I
have hopes. Happy the family with free evenings and weekends!

We try to get a two-three-week winter vacation and summers we
live at a nearby lake. We all swim well, water ski not so well and
next summer will have a sailfish. To keep the children from being
bored, we let them mow the acre and a half of lawn and weed a
large vegetable garden.

In Fitchburg I was fortunate to renew and deepen my friendship
with Bob Thomson who was doing surgery. His death and Jane’s
severe injuries in that western train wreck in 1951 were a shocking
experience. Jane recovered completely and is raising their four
daughters here in Fitchburg.

I know I am a fortunate person— Harvard, a good wife and
family and a satisfying profession. And so many many other things
to do when time allows.

GEORGE JOSEPH LAMBROSE

AbprEss; 159 E. 4gth St., New York, N.Y.

BORN: Aug. 16, 1909, New York, N.Y. Parents: George Lambrose, Emma
Santini. -

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1932.

occuPATION: Creative arts,

NO questionnaire returned.

[754 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ THOMAS LARKIN, II

 

BoRN: Aug. 26, 1912, Chicago, Ill. parents: Thomas Walter Larkin, Florence

Rohrer.
PREPARED AT: Streator Township High School, Streator, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931, 1934-1937. DEGREE: A.B. 1934(38).

DIED: Nov. 22, 1956, Chicago, Ill.

THOMAS LARKIN, ITI, left Harvard at the end of our freshman
year and spent a year ranching in Texas and a year traveling in the
Far East. He returned to Harvard in 1934 and received an A.B. in
1938 as of our Class. Larkin had not been heard from since our
Sexennial Report when he wrote that he had entered the publishing
business, specializing in the encyclopaedic type of publishing, and
expected to enter a more general field and publish books on history ,

biography, drama, travel and fiction.

+ CLARK SMITH LARSEN

 

BORN: Aug. 31, IQII, Washington, D.C. parents: Esper Signius Larsen, Jr.
A.M. hon., 42, Eva Audrey Smith.

[755]

' HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H. |

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.

MarRIED: Cora L. Hersey.

HARVARD BROTHER: Esper Signius Larsen, 3d, °34.

piep: April 17, 1945, Waltham, Mass.

wipow: Mrs. Clark S, Larsen, 302 School St., Belmont, Mass.

CLARK SMITH LARSEN left college at the end of freshman year.
He had not communicated with the Secretary since that time. He

was survived by his wife and a brother, Esper Signius Larsen, also
of our Class.

ESPER SIGNIUS LARSEN, III

    

HOME appreEss: 7508 Radnor Rd., Bethesda 14, Md.

OFFICE appRESS; U.S. Geological Survey, Washington 25, D.C.

BORN: Oct. 10, 1912, Los Angeles, Calif. parents: Esper Signius Larsen, Jr.,
A.M. (hon.), 42, Eva Audrey Smith.

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: S.B., 1934; A.M., 19353 PH.D., 1940.

marriep: Marjorie Ann Esters, March 29, 1941, Saranac Lake, N.Y.

HARVARD BROTHER: Clark Smith Larsen, '34 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Geologist.

MEMBER OF: Geological Society of America; Mineralogical Society of America;
Geochemical Society; Cosmos Club.

[756 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE JOSEPH LASKY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 219 St. Cloud Ave., West Orange, N.J.

OFFICE apprEss: Green & Yanoff, Esqs., 17 Academy St., Newark, NJ.

BORN: March 24, 1913, Long Branch, N.J. parents: Israel Lasky, Sarah Joffe.

PREPARED AT; Long Branch Senior High School, Long Branch, NJ.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: S.B., magna cum laude, 1934; LL.B. 1937.

MarRRIED: Lillian Davis, Sept. 7, 1943, Newark, N.J. CHILDREN: Sondra Vale,
Feb. 14, 1950; Larry Wayne, Nov. 4, 1952.

OccUPATION: Lawyer.
OFFICES HELD: Member, Probate Committee, Essex County Bar Association.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Jersey; Harvard Law School Association of
New Jersey; Essex County Bar Association; B'nai B'rith.

UPON reflection, the period of the last twenty-five years appears
to be one of constant adjustment and time indicates this should con-
tinue. After leaving law school, my primary interest was establish-
ing myself in the legal profession, which of course meant the bar
examination and the trials and tribulations of a fledgling lawyer. I
had just about begun to feel my oats when war service caused a four-
year distraction from legal pursuits. I must say, however, that it
was an interesting and broadening four years since I was one of
those fortunate ones who were able to spend considerable time in the
United States training new units, during which period I progressed
from private to first sergeant. I finally became a “gentleman” at
Engineer O.C.S. and was promptly whisked overseas to help stem
the tide of the Battle of the Bulge. Upon cessation of hostilities, I
spent a pleasant year in Germany as a legal officer in the military
government.

I had been married shortly before going overseas and on my dis-
charge started readjusting myself to married life and the legal pro-
fession again, Then came the children and further adjustments, and

[757]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

as the children continue to grow older, it seems that the parents have
to make more adjustments than the children. Through it all, how-
ever, I have still retained some little knack at hitting a golf ball and
acquired some knowledge of crabgrass amid all the terrors of sub-
urban living. However, one constant thread that seems to tie the last
twenty-five years together has been the renewal at the various Re-
unions of the ties of friendship originally made in college, and I am
looking forward to the Twenty-fifth with pleasant anticipation.

+ DAVID WILLIAMS LATTIMER

 

BORN: May 12, 1911, Columbus, Ohio. parents: Gardner Lattimer, Esther
Williams.

PREPARED AT: Columbus Academy, Columbus, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933. DEGREES: A.B, (Ohio State Univ.), 1934; a.m. (ibid.),
1935.

marrigD: Harriet D. Lattimer.

piep: April 23, 1953, Newark, Ohio.

wivow: Mrs. David W. Lattimer, qog W. Broadway, Granville, Ohio.

DAVID WILLIAMS LATTIMER spent two years with our Class.
He then went to Ohio State University where he received an A.B.
and an A.M. and taught freshman history. He was an instructor
in history at Denison University during 1937-38 and at the Uni-
versity of Tennessee during the following year. He returned to
Ohio State University to do graduate work in history and work on
his dissertation for a Ph.D. He was survived by his wife.

[ 758 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HOWARD MARTIN LAWN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 274 Lenox Ave., West End, N_J.

OFFICE AppREss: 711 Main St., Avon, N.J.
- BORN: Aug. 16, 1911, Long Branch, N.J. parents: Sal S. Lawn, Sadie Fischer.

PREPARED AT: Long Branch High School, Long Branch, N.J.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 71agna cum laude, 1934; LL.B. 1937-

MARRIED: Pearl Bergman, June 20, 1937, Long Branch, N.J. cHiwworeN: Margo
Rose, March 18, 1940; Constance Ellen, May 14, 1944; Richard Mark,

March 24, 1947.
OCCUPATION: Business executive and consultant; president, Star International

Corporation, Crescent Corporation, and Conal International Corporation.
OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Temple Beth Miriam.
MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa.

ON a humid afternoon in June of 1937, I sweated through my last
exam at Harvard Law School, badgered two reluctant room-mates
to help haul my trunk into my car — the task was easy because, for
some reason that escapes my memory, the jalopy had no back
door — and pell mell steered for home, my wedding and the future.

My reward for arriving at my wedding on time has been an
understanding and matchless wife and three handsome and provoca-
tive kids. Margo is studying creative art at Boston University;
Connie is studying the boys from her vantage point as a majorette
in high school; and Dick, about to be twelv e, dominates a discourse
on missile design and his position as Little League second baseman
with equal deftness. Pearl and I love what goes on at our house,
even though often we can't follow it!

The future beckoned me first to follow the profession of law.
As a partner in the active firm of Quinn, Doremus, McCue, Lawn &
Russell in Red Bank, New Jersey, I concentrated on being a trial
lawyer. From graduation forward, I was living in the courtroom.

[759 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Pearl Harbor blew me into the responsibilities of Chief of the
Criminal Division of the United States Attorney’s Office in New
Jersey and in charge of certain national war prosecutions.

As some point the future was transformed into the past and,
looking back, I barely discern when I was orbited into the realm of
business. The business is the acquisition of businesses. My task is
to analyze and then negotiate the purchase of businesses, chiefly for
clients whose affluence I influence. Once in a while I recommend
one for myself! But my business is to be ready to buy businesses of
any size and at any situs.

After twenty-five zestful years, 1 can sometimes be heard talking
to myself, But my friends don’t ascribe it to senility. It is either
when I am in the rough, poking about for that pesky ball; or
mumbling the Russian alphabet as homework because Dick enrolled
Pearl and me and himself in a course in Russian, so that under the
guise of family “togetherness,” he can read their scientific journals
in the original; or rehearsing an excuse to get out of a cha-cha lesson
our daughters impose on us. After all, it is twenty-five years and |
do at least feel nostalgic when they come popping along in THEIR

jalopy.

AMORY ATHERTON LAWRENCE

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Harkaway Farm, Warrenton, Va.

BORN: Aug. 24, 1910, Beverly, Mass. parents: John Silsbee Lawrence, ‘or, Emma
Atherton.

PREPARED AT: St. George's School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934.

marnigD: Eloise Pugo Molter, Nov. 11, 1941 (divorced 1943). cHiLo: Laura
Atherton, March 1, 1943.

occupation: Farmer; Artist.

[ 760 ]

2§$TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I HAVE really more or less retired and am not doing much of any-
thing. After graduation I got a job in Washington as a Washington
correspondent until I was lured into the U.S. Cavalry as a private
by the threat of war and a draft board which was breathing down
my neck. I served with no particular distinction for five years and
three months, two of these overseas. I was lucky enough to have a
friend who was a general, so became a major before they were done
with me.

Tired of city life, I bought a qoo-acre farm in Warrenton and after
commuting for two years gave up city life for good. I've studied
water coloring and farming and keep busy. I ride in an occasional
timber van, shoot quail in season, and teach a very small number of
small boys how to play football and baseball. I also play bad tennis,
bad golf, and not very good bridge, but I do have fun and in spite
of a few perplexing domestic problems life doesn’t owe me a thing.
I’m looking forward to the next twenty-five years and hope they
don’t pass as fast as the last quarter-century. My ambition is to paint
just one water color that satisfies me.

RICHARD LAWRENCE, JR.

       

HOME ADDRESS: 1501 Valencia St., Oceanside, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Division Surgeon, 1st Marine Div, FMF, Camp Pendleton,
Calif.

BORN: Aug. 25, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: Richard Lawrence, ’oz, Lois
Swan.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: M.D. (Columbia Univ.), 194o.

MARRIED: Kathleen Mahoney. cattpreN: Kay Lorraine; Kevin; Robert. eraxpn-
CHILDREN: Richard N. Lawrence; Lorraine Patricia McLane.

occupation: Captain, Medical Corps, U.S. Navy.

[ 761 ]

| tt

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

MEMBER OF: Iroquois Club; Spee Club; Nu Sigma Nu; American College of
Physicians (associate); American Diabetes Association; American College

of Cardiology (fellow); American Medical Association, West Florida
Heart Association; National Rifle Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Several medical papers.

AFTER leaving college, I worked at the R. H. Macy Company and

the Commercial National Bank and Trust Company, Wall Street,

New York. Then I entered Columbia College of Physicians and

Surgeons in New York. In the midst of my medical education, I

drifted off to Pekin, China, and worked for a year or so in a trading

and trucking company. I then returned to the United States and
completed medical school. Following graduation, I interned at
Stanford Home Hospital in San Francisco and started a medical
residency at the San Mateo Community Hospital. In 1941, I entered
the Navy and had duty during the war with the Marine Paratrooper
troops, at the Oakland ‘Naval Hospital on the medical service, Marine
Corps schools, and on the staff of Commander, Amphibious Forces,
Pacific. From there, I went to the U.S. Naval Hospital, San Diego,
where I completed another year of medical residency and was on the
staff. In 1951-1952, I was commanding officer of the rst Medical
Battalion, ist Marine Division, in Korea and then returned to the
U.S. Naval Hospital in San Diego. My next assignment was as chief
of medicine at the U.S. Naval Hospital in Pensacola, Florida, and at

present I have duty as division surgeon, ist Marine Division, at Camp
Pendleton, California.

EDWARD BOSWORTH LAWTON, JR.

 

appress: University of California, Music Dept., Berkeley, Calif

[ 762 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Aug. 30, 1911, Newport, RI. parents: Edward Bosworth Lawton,
Frances Cecilia Booth.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Helena Steilberg, June 24, 1939, Cambridge, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Education.

NO questionnaire returned.

RICHARD EDWARD LEARY

 

HOME appress: 31 Mansion Drive, Topsfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: E. I. duPont de Nemours & Co., Polychemicals Dept., 140
Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 20, 1914, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Harold Edward Leary, Anna
May Walker.

PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1935. DEGREE: S.B, IN IND, CHEM., 1935-

MARRIED: Dorothy E. Rich, Sept. 30, 1939, Bradley, Mass. cHmprex: Pamela
F., Jan. 10, 1947; Patricia M., April 1, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Technical sales representative for New England, E. I. duPont de
Nemours & Company; specific job — provide technical service regarding
plastic materials and processing techniques and development of new ap-
plications. oO

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science; Society of the Plastics Industry; Society of Plastics

Engineers.

AN undergraduate interest in astronomy and participation in Ob-
servatory activities led to my undertaking graduate work in astro-
physics after leaving the Engineering School, This proved to be a
fascinating but intellectually unwise venture, however, and chem-

istry finally reclaimed me.
A hernia operation in 1936 had a salutary secondary etfect — I

[ 763 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

proposed to my nurse coming out of anaesthesia. The wisdom of my
judgment continues to be proved daily. Employment with duPont
at Leominster, Massachusetts, followed shortly, and resulted in
transfers to Newark, New Jersey (ten years), Wilmington, Dela-
ware (four years) and finally to my native habitat. Travel during
this period has taken me throughout the United States, to Great
Britain and Alaska.

The end of the war saw the start of our family, and the growing
appreciation of the fact that there is much more to life than pro-
fessional or financial success. There is altogether too little time to
savour even a part of the things we enjoy: cooking (and eating,

naturally), fishing, reading, music, sailing, etc., etc. It’s fun trying,
though.

CLIFTON FELTON LEATHERBEE, JR.

 

HOME appress: Lota 2885, Santiago, Chile; Casilla 1844, Santiago, Chile (mailing
address),

OFFicE apprEss: Andariveles de Cordillera $.A., Victorino Lastarrias 225, Of. 3,

Santiago, Chile.

BORN: Nov. 22, 1911, Chicago, Ill. parents: Clifton Felton Leatherbee, ’o1, Meta
Clark.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; M.B.A., 1936.

MarRiED: Maria Sara Gazitua, July 20, 1940, New York, N.Y.
Richard James, March 20, 1948; Anita, Sept. 15, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Manager-director 3 in charge of operations and constructions, ski
lifts in winter resort.

CHILDREN:

OFFICES HELD: Director, Junta de Vecinos de Farellones, 1951-56, 1958, Deportes
Farellones 3.A., 1954.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Amateur Ski Club of New York;
Ski Club, Chile; Nuttall Ornithological Club; Prince of Wales Country

[ 764 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Club and University Club, Santiago; American Society of Chile; New
York State Society of Certified Public Accountants, Appalachian Mountain
Club; Kennel Club of Santiago.

PERHAPS I should have been brought up in the West instead of
in a quiet suburb of Boston, for I prefer the adventure of the un-
crowded mountains and prairies. In my youth I satisfied this long-
ing by duck shooting, camping and skiing, but my taste for more
was only whetted. In spite of this I entered the groove of a future
businessman by continuing my education at the Harvard Business
School and started the captive existence as public accountant with
Price, Waterhouse & Company in New York. The desire to conform
with my surroundings forced me to continue working and study-
ing like mad until I passed the New York State certified public ac-
countants exams, although I had one slight relapse in the summer of
1937 when I bicycled through Germany with a coed college group.
We covered about a thousand miles, climbed the Zugspitzer, near
Munich, and sang songs in the German Youth Hostels.

The subconscious desire to escape became stronger in 1939 when
I met a vivacious Chilean girl on a fold-boat trip down the Housa-
tonic River in Connecticut. Where was Chile? What was it like?
The map showed that it was not tropical and my eyes proved that
the people were not black. Then on our honeymoon in 1940, we
flew four and a half days on lumbering twin-motored planes to reach
Chile and skied at F arellones on the slopes of a 10,000-foet moun-
tain in the heart of the Andes. Little did I know that I should help
create a modern ski resort there.

During the war, while I was a commander in the New York office
of the Navy Cost Inspection Service, the germ of rebellion began
to develop. Of course I was happy to be at home with my wife but
then I was just marking time. [I also felt like the survivor of a wreck
with members of a women’s club for there were hardly anv men
around. To pass the time away, my wife and I built a stone hut on
a family farm in Boonton, New Jersey, and were thus able to get
respite from the crowded life of New York.

Before the war ended, we started thinking about a move. W hy
not Farellones, Chile, for we both liked to ski, Little did I know that
the people who run ski lifts don’t have much time for skiing! After
a three months’ trip through the West studying ski resorts, we ar-
rived in Chile with great plans and secured American bids for two
chair lifts running from the village of Farellones to the top of the
mountain 3,000 feet higher. But only Chilean good-will flowed out

[ 765 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

jeeps. In a nutshell, it costs one-third of what it does to live in the
States but, of course, the salaries are lower. Life is more casual here
with “mafiana” a real menace. Jokingly, I am known as Mr. “Do-it-
yesterday.” Our house in Santiago has a swimming pool and a
lovely garden which is ideal for our ten-year-old son and three-
year-old daughter, although a bit small for our St. Bernard dog.

Now that the skiing season is over, | am reorganizing a chain of
five shoe stores for a Spaniard who is an excellent producer and
salesman with nothing in between. He says he is making so much
money it doesn’t matter if they steal from him. I jokingly offered
to run one of his stores free for the opportunity of helping myself.
He hasn’t reconciled his bank account for years. He can’t — checks
dated ahead, etc. If I made a case study for the Business School,
they would say it was not true to life.

I want to apologize for rambling on so much but then perhaps the
editors of our Class Report will be kind enough to have cut this down
to bare essentials. Mae West used to say “Come up and see me some-

time.” I say to you all, come down and see me sometime and I
mean it.

LEWIS CASS LEDYARD, Ill

  

OS EY SENIO POSES SPOS SRR:

   

HOME apprEss: West Grove, Pa.

BORN: Dec. 7, 1911, New York, N.Y. parents: Lewis Cass Ledyard, Jr., Ruth
Langdon Emery.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; LL.B, (Yale Univ.), 1937.

MarkiED: Evelyn Thayer, June 22, 1935, Lancaster, Mass. (divorced 1941); Eve
Mortimer, Aug. 17, 1941, Charleston, S.C. cHILpREN: Evelyn, April 10,
1936, Wendy, May 17, 1942; Lewis Cass, Jr., June 16, 1943; Michael M.,
July 10, 1948; John Livingston, July 16, 1958.

[ 768 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Owner and general manager, motel and restaurant.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Disaster Committee, Kennett Square Branch, American
Red Cross, since 1954; chairman of board, Chester County Mental Health
Clinic, since 1956, vestryman, Episcopal Church of the Advent, Kennett
Square, Pa., since 1957.

AFTER graduating from Harvard I put in three years at Yale study-

ing law and then another three in a Wall Street law office. This was

long enough to convince me that the joys of drawing old ladies’
wills were being exceeded only by the dubious preasures of com-
muting on the Long Island Railroad. Accordingly I joined the

Royal Canadian Air Force in August, 1940. I spent the next five

years in various parts of Canada, serving principally as a flying in-

structor, but also for a time as an investigator of fatal flying ac-
cidents. I liked Canada and the Canadians immensely.

In 1945 I returned home to Long Island and spent the next few
years as assistant to the president of a holding company with sub-
sidiaries in the electronic and electro-mechanical fields. I left this
job to become a lawyer on the staff of the criminal branch of the
Legal Aid Society in New York, a job I held until 1954, when I
moved from Long Island to my present and permanent home on a
Pennsylvania farm.

Here, my family and I lead a quiet, pleasant life. My recreations
are sports of the country: riding, fox-hunting and gunning for
quail and pheasants around home, and for ducks on the nearby
eastern shore of Maryland.

EDWARD BROWN LEE, JR.

 

a
HOME AppREss: 1015 Jefferson Heights Drive, Pittsburgh 35, Pa,
OFFICE ADDRESS: Latrobe Steel Co., 2626 Ligonier St. Latrobe, Pa.

[ 769 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

BORN: July 22, 1912, Pittsburgh, Pa. pareNts: Edward Brown Lee, ’99, Margaret
Emily Wilson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., cu laude, 1934.

mareieD: Helen Elizabeth Lindsay, June 17, 1939, Pittsburgh, Pa. cHILDREN:

Edward Brown, 3d, Sept. 19, 1941; Lindsay Courtland, Sept. 29, 1943;
Normandie, June 28, 1948. ,

occuPaTION: Controller, Latrobe Steel Company, manufacturer of specialty
steels,

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, secretary, Pittsburgh Chapter, National As-
sociation of Cost Accountants, 1945-49; president, vice-president, secretary,
Harvard Club of Western Pennsylvania, 1946-51; treasurer, LeRoi Road
Church, Pittsburgh, since 1946; commissioner, 8th Ward, Penn Township,
1950-52; secretary-treasurer, Latrobe Country Club, since 1955; director,
Murlin Manufacturing Company, Quakertown, Pa., since 1956; assistant
secretary-treasurer, Pittsburgh Chapter, Controllers Institute of America,
1958,

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club; Mendelssohn Choir; Western Pennsylvania Historical
Society; Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club of Pittsburgh; National Association
of Accountants; Controllers Institute of America; Latrobe Country Club.

WHEN our youngest son left home on his way to preparatory
school, at the age of fifteen, he remarked, “Don’t throw away any
of my things when I’m gone.” I have been following this advice
ever since graduation. Habits and interests acquired in college have
“stuck.” Since college days, 1 have continued to enjoy singing. A
recent performance of the “B Minor Mass” in Pittsburgh found my
“not good, but loud” tenor in ample evidence. How fortunate to
have preserved this love in my mental attic. I have also managed
to take a few night school courses in Chaucer, medieval history,
etc,, to preserve my college interests in such culture, much against
dictates of wife, business associates and worldly ambition. Although
we have lived some eighteen years in the same house in suburban
Pittsburgh, a real sentimental interest in New England continues to
grow, especially since our acquisition of the old Lee Farm in
Vermont, which has been in the Lee family since 1801. If the chil-
dren’s interest remains, it looks like the old place will be in the
family by 2001. .

During these years, there have been many new and wonderful
additions: a noble wife, three healthy, interesting children and the
blessings of a business career in finance and its stimulation in the art
of meeting people and adjusting to situations with various degrees
of challenge. Time has brought a new and rewarding church af-
filiation (Swedenborgian) and memberships in the many civic, pro-

[770 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fessional and service organizations outlined above. The old “things,”
however, have never been completely discarded. I still go to the
Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club which my father built, and am active
in Harvard affairs in the community.

Since graduation, I worked for Westinghouse Electric, in various
capacities, most of which were in the accounting end of the business,
culminating in the position of manager of accounting for the Atomic
Power Division, where the Nautilus was built. After its launching
in 1954, I severed the cord with my employer of some seventeen
years, to take over the controllership of a middle-sized specialty
steel company, Latrobe Steel, where I am now busy with the prob-
lems of trying to serve management profitably and to mature more
fully in my chosen work.

My wife and I still have dreams of leaving a few fingerprints in
the hardening cement of time, by writing, lecturing and illustrating
the various trips we have managed to take to the Caribbean, Baltic,
western United States, etc. Whether or not these ideas bear fruit,
we will keep up our search for life’s little adventures which makes
it pleasant to look backward as well as forward, so we can Say,
along with Aeneas, “haec olim meminisse iuvabit,.”

HENRY WALSH LEE

Am
|g

a

oe

ae
“SF

vty,
Ty

 

Be ccgarheaperte Rg
, “ . ~

HOME ADDRESS: 242 Ocean Drive West, Shippan Point, Stamford, Conn.

OFFICE AppREss: The New York News, 220 E. 42d St., New York 17, N.Y.

BORN: June 22, 1911, Bridgeport, Conn. PARENTS: Henry Lee, Catherine Walsh.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Bridgeport, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.

MARRIED: Marion McDermott, Nov. 26, 1936, Marlboro, Mfass. CHILDREN:
Katherine Ann, Nov. 1, 1938; Marion Patricia, April 13, 1940; Henry Lee,
2d, Feb. 6, 1948.

[771]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

occuPaTION: Newspaper and magazine writer.

OFFICES HELD: President, Shippan Point Association, 1954; area chairman, United
Fund, 1957; chairman, membership committee, Stamford Yacht Club, 1956.

MEMBER OF: Stamford Yacht Club; Stamford Historical Society; Society of
Magazine Writers, Harvard Club of Connecticut.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in Saturday Evening Post, Reader’s Digest, Collier’s,
Coronet, Pageant, Better Homes © Gardens, Writer's Digest; article in
Colliers on the “Signers of the Declaration of Independence” won a
national first prize from Freedoms Foundation, Valley Forge, 1955; two
books (ghost writer).

IN the old-fashioned, parochial but charming way that men once
loved their native state, Dad, who had been born in the middle of
the nineteenth century, knew that in the true virtues, patriotism
and especially education, Connecticut led all the rest. When I was
a high school junior, he introduced me to the Chief Justice of our
state who also happened to be chairman of Yale’s scholarship com-
mittee. However, I had already talked to Mr. Moore, my principal
and a Harvard man, and I knew that while I needed money, I didn’t
want it that much. Reluctantly, aged eighty-two, Dad gave Harvard
his guarded blessing. “I want you to study and keep away from
the girls as much as you can,” he told me. Remembering the fear-
some things we used to hear in Connecticut about Cambridge, he
added earnestly, “And under no circumstances take dope!” I prom-
ised. Later, I relieved his mind by reporting that no one had even
offered me the stuff.

The temptation is almost overwhelming to reminisce about Copey,
Kittredge, the tragically short-lived poet Spencer who was my ad-
viser, Kirtley Mather and old Ben with whom I spent many fruitful
hours learning billiards at the Harvard Union. Right to Ben who
implored me not to coarsen my billiard stroke by also playing pool,
a priestly dedication to truth and high values distinguished every
man I met at Harvard.

As a writer, I lead a largely uneventful life, to a newspaperman,
today is the magic word and probably as a counter balance, in maga-
zine work and as a hobby, I am interested in history. If I ever tidy
up some loose genealogical ends, I hope to relate our family in its
historical setting. (To a man who writes for a living, a book privately
printed at his own expense for a small, captive audience is the height
of self-indulgence.)

From PTA to Shippan Point Garden Club, charitable fund-raising
to bringing culture into our schools (and now a chairmanship in
the State Garden Club), my wife Marion is, in the fullest sense of the

[772 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

word, indefatigable. Fairness (as well as affection and self-protec-
tion) compels me to add that she is no Hokinson. Her efficiency
and energy, in fact, make me think the sex is definitely overtaking
us.

Our elder daughter Kate, having spent two years at Vassar, has
just transferred to Simmons to pursue a career in social work. The
younger, Patti, after three years at Northfield School for Girls, has
entered Skidmore with an open mind. The boy, in fifth grade,
aspires to be a scientist or space traveler. Thus far, considering that
Marion went to a teachers’ college and then got her degrees at
Syracuse University and Teachers College, Columbia, we have ac-
quired happy connections with eight boarding schools, colleges and
universities. Don’t say we aren’t education-minded!

Both girls have also come out: a social delight I unhesitatingly
recommend to any father as a rather frightening evening during
which he bows, walks, cotillions and waltzes in front of grinning
friends while trying not to step on bouffant gowns at ten dollars
the yard. However, the custom inculcates grace and poise in the
young and humility in the old, so is worth while.

Our happiest ten years have been spent in a big old house with
three big stone fireplaces and three big unmodernized baths in
Shippan Point, only a long block from the club where the children
have grown up learning to swim, sail and play tennis. Pat is prob-
ably the finest tennis runner-up in club history, having reached the
finals in three tennis events and quarter-finals in mixed doubles.
(Kate, girding herself for the future, learned typing and did volunteer
work in a housing project as a Junior League provisional.)

Inescapably, back in my native state after living some dozen
years in New York, I find myself surrounded by sons of the New
Haven institution which my father so admired. Actually, they are
quite nice chaps once you get to know them.

While I do not ordinarily believe in omens and portents, it is a
fact that I was born June 22 1972, exactly 22 years after a half-
brother also born on June 22d, and I am the 22d grandchild of a
grandfather who himself was born on June 22d.

In this important twenty-fifth year, I am delighted to report
that the numerological portents continue propitious. I am now
pursuing my 22d year of marriage with my only wife, and mv only
son, who I most earnestly hope will some day enter Harvard, is
eleven.

[773]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

+ JAMES PARRISH LEE

 

BORN: Nov. 14, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: James Parrish Lee, Clara Lin-
coln.

PREPARED AT: Aliddlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934; M.D. (Columbia Univ.), 1939:

MaRRIED: Frances Paulette Nolan, June 1, 1946, Miami, Fla. cHmpren: Clara
Lillian, Sept. 3, 1947; James Parrish, Jr.; Richard Paul.

piep: Aug. 14, 1952, Huntington, Long Island, N.Y.

wipow: Mrs. James P. Lee, 22 Lloyd Haven Drive, Lloyd Harbor.

AFTER receiving his M.D. degree, James Parrish Lee made a round-
the-world trip and did medical work in China. He spent two years
at the Roosevelt Hospital as health physician before starting practice
in Huntington. In 1941 he joined the Navy as a lieutenant (j.g.),
served in the landings in North Africa, Sicily, Salerno and Anzio and
was discharged a lieutenant commander. He was a member of the
North Shore Medical Group of Huntington. He was survived by
his wife and three children.

[774]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES REID LEECH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1110 Judson Ave., Evanston, Ill.
OFFICE appREss: Diocese of Chicago, 65 E. Huron St., Chicago 11, Ill.
BORN: March 30, 1913, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Charles Sherman Leech,

Margaret Owens Reid.
PREPARED AT: Ridley Park School, Ridley Park, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., C17 laude, 1934; BD. (Crozer Theol.

Seminary), 1937.
MaRRIED; Mary Dane Cory, June 22, 1940, Chicago, Ill. cumpren: Charles Toby,

Dec. 5, 1942; Dana Cory, Oct. 7, 1944; Robert Andrew, Nov. 24, 1947;
David Franklin, April 11, 1951; John Alexander, March 31, 1954.
OccUPATION: Clergyman; director of education for the Episcopal Diocese of

Chicago.

TWENTY-FIVE years ago, back in ’34, seemed to promise a good
period for some sort of summing up, but now that I sit down to
the typewriter the illusion is revealed. Not that that period has been
marked by what some would call unusual experiences, for com-
paratively it has been a quiet life. The parson’s round is seldom
outwardly spectacular. But he has opportunity for empathy with
an extraordinary variety of experience and a standpoint from w hich
to evaluate it. When he is a Harvard man, too, the world from awav
back is bigger and deeper and richer to start with, perhaps the single
thing for which he is most grateful to his Alma Afater. Now that
we have reached the challenges and novel dangers of ’59, he hopes
he is as well equipped as most to face — spectator and participant —
the next few scenes of the exciting drama.

Maybe I looked for a “quieter” life than I actually gor. When
I left Cambridge planning to study and teach Near Eastern languages
and culture, I found myself in seminary and emerged to ordination
and eight years in the Baptist ministry in Baltimore, Philadelphia and

[775]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Harrisburg. Falling out of love with the pronounced Protestant
position I had taken, I became an Anglican in ’46 after a year at
Seabury-Western Seminary in Evanston. Texas and Delaware
parishes followed until ’51 when I specialized as Diocesan Director
of Christian Education, first for Delaware and now, since 46, for the
Diocese of Chicago. The work is fascinating in range and com-
plexity, looking both toward the confused movements in secular
education and the almost universal grappling of thoughtful Christian
people with the demands of the Gospel in the present day. Illusions
about the Church are hardly justified, even on the part of her en-
thusiastic proponents, but I don’t always find my fellow-Christians
less wise or alert than those who do not share her presuppositions.

My profession has kept me on the move, mainly in the northeast
corner of the country, except for the brief detour into Texas where
I found the people more appealing than the climate. The war was
passed in Harrisburg, Pennsy rlvania, with nothing more typical to
report than civilian service in connection with matters of local com-
modities. A burst of activity in the summers of 52, ’53 and ’54 took
me to Great Britain, Alaska, Newfoundland and Labrador as a con-
ductor of conferences for Service Chaplains, representing my only
sortie out of the continental U.S.A. Vacations, now taken in a
station wagon as near bus-size as procurable, still leave a number
of places of interest to be investigated, but then — my youngest is
sull only five,

Raising five boys engrosses most of the attention not given to a
time-consuming vocation. The family circle sometimes becomes the
family arena with just about every contemporary force playing upon
the domestic microcosm. Early enthusiasm for a young woman
studying dietetics at Johns Hopkins Hospital has exfoliated through
nineteen years into a complicated proposition! My hat is off
repeatedly these days to the gals who get into the involved situa-
tions of being poised and effective wives, mothers, homemakers and
active townspeople. Association with one of them has been so
nearly the most significant experience of my life that I'll simply put
the fact on record. .

As to the future, I wish we all had more congenial room in which
to maneuver. Henry Adams was appalled at the rate of social
speed long years ago—he should be around now! Your guess,
fellow-classmates, is as good as mine. Just when I begin taking
comfort from some new gambit our leadership opens up, it becomes
obvious it isn’t going to work any better than the old one, perhaps

[ 776]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

because after all it was an old one rather thinly disguised. Mean-
while, one of the compensations of living today is the wealth of aid
to understanding and appreciation. History is both more complex
and foreshortened than I had guessed back in ’34. But there is more
help — thanks to techniques beginning to open up then — for grap-
pling with it. That process, most of the time, is exhilarating and
productive of fellow-feeling. So, as the Texans say, “See you
round!” at the Twenty-fifth and— who knows? — maybe at the
Fiftieth.

MALCOLM RUSSELL LEETE

  

HOME AppRESS: Peaks Island, Portland, Maine.

BorN: Feb. 1, 1894, Enfield, Conn. parents: Arthur R. Leete, Jane A. Tryon.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

UN MARRIED: .

OCCUPATION: Retired.

IF I had delayed five years, it would have seemed so much more
impressive to be celebrating my seventieth birthday, my fiftieth
at Exeter, and my twenty-fifth at college. While I cannot yet claim
to be the oldest living graduate of Harvard College, I must be the
oldest member of 1934. This fact might better be ignored, but it
does present a problem. I had a career, of sorts, before college
which lengthens my “career history” by some years, no matter
how snappy my “narrative style” may be. Howev er, as I think it
over, those years are not so brilliant or interesting as to demand
much space. The two periods might be called BC and AC.

Before College. After graduating from Exeter in 1914, I spent
three years at art school in New York. I served with Base Hospital

[777]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Fifteen in France, with no distinction whatsoever, for two years.
My father’s death three days after I returned from France kept me
at home until [ returned to Exeter in 1922 as assistant to the treasurer.
Three years in department store work, 1927 to 1930, made this Con-
necticut Yankee desperate enough to try Harvard. I survived, but
some of my family have neither forgotten nor forgiven. Some years
ago, I gave my eighty-year-old Yale uncle a copy of Santayana’s
Last Puritan. His succinct review: “A perfect picture of a Harvard
man looking down his nose at the rest of the world.”

After College. It was depression, as some of you may remember.
I spent an epic winter on a farm in Williamstown. The water froze
in the pipes. The stock had to be watered from the brook. The
horses got into the grain bin; the bitches had pups under the barn
floor; the skunks dehibernated too early; and the milk and mail men
delivered half a mile down the mountainside. There were two bright
spots — the cows were dry and Mount Greylock was beautiful
across the snow-covered valley.

Who pulled what wires, I don’t remember; but I spent the spring
and summer of 1935 working in the welfare department of the city
of Cambridge. In September, I joined the editorial staff of Merriam-
Webster in Springfield, where I got my name into the Fifth Col-
legiate and the Dictionary for Secondary Schools. Following a year
with the Winston Dictionary in Philadelphia (1933), I returned
to administrative work in private schools.

After Pearl Harbor, the Navy refused my offer to help and I
went to work in a factory in Laconia, New Hampshire. If I must
do my part in a factory, in Laconia I knew there were lakes,
mountains, and good air outside. ‘

In November, 1945, I returned to Boston; perhaps my circum-
scribed life in Laconia was the trigger. For the first time, I felt an
urge “to do something for humanity.” I became a member of the
speakers bureau of the United Nations Association, educational
director of the Joint Council for International Cooperation, and
chairman of the Boston CARE committee. Later, I was director for
CARE in New England, and then director for New England for the
Citizens Committee on Displaced Persons. In all of these activities
I did a lot of speaking and radio work. J even took the part of the
President of the United States in a one-act drama about the dangers
of push-button warfare.

Since I can’t fool myself about my histrionic ability, that “urge”
must have been very strong. In the quictude of my retirement, I

[ 778]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sometimes wince at the thought of the captive audiences, large and
small, which had to listen to me.

By 1951, such jobs had run out for me, or I had run down. After
trying for a year to be an adequate personnel training director at a
bank outside Boston, I gave up the struggle, I thought. I bought a
small variety store here on Peaks Island. As I come from a long-
lived family, this seemed to be the perfect restricted orbit for a
lengthy old age. After six winters of inadequate heat and business
but overadequate bronchitis and chilblains, I retired in full last
spring.

As of now, I expect to stay on here, the loquacious old man of the
island. We have our “little group of serious thinkers” meeting every
other Tuesday evening.

ROBERT SAMUEL LEHMAN

  

i \

Bescinwi toa YY

HOME ApprEss: 353 Central St., East Bridgewater, Mass.

OFFICE AbpRESS: First Parish (Unitarian), East Bridgewater, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 29, 1913, Cincinnati, Ohio, Parents: Alvin Joseph Lehman, °o6,
Lucie E. Schwab.

PREPARED AT: Walnut Hills High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. C0077 latide, 1934.

MaRRIED: Alicia K. Hardtner, Jan. 18, 1936, Lexington, Ky. (died Nov. 2z
1954); Grace M. McWilliams, Aug. 3, 1957, East Bridgewater, lass.
CHILDREN: Samuel Jonathan and Lucie Elizabeth (twins), April 27, 1942;
Gant Whither, Sept. 10, 1949 (adopted).

HARVARD BROTHER: A. James Lehman, 38.

occupation: Minister.

OFFICES HELD: Economist in federal agencies, 1939-50; minister, First Parish
(Unitarian), East Bridgewater, since 1956.

PUBLICATIONS: Statistical studies and miscellaneous articles; a paper on U.S,

[779 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

highway program in Turkey in Hands Across Frontiers, Cornell Uniy,
Press, 1955; poems in Audience, 1955, and The Atlantic Monthly, 1959.

AFTER graduation, a spell of job-hunting, and then a series of de-
pression jobs in the book business. On the side, I wrote highfalutin
literary criticism for thick-paper, short-lived quarterlies.

My marriage in 1936 was followed shortly by a job with the Na-
tional Youth Administration, the start of a fifteen-year stint in the
federal service. I took a year off to work at economics at the
American University, Washington, and then went on to work as an
economist in the Labor and Agriculture Departments, the Railroad
Retirement Board, the Tolan Committee of the House of Representa-
tives, the Office of Price Administration, and the Census Bureau.
It was a happy period of New Deal crusading and world-redeeming,
punctuated and illuminated by the birth of the twins in 1942. After
the war, though, with political reaction and conformism casting a
shadow, I quit the government service, and from 1951 to 1955 main-
tained myself in private practice in Washington as a consulting
economist, ;

The Washington era ended, really, with the sudden death of my
wife in 1954. After some months of shocked grief and numb in-
decision | resolved to enter the Unitarian ministry, and September,
1955, brought me back to Cambridge as a junior in the Harvard
Divinity School. That winter I served as Russell Bletzer’s assistant
at the First Parish in Needham. In 1956 the First Parish in East
Bridgewater called me as their minister, and since then | have spent
forty-odd hours a week commuting and studying in Cambridge,
and another forty-odd hours serving my parish.

In 1957 1 married Grace McWilliams and have been discovering
ever since how rewarding the life of the ministry can be when it is
shared by a charming, capable and well-loved woman; we are dis-
covering, too, the joys of an emerging home life.

This spring (1959) I shall finally have my S.T.B. degree from
the Divinity School, and shall be formally ordained to the Unitarian
ministry. Later in the year, in all likelihood, we shall be moving
to a new church somewhere in the great world outside New Eng-
land.

So much for the events of twenty-five years. But the events pose
a question: what in the world induces a reasonable man to stop in

mid-career and to start over, in his mid-forties, in a totally new
profession?

[ 780 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Pm not sure of the answer. Conversion? — perhaps, in a sense,
though not such a spiritual metamorphosis as the word generally
suggests. I was fed up with the need to deal with people-as-sellers,
people-as-clients, people-as-lunch-companions, people in roles that
involved only some part of themselves. I wanted a chance to come
at people, and at myself, in the round, to meet them on the common
ground of the search for sense and order in a bewildering world. I
know now, after four years, that the ministry of a free church is
everything I was looking for, and much more; I only hope that my
ministry can yield as much to my parishioners as their trust yields
to me.

WILSON HORTON LEHR

 

HOME ADDRESS: 200 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn 1, N.Y.

OFFicE appress: Brooklyn College, Brooklyn, N.Y.

BORN: May 8, 1913, Brooklyn, N.Y. Parents: Alexander Lehr, Blossom Hor-
ton.

PREPARED AT: Jamaica High School, Jamaica, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., Cum laude, 1934; M.F.A. (Yale Univ.),

1939.
UN MARRIED.
OccUPATION: Writer; associate professor, director of theatre at Brooklyn Col-
lege.
I SUPPOSE 1958 is a reasonably fair reflection of what my public
life is like. The year began with writing assignments for two quite
different ladies: radio-copy for Kate Smith and English dialogue
for Brigitte Bardot in an imported film entitled “La Parisienne.”
Evenings, I was teaching a theatre course at the New School for
Social Research. In September, I joined the faculty at Brooklyn
College to be director of theatre there and, in Oc tober, the Columbia

[ 781 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Broadcasting System presented on television a musical adaptation of
Little Women, for which I prepared the book. In December, I did
the same thing for the CBS production of “The Gift of the Magi.”
Also in December a musical adaptation of John Steinbeck’s Of Mice
and Men opened off-Broadw ay. I was co-adapter of the book of this.
Combining the teaching of theatre with some practical work in it
represents a plan of mine and I am most satisfied when things work
out this way.

There have been lean times. Six or seven hour- length television
plays were written only to remain unsold. There is a lengthy and
serious unsold novel; a witty unsold play. Once I wrote (and sold)
over two hundred individual stories for a happy television program
called “The World of Mr. Sweeney.” I’ve directed for NBC-TV;
for five years I was director of theatre at CCNY.

All these facts, however, tell very little about the man twenty-
five years after. They should be supplemented by stocktaking of a
more personal nature, but the Class of 1934 alumni committee not-
w ithstanding, I am not ready to jump at the chance to set myself
down in print. And that is why it has taken me months to sit down
to prepare this document. How to be autobiographically reflective
at forty-five and still remain fascinating to oneself as well as one’s
relatives and friends? In 1939, when the Fifth Anniversary Report
was the order of the dav and World War II was waiting in the
wings, | remember being full of optimism and rosy triviality. I think
I spoke highly of a career as an actor in the theatre; I was fond of
swing music and driving convertibles with the top down. I am not
really more depressed now even though I’ve slowed down on all
fronts and am more ‘frequently conscious of a creeping loneliness.

I] went to Panama with the Navy shortly after Pearl Harbor and,
after some fifteen months there, when I thought I might be getting
off the land and on to the sea, I learned that I had a handsome case

of tuberculosis. So I was shipped flat as a flounder to Norfolk and
then to Denver from whence I emerged in 1945, practically as good
as new, and in time to celebrate VJ-Day. My father died suddenly
in 1949, placing certain sobering responsibilities into my hands; both
the responsibilities and T have maintained a decent optimism ever
since.

I have always voted for the Democratic party in state and national
affairs, Municipally, Pve been looking for another LaGuardia. I
don’t attend any church with regularity; I don’t do “good works” or
belong to “benevolent associations” — in an organized way, that is.

[ 782 ]

San ERE theta cen tenn cntnanamenat a 8 8 NON RE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I guard my time zealously because I am convinced I do not have
enough of it to write and teach all I want to. The rest is relaxation,
on my own terms: reading, listening to music, a friend or two, some
drinks. I am not now nor have I ever been fond of athletics, national,
collegiate, or in pairs. ‘1 weighed 145 or so in 1934; I now weigh 165.
I still have my hair and most of my teeth. I wear glasses, except for
sleeping. Often I wonder what I really squeezed out of Harvard
College; regretfully, I think classes and study were secondary to a
kind of socializing with males, females, parties, alcohol. Getting
away from home for the first time (I didn’t go away to preparatory
school and I never went to a camp during summers) plus being
seventeen and “formative” — it’s a lot to cope with. Certainly, I
left Harvard — bewildered and not particularly equipped to make a
go of living. Perhaps there’s something very wrong about this. In
fact, I’m sure of it. Yet, if I were to become an undergraduate again,
I’m almost positive [’'d follow the same itinerary.
The future? Within the next five years, I'd like to get married.

MYRON PHILIP LEPIE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 18 Travis Drive, Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 4-051, Massachusetts Insticute of Technology, Cambridge 39,
Mass.

BORN: March 25, 1913, Malden, Mass. parents: \fax Lepie, Emma Celia Kaut-
man.

PREPARED aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; A.M. 1936, S.M. (Mass. Inst.
of Technology), 1958.

MarrieD: Ruth Harriet Slobodkin, Aug. 31, 1944, San Francisco, Calif. cri pres:
Jonathan George, Nov. 2, 1946; Alice Shear, Feb. 22, 1949.

[ 783 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

occupation: Graduate student and research assistant, Ceramics Division of
Metallurgy Dept., Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Westchester; Ceramic Society of America.

AFTER graduation I stayed on at Harvard for a Master’s degree in
biology. After some further graduate study, I became a research
assistant in a local hospital — investigating diabetes and its effects
upon body chemistry.

In March of 1941, I decided to get my one year’s army service
over. Five years later I had seen a great deal of the Pacific Ocean,
but all my shooting had been done with a hypodermic needle: I
served as chief lab technician in a clearing hospital, field hospital
and hospital ship. Along with the battle stars and service stripes,
I acquired a wife in August of 1944.

After my discharge in 1945, I joined a pottery as ceramist and
plant manager, making good use of my chemistry and physics. In
1950, | opened my own business, moving at that time from New
York to Boston. Five years later, I sold the business and found that
the vast changes in the field of ceramics called for some specific
education in the field, so I returned to school to work for a doctorate
at “that boiler factory” which is also in Cambridge. Our two chil-
dren, Jonathan, aged twelve, and Alice, who is ten, were quite
intrigued by the idea of signing wry report cards, less intrigued by
the idea of having to turn down the TV while Pop studied and, by
now, downright aghast at having to put “student” as Pop’s occupa-
tion on school forms. After graduation — oh happy day — I plan to
enter the research end of electrical ceramics.

My duties as student, wage earner, father, home-owner, etc.,
leave precious little time for any extra-curricular activities. I do
manage to attend most of the Harvard football games and especially
enjoy seeing the Class of ’34 at the annual home-coming on the day
of the Dartmouth game. I also enjoy squash a couple of times a
week and take delight in showing my co-students that the old man
can still beat them.

My son is a serious young man who has just entered junior high.
He has shown interest in paleontology, chemistry and physics. He
likes classical music and studies both the violin and the piano. He
has expressed a consistent desire to attend his Dad’s alma mater
when he is older. My daughter is a curly-headed fourth-grader.
Her interests run to dancing, acting, dressing dolls and hula-hooping.

My wife felt left out of things when we all went off to school,
so she enrolled in the Master’s program at the local State Teachers

[ 784 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

College. She is active in the PTA and has served as a substitute
teacher in the Newton schools.

This condensation of the past twenty-five years goes but little
faster than they have seemed to pass. They have been years filled
with ups and downs, a great deal of happiness and some disappoint-
ments. See you at the Twenty-fifth.

WILLIAM RALPH LESSIG, JR.-

 

HOME ADDRESS: 105 EF. 36th St., Reiffton, Reading, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Stevens & Lee, 18 S. Fifth St., Reading, Pa.

BORN: Nov. 2, 1912, Reading, Pa. parents: William Ralph Lessig, Louise F.
Gabler.

PREPARED AT: Reading High School, Reading, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., cit laude, 1934; LL.B. 1937.

MarriEp: Miriam V. Reiniger, June, 4, 1938, Hatboro, Pa. cuiLpren: William
Ralph, 3d, Sept. 14, 1940; David H., Feb. 15, 1942.

occupaTION: Attorney; partner in law firm of Stevens & Lee.

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1943-48, president, 1944-48, Lower Alsace Township
School Board; member, Council of Reformation, Evangelical Lutheran
Church of Reiffton; Worshipful Master, trustee, since 1957, Lodge No.
62, A.F, & A.M.; Junior Warden, Lodge of Perfection, Reading Consistorv;
member, 1951-57, president 1953-54, Exeter Township School Board,
vice-president, director, Reading Lions Club.

MEMBER OF: Berks County and American Bar Associations; Endlich Law
Club; all Masonic bodies; Reading Lions Club; YAICA; Berks County
Association for the Blind, Inc.; Patriotic Order Sons of America; Wyomis-

sing Club; Reading Country Club.

BY the time of graduation from college, I had decided to tie my
future to the practice of law, and so the fall of 1934 found me
enrolled at Harvard Law School. By that ume, also, as anyone who

[785 ]

HARVARD CLASS. OF 1934

knew me would attest, I already had my heart and mind set on the
girl I wanted to marry. Of course, in those days we had the crazy
idea that the ability to support a wife was a condition precedent to
marriage and so I remained a bachelor while concentrating on the
offerings of Pound, the Warrens, Griswold, Baker, ez al.

While in Law School, I was fortunate to be able to spend my
summer vacations in Reading, Pennsylvania, in the office of the
excellent law firm of Stevens & Lee. I am sure that the benefits
derived from this association were rather unbalanced in my favor;
but, at any rate, after being graduated from Law School and passing
the rather formidable Pennsylvania bar exams, I was offered employ-
ment with the firm.

I was a lawyer now with a job and an income. The latter was
hardly enough to support a wife, but Miriam and I were through
waiting. We were married in a garden ceremony at her home in
Hatboro, Pennsylvania, on June 4, 1938. We spent our honeymoon
in New York City, where we saw the musical “IT Married an Angel,”
and at the Cavalier Hotel at Virginia Beach, Virginia, which then
was, and probably still is, truly a honeymooners’ paradise.

William Ralph, 3d, was born on September 14, 1940, and was
followed just seventeen months later by David on February 15, 1942.
Because of the proximity of their ages, I really had a thorough basic
and practical training in the care and handling of babies. After the
first few years, of course, the proximity in their ages created more
of a demand for a good referee. Both boys are now taller than L,
but not as heavy. Bill is at the Mercersburg Academy and expects to
enter an engineering college in September, 1959. David is a junior
at Reading High School and hopes to enter Harvard in September,
1960.

My association with the firm of Stevens & Lee has continued on
down to the present time. 1 am now a partner in the firm and
personally am engaged chiefly in the practice of corporation and
labor law along with some tax and estate work.

Politically, I am a Republican —a conservative Republican —
with no aspirations as to either elective or appointive office. On two
occasions, however, I have been a candidate for public office at a
level where party affiliation was not too important. In 1943 I was
elected to a six-year term as a school director in Lower Alsace
Township and again to the same office in Exeter Township in 1951.
I am truly thankful for having had the experience of serving on
these School Boards — especially at Exeter where I was active in

[ 786 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

securing the erection of the township’s first high school building
and the establishment of its first high school program.

On the whole, the last twenty-five years have been kind to my
family and me. I have thoroughly enjoyed my work as a lawyer
and, while it has been demanding and frequently arduous, there has
always been time for golf and for the usual family trips and vaca-
tions. Right now we are all looking forward to the next vacation —
at Cambridge in June.

FREDERICK STANLEY LEUTNER

  

7 : on ? .

“gk i

[Nz
be ; i . oe

HOME ADDRESS; 876 Beverly Rd., Cleveland Heights 21, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Arco Co., Division American-Marietta Co., Cleveland 27,
Ohio.

BORN: Sept. 30, 1913, Cleveland, Ohio. Parents: William George Leutner,
Emily P. Smith.

PREPARED AT: University School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., cw laude, 1934; PH.D. (Western
Reserve Univ.), 1942.

MARRIED: Dorothea E. Stevenson, Nov. 23, 1939, Cleveland, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Frederick Dean, Jan. 22, 1943; Robert Winfred, March 25, 1946.

occupation: Paint manufacturing; head of basic research; research on new
materials and methods of coating surfaces, development of new synthetic
materials as coatings.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Sigma Xi.

PUBLICATIONS: Technical papers, patents.

AFTER getting my Ph.D. in 1942, I tried teaching chemistry at the
University of Cincinnati for two years. I decided that this was not
for me and went into industrial research at the Goodyear Research
Laboratories. Here I got the equivalent of another decree i in polymer

chemistry working with Dr. Paul Flory to develop. new films and

[ 787 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

fibers. Since 1951 I have been at the Arco Company doing similar
research and development on new coatings. I find this stimulating
work, trying to match the efforts of much larger research groups
and sometimes outdoing them. It is a complex field only recently
converted from an art to a science.

My wife and I have two boys, Frederick (Rick) and Robert,
sixteen and thirteen respectively. Both are active in radio broadcast-
ing, science and math, as well as writing. My wife has been study-
ing psychology with a view to work in the field of counseling and
psychotherapy. She is also working at church — the Unitarian So-
ciety of Cleveland.

My hobbies are home-remodeling and other forms of do-it-your-
self, such as building Heathkit Hi-Fi equipment. I was a Cleveland
Indians’ fan for many years but have lost interest lately and now
root for the Browns’ football team.

Politically, I am an independent and might label my religious
views the same way, being a member of the Unitarian-Universalist
Church.

JACK RICHARDS LEVAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1527 Certosa Ave., Coral Gables, Fla.

oFFice apprEss: Bentley Gray Dry Goods Co., 19 N.E. 8th St., Miami, Fla.

BORN: March 10, 1913, Reading, Pa. parents: George Young Levan, Jennie P.
Richards.

PREPARED AT: Reading High School, Reading, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., Cum laude, 1934.

MaRRIED: Ruth McEwen, Oct. 3, 1939, West Palm Beach, Fla. cHILDREN:
Vicki, Nov, 20, 1943; John Richard, Jr, June 5, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president-manager, Miami Branch, Bentley Gray Dry Goods
Company, wholesale distributors of dry goods, ete.

[ 788 ]

niet 1 eannraipccrtiseannces

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Member, Board of Control, Miami Exchange Club, 1957-58;
secretary, Exchange Club of Tampa, 1950; member of vestry, director of
youth activities, St. John’s Episcopal Church, Tampa, 1948-49, chairman,
American Legion Jr. Baseball Program, Post 5, Tampa, 1947-48.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Miami; Dade County Chamber of Commerce,
Exchange Club of Miami; Coral Gables Country Club.

JUST a capsule — for that has been my life. After graduation, |
went to S, S. Kresge Company as a trainee for about fifteen months,
then to politics for about two years in Berks County, Pennsylvania.
I became a trifle disgusted and disillusioned when one of my supe-
riors became involved in embezzlement; and so to retailing at James
McCreery & Company in New York City from 1936 to 1941,
variously as section manager, floor superintendent and, finally,
general adjustment manager. I left in 1941 for what appeared to be
greener pastures with Montgomery Ward, as an assistant buver.
After three months, I was released unceremoniously because of a
personality conflict with a superior. Three weeks later I was back
with Ward’s during the Avery regime) as personnel manager in the
Baltimore retail store.

Came the war and finally a commission as ensign in the Navy
Supply Corps. Duties at Charleston, Camp Peary Navy Yard, New
York, and, finally, Guam. I was released in 1945 W ith the rank of
lieutenant. I joined the present firm in 1946 in Tampa, Florida.
Fates have been kind to me in my present association. I worked
up as salesman, department manager, sales manager and, in 1954.
when we decided to open full-scale operations here in Miami, was
tapped for job as manager and elected vice-president.

I married my present wife in 1939, while we both were at Me-
Creery’s in New York. Ruth is a Floridian and soon had me con-
vinced there is no place like Florida. So, after returning from
service, we made the big move to Tampa and later to Miami. Our
daughter, Vicki, is now a sophomore in high school and son, Dick,
is a third-grader.

Our social life is a very simple one built primarily around our
family with the result we spend a good deal of time entertaining
teen-agers and eight-year-olds. We enjoy thoroughly the wonder-
ful football we have in Florida, both in high se hool and college.
Have dabbled a bit in politics to the extent of man: aging a campaign
or two just for kicks.

About eight years ago, we joined hands and all became members of
the Episcopal Church and I have spent some time as Sunday Schoo!

[ 789 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

teacher to teen-agers, youth chairman, along with the other re-
sponsibilities that go w ith church life.

My present business firm services the state of Florida; we travel
ten salesmen, selling primarily to major department stores and
specialty shops. I love the business because it has given me the
opportunity to watch the tremendous growth of our great state and
to know so many of the people who are vitally contributing to our
growth.

All in all, the last twenty-five years have been fruitful ones with
nothing real big in our lives to report,

IRVIN CASPER LEVENSON

 

appREsS: 106 Spring St., Arlington 74, Mass.

BORN: May 22, 1913, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: Nathan Levenson, Anna_
Rogers.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

.YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: ‘AB. 1934; LLB., 1938; a.m. (Univ. of
New Hampshire), 1935.

OCCUPATION: Law.

NO questionnaire returned.

[ 790 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ DAVID LEVIN

 

BORN: Oct. 10, 1912, East Boston, Mass. parents: William Levin, Celia Dane.
PREPARED AT: East Boston High School, East Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934.

DIED: Jan. 4, 1934, East Boston, Mass.

DAVID LEVIN came to Harvard from East Boston High School,
where he was valedictorian of his class) At Harvard he won the
Bowdoin Prize for Latin composition and the Edward Hopkins
Detur Scholarship for outstanding scholastic ability. He was a
-member of the Harvard Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa. He was a
member of the Old South Historical Society and in 1930 won the
prize offered by that association for an essay on “The New England
Conference of 1636.” He died during our senior year. He was sur-
vived by his mother.

DAVID HAROLD LEVIN

 

Appress: P.O. Box 117, Hopewell Junetion, N.Y.

[79]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

porRN: January 17, 1911, Chelsea, Mass. PARENTS: Maurice Levin, Ida Rosen.
PREPARED AT: DeWitt Clinton School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: S.B., 19343 LL.B., 1938.

occupation: Law.

NO questionnaire returned.

SIDNEY LEVIN

  

EOL SO,
ES. ° *

HOME ADDRESS: 72 Evans Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1265 Beacon St., Brookline 46, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 6, 1912, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Israel Max Levin, Gertrude Smith.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1939.
MARRIED: Pearl M. Koufman, March 24, 1940, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: Lois
Ann, Dec. 1, 1941; Sally Claire, May 9, 1945; Roy Clarence, Sept. 15, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Harold Lee Levin, ’29, Clarence Levin, LL.B., 730.
OCCUPATION: Psychoanalyst.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, treasurer, member board of trustees, Boston Psycho-
analytic Society and Institute, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Boston Psychoanalytic Society and Institute, American and Inter-
national Psychoanalytic Associations, American Psychiatric Association;

American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology, Alpha Omega Alpha; New
Century Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles in medical and psychiatric journals.

AFTER graduation I returned to Harvard to take premedical courses
for one year. I then entered Tufts Medical School where I spent
four of the most productive and gratifying years of my life. Medical
school was not as trying as I had been led to believe. Because of
the continuous stimulation my motivation to study remained high.
Almost every day brought a series of new experiences which aroused
my curiosity, and in the clinical field each specialty had a fascination
of its own. By the time I graduated from medical school, my interest

[ 792 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in the complexities of human suffering and disease had crystallized
into a decision to specialize in psychiatry. My undergraduate work
at Harvard had contributed in no small measure to this decision,
since I had originally chosen psychology as my field of concentra-
tion.

I interned at the Beth Israel Hospital in Boston, where I worked
harder than at any other time in my life. There are periods in one’s
career when one gets caught up in a system which makes excessive
demands, and my internship was such a period. However, the pres-
sure eased as I advanced to appointments in psychiatry and neurol-
ogy. My first residency was at the Worcester State Hospital where
I familiarized myself with the broad spectrum of mental disorders.
I then took a residency in neurology at the Mt. Sinai Hospital in
New York City, after which I returned to Boston for a final appoint-
ment at the Boston Psychopathic Hospital. I remained there for
about two years, during which time I participated in research, ran
an epilepsy clinic and learned psychotherapy. During this interval,
I started training in psychoanalysis at the Boston Psychoanalytic
Institute and entered private practice. The next few years were
very busy ones, for I was absorbed in learning psychoanalysis while
practising psychiatry, teaching at the medical schools and partici-
pating in various activities of the psychiatry service of the Beth Israel
Hospital. In 1951 I graduated from the Boston Psychoanalytic In-
stitute and since then I have practised psychoanalysis and become
increasingly involved in the activities of the Boston Psychoanalytic
Society and Institute.

A few months after graduating from medical school I married a girl
whom I had known for eighteen years. Two years later a daughter
arrived on the scene and within the next four years another daughter
and a son. Bringing up a family has taught me a great deal, much
of which has also been useful in my specialty.

My home has remained in Brookline during the past sixteen years,
during which time we moved our residence only once. Although we
took two excursions to Europe and made a few trips w ithin the
United States and Canada, we're not very travel-minded and stick to
home most of the time. I have participated little in town affairs.
Most of this interest has been left to my wife who has a propensity
to take on a variety of community worries. However, I usually
‘contribute some moral support from the sidelines.

[ 793 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ALBERT HURWITZ LEVY

   

DME ADDRESS: 515 Grove Terr., South Orange, N.J.

FICE ADDRESS: Veterans Administration Hospital, East Orange, NJ.

RN: Sept. 7, 1914, Birmingham, Ala. parents: Harry Levy, Annie Hurwitz.

EPARED AT: Phillips High School, Birmingham, Ala.

ARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1034. DEGREES: A.B., cv laude, 1934; M.D. (Columbia
Univ.), 1938.

-RRIED: Rose Roberta Barrett, Aug. 29, 1945, Nancy, France. CHILDREN:
Margaret Ann, May 26, 1946; Barbara Barrett, April 11, 1950; Edward
Albert, Oct. 4, 1955.

UPATION: Physician; chief, Surgical Service, Veterans Hospital.

IcES HELD: Assistant chief and chief of surgery, Halloran” V.A. Hospital,
Staten Island, 1947-50; chief, General Surgery, V.A. Hospital, Brooklyn,
N.Y., 1950-51; chief of surgery, V.A. Hospital, East Orange, since 1952.

MBER OF: Alpha Omega Alpha (honorary medical society); American
Medical Association, American College of Surgeons (fellow); American
Board of Surgery (diplomate); New Jersey Academy of Medicine; New
York Academy of Medicine; Allen O. Whipple Society, Society of
Alumni of Presbyterian Hospital; Society of Alumni of Second General
Hospital.

AcaTions: “Chemical Specificity of Immune Reactions,’ Ferry and Levy
(from Harvard Honors Thesis), Journal of Biological Chemistry, June,
1934; “Partial Gastrectomy for Peptic Ulcer,” Annals of Surgery, 1951;
“Review of 1o1 Cases of Partial Gastrectomy,” American Journal of

Surgery, 1951; “Prolapse of the Rectum,” Levy and Johnson, Annals of

Surgery, 1951; “Review of 1,001 Cases of Inguinal Hernia,” Levy, Wren and

Friedman, Annals of Surgery, 1951, “Uropepsin Excretion Studies in

Surgery,” Levy and Levine, Gastroenterology, 1956.

RING my last year at Harvard I had the difficult task of de-
ng between Harvard and Columbia for my medical school train-

I chose the latter chiefly because my father had graduated there.
re is no way of knowing if the choice was a wise one, but I can
that my memories of Columbia are pleasant ones. I received

[ 794 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my M.D. degree in June, 1938, and immediately thereafter began
service as intern, and later as resident, on the Surgical Service at the
Columbia University-Presbyterian Hospital Medical Center.

In February, 1942, with my final year of hospital training half
completed, I joined the Army as a member of the Second General
Hospital, an affiliated unit staffed by doctors and nurses from the
Presbyterian Hospital. We were sent to England in June, 1942, and
remained overseas in England, France and Belgium for three and a
half years.

In August, 1945, I married Rose R. Barrett, a nurse in our hos-
pital unit, in Nancy, France. Our honeymoon in Switzerland was
interrupted by orders for immediate return to France for transfer
back to the United States. (The transfer actually became effective
only after six weeks of impatient waiting.) Some day we hope to
return to Switzerland for a more leisurely visit in an old but freshly
beautiful country.

In late 1945, following discharge from the Army, I returned to
Presbyterian Hospital and completed my residency training the
next June. Then, with no money and imminent prospects of becom-
ing a father, I took a “temporary” position in the Veterans Ad-
ministration while I prepared for the examinations of the American
Board of Surgery. I was certified by the Board in 1947, but my
government service seems less and less temporary with each passing
year. In this service I have had to be content with lower pay and,
perhaps, less prestige than one would expect with a similar position
in a civilian hospital. On the other hand, I enjoy what I believe ts
the practice of really good medicine, a non-competitive association
with capable and congenial colleagues and leisure time to spend with
my family. I also have been stimulated by a continued close asso-
ciation with some great — in the true sense — teachers of medicine:
Dr. Morris K. Smith, Dr. Arthur Purdy Stout and Dr. Allen O.
Whipple.

My favorite vacation: July at Westhampton Beach, Long Island
(when I can afford it). Hobby: Do-it-yourself home repair, re-
cently acquired along with a thirty-five-year-old house.

During the last twenty-five years I have learned to try to enjoy
the little pleasures of everyday working and family love, for surely
most of us will not find a single magic moment whence we live
ever after in complete happiness.

[795 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ALFRED LEWIS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 521 N. Rodeo Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 8820 Wilshire Blvd., Beverly Hills, Calif.

BoRN: Nov. 12, 1912, Tewksbury, Mass. parents: Louis Lewis, Lena Berman.
PREPARED AT: Revere High School, Revere, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1934(35); mv. (New York Medical
Coll.), 1939.

marrieD: Ruth Kirschner, June 4, 1939, New York, N.Y. cHttpreN: Jan Dee,
April 15, 1941; Benjamin Avery, Feb. 8, 1946.

occupation; Physician and surgeon.

MEMBER OF: Masons; Harvard Club of Southern California, Los Angeles
County Medical Association;: California Medical Society; American

Medical Association; Heart Association; Commissioned Officers’ Associa-
tion; U.S. Public Health Service.

THE past twenty-five years have been eventful and kind to me. J
have developed a sustaining and stimulating practice in the field
of internal medicine and psychosomatic medicine. My children
merit all the superlative adjectives in my mind, Further, their ma-
turity and solidity to outsiders are a continuing swelling satisfaction
to me. .

Otherwise, golf, frequent bridge games, outside reading when
time is available, and the social rapport during a convivial evening
round out a happy and satisfying life for me.

Four years spent in the U.S. Public Health Service, on detail
to Navy, actually represented a pleasant withdrawal, if withdrawal
from one’s mode of living can be termed pleasant. I did make some

lasting friendships and, paradoxically, the war years were peaceful
for me. '

To sum up poetically:
Life in the atomic age

L 796 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I hope, no further struggle to wage

Purposeful reaching for happy goals

No floundering on life’s monotonous shoals
Successful threading through Charybdis and Scylla
This shall be my eventful and joyous mantilla.

JASON KOCH LEWIS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 357 Windsor Ave., Oceanside, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fairchild Publications, 7 E. 12th St., New York 3, N.Y.

BORN: May 24, 1913, Beachmont, Mass. PpaRENTs: Edward Koch Lewis, Ida
Kurinsky.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Verda May Lewton, Oct. 5, 1945, Bristol, England. CHILDREN: ‘Donald
Edward, Sept. 19, 1948; Peter Stephen, Oct. 25, 1951.

occupaTION: Advertising, Fairchild Publications, Inc., publishers of business

newspapers.
OFFICES HELD: Lecturer on marketing, Hofstra College, Hempstead, N.Y.

1949-51.

FOR a couple of years following graduation I published guide books
for students at Harvard, Wellesley and Radcliffe, and adults on the
loose. These were guides to activities in Boston, other than study —
for the fuller life. For one who had just completed four years of
aimless search, this took doing. A few of the more provocative bits
from the guide books managed to fill the otherwise bald news spots
of the Boston papers. The one that rated women’s colleges managed
to hold in abeyance what little appetite Boston newspapers had for
foreign affairs. Another one about Boston debutantes deftly shifted
vested interest irritation with Roosevelt to annoyance at our selec-
tions.

[ 797 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

resist with passive effectiveness the therapeutic values that PTA so
graciously offers parents in need of such.

We like our vacations, The last two years we've been hitting an
unspoiled spot on the Cape; three years ago the old haunt of pirates,
Block Island. We’re hoping to get to Europe again. We took the
kids back for my wife’s first return visit to England in 1955. Beyond
acquainting the kids with their British cousins, my wife was able
to see England in a completely different light. All she had known
previously was a wartime England, I managed to renew wartime
acquaintances and was happy to find that they remembered me —
even greeting me as they used to, “Hello, Senator.”

CARL LICHTENSTEIN

 

HOME appress: 111 Longview St., West Orange, N.J.
OFFicE ApprEsS: I. Jablow & Co., 1107 Broadway, New York 10, N.Y.

BORN: Dec. 10, 1911, Providence, R.I. Parents: William Marcus Lichtenstein,
Sarah Kline.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

marrieD: Hilda Warshaw, Oct. 31, 1942, Augusta, Ga. cuitp: Sarah Carol,
May 25, 1953.

occupaTiON: Manufacturers’ representative.

MEMBER OF: New York State Infants’ & Children’s Wear Association; National

Association of Women’s & Children’s Apparel Salesmen; Infants’ &
Children’s Wear Salesmen’s Guild.

HAD I been given the opportunity twenty-five years ago to do a
little crystal ball gazing, I doubt that I could have foreseen, or even
‘remotely approached, the actual sequence of changes and events

which determined and affected my life during the past twenty-five
years.

[ 800 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Following graduation (and considering myself fortunate to have
a job at all), my bright visions of a department store merchandising
career seemed to have begun to materialize when suddenly I man-
aged to win Uncle Sam’s fishbowl lottery, and found myself among
the earliest army draftees one year prior to Pearl Harbor — all this
providing a great source of amusement for those who deluded them-
selves into believing that this was merely a one-year interlude.
There followed five years of a varied army service; and although,
at the time, those years seemed to me to be a “marking time” period
until I could resume my work and re-establish my home, I can’t
honestly say that I entirely regret the pleasant memories of my
early married life in Georgia, or of the year in England billeted

with a hospitable family who so obligingly corresponded with my
_ wife, nor of the year in Paris, again living in a private home and
partaking of the opportunities of European travel at government
expense on a lofty captain’s pay.

Once back in Boston, my eagerness to speed my forward progress
in merchandising led me to branch out on my own. While this
venture did not culminate in a smashing success, the principles of
business practice which I absorbed have stood me in good stead
through the ensuing years. At the same time, I arrived at the con-
clusion that I wished to pursue a course wherein the results would
be more directly commensurate with the extent of my efforts and
ability rather than partially dependent on people and factors beyond
my control. Therefore, still relating my work to my merchandising
experience, I became a manufacturer’s representative in the bovs’
clothing field, in which pursuit I am happily engaged. I travel New
York State and New Jersey, never failing to marvel at the wondrous
scenic beauty of the Catskills, Adirondacks and lake regions in this
part of the country.

Our proximity to New York City has many cultural and educa-
tional benefits, particularly for our sprouting young daughter.
Though my traveling does not permit us to enjoy its bright lights as
often as we might wish, it is nevertheless a good feeling to know that
the facilities are at our back door for the taking.

As I look back now, I often wonder “if — if there had been no
depression, if there had been no World War HU, if, etc., etc., the events
and circumstances of my life would have been so different. I must
conclude that one way or another, I probably would have arrived at
the same state and condition I am in today. Although I admit to look-
ing twenty-five years older (my hair is thinner, my eyesight dimmer,

[ 801 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

my waistline thicker), I don’t admit to feeling twenty-five years
older — and if the next tw enty- -five years prove as stimulating as the

last, I'm sure I'll be able to conclude my fifty-vear autobiography
with this same paragraph.

SUMNER DAVID LIEBMAN

 

HOME aAppRESS: 149 Upland Rd., Waban 68, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 115 Bay State Rd., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 23, 1913, Boston, Mass. paRENts: William Liebman, Anna E. Green-
berg.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; M.D. 1938.

MaRRieD: Alice Margaret Leitz, April 11, 1942, Baltimore, Md. CHILDREN:
Freddy Ann, Jan. 12, 1948; Eleanor Ruth, Nov. 29, 1952.

OccuPATION: Physician — ophthalmologist.

OFFIcES HELD: Instructor in ophthalmology, Harvard Medical School; assistant
surgeon in ophthalmology, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary; associate
surgeon in ophthalmology, Children’s Medical Center; head of Eye Out-
patient Dept., associate in ophthalmology, Beth Israel Hospital; consultant
in ophthalmology to MILT., 1947-56, Harvard University; impartial ex-
aminer, Massachusetts Industrial Accident Board.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Ophthalmology (diplomate), 1943; New
England Ophthalmological Society; Massachusetts, American and Greater
Boston Medical Societies, Massachusetts Bay Lodge, B’nai B’rich; American

Society of Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology; Association for Research
in Ophthalmology.

PUBLICATIONS: “Cortical Representation of the Macula Lutea,” with Tracy J.
Putnam, M.D., 1942, “Effect of Local Anesthetics on Regeneration of
Corneal Epithelium,” with Trygve Gundersen, M.p., 1944; “Ocular Mani-
festations of Riley-Day Syndrome,” 1956; “Relationship to Systemic

Disease,” chapter in book on Pediatric Ophthalmology, with Trygve
Gundersen, M.D., T. E. Sanders, editor,

[ 802 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER college, I entered Harvard Medical School, graduating in
1938. I then had the wonderful opportunity of living in London,
studying neurology at the National Hospital, Queen's Square. I
acquired a tremendous love for England and the English and had a

old time traveling on the Continent during the long Christmas
holidays. I then returned to Boston for a fifteen-month medical
internship at the Beth Israel Hospital. This was followed by a
postgraduate course and laboratory work in ophthalmology at the
Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary.

For the next two years I was resident at the same hospital. In
1942, I married Alice Leitz of Baltimore. The first year of our mar-
_ ried life found us living in one room. Alice commuted to Wellesley

and graduated i in June, 1943, just as I finished my residency. I went
immediately into the Army and was ev entually assigned as oph-
thalmologist to the 10gth Evacuation Hospital. This outfit ev entually
became a part of Patton’s 3d Army and was very active all through
the campaign in Europe. In 1946, I was mustered out as a major
and returned to Boston. Here I have been intensely busy with my
private practice, hospital associations, and (graduate and under-
graduate) teaching duties at Harvard Medical School.
We are raising our family i in suburban Waban. We get away oc-
| casionally for short but much appreciated trips to New Hampshire
(skiing), Florida, Bermuda, and this summer we had three weeks
in Europe. I have driven to the West Coast twice, once in 1935
with Dr. Paul Myerson, ” 35, and again with my wife while in the
Army. Europe is still the lure for me and we hope to go again some
day. I have been interested in politics, gardening, and photography
at various times, but nowadays I try to spend what little spare time
I have with the kids. Alice received her Master’s degree in Educa-
tion from Harvard in 1957 (and made an outstanding record, by
the way). She is now teaching full time in the Newton School
System. Since we are now both “Harvard men,” we eagerly look
forward to the Twenty-fifth.

[ 803 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

TOM LILLEY

  

HOME ADDRESS: 2122 Hill St., Ann Arbor, Mich. ;
OFFICE ADDRESS: Ford Motor Co., American Road, Dearborn, Mich.

BoRN: Aug. 13, 1912, Bluefield, W.Va. parents: Charles Ellis Lilley, Minnie
Alice Holland.

PREPARED AT: Beaver High School, Bluefield, W.Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1030-1034. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1934; M.B.A,,
magna cum laude, 1936.

Marriep: Nancy Clegg, Dec. 27, 1936, Honolulu, Hawaii. cHILDREN: Anne,
Feb, 28, 1940; Cynthia, April 12, 1945; Susan, March 30, 1948.

occuPATION: Vice-president and general manager, International Division, Ford
Motor Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, twelve Ford Motor Company foreign corporations,
member board of directors, International Road Federation, National
Foreign Trade Council; member board of trustees, United States Council
of International Chamber of Commerce.

MEMBER OF: Detroit Board of Commerce, Automotive Manufacturers As-
sociation (Washington); Economic Club of Detroit; Detroit Press Club.

PUBLICATIONS: A series of publications regarding aircraft manufacturing matters
written in conjunction with associates at the Harvard Business School but
published by the School and the Government.

DURING the last four and one-half years I have been in the Inter-
national Division of Ford Motor Company — an occupation that
tends to keep one awake, fascinated and busy. By a series of moves
that seem to come in six-year cycles, I got into this business by a
route that could be considered somewhat unorthodox.

After graduating from Harvard Business School in 1936, I moved
to New York, married, and worked for the Industrial Department of
Lehman Brothers, analyzing potential and actual investment deals.
In 1941, I went to work for Burlington Mills in North Carolina and
New York and spent some six months on a leave of absence with the
W.P.B. in Washington.

[ 804 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The next cycle began in late 1942 when I moved back to Cam-
bridge and joined the faculty of Harvard Business School. Through-
out the war years, I worked in research on sundry aircraft manu-
facturing projects and in 1947 and 1948 engaged in administering
research projects and did some part-time teaching in the Business
School.

The third cycle began in 1948 when I abandoned the east coast
and went to work for Ford Motor Company in Dearborn. For the
next six years I worked in a variety of jobs in the domestic Ford
organization — Finance Staff and the then newly-created Ford Di-
vision and later, Product Planning in that division. After some six
years, I found myself suddenly engaged in the international end of
the Ford business —a life that consists of planning for, worrying
about, and expediting the car, truck and tractor business in Europe,
Latin America and elsewhere in the world. It is not dull.

One of the happier circumstances is that my wife, three daughters
and I live in Ann Arbor where we have been, with some interrup-
tions, since 1948. The advantages of working in the automobile
business in Dearborn and living in an exceedingly pleasant college
community are in most respects the best of all possible combinations.

EDWARD SANDS LITCHFIELD

 

HOME ADDRESS: Succabone Road, Mount Kisco, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 111 Broadway, New York 6, N.Y.

BorN: Aug. 17, 1911, Larchmont, N.Y. Parents: Bayard Sands Litchfield, ’o3,
Marguerite Victorovna Berg.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: $.B., 1934; M-.B.A., 1937.

MaRRIED: Carolyn Van Cortlandt, Dec. 2, 1939, Mount Kisco, N.Y. canuprrn:

[ 805 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Ann Sandys, March 21, 1942; Beatrice Middagh, March 15, 1946; Pieter
Van Cortlandt, June 10, 1948.

occuPATION: Executive — financial and real estate management, president and/o,
director of various corporations.

OFFICES HELD: Director, National Bank of Far Rockaway, New York City.
Lancaster Chemical Corporation; trustee, Association for the Protection of
the Adirondacks; member, Rector’s Committee, St. Matthew’s Church,
Bedford, N.Y.; various offices in local Red Cross Branch.

MEMBER OF: Bedford Golf & Tennis Club; Harvard Club of New York; Down
Town Association; Anglers’ Club of New York; Brook Club; Grolier

Club.

FOLLOWING graduation from college, I took better than a yea

traveling around the world, mainly in “the Far East, including big

game hunting in Cambodia, Indo-China. I was lucky enough to get
several trophies to add to our family collection in the Adirondacks
On my return, I found myself at the Harvard Business School where
I stayed for two years and came out with an M.B.A. To put to us
what had supposedly been learned, I then went to work in a New
York brokerage office analyzing companies’ portfolios and enjoying
“Scotch” weeks prevalent in that trade during the recession years of
1937 and 1938. Even then while working in a brokerage house, I had
already been part-time in family affairs. “By 1939 it became full-time
and I have been at it ever since. It really is a lot of fun, since its
so diverse: corporate and personal investments, estate management
and planning, real estate in Brooklyn (by the old Gowanus Canal.
believe it or not!), timber lands in the Adirondacks, farm and
gypsum properties in lowa and, finally as well, control of a chemical
company in New Jersey and a plastics company in Delaware.

In 1939, I married Carolyn Van Cortlandt, daughter of Augustus
Van Cortlandt, Jr., Harvard *15. Our first child, a girl, was born
after the outbreak of war, March, 1942. Since I was just about to
go overseas, I saw her for all of a few hours and then not again for
two and one-half years. Our other two children, a girl and a bov.
were born following the war, in 1946 and 1948. I went into the
conflict as a first lieutenant, being one of the “goo,oo0” serial-numbet
boys. By April, 1 was on my way to England and served there in
Headquarters, Eighth and Ninth Air Forces doing A-2 work until
August, 1944. It was a good place to be if I had to be continuously
abroad. On my return, I completed a contract-termination course.
assignment to which type of work I escaped by being put in the
AFPDC where we took care of individual returnees. We lived in
Atlantic City and Louisville, Kentucky, both quite a lot of fun. I

[ 806 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

got out of service as a major, but immediately thereafter received
a lieutenant colonelcy, along with a reserve commission. When my
uncle diced in 1949 and my father asked me to take over the family
affairs, I felt it necessary to resign my commission.

On returning to the Bedford-Mount Kisco area, Cannie and I
bought our house on a temporary basis — to hold us until we built
our own, Result: we have never moved, but merely made alterations.
The third floor was converted to living space for use of the girls,
and a library wing was added for Cannie and myself in which to re-
treat for reading, hearing hi-fi or seeing TV. My library is my
real indoor hobby: mainly early-American hunting and fishing, but
including English sporting books and various colored-plate items.
So far we have not acquired binaural hi-fi or colored TV, but that
is something to look forward to at a later date. My outdoor sports
are concentrated on hunting and fishing, depending on the season,
but lately with no more distant trips than to Anticosti Island for
salmon. Conservation work in our family’s Adirondack place, trying
to revitalize fishing and timber growth, is an additional pleasure.

The kiddies are growing fast, with my elder daughter having
only one more year to go before she attends college, and now driv-
ing a car with all its attendant risks (Amen!). The other two
younger children have homework the male parent has trouble doing;
it seems to me that modern teachers aré making simple subjects, as
we know them, much more difficult. Home life involves working
continuously on fund-raising and other worthy duties for such
organizations as the church, Red Cross and so on.

Time flows by so quietly and yet so quickly that it is like being
on a deep-running river: you never realize how far you have gone
until you suddenly look up and all is strange around you. We
graduated into and matured in a really fascinating period with the
innovation of aerial flight, radio, TV, jet travel and now the start
of conquering outer space. Undoubtedly our progeny will be in
an even more interesting era; let us hope they are permitted to enjov
it instead of having to face another holocaust of war. One of the
main inheritances for our children, and theirs after them, ts a strong
country, morally, religiously and financially. Consequently, amongst
my pet aversions are the spendthrifts who waste our assets, high
taxes which kill incentives, something-for-nothing attitudes and
left-wingers who might destroy our moral and religious fibers. But,
all in all, this country seems to move along its line of destiny with
mistakes, to be sure, but at least in the proper direction.

[ 807 ]

ee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

DANIEL WORTHAM LITSCHER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2346 Lake Drive, SE., Grand Rapids 6, Mich.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 507-509 Monroe Ave., N.W., Grand Rapids 2, Mich.

BORN: July 22, 1912, Grand Rapids, Mich. parents: Christian Joseph Litscher,
Sarah Ann MacNeil.

preparED AT: Central High School, Grand Rapids, Mich.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.
marriep: Elizabeth Williams Nind, Jan. 14, 1942, Grand Rapids, Mich.

CHILDREN: Sarah Jane, Oct. 6, 1942; Ann, May 4, 1947; Mary Christina,
Dec. 10, 1952.

OccuUPATION: Wholesale distributor, electrical apparatus and supplies; partner
and general manager.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, 1948-51, 1955-58, senior warden, 1957-58, St. Mark's
Cathedral, Grand Rapids, Mich.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Western Michigan (past president, past secre-
tary); Kent Country Club; Grand Rapids Electric League.

SINCE graduation, my work has been divided broadly into two
parts. From 1935 to 1939, I was engaged, with another Harvard
graduate, in the Kent Country Day School, here in Grand Rapids,
which was rewarding in every way except to the exchequer. Since
1939, with the exception of military service from 1942 to 1946, I
have been in the wholesale electrical business in a firm celebrating
its fiftieth birthday, January 1, 1959. With my father’s death ten
years ago, I became general manager, and in 1954, my mother took
me into partnership. Nobody becomes rich in this business, but it
does have a redeeming quality, too: it is pretty hard to go broke
overnight. :

I was one of those who were married with a ring in one hand
and an induction notice in the other. In March, 1942, they carted
me off to Fort Sill for basic training and then OCS in the Field
Artillery School, whence I went to Camp Ritchie, Maryland, to the

[ 808 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Military Intelligence Training Center and, finally, overseas to the
Southwest Pacific and then to Japan, in early October, 1945. I
emerged as a major, and ultimately was promoted to lieutenant
colonel in the Army Reserve, but asked for transfer to standby status
in 1957.

With three daughters whose insurance ages, so to speak, are five
years apart, there are some limitations on what we can do as a
family. We do some tennis, golf, swimming, ice skating and so
forth, but it isn’t like bringing up boys and certainly is less demand-
ing physically. Excepting for my ‘smallest girl, however, we all
play the piano, and there is quite a bit of community music about
the house. Two pianos, my wife’s 1889 Steinway and my 1939
Baldwin, help set this scene.

No doubt everybody can go on indefinitely about intermittent
service with useful community groups like P.T.A., Community
Chest, Chamber of Commerce and so on. I have had my share of
all these, and more, but my main activities, aside from the Army Re-
serve now inactive, have been centered in St. Mark’s Cathedral,
where I have held practically every job except dean, canon and
verger. This includes two tours with the Inner Chapter (vestry),
one year as senior warden, and considerable time as lay reader.
choir member and church school teacher.

People sometimes ask me, as they do some of you, how a Harvard
education is of any benefit to a man in a mercantile field like mine.
The only answer I can give consistently is that it was not intended
to be training in how to gain a livelihood, but rather one designed
to fit a man for living in the broad sense. Even if our Twenty-fifth
Reunion should descend at times from such fairly lofty planes of
thinking, it certainly will also help to reaffirm these convictions.

[ 809 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

EDWARD REVERE LITTLE

 

appress: R.F.D. 1, Ellsworth, Maine.
BorN: May 6, 1912, Brookline, Mass. pareNTs: Clarence Cook Little, Katherine

Andrews.
prepareD AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

EDWARD LITTLE'S father has advised us that his son has been ill
for a number of years, but that he still retains his interest in the
Class and speaks fondly of old friends at Cambridge.

ELBERT PAYSON LITTLE

    

OME ADpRESS: 216 Highland St., West Newton 65, Mass.

FFICE ADpRESS: Educational Services, Inc, 164 Main St., Watertown, Mass.

nN: April 25, 1912, Waterville, Maine. parents: Homer Payson Little,
Elizabeth Thomson.

Z2EPARED AT: South High School, Worcester, Mass.

SARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; A.M., 19373 PH.D., 1941,

[ 810 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MaRRIED: Barbara Chase, June 17, 1939, Cambridge, Mass. cHILpREN: Barbara
Jane, Jan. 28, 1940 (a. Arthur K. Parpart); Elbert Payson, 2d, Dec. 22,
1940; Eleanor Ann, Sept. 28, 1942; Elizabeth Thomson, Jan. 25, 1944;
Hannah Perry, May 5, 1945; John Eric Shellabarger, Aug. 29, 1948;
Katharyn Saltonstall, July 24, 1951; William Buckingham, Sept. 9, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Bascom Little, ’36.

OCCUPATION: Education; assistant to the president of Educational Services,
Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor and tutor, Dept. of Physics, Harvard University,
1934-38; instructor in science, Phillips Exeter Academy, 1938-48; technical
manager, Marine Biological Laboratory, 1942-48; physicist, USAF, 1948-
53; professor of physics and mathematics, Wayne State University, 1953
55; consultant, Anderson-Nichols & Company, 1955-56; executive director,
Physical Science Study Commission, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
1956-58; secretary, Boston Section of Institute of Radio Engineers, since

1958.
MEMBER OF: American Physical Society; American Association for the Ad-

vancement of Science (fellow); Industrial Mathematics Society; Marine
Biological Laboratory, Woods Hole; Institute of Radio Engineers; Neigh-
borhood Club of West Newton.

pusLicaTions: Physical Sciences for High Schools, Hogg, Cross & Little, 1950;
Introductory Course in College Physics, Black & Little, 4th ed., 1956.

A NEW Englander by birth, development and present inclinations,
I find upon review that my life has centered almost entirely around
education in New England. The son of a college professor and
dean, a city high school had to provide a background for entering
Harvard. A strong scientific bent led me to plan for a career in
physics, even before the college boards rolled around, and I enjoyed
many hours in Jefferson Laboratory as a student assistant to the
laboratory assistant, in payment for a scholarship grant. After grad-
uation in 1934, I stayed on as instructor in physics and freshman
proctor and adviser for four years in Weld Hall before going to
Exeter Academy in 1938 as instructor in science. During my ten
years there, I acquired a wife, five children, and a Ph.D. in physics
during a half year’s leave of absence in 1940. Teaching in such an
excellent boys’ school is a wonderful experience, but it is rugged
work on a twenty-four-hour-day basis. Summers were a w onderful
break and we migrated to Woods Hole at the first possible moment
each year. During the years, I progressed from laboratory assistant
and helping physicist to technical manager, learned boating and
sailing with a varied and motley fleet, and alw ays returned to Exeter
with a momentary reluctance that soon disappeared in the joy of
teaching.
In 1948, I decided to broaden my experience and by good fortune

[ 811 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

was offered work as a physicist in the Air Force, the objective being

to develop a large-scale machine computing center at Wright Field
in Ohio. Two years with Howard Aiken at the Harvard Computa-
tion Laboratory and almost a shuttle service to Wright Field from
Bedford Airport prepared the way for a move to Ohio. Living
amongst the roaring airplanes, beside the railroad tracks in a small
house (all small houses are now “Ohio houses” to us), under fallout
from a cement plant overbalanced the interesting and often frus-
trating aspects of government work in computers. Now with all
eight children, we moved in 1953 to Detroit and Wayne University.
The change was almost complete—a big house in a fine area,
academic work and contacts, still with computers, teaching; but,
with only two weeks free in the summers, Boston and Woods Hole
were too far away. Even the big lakes near Detroit could not ease
a feeling of claustrophobia—so much land between us and the
ocean.

So, in 1955, we came back, happily, to our area. Computers, data
processing, business applications with a firm of consulting engineers
proved my faith in the ordinary businessman, and I was happy until
education knocked again. A group of physicists at MIT and a few
other universities were tackling the problem of bringing the high
school physics course into step with our understanding of the world
today, a tremendous task that threatens to spill over into all other
areas of education. It is the most exciting work I have ever tackled,
running as it does from the creation of new material and new
methods for teaching physics to country-wide talks with teachers
and school administrators. Altogether, the family and my work
promise an interesting life during the next fifty years.

| 812 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

‘+k JOHN MASON LITTLE, Ill

 

BORN: July 1, 1912, St. Anthony, Newfoundland. parents: John Mason Little,
Jr., Ruth Keyes.

PREPARED AT: Lenox School, Lenox, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.
pieD: Feb. 3, 1932, Winchendon, Mass.

JOHN MASON LITTLE, III, left college at the end of his fresh-
man year because of ill health. He died of injuries suffered when he
was struck by a motor car, He was survived by his mother.

JOHN LITWACK

 

HOME apprEss: 34 Alderwood Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 15, 1913, Chelsea, Mass. parents: Louis Litwack, Eva Bornstein,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., cu? laude, 1934; LL.B. 1937+

MARRIED: Georgia Wilma Shuset, Feb. 11, 1945, Pittsburgh, Pa. CHILDREN:
Deborah Ellen, June 30, 1948; Helen Anne, July 3, 1950.

[ 813 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

occuPATION: Lawyer; partner in firm of Widett & Kruger.

OFFices HELD: Honorary president, Brotherhood Temple Ohabei Shalom
Brookline, Mass. ,

MEMBER OF: Labor-Management Relations Committee of Boston Bar Associa-
tion.

AFTER three hard-working, thoroughly stimulating and all-absorb-

ing years at the Harvard Law School, I received my LL.B. in June

of 1937 and was admitted to practise in Massachusetts in the fall of

that year.

Farly private practice in Boston, plus a brief exposure to the
building wrecking business, convinced me that I was needed in
Washington. My first government job was as a research attorney
with the Marketing Laws Survey. During my brief stay with that
agency, commencing early in 1939, we wrote a volume on govern-
ment regulation of business, dealing mainly with state antitrust
laws. In November, 1939, I joined the staff of the subcommittee
of the Senate Committee on Education and Labor, established under
Senate Resolution 266 of the 74th Congress to investigate “violations
of the right of free speech and assembly and undue interference
with the right of labor to organize and bargain collectively.”

Legislative committees conducting investigations and public hear-
ings in and out of Washington are commonplace today. Unless I
have been misinformed, the hearings of this subcommittee conducted
by Senator Robert M. LaFollette, Jr., of Wisconsin and Senator
Elbert D. Thomas of Utah during the winter of 1939-40 on the
West Coast were the first such public hearings in the history of
our country held outside of Washington, D.C.

It was my good fortune to participate actively and extensively in -
these West Coast investigations and public hearings and in the sub-
sequent preparation of the Senate reports and recommended leg-
islation. It was an exciting and memorable experience.

Pearl Harbor found me working for the then recently created Spe-
cial Inspection Division of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
US. Department of Justice. Together with a small group of under
twelve men, we were specially assigned by Attorney General Jack-
son some months prior to December 7, 1941, to investigate German-
American Bund and related Nazi activity in the United States. With
our entry into World War II, the Department of Justice launched a
nationwide program of denaturalizing and deporting or interning
Bundists and Nazi adherents. During this period I was from time
to time assigned to the National Defense Unit of the Criminal

[ 814]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Division and to U.S, Attorneys’ Offices in various states in the East

and Middle West to assist in the preparation and prosecution of de-

naturalization cases, including that of Bund Leader Fritz Kuhn, and

in related criminal conspiracy trials for subversive activities. I was
the first witness called by the government to testify before the
Grand Jury in the Southern District of New York which brought
out the first mass criminal indictments against the leaders of the
German-American Bund for conspiracy to violate the Alien Regis-
tration Act and for conspiracy to counsel evasion of the Selective
Service and Training Act.

A pleasant cruise aboard the USS Antietam, CV-36, an Essex Class
aircraft carrier, logging some 60,000 miles on water in the Atlantic
and Pacific Theatres and the China and Yellow Seas with the Asiatic
Fleet just about describes my tour of duty during World War II.
I was a communications officer, starting as ensign and skyrocketing
to lieutenant (j.g.).

Since 1946, I have been engaged in the private practice of law
in Boston with the firm of Widett & Kruger. I am one of seven
partners, and we have as associates of our firm nine other lawyers.
We are all general practitioners, but the law of today requires some
specialization and mine has been in the field of labor relations,
representing management. The practice of law continues to bring
me great satisfaction and stimulation—and with it all, ample
financial return and professional recognition, for which I am

grateful.
So much for the purely narrative and chronological to date. As
I contemplate with sombre realism the diminished likelihood that I
shall be called upon to write a similar report for our Fiftieth Anni-
versary Report, I admit to an unreconcilable anger and frustration
at the utter shortness of man’s span on this turbulent planet. The
fullness of life’s experiences these past twenty-five years has left its
indelible and inevitable imprint upon me. In brief retrospect, I
rave had my full quota of regrets and sorrows and my full measure
»f unattained aspirations, but all this has only brought spice and
easoning to a period of life which has been supremely’. rich in many,
rany of the good things and divinely blessed with a wonderful
vife and companion and two superlative daughters.

[ 815 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

JOHN MARSHALL LOCKWOOD

 

HOME appress: Lawrence Hill Road, Huntington, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 22 Oakwood Rd., Huntington, Long Island, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 25, 1913, Woodhaven, Long Island, N.Y. parents: Charles Clapp
Lockwood, Patricia Bleiler.

PREPARED AT: Gunnery School, Washington, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B, 19343 LL.B. 1937.

MARRIED: Barbara Batchelder, July 6, 1937, Dedham, Mass. cHILDREN: Charles
Clapp, 2d, June 28, 1939; Dorothy, May 2, 1941.

HARVARD soN: Charles Clapp Lockwood, 2d, ’61.

occupation: Attorney-at-law.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Class of 1934; various offices, positions and member-
ships.

THE first two years after our Fifteenth were relatively quiet and
enjoyable ones for my family and self. Then the “roof” began to
show signs of falling in. After limping progressively worse from
specialist to specialist for over a year, they (the medics) finally
found out that my left hip was deteriorating at an alarming rate.
On June 17, 1957, after a six-hour engagement, I awoke with a new
steel hip and thigh inside a body cast — where I remained for about
six months. Then the long road back — wheel chair, crutches, cane
and at last, walking again. During this period, both my father and
mother died. If anyone gleams a call for sympathy from the above
résumé, rest assured that it is a false gleam and not the right call. Not
that I would care to buy it again through the same vehicle but the
=xperience gained was priceless, I had time to see many fundamentals
of life which are passed by too quickly when we are healthy. Of
course, they are obvious. The first is that “health is wealth.” How
rite but how seldom we realize it! So also do we pass without ap-
sreciation the ordinary everyday comforts of life. Stay out of your

[ 816 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

modern bathroom for eleven months and then go in and look
around. You've just entered paradise, haven’t you?

There are dozens of plain truths which need recalling but not
in this brief space. I learned many things and I think I grew in
patience, humility and tolerance (all departments needed much re-
pair). My sense of humor couldn’t help but improve —a psychic
ward having been the alternative! Above all else, I also learned that
I had many friends — particularly among classmates. I am most
grateful for their visits, letters and calls. It was also amply proved
(if it needed to be) that I have a wonderful wife. So, too, did my
children stand by and, all in all, things weren’t so bad, and now
they’re picking up.

I’m back at my old country law stand and just dipped into politics
again as chairman of the Suffolk County Rockefeller-Keating Com-
mittee. Pleased with the result, too! My son Charley is a sophomore
at Harvard and doing well. A fine athlete, he may not prove to be
the studious type his father was. My daughter Dorothy has set her
sights and heart on Wellesley next fall.

I shall see you all at the Twenty-fifth because none of you can
miss it. Malcolm Stewart and his committee are doing a truly fine
job. With your support, it will be the best Twenty-fifth in Harvard
history.

BERTRAM HUGH LOEWENBERG

 

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Lockwood Rd., West Newton 65, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sherburne, Powers & Needham, 73 Federal St. Boston 10,
Mass.

BorN: April 26, 1914, Boston, Mass. parents: Samuel Loewenberg, Eva Levine.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

[ 817 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B, C7 laude, 1934; LLB., cum laude,
1937- :

marrieD: Betty Goldberg, April 11, 1943, Boston, Mass. cxttpren: Margery
Ruth, Feb: 8, 1944; Stephen Mark, Aug. 15, 1947; Judith Ann, April 22,
1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alvan J. Loewenberg, °42.

occupation: Lawyer; partner, Sherburne, Powers & Needham.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Boston State Hospital, 1948-55, trustee, 1951-55, vice-
president, since 1955, Temple Shalom of Newton; director, Newton Civic

Association, since 1953; director, Newton Taxpayers Association, 1951-
55; director, Newton Central Little League, since 1958.

MEMBER OF: American, Massachusetts and Boston Bar Associations, University
Club of Boston; American Jewish Committee.

pusLications: Article on corporations for Annual Survey of Massachusetts
Law, 1954, 1956, 1957 and 1958 eds.; “Business Organizations,” The Lawyer

Lectures, 1951 ed.; “Developments in Corporation Law,” The Lawyer
Lectures, 1953 ed.

LAST week, my eight-year-old daughter, Judy, even as you and I,
was required to write her autobiography. No goading Class Report
chairman was responsible for this; it was her third-grade teacher.
The details of Judy’s life are interesting only to her parents, but her
conclusion, neatly printed in capital letters, may be relevant to her
father’s story. It read: “I think I have lived a very good life so far.”

Although it may sound heretical, my undergraduate memories are
not particularly vivid, Bright college years— why do they seem
so distant compared to the days at Boston Latin that preceded them
or the three years at the Law School which followed? Perhaps I
entered Harvard too young to appreciate what she offered. Or was
it the surfeit of English courses which I took at the urging of my
well-meaning but honors-happy tutor? Can you imagine passing up
Kirsopp Lake or Fine Arts in favor of a course in Anglo Saxon?

Law School was different, an exciting, vibrant place with every-
one heading in the same general direction. It was there I first came
to know many of my college classmates, who, like me, were fortunate
enough to attend while the giants of the faculty were still there:
Williston, Beale, Scott, “Bull” Warren, Frankfurter, and the rest.
Not that the present Law School need look to its laurels. From
everything I can determine, the standards of teaching and the
calibre of the student body were never higher,

Things went well for me at the Law School, and I was fortunate
enough to get a job with an excellent law firm, where I have been
ever since except for the war years, By Boston standards, Sherburne,
Powers & Needham was (and is) a medium-sized office (sixteen

[ 818 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

lawyers currently), and this has been for me a happy association in
every way. In 1948, I became a partner, and have tended to specialize
in corporate and tax problems. There must be a pedagogical streak
in me somewhere, though (dating back perhaps to early college
years when Maury Frank, Larry Stellar and I used to tutor kids at
Latin School in our spare time), since I have had a fling at part-time
teaching in two of our local law schools, first at Northeastern and
later at Boston University. This was enjoyable for a while, but
eventually office demands on my time made it impossible for me to
continue. My remaining ties with the scholarly aspects of the law
consist of occasional articles, usually on corporate problems, and
participating as a lecturer at forums for practising lawyers.

Pearl Harbor had an impact on all of us; in my case, what I gained
during the war far outweighed what I lost. To counterbalance three
and a half years’ absence from home and practice, I acquired (in
order of importance) a most wonderful wife, a daughter, com-
fortable, if not luxurious, travel to a number of interesting places
(London, North Africa, Italy, New Guinea, the Philippines and
Okinawa), a love of the sea, admiration of the Navy, and some
marvelous memories. Of course, Sherman was right about war, but
I was one of the lucky ones who found more excitement and ad-
venture than danger or sacrifice. At the beginning I thought that it
might turn out the other way. The Navy commissioned me as an
ensign in July, 1942, and, after some hasty instruction in gunnery,
with a smattering of communications and seamanship thrown in, I
found myself in September aboard a new Esso tanker in charge of a
twenty-four-man gun crew. We were the armed guard placed by
the Navy on all merchant vessels to defend them against attack by
submarine or plane, although I doubt that any self-respecting sub
would have ever surfaced long enough to be a target for our guns,
even if we could have fired them that accurately. Unlike our naval
escorts, we had no underwater armament, Although the merchant
captain was master of the vessel, the Navy solemnly assured me that
the military defense of the ship was in my hands! German Intelli-
gence must have been impressed with my qualifications, for during
the next eighteen months of Atlantic and Mediterranean convoy
duty, the U-boats, almost without exception, shunned us like the
plague. The exception was one night off Bizerte in the Mediter-
ranean. Since the ships that were lost were on the other side of the
convoy, we were never in any real danger, but with a cargo of

[ 819 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ALAN JAMES LOMAX

HOME AppRESS: 121 WW, Third St., New York, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Duell, Sloane & Pearce, 124 E. 30th St., New York, N.Y.

BORN: Jan, 31, 1915, Austin, Texas. parents: John Avery Lomax, a.m., ’07, Bess
Baumann Brown.

PREPARED AT: Terrill School, Dallas, Texas; Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932. DEGREE: A.B. (Univ. of Texas), 1936.

MarRiED: Elizabeth Harold, February, 1937, Port-au-Prince, Haiti (divorced
1948). cHiLD: Anne Lyttleton, Nov. 20, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Avery Lomax, Jr., Harvard Business School, 1928-29.

occuPATION: Folklorist and writer.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant in charge, Archive of American Folk Song, 1937-42,
writer-commentator, Columbia School of the Air, CBS, 1939, 1940; con-
sultant, O.W.1., 1942-43; writer-producer, Transatlantic Call, CBS, 1943-
44.

MEMBER OF: American Folk Lore Society; Texas Folk Lore Society; Interna-
tional Folk Music Council; Society of Ethnomusicology; Modern Language
Association.

puBLicaTions: In collaboration with John A. Lomax — American Ballads and
Folk Songs, Negro Folk Songs as Sung by Leadbelly, Cowboy. Songs,
Our Singing Country (Macmillan); Folk Songs U.S.A. (Duell, Sloane and
Pearce); Best Beloved American Ballads (Grosset and Dunlap). Author of;
Mister Jelly Roll, The Rainbow Sign (Duell, Sloane and Pearce); The
Penguin Book of American Folk Songs (Penguin); The Sage of American
Folk Songs (Doubleday-Cassell); Leadbelly (Ludlow Music). Records:
editor, “Folk Music of the U.S.” (five lps.); “American Folk Music” (includ-
ing Burl Ives, Josh White, Cousin Emmy, Lloyd Shaw, etc.) for Decca;
many albums for Folkways, Inc., Leadbelly, Pete Seeger, Burl Ives, etc.;
editor and compiler, “World Library of Folk and Primitive Music,”
Columbia Masterworks, 16 Ips., “Songs and Dances of Spain,” 11 Ips. for

’ Westminster; Ips. of own singing, “Texas Songs,” Tradition Records;
“American Saturday Night,” Kapp Records; “Negro Prison Songs,”
Tradition; “Blues in the Mississippi Night,” United Artists.

IT seems rather pointless for me to write a long biography for the
Harvard Class Report, since I spent only my sophomore year at
Cambridge, and left not altogether too happy with the experience.
But, since the requests have grown frantic and since I have come to a
point in my life when it is interesting to look back, I’ll send this
along for luck.

By the time most of my class was graduating, I had seen two books
on American folk songs through the press in collaboration with my
father, who was a loyal Harvard A.M., and a disciple of Kittredge
and Barrett Wendell. We had by then already made our first
survey of the folk music of the southern prisons, established the

[ 822 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Archive of American Folk Song in the Library of Congress, found
Lead belly and thus done much of the work that is the basis of the
present-day American folk song revival.

My own participation in all this when I was in my teens was the
result of a series of accidents. I was deeply interested in social
science, was deeply impressed by the misery produced by the de-
pression and I wanted to write about the lives of the working class
in the U.S.A. Therefore, when my father invited me to come along
and help him on a folk song recording trip through the South, I
agreed to go, with the mental reservation that I would spend my
time in taking notes for a book. I suspect that what my father,
John Avery Lomax, already well-known for his work in American
folk songs, wanted was a companion, for folk song collecting is a
hard and lonely job, as well as someone to help him lift the record-
ing machine.

But the songs and the singers hit me hard. Every day I met people
who were poor, ignorant, illiterate, oppressed, who yet expressed in
their songs the truth and the passion and the peculiar torment of
their lives more eloquently than the best writers and composers. So
it seemed to me at seventeen and still seems to me today. At any.
rate, the ancient magic of folk song caught me up and my father
found in me a full-time hard-working field collaborator. Our first
trip in the summer of 1933 was so successful and the records we:
made, which were the first good field recordings made in the
U.S.A., produced such a sensation in Washington that my father
made me a full partner in his various books and research projects,
and this partnership continued fruitfully until his death in 1947.
(See list of publications.)

When I graduated at last from the University of Texas in 1936,
with a Phi Beta Kappa degree in philosophy and anthropology, folk
lore again tempted me and I fell. First, I took a six months’ record-
ing tour of Haiti, where I married my Texas sweetheart, Elizabeth
Harold, and we lived and worked together on five dollars a dav,
recording the music of voudou ceremonies, of Mardi gras, of the
work songs. I have never published this material because what I
would have had to say about the conditions of life in Haiti at that
time would have probably caused a diplomatic incident.

On my return, Dr. Putnam, head of the Congressional Library,
put me in charge of the new Archive of Folk Song, and I accepted
the job with the notion that it would take a year or so to put the
place in order. I had no time to think about leavi ing until five

[ 823 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

years later. The archive grew to hold 25,000 recorded items from
all over the western hemisphere — a document of the basic musical
and poetic creations of the people who had carved the American
world out of the wilderness. My own field trips ranged over the
U.S.A. east of the Mississippi and into the West Indies. I came to
know the backwoods and back alleys of America well, and to
have a profound respect for the creativity of all people, since so
much of the best of what I found came from dispossessed, déclassée

and underprivileged folk.

From the beginning half of my job in Washington was in public
relations, in convincing everyone of the value and beauty of
America’s folk song heritage, I did three years of broadcasts on
CBS, introducing Burl Ives, Woody Guthrie, Josh White, Peter
Seeger and others to a national audience. I barnstormed through
universities, learned conventions and parties where congressmen
were to be found, with my records and my guitar. And in recent
vears | have continued broadcasting in the British Isles for BBC.
Now there are hundreds of performers, when there were only a
few of us in those days, and I can leave the job of performing in
public to others, for it never suited me.

What has always most interested me is the search for a theo-
retical approach which would give an intellectual spine to the vast,
fertile, but alw ays confusing field of folk song. For years I tried out
the anthropologist’ s field methods, especially those of the Malinow-
ski school, without achieving much of consequence. It was only
after five years of work with psychoanalysis and a long period of
field work in Spain, Italy and Great Britain that I came on a set of
concepts that begin to bring order into this field. It is this hopeful
new approach that largely preoccupies me now.

It happened this way. After the war, America began to feel stale
to me. American folk songs had become respectable and popular
with Burl Ives and others. I felt there was nothing new for me here.
So I took a commission from Columbia Records to assemble on
forty lps. a condensed picture of the folk music of the world. It
was in many ways a foolhardy undertaking, for eight years later
I have only completed half the assignment — with sixteen records
published and four ready. (I might say, parenthetically, that the
Ip. record is the basic publication in my field, since folk music is
almost impossible to write down accurately in musical notation.)
However, after years of work with the materials in European
archives and of field recording in Great Britain, Spain and Italy,

[ 824 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

where I made fairly complete recording surveys, I hit upon an ap-
proach which makes sense out of this field, at Jeast for me.

Disregarding the melody, the rhythms, the chords, the instru-
ment of folk song as so many tools of the expressive and fantasy-
making drive, this theory looks at the overall pattern of musical
behavior in an area— how the singers behave, their relation to
their audience, how the musical group is organized, how music is
transmitted, what functions it serves, what its emotional content
is, and how all these things are related to the basic social psychology
of the people. Working along these lines I have been able to make
a first rough sketch of the geography of folk song in Europe,
Africa, the Americas and parts of Asia, and to see in dim outlines
the big folk song style families which have shaped the various local
traditions that we know. Some of these families are prehistoric,
all stand, I believe, for deep emotional-aesthetic patterning forces
that have been shaping human life and history for a long time. 1
have now come to the end of this form and the end of my story,
to a point where my old Harvard philosophy tutor, Dr. Demos, is
again looking over my shoulder. I hope he approves.

ALBERT BATES LORD

   

HOME ADDRESS: 23 Francis Ave., Cambridge 38, Mass.

oFFice Appress: Holyoke House 29, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 15, 1912, Boston, Mass, parents: Robert W hiting Lord, Corinne
Adeline Bates.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. #agna cum laude, 1934; AMs 19363
PH.D., 1949.

marriED: Mary Louise Carlson, Aug. 24, 1950, Buffalo, N.Y. cuieprex; Nathan
Eliot, June 9, 1954; Mark Edw ards, Dec. 27, 1955.

[ 825 ]

LL

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

occuPaTion: Professor of Slavic and Comparative Literature, Harvard Uni-
versity.

OFFICES HELD: Junior fellow, Society of Fellows, 1937—40.
MEMBER OF: American Academy of Arts and Sciences, American Philological

Association; Archaeological Institute of America, Modern Language As-

sociation; American Folklore Society; International Comparative Literature
Association; Medieval Academy of America.

PUBLICATIONS: Serbo-Croatian Folk Songs (with Bela Bartok), Columbia Uni-
versity Press, 1951, Serbocroatian Heroic Songs, Vol. I, 1953, Vol. Il,
1954, Harvard University Press and Servian Academy of Sciences, Cam-

bridge, Mass., and Belgrade, Yugoslavia, The Singer of Tales, Harvard
University Press, 1959.

MY undergraduate tutor in the department of classics was as-
sistant professor Milman Parry, and I was infused by him with an
interest in his Homeric research. In the summer of 1934, he went
to Yugoslavia for a period of fifteen months to collect and study
the oral epic songs of the southern Slavs. He was good enough to
allow me to go with him, and my family was kind enough to pay
my way for another year, At Parry’s insistence, I spent the sum-
mer of 1934 in northern (from the Balkan point of view) Europe,
i€., France, Germany, Switzerland and Italy, and then spent the
whole year with Parry in Yugoslavia, except for a month or so of
“vacation” in the spring in Greece, Crete and the islands. This ex-
perience was to shape my professional future, In December of
1935, scarcely three months after our return from the Balkans,
Milman Parry was killed in an accident, and literary scholarship
suffered one of its most serious losses in this century. The invalu-
able collection of phonograph recordings and manuscripts which
Parry had made in Yugoslavia were left unedited and unstudied.
In spite of moments when it seemed otherwise, my life has been
devoted to Parry’s collection and to the work which he had only
begun to do.

My A.M. was in the field of comparative literature with a major
in English, concentrating on the earlier periods and including
Anglo-Saxon and Old Norse, and minors in Greek and Serbo-
croatian, The next year I began to work for my Ph.D. (all this at
Harvard, of course), still in comparative literature, but with my
major in Slavic epic (specifically Serbocroatian) and minors in
Greek and Germanic. In 1937, I had the enormous good fortune
to be elected to the Society of Fellows, and that summer I returned
to Yugoslavia with copies of some of the recordings of the collec-
tion for them to be transcribed by Parry’s own native assistant in

[ 826 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Dubrovnik. In the fall, I spent two months in Albania, collecting

oral epic songs in the northern mountains there. The following

year with Harvard and Foundation help, the native assistant was
brought to Cambridge for a year and a half to complete the tran-
scription of all the Serbocroatian material,

In 1940, my life took an apparently new direction, and I went
to work for the United States Government in a civilian position in
the supply department at the Boston Naval Shipyard. For eight
years I had a vacation from academic life, although I worked
sporadically at preparation of some of the lyric material in the
collection for publication, which ended eventually with the book
with Bartok listed above, In 1948, I returned to Harvard to write
my doctoral thesis and to receive my Ph.D. in 1949. At the meet-
ings of the American Philological Association and of the Archaeo-
logical Institute of America in St. Louis in December, 1948, I met
my future wife, Mary Louise Carlson of Buffalo, New York, in a
taxi going from the railroad station to the convention hotel, and
later that winter we met again at Wellesley, where she was teach-
ing Classics.

The first half of the academic year 1949-1950, I was occupied
with preparing parts of the first volumes of Parry’s collection for
publication, and the second half | spent in part of Yugoslavia col-
lecting new material from the same epic bards from whom Parry
had collected in 1934-35. That year I was lucky enough to have a
grant from the John Simon Guggenheim Foundation. The year 1950
brought the beginning of a wonderful married life and also full-time

teaching at Harvard. In the summer of 1951, Mary and I took a
belated wedding trip in Yugoslavia (of course), collecting more songs
together. That also was the year when the Bartok-Lord book ap-
peared,

Our next milestone was 1952, when I received tenure at Harvard
and the future began to appear financially secure at last, and our
campaign to sponsor a Yugoslav graduate student at Harvard met
with success; passport was granted by authorities on one side and
visa by authorities on the other. (He now has a Harvard Ph.D. and
is teaching at Yale!)

By 1954, which was a banner year, Mary had given up teaching
(she had become assistant professor of general education at Boston
University), Nate was born in June, the first volumes of the Parry
Collection were published, we bought our present house and mov ed,
and I became chairman of the Slavic Department, That Christmas

[ 827 ]

TT me

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

we were practically breathless. The next Christmas: was nip and
tuck too; Mark was born on December 27!

And the year which is now ending, 1958, has been memorab|
for us to say the least. 1 am now a full professor at our university,
to which I am devoted with almost the same wide-eyed wonder as
when I was a freshman. Last summer, we took the whole family
on a three months’ tour of Europe which, in spite of the tender age
of the two boys (two and one-half and four), was a huge success.
I left them in Italy for six weeks while I visited Bulgaria for the
first time and saw friends in Yugoslavia for a few days as well.
And this year has seen the completion of the manuscript, and its
acceptance by the Harvard University Press, of The Singer of Tales,
the beginning of which takes us back to Milman Parry and 1934.

The “children, the house and garden in Cambridge, the Parry Col-
lection, the Slavic peoples and their cultures, especially the Balkan

Slavs — these are our interests and through, within, and all around
them is Harvard Univ ersity.

LINDSLEY LORING, JR.

 

_ HOME appress: Sunbury Farm, R.D. 2, Bristol, Pa.

Born: April 9, 1911, Westwood, Mass. parents: Lindsley Loring, ’94, Charlotte
Blake Cochrane.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: S.B., 19343 LL.B., 1937.
marriep: Alice Tavlor Dunn, Nov. 25, 1947, Bristol, Pa
HARVARD BROTHER: William E. Loring, ’19.

occupation: Attorney, U.S. Army Ordnance District, Philadelphia, Pa.

MEMBER: Massachusetts Bar Association; American Bar Association; Federal
Bar Association.

AFTER graduating from law school in 1937, | worked at a small law

[ 828 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

office for two years, then transferred to Hale and Dorr in 1940,
but was grabbed by Uncle Sam in March of 1941 and trained at
Camp Edwards in the infantry. I went overseas in January, 1941,
to New Caledonia, where [ was stationed for over two years —
luckily, I was able to get a commission there. I returned to the
United States and, after attending Quartermaster School at Fort
Lee, Virginia, and Staff College at Leavenworth, Kansas, sat out
the rest of the war in Washington, computing requirements for
cold weather clothing and equipment.

In 1945 I returned to Hale and Dorr but moved to Bristol, Penn-
sylvania, in 1947, where I married. I was engaged in farming full
time until the start of the Korean War when I started working for
the government, first with the Office of Price Stabilization and,
later, with the Army Ordnance as an attorney specializing in prob-
lems in connection with research and development contracts.

We still keep the farm in operation by sticking to grain crops
and eliminating livestock (except for twelve geese), but the area
of lower Bucks County has changed greatly y in the past ten years,
occasioned principally by the Fairless Steel Works at Morrisville
and the building of Levittown, Pennsylvania.

We live in a rambling house with an assortment of dogs and a
cross-eyed cat. We enjoy traveling and have driven to Afexico and,
this past summer, to the West Coast via Banff. 1

EDWARD FRANCIS LOUGHLIN, JR.

 

HOME appress: 15 Central St., West Concord, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Swift & Co., 165 Gore St., East Cambridge, Mass.. A. C. Law-
rence Leather Co., Sawyer Street, Peabody, Mass.

[ 829 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

BORN: Jan. 9, 1912, Concord, Mass. parents: Edward Francis Loughlin 00
Lillian A. Sweeney. . uu

preparen AT: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MarRIED: Marion C. Novick, May 25, 1940, Maynard, Mass. cuitp: Sally Ann,
Jan. 6, 1942.

occupation: Traffic manager. .
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Concord; Harvard Varsity Club; Concord
Council, Knights of Columbus, Help of Christians Holy Name Society,
IN 1925, at the age of thirteen, I was fortunate enough to attend the
Twenty-fifth Reunion of my dad’s class and little did I realize that
I too would be celebrating my own, although scarcely as peppy
and energetic as that same thirteen-year-old.
With the exception of the two years spent at Williston Academy
in Easthampton, Massachusetts, and the four wonderful years at

Cambridge, I have resided in historic Concord and still consider
it a fine town.

Since our glorious baseball tour of the “Paradise Islands” and to
the Island of Honshu, I have been employed at various jobs (not
positions) as a junior underwriter, insurance investigator, expediter
in a machine and tool company and for the past seventeen years
in the industrial traffic field. My present position is traffic manager
of the A. C. Lawrence Leather Company and I am assistant to the
traffic manager of Swift New England interests.

I have been married to a wonderful wife for nearly nineteen years
and have one teen-age daughter, Sally Ann, who, thank goodness,
gets her looks from her mother.

Following in my dad’s footsteps but never filling his shoes, my
first love in sports has been baseball and after playing semi-pro
ball with local teams, I retired my glove and spikes in 1952, The
spirit was willing but the flesh was weak. As true as is the saying,
“Men don’t make passes at girls who wear glasses,” is “Men wearing
bifocals better give up baseball.” After my retirement from active
participation I started managing and coaching “Little League” clubs
and more recently have joined the “hackers and duffers” on the local

golf course.

Unfortunately, my dad passed away last June and I lost a wonder-
ful dad and Harvard lost one of its greatest rooters, both academically
and athletically.

Although not active in politics, I adhere to the principles of the
Democratic Party and I attend church regularly as a member of
the Roman Catholic faith. My interests are varied but secretly |

[830]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have loved the ocean since a little boy and would love to live near
the seashore and own a small but sturdy boat for excursions along
the New England coast.

Although some grey hairs have made their appearance and my
daughter says that there is a slight thinning on the top, I must
admit that God has been good to me. While my appearance is not
youthful, yet 1 still wear the same size suits that I wore while at-

tending college. I am looking forward to the Reunion.

LYCURGUS ANAST LOUMOS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 51 Beaumont Ave., Newtonville 60, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Lee Loumos, Inc., 1347 Washington St., West Newton 65,
Mass.

BORN: Aug. 14, 1913, Belmont, Mass. parents: Anastasios V. Loumos, Georgia
Verres.

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

marriep: Ellie Martha Nicas-Sphaellos, Sept. 19, 1944, New York, N.Y. cun-
pren: Gregory Lee, Sept. 10, 1946; Stephen Philip, April 15, 1948; Michael
Lycurgus, Sept. 5, 1950.

OCCUPATION: President and treasurer, Lee Loumos, Inc., sales and service of
electronic products; president, Super-Coils, Inc., for the manufacture and
development of coils for the electronic industry.

MEMBER OF: A typical variety of social clubs, business organizations and
fraternal orders, in a variety of capacities.

EVER since receiving the Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report form,
I have wondered how I could possibly compress twenty-five years
of what I like to consider the Odyssey of a modern day Ulysses
into a page or so of pure nectar and ambrosia. Should I regale you
with stories of fighting man-eating sharks, of rescuing ship-w recked

[ 831 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

GORDON WILLIAM LOVE

 

_ HOME ApprEss: 962 Abbey Rd., Birmingham, Mich.
OFFICE ADDRESS: R.O.\V, Sales Co., 1365 Academy Ave., Ferndale 20, Mich.

Bors: July 9, 1912, Grand Rapids, Mich. parenrs: Alfred D. Love, Ruth Nora
Blow.

PREPARED AT: Grand Rapids Central High School, Grand Rapids, Mich.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931, 1932-1933. DEGREE: a.B. (Univ. of Michigan), 1934.
MarRieD: Jane L, Macfarlane, October, 1935, Grand Rapids, Mich. (divorced
1948); Mildred Wilie Waring, Dec. 31, 1951, Austin, Texas. CHILDREN:
Susan Lavern, July 1, 1943, Gordon William, Jr., Nov. 5, 1944; Mildred
N., Nov. 4, 1952; Richard A. Oct. 26, 1954 (died May 26, 1955); Hal B.
Armstrong, 3d, Oct. 30, 1947 (stepson); Theodore W. Armstrong, June
1, 1949 (stepson).
occupation: President and general manager, R.O.W. Sales Company.
MEMBER OF: Orchard Lake Country Club; University Club of Detroit; Harvard
Club of Eastern Michigan; Moslem Temple; Detroit Commandery No. 1.

UNFORTUNATELY, we all got out in 1934. Can we ever forget
that and the preceding years? After a period of finding myself,
in which I worked for the Federal Rehabilitation Department for
Physically Handicapped, did bookkeeping for Standard Oil Com-
pany of Indiana and Northern Hardwood Lumber Sales and Manu-
facturer and, finally, the Finance Division of the famous W.P.A.
organization, I landed in the wholesale millwork business, including
sash, doors, mouldings, etc., in September of 1938. We saw the
birth of the fabricated window unit business in Detroit about this
ime and our company got started in 1939 and 1940 for the purpose

of spreading this idea across the country,

We were nicely started when a war came along and in June of
942 yours truly was a lieutenant (j.g.) in the Navy and saw the
vorld from shore duty. One and a half years in Norfolk, Virginia,
t the training station for DE and Destroyer crews. And then one

[ 834 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and a half years at Manus, in the Admuiralties in the South Pacific,
finally getting mustered out at Church Street in New York City,
after working at Madison Avenue in New York, trying to figure
ways for getting rid of overseas surplus. As usual, my belief is ‘that
most of this problem was again solved by the famous C.B.’s with
their bulldozers. After the war we started our business up again
and it grew to the top through many circumstances by 1951. Our
company owns patents and R.O.W. Trade Marks on removable
type of double-hung window construction. We franchise manu-
facturers for R.O.W. windows — removable, awning, glider and
casement — throughout U.S. and Canada. We are still doing a great
job but competition has held us down to second place In recognition
nationally.

There were changes in my personal life but Jane has Susan and
Red and lives in Atlanta, Georgia. My present wife “Sitty” had
two little boys when we were married ‘and we have since had two
children. When someone asks “How many children do you have?”
they are apt to receive a confusing answer. A definition of “Luck”
which I have lived by is “Preparedness meeting Opportunity.”
Thanks to Harvard I have been prepared for the opportunities.

WARREN BROKING LOVEJOY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 212 N. Afountain Ave, Montclair, N.J.

OFFICE AppREss: Port of New York Authority, tu Fighth Ave, New York,
N.Y.

BORN: July 21, 1912, Chicago, Hl parents: Frederick Warren Lovejoy, ‘ot,
Emma Louise Broking.

PREPARED AT: Bronxville High School, Bronxville, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1934, DEGREES: AWB, 1934) MBA, (New York Unies,
19$5-

[ 835 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934:

mMarriep: Jean Caldwell, June 26, 1948, Bronxville, N.Y. (died November 13,
1956). CHILDREN: Jeffrey Warren, May 26, 1951; Holly Caldwell, Dec. 2,

1953-
HARVARD BROTHER: John Marshall Lovejoy, °37.

OCCUPATION: Transportation economist, concerned with planning for the
future transportation needs of the Port of New York.

OFFICES HELD: Various offices, Montclair (N.J.) Community Chest.

MEMBER OF: American Economic Association, American Statistical Association;
Travel Research Association, Highway Research Board; Bradford Bath

and Tennis Club; American Marketing Association.

DURING the period from graduation to 1942, my business career
—if such it could be called at that time— was divided fairl
evenly ‘between the banking ng, music publishing and retailing fields.
During those years I devoted probably too much time to my extra-
curricular activities in music, dramatics and tennis, but they seemed
important to me at the time.

My World War II experience was centered around the airplane
and | finally wound up flying transport planes over the Hump be-
tween an unlovely place called Dinjan in India and Kunming and
Chungking in China. After the war I stayed in China for a year and
one-half, fly’ ing all over the Orient for China National Aviation
Corporation until gathering red clouds over there made me decide
to return to the States.

In June of 1948, 1 was married and for the next eight years had
a full and happy home life which was further enriched in 1951 by
the arrival of a son and in 1953, a daughter. In November, 1956,
however, my wife passed on rather suddenly. We have managed
to keep things going since, largely through the presence of my
mother and father-in-law who came to live with me and are help-
ing to bring up the children. My son Jeff is now in second grade
and my daughter Holly is in kindergarten.

Career-w ise, I have settled down i in the Port of New York Au-
thority to very stimulating and satisfying work as an economist in
the field of transportation planning. I now head up a group of
economists and analysts responsible for determining the future
demands for transportation facilities of all kinds in the New York-
New Jersey—Metropolitan area, particularly in the field of inter-
state and overseas transportation which is the responsibility of the
Port Authority.

It’s a little too early to tell whether I have a future member of
Harvard ’73 or Radcliffe 75 in the family. Although Harvard is
now a sort of tradition in our family, I've made a firm resolution

[ 836 ]

‘ach hala ashi Abell lilies lt

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

not to influence unduly the children’s selection of college. Time
will tell whether I’m able to live up to this resolve.

SETH H. LOW

  

HOME ApbREss: Route 2, Gaithersburg, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Patuxent Research Refuge, U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service,
Laurel, Md.

BORN: May 31,
Prescott.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MarRieD: Ann Marie Reibe, Aug. 21, 1937, Minot, N.Dak. cHitpren: Seth
Thomson, Oct. 30, 1941; Margaret Lucille, Feb. 27, 1943.

occupation: Wildlife research biologist.

OFFICES HELD: President, Baltimore Club-Maryland Ornithological Society,
1950-52, Eastern Bird-Banding Association, since 1938; member, board
of governors, Montgomery County Planning Association, since 1955, Rock
Creek Watershed Association, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: American Ornithologists’ Union; Wilson Ornithological Society;
Cooper Ornithological Club, The Wildlife Society; The Wilderness
Society; Nature Conservancy National Park Association.

i911, Quincy, Mass. parents: Russell Cutler Low, Alice K.

ON graduating I worked at the Austin Ornithological Research
Station on Cape Cod. This experience, a degree in biology, and a
Civil Service exam led to a job with the F ish and Wildlife Service
(formerly the Biological Survey) of the U.S. Department of the
Interior.

From February 1, 1936, through 1947, I was a refuge manager.
Until 1941 we were stationed at Kenmare, North Dakota, in charge
of the development and administration of two wildlife refuges, Des
Lacs and Lostwood. In March, 1941, a similar assignment took us
to the Salt Plains Refuge near Cherokee, Oklahoma, The latrer

[ 837 ]

(oT UREN
" " - ra aN

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ROBERT LAWRENCE LOWE

   

sad
ioMeE apprEss: 215 Meade Ave., Fort Leavenworth, Kans.

IKFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Nuclear Weapons, USA CGSC, Fort Leavenworth,
Kans,

orN: Sept. 3, 1911, Arlington, Mass. PARENTS: George Henry Lowe, Mary
Rockett.

2EPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

ZARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

AkRiED: Kathryn Russell Murphy, Oct. 12, 1939, Winchester, Mass. cHILpREn:
Robert Brewster, Jan. 23, 1942; Martha Russell, Dec. 13, 1944.

cupation; Lieutenant colonel, U.S. Army.

“TER many varied unsuccessful attempts to find the kind of em-
vent Ww hich would offer enough interest and challenge, and
Ficient present and future financial return to sustain life in a man-

- to be attractive, I settled down in 1939 for what I thought would

a life’s work with the New England Telephone and Telegraph
pany, Kathry n and I were married in October of that year and
moved into a comfortable home in Winchester. A year later,
cle Sam called me to active duty “for one year” as a first lieutenant
‘icld Artillery and our first w edding anniversary saw me en route
ort Sill, Oklahoma, to take a battery officer’s course. The year
tched to several, and I eventually returned to civilian life and to
her Bell in December of 1945, having acquired, meanwhile, a
Bob, born at Fort Bragg in 1942, and one daughter, Martha, born
aston in 1944 while I was in Germany. By now we had acquired
ndness for army life, so when a regular army commission was
ed me in July, 1947, we decided to return to the service.

my life has been good to me and good for me. Kay, Bob and
ha have enj joyed pleasant tours with me in Japan and Germany,
‘Il as three grand years in Florida where I was on ROTC duty

[ 840 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

at the University of Florida. Since our return from Germany last
March, we have been at Fort Leavenworth where I am assigned to
the U.S. Army Command and General Staff College, as an instructor
in the Department of Nuclear Weapons. We are looking forward to
a return to Cambridge this June. .

FREDERICK PARSONS LOWREY

 

HOME apprEss: 2030 Kakela Drive, Honolulu, Hawaii.

OFFICE AppREssS: Lewers & Cooke, Ltd., 404 Piikoi Pkwy., Honolulu, Hawaii.

BORN: Nov. 11, 1911, Honolulu, Hawaii. parents: Frederick Dwight Lowrey,
’08, Leila Parsons.

PREPARED AT: Punahou School, Honolulu, Hawaii; Phillips Academy, Andover,
Mass. ~ "

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1934.

MaRRIED: Janet Meyer, Sept. 4, 1937, Plymouth, Mass. cxipreN: Helen, July
14, 1938; Frederick M., Nov. 1, 1939; Anne H,, Feb. 3, 1942; Barbara,
Sept. 27, 1945; Janet W., April 8, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Jewett Lowrey, '35, M.D., ’40.

occupation: President, Lewers & Cooke, Ltd., lumber, building materials,
general hardware and plumbing. —

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Hawaiian Board of Congregational Churches; member,
Distribution Committee, McInerny Foundation; member, board of gover-
nors, Hawaii Employers Council, director, Home Insurance Company,
Lewers & Cooke, Ltd., Honolulu Wood Treating Company, Lewco, Ltd.

MEMBER OF: Central Union Church; Honolulu Rotary Club; Outrigger Canoe
Club; Waikiki Yacht Club; Kaneohe Yacht Club; Honolulu Chamber of

Commerce.

RETURNED home to Honolulu, immediately after college. After
a year of work, decided an M.B.A. might be important, so returned
to Cambridge to Business School, where, in 1937, I acquired a wife,

[ 841 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

but no M.B.A. Time has proved the wife to be much more important

than an M.B.A. .

In the fall of 1937, Janet and I spent seven weeks leisurely driving
west across the country, on what turned out to be our only long
trip for nine years. Four children arrived in fairly rapid succession,
during that period. Our fifth came along six years later. Janet took
them all back east to visit her family, in 46, 48, ’51 and ’54, spend-
ing the summer at Plymouth, Massachusetts. I was fortunate to get
back for a couple of weeks each time. In June and July of 1957, we
had a wonderful five weeks in Jackson Hole, near Moose, Wyoming.

In the area of community activities, ] was head of my Republican
precinct club for a couple of terms; and we continue to try to
help elect the best Republican candidates to office. Among other
jobs, I served as treasurer and director of the Honolulu YMCA,
and director of the Junior Chamber of Commerce, for several years.
Worked one five-year term on the Honolulu Planning Commission,
trying to help complete a Master Plan for this booming city. Would
have liked to continue this and other community activities; however,
since 1947, my doctor has advised cutting down. I continue to serve
as trustee of the Hawaiian Board of Congregational Churches and
member of the Distribution Committee for the McInerny Founda-
tion, Our responsibility in the latter job is to try intelligently to
give away about $250,000 a year, specifically to local community

needs,

Four years ago, I was elected president of Lewers & Cooke, where
I began work in 1934. We help to build Hawaii, by servicing her
builders with many needed construction supplies. Materials come
from 500 suppliers; 700 stockholders supply funds to create jobs
for yoo L&C people who service the needs of several thousand
builder customers. Balancing the interests of these four groups of
people keeps me pretty busy, most of the time.

Last summer (’58), we had all five young people at home — Helen
(twenty) had graduated from Bradford Junior College in Massa-
chusetts, and Fred (eighteen) from prep school in Seattle. It was
a wonderful summer for all—such comings and goings, morning,
noon and night. This year, Helen is a junior at Mills in Berkeley,
California, and Fred a freshman at Claremont Men’s College, just east
of Los Angeles. After visiting Claremont last spring, I wonder how
I ever was able to spend seven long, cold winters in New England.

At home in Honolulu, we still have three younger daughters
whose many activities keep Janet and me busy and happy. Did a

[ 842 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

little sailing for several years, but gave this up for a beach place
at Makaha, forty miles west of Honolulu. Weekends generally
find us there “do-it-yourselfing” projects and just taking it easy.

It seems almost impossible to believe twenty-five years have
gone by since June, 1934, when we loaded the car in front of Eliot
House to drive west.

ROBERT RICHARDSON LUCAS

 

HOME ApbRESS: 445 Maple Lane, Sewickley, Pa.

OFFICE AbprEss: Pittsburgh Coke & Chemical Co., Grant Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pa.

BoRN: Aug. 9, 1912, Columbus, Ohio. parents: George Robert Lucas, Alice
Russell Richardson.

PREPARED AT: Columbus Academy, Columbus, Ohio; St. George’s School, New-
port, R.L

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934; LL.B. (Cleveland Law School),
1938.

margikp: Ann Wiser Brown, Nov. 28, 1950, Cleveland, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Robert Richardson, Jr., April 10, 1952; Peter Brown, March 23, 1954;
Julie Wiser, April 27, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHER: WV. Baker Lucas, ’39.

occupation: Manufacturing; assistant controller, responsible for control and
accounting functions of moderately large, diversified manufacturing com-
pany.

OFFICES HELD: Various positions in professional, business and charitable organ-
izations; none in political parties or fraternal orders.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Certified Public Accountants; Ohio Bar
Association; Controllers Institute; American Meteorological Institute;
various social clubs in Cleveland and Pittsburgh.

FROM late 1934 until early 1942, and from late 1946 until early
1955, I lived in Cleveland, Ohio. After three years as a bank clerk,
I was assistant secretary of the electric utility serving Cleveland

[ 843 J

7 RR ATEN

oOo

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

for four years. I attended night law school for four years and
was admitted to the Ohio bar in August, 1938. Although I’ve never
engaged in law practice, I have used my limited legal knowledge
in business, the Air Corps, and in other ways.

In the Air Corps from 1942 to 1946, I was successively a Link
Trainer instructor, a weather officer and, for two years in to45
to 1946, termination contracting officer assigned to General Motors,
With the exception of ten months studying meteorology at the
University of Chicago, I found my service experience quite inter-
esting and worthwhile, to me at least, and I hope to the government
also.

From 1946 to 1955, I held various administrative and executive
positions in a major Cleveland manufacturing company, which for
a time was expanding from automotive into electronic business.
My work was related to organization and reorganization of ac-
counting, control and, to limited extent, production activities.

Since early 1955, I have been helping a Pittsburgh manufacturer
of a varied product line reorganize its control and accounting de-
partments, evaluate its product lines and expand into new fields.

In late 1950, 1 was married in the midst of the big snow of that
year. My wife is about ten years my junior. We have two boys,
aged seven and five, and one girl, aged three. We live in an old,
comfortably large house in Sewickley and find this community as
friendly and pleasant a place to live as we did Shaker and Cleveland
Heights.

In athletics, 1 still manage to play tennis all summer and squash
all winter, with swimming and a little golf in the summer. For
vacations, the entire family usually goes up to the Thousand Is-
lands for a week or two in the summer, and some winters my wife
and I manage to get away for a week or two in the sun of the
West Indies, Georgia or Florida. We particularly enjoy an active
(athletically) place with an unusual culture.

As for hobbies, the care and entertainment of three small chil-
dren obviously is most important and time consuming, as most of
you learned some years ago. This, plus athletics, refurbishing an
old house, caring for lawns and gardens (both too large), some
do-it-yourself projects, reading in professional publications, some
political “science,” economics, etc., some charitable work, plus a
pleasant social life — all combine to make the non-work hours pass
all too quickly.

As for “social, political and religious convictions,” I shall say

[ 844 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

only that I am a monogamist, an independent (with Democratic
leanings most years) and an Episcopalian.

The above, I am sure, will sound rather dull, especially in com-
parison with the experiences of those of you who have engaged in
the more glamorous professions and activities with world travel,
etc. A certain amount of diversification of business and Army Air
Corps experience, acquisition of a “smattering of ignorance” of
mathematics, physics, meteorology, law, economics, finance and
accounting, production and control, have tended to provide more
intellectual stimulation than exciting deeds. I look forward to
reading of the latter from some of the more adventuresome of you
in the Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report.

FUGENE ADAMS LUENING

HOME ADDRESS: 4443 Sequoia Rd., Memphis 17, Tenn.

OFFICE appress: First Unitarian Church, 1208 Vance, Memphis 4, Tenn.

BORN: July 25, 1912, Chicago, Ill. parents: Eugene George Luening, Margery
Florence Adams.

PREPARED AT: duPont Manual Training High School, Louisville, Ky.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931. DEGREES: A.B, (Univ. of Chicago), 1940; B.p.
(Meadville Theological School), 1943.

MarrieD: Ruth Gertrude Buffum, March 15, 1941, Cambridge, Mass.

OccuPATION: Unitarian Minister.

I HAVE, of course, been on the Class of 1934 mailing list and the
Harvard Fund list for twenty-five years; but even though I re-
member my one year at Harvard, plus odd courses later on, as
vividly as any other year in my life, I regard myself as a University
of Chicago alumnus primarily. I am glad to keep informed about
Harvard, for it is the best university, after all—and I have con-
tributed slightly to it on occasion.

[ 845 ]

OES RY HE Ete. es ge EN

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

DOMINGO ENRIQUE LUINA

 

ADDRESS: 13 Betances St., Bayramon, Puerto Rico.

BorN: July 15, 1910, Bayamon, Puerto Rico. PARENTS: Domingo Luiha, Fernan-
da Jimenez,

PREPARED AT: San Juan Central High School, San Juan, Puerto Rico.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

NO questionnaire returned.

RICHARD ANDREW LUMSDEN

 

HOME abpress: P.O. Box 134, Buck Hill Falls, Pa.
OFFICE ADpRESS: The Inn at Buck Hill Falls — The Buck Hill Falls Co., Buck
Hill Falls, Pa.

BoRN: Aug. 24, 1912, Somerville, Mass. parents: Alexander Lumsden, Beatrice
Rae Jones.

PREPARED AT: Moses Brown School, Providence, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.

MarRIED: Frances A. Mills, Oct. 9, 1933, Manchester, N.H. (divorced 1951);
Jean J. Vincent, Nov. 2, 1951, Philadelphia, Pa, cuipren: Carole Ann,

[ 846 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Sept. 12, 1934; Richard Andrew, Jr., July 15, 1936; Lynn Kimberly, Jan.
4, 1953; Diane Leigh, Dec. 25, 1954.
occupation: Manager, Food Departments, The Inn at Buck Hill Falls.
OFFIcES HELD: Director, Massachusetts Casualty Insurance Company, Boston.
MEMBER OF: Masons; Shrine.

HAVING spent several summers in hotel work in Bermuda before
graduation, a career in this field followed quite naturally. For ap-
proximately eighteen years, I was associated with the Parker House
and other related hotels in Boston. I left the vice-presidency of
these organizations in 1951 when I resigned to get away from the
city hotel rat race and to rest my weary ulcer. During the war
years, I served as consultant to the Secretary of War, for the pur-
pose of assisting in the Food Service Program. After leaving the
city life of Boston, I changed to the country way of living by
moving to Buck Hill Falls, Pennsylvania, where I am currently in
charge of the various food operations at the Inn.

My two oldest children are both out of college. This fact makes
me feel quite ancient at times. However, in the switching process
from New England to the Pocono Mountains, I gained a lovely,
tolerant bride, a dream home and, in due course, two living dolls
— ages now four and six—a combination which greatly counter-
acts this feeling.

THEODORE ARTHUR LUPIEN

     

e ‘ t
ha
HOME ADDRESS: 1909 Maxwell Ave., Dundalk, Md.

OFFICE AppREss: Temper Rolling Mills Strip Division, Bethlehem Steel Corp.,
Sparrows Point, Md.

BORN: June 13, 1912, Chelmsford, Mass. Parents: Ulysses John Lupien, Eugenie
Gosselin.

PREPARED AT: Manchester High School, Manchester, Conn.

[ 847 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGRFE: S.B. IN MECH. ENGIN., 1934.

marrieD: Mary Lucille Bryant, Dec. 3, 1937, Baltimore, Md. cHiLpren: Theodore
Arthur, Jr., Sept. 14, 1940; Hugh B, Jan. 4, 1943; Ulysses G., July 3,
1948.

occupaTioN: Manufacturing, general foreman, Temper Rolling Mills Strip pj.
vision, Bethlehem Steel Corporation.

AFTER graduation I joined Bethlehem Steel Corporation in their
“Loop” course. This included a general tour of the Bethlehem
home plant in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, and an indoctrination period
in the various departments at the Sparrows Point, Maryland, plant.
I spent six and a half interesting years here, during which I found
a very fine wife and our first boy was born.

I then followed a desire which I had always had, to operate a
farm in Chelmsford, Massachusetts. I spent nine enjoyable years
there. We also had two fine boys added to our family.

Since 1950 I have been relocated at Sparrows Point, in the same
type of work that I had been in previously. As those of you who are
in manufacturing know, between production, quality, labor rela-
tions and customer service, plus the fire of hungry competition
breathing down one’s neck, there is never a dull moment.

My wife is a graduate of Johns Hopkins University, 1954. She
had previously had a teacher’s certificate from Frostburg Teachers
College, 1931. She is a teacher in the William S. Baer School for
the Handicapped. Her work is in the Cerebral Palsy Department.
Between this and taking graduate studies at Johns Hopkins, she has
a very full program, 7

As in the past Report, our hobbies center mainly around our boys.
The two eldest have acquired a great interest in competitive swim-
ming as a year-round sport. In the winter they swim for the Balt-
more Polytechnic High School. During the balance of the year
they swim for the Knights of Columbus and compete in Norfolk,
Virginia, Washington, D.C., Baltimore and Philadelphia. We have
enjoyed this program and its leaves very few spare moments. Our
youngest son, Ulysses, has shown tremendous improvement with
his cerebral palsy, and has developed into a very fine fellow. He ts
the inspiration of many of our activities.

The above, together with an occasional hand of bridge, a mem-
bership in our country club and some YMCA youth work, com-
plete our program.

As seems to be the trend at this stage, the gray is creeping into

; yes ; 5
my hair. The hairline is also creeping backwards, and it is a ques-

[ 848 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tion as to which of these will win out. I weigh the same as in 1934
and generally feel fine.

I wish to thank all of you who have given so generously of your
time in keeping our class organization.

+ WILLIAM DOUGLAS McADAMS, JR.

 

BORN: Sept. 4, 1912, St. Louis, Mo. parents: William Douglas McAdams,
Marguerite Bowman.

PREPARED AT: New Trier Township High School, Winnetka, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MarRiIED: Melanie A. Gardner, 1953. CHILDREN: Susan A., Aug. 13, 1944 (by
previous marriage); two stepchildren.

DIED: Oct. 27, 1957, La Mesa, Calif.

WILLIAM DOUGLAS McADAMS, JR., was a member of the
freshman boxing team, After college he was associated with the
Pure Oil Company. During the war he served in the Navy as an
officer aboard mine-sweepers. In 1946 he became systems and pro-
cedures supervisor with Convair, a major airframe manufacturer,
and at the time of our Twentieth Anniversary Report he was
management engineer for that company.

[ 849 J

NE et ec MER MINRR ERE eB

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

FRANCIS WILD MacBARRON

 

JOME ApprEss: 26 Old Hill Farms Rd., Westport, Conn.

PFICE ADDRESS: Burdick-Rowland Associates, 104 E. goth St., New York 16, NY,

orn: June 16, 1912, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Francis Joseph MacBarron, Caroline
Martin Wild.

2EPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1034.

ArkiED: Elinor Jane Ingraham, May 29, 1943, Bristol, Conn. CHILDREN: Jane
Ingraham, Feb. 24, 1946, Sally Wild, May 29, 1947; Richard Kempe,
Aug. 16, 1950.

SUPATION: Vice-president, Burdick-Rowland Associates, exhibit designers,
specializing in brokerage-industry educational program.

ICES HELD: Vice-president, 1940-42, 1946-48, Business Associates Club of
Boston Chamber of Commerce; member, Representative Town Meeting,

Westport, Conn., 1957.

MBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

the fall of 1934, I was lucky and found a job with S. S. Pierce
Boston. There I stayed till I got the chance in ’37 to join
erican Airlines. People then were not too sure about the busi-
of flying and I had a very fine five years trying to coerce re-
ant earthmen of all kinds into boarding our planes. Beek Fair-
< and [ alternated (with now and then an assist) in covering an
some number of Massachusetts, Maine, New Hampshire and
nont schools, colleges, clubs, fraternal lodges, etc. With the
of a talking movie, we dwelt lovingly on the romance of the
blue. When the sound track at last wore out, we had long
learned the script and carried on faithfully.
‘er four years with Uncle Sam, I returned to American Air-
in °46, and stayed in Boston until ’48, when I was moved into
neral office in New York City.

955, I joined the newly-formed Burdick-Rowland Associates.
[ 850 |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

They had just completed an exhibit gallery for the New York Stock
Exchange and were starting to place exhibits of many companies
in brokerage windows across the country. I was intrigued then,
as now, with the idea of helping to spread the word about what is
called “people’s capitalism.” My work takes me on frequent trips
— I know I do more traveling now than when I was with American
— but my wife and I concede that the buyer of my wares wants to
be wooed in his home town. And it’s nice to eat.

My naval stint started early in 1942, when I was put on a cadet-
pilot recruiting board in Boston. It was not for me and after some
maneuvering I got assigned in January of 1943 to a light carrier
being built in Camden. We put the Cowpens in commission in May
and took off much too soon afterwards, for the Caribbean and then
the Pacific. As part of the Third and Fifth Fleets, we saw a lot of
the Pacific and a lot of interesting action. Back to the States, not
quite two years later, and finished my time out in Jacksonville.

Early in my married life, I made it clear that I considered my
bride someone very special, Our wedding date was set for May
29, 1943. The Cowpens commissioning date was unexpectedly set
for the same day. I kept my wedding date, which left many of my
shipmates stunned. I am a fortunate man: my wife and I have had
a wonderful life together. We have two daughters and a son —
all three of whom have minds of their own and wills of iron. Since
neither of their parents is exactly a pushover, we sometimes strain
at the seams. It shouldn’t be otherwise. At 46, I am the father of
children aged twelve, eleven and eight, with whom I fish, ride bikes,
fly kites, etc. I love it,

Since 1934, I have given my services to many civic undertakings.
I'll omit any recital of same because most of us have done likewise.
I shall say that I am glad to have been able to do it.

Our home is in Westport, Connecticut, which we thoroughly
like. Despite the supposed world around us, about which so many
authors have written so frequently, we lead a pleasant, quiet life.
We enjoy our friends and spend many a Saturday night trying to
see who can bluff whom over a green-clad table.

I haven’t swung a golf club in years; my wife manages to play
infrequently. Neither of us has been on skis since ’47. Our hobbies
are not formal — we do what the seasons permit. Come spring and
summer, we garden — my wife, strawberrics and tomatoes, and I,
flowers. ‘We are grateful for what crops we get, after our children
have chased countless butterflies over and retrieved many balls from

[ 851 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

the beds. Plus that, we cannot convince our stubborn dachshund
that the beds are not for burying bones, nor should they be the
locale of merry romps.

In writing this, I have found it difficult to realize that more than
twenty-four years have passed since spring of 1934. In a nutshell;
we've had our ups and downs and are prepared to take what the

future brings, All things considered, we both know that we are
most fortunate people.

ROBERT ADAMS McBURNEY

 

HOME ADDRESS; 127 Nahma Ave., Clawson, Mich.

OFFICE Appress; Briggs Manufacturing Co., 6600 E. 15 Mile Rd., Warren, Mich.

BORN: Sept. 23, 1910, Wilkinsburg, Pa. parents: Frank Smith McBurney, Ada
J. Adams,

PREPARED AT: Wilkinsburg High School, Wilkinsburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.

MarRieD: Anne Baumgarth, Aug. 31, 1940, Detroit, Mich. (divorced 1953)3
Esther O, Erwin, Sept. 23, 1955, Detroit, Mich. cHILDREN: Kathleen Anne,
Oct. 20, 1943; Terrance Alan, Nov. 16, 1944; Brian Adams, May 13, 1957-

occupaTION: Cost accountant, Briggs Manufacturing Company, manufacturers
of a complete line of plumbing-ware.

OFFICES HELD: Financial secretary, 1949-51, steward, Official Board, 1949-51,
adviser, Explorer Scouts, 1950-51, Epworth M. E. Church, Detroit, Michi-
gan; president, Health Council, River Rouge, Michigan, 1950-51.

MEMBER OF: Trelum Lodge No. 552, F. & A.M., Clawson, Mich.; Pillar Chapter
No. 181, R.A.M,, Detroit.

HAVING been reared in a family of rock-ribbed Republicans, I
could never feel any justification for the claim by the Democrats
that Herbert Hoover was responsible for the depression of the
thirties, which ended my college career at Harvard, after only one

[ 852 |

TT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

year’s attendance. In 1932, the family moved from Pittsburgh to
Detroit, where I gained employment with the Briggs Manufacturing
Company, a company with which I am still associated. In the late
thirties, I took courses in accountancy and related subjects, which
proved helpful in gaining my present position as cost accountant,
compiling information for profit and loss statements.

In summer, my wife and I enjoy working in the yard and garden,
with time occasionally for a little tennis or badminton. In winter,
it is curling up in a comfortable chair with a good book, if there
is no snow to be shoveled. We enjoy life in our suburb, north of
Detroit, especially with our young son growing and providing much
hope and inspiration for the future.

Hope to see you at the Reunion.

LYMAN AUSTIN SPALDING McCABE

 

HOME appreEss: P.O, Box 272, Salisbury, Conn.

OFFICE apprEss: The Adjutant General’s Office, 112 State St., Albany, N.Y.

BORN: May 22, 1911, White Plains, N.Y. parents: Ambrose Farrell McCabe,
Pauline Crosby Wells. ,

PREPARED AT: The Gunnery School, Washington, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934.

MarrieD: Elsie Linde Meyer, Oct. 21, 1941, Brooklyn, N.Y. crmpren: Lyman
Austin Spalding, Jr., Feb. 20, 1943; Linde Pauline, April 27, 1947.

occuPATION: Lawyer; fiscal accountant with the New York State Division of
Military Affairs.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Town of Salisbury Veterans Welfare Committee; Boy
Scout leader; member, Alumni Council, The Gunnery School, Washington,
Conn.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Connecticut; Reserve Officers Association,
Albany Chapter.

I CANNOT quite think of the name of the job I held with a New
[ 853 ]

i

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

York City publisher; perhaps it had none. But before long, |
gravitated to the Albany Law School. This ripened into my be-
coming a member of the New York bar, though only after pro-
longed periods of eventful clerkship, chief of which was an extended

stay with John and Barbara Lockwood on Long Island.

Along in 1941 our marriage took place, and I forsook that

“home away from home,” the Harvard Club of New York City,

for domesticity. Alas, within two months Pearl Harbor shattered

our carefree dream and, by spring, I was in the Army. In 1943, a

bold artillery lieutenant, | landed some six thousand miles from {

the United States in New Caledonia only to find that Fuzzy Loring
had already taken the island and entrenched himself in the famed

Hotel du Pacific Officers Club with Bill Emmons, ’36, as his Navy

aide. I gratefully recall that my lengthy stay in the Pacific and :
Philippines was immeasurably lightened by an occasional rendezvous \
with Harvards, and even Yales!

Returning to New York in 1946, I joined forces with Harry
Metz, ’33, in an attempt to make a quick fortune in industrial |
diamond tools in Detroit. Disappointed by the slowness in this i
market, I retreated to the mountain country of western Connecticut |
to recoup my strength. An unprecedented fall of snow (never i
since repeated!) catapulted us into running a ski lodge. This was;
exhilarating but not profitable. Accordingly, with the gracious |
consent of my wife, I took up the less prosaic practice of the |
law, country style, over in Carmel, New York. With the increase (
of activities here in Salisbury, I gave up general practice for build- |
ing houses, forestry, Boy Scout work and local politics. As a i
staunch Democrat, I view with pride our help in 1954 in garnering |
fifty extra votes for Ribicoff even though my personal fortunes as
a candidate for the Assembly were buried under the usual three to
one Republican plurality.

For the last several years, increasing legal work in Albany has
drawn us in that direction. This means a disjointed household,
with our time split between. However, it is a lovely land and the 7
distance is as nothing now that we are equipped with both a Fiat
and a Volkswagen! y

Presently, I am working for the New York State Division of
Military Affairs and this appeals to me as a valid field for today’s
citizen. I still enjoy summer active duty training, though after

one chilling experience on winter manoeuvres, I do my cold
weather soldiering at a desk!

[ 854 ]

7 S

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Like the majority of us, I wish it were possible to meet more
often with old friends. Reading Cy Sulzberger’s articles in the
New York Times often brings back thoughts of life in the ““Advo-
cate House” and “Mother Advocate’s” feminine trait of recurrently
needing a new house!

A great interest in books, shared by my wife, is lamentably
dulled by the all too short time allowed us in which to enjoy
them. Perhaps, as foolish parents have so often said before, there
will be more time “after the children are grown up.” Meanwhile,
we enjoy our young and view with interest their advent with us into
the affluent society.

JOHN WILLADAMS McCARTHY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4020 Ludwick St., Pittsburgh 17, Pa.

OFFICE AppREsS: Philosophy Dept., University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.

BORN: March 30, 1912, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: John Joseph McCarthy, Anna
Schultz.

PREPARED AT: Schenley High School, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934; ED.M. (Temple Univ.), 1944;
Bp. (Union Theological Seminary, N.Y.), 1944; PH. (Columbia Univ.),
1947.

MarrieD: Lana Harriet Rasor, Aug. 21, 1944, Greenwich, Conn. CHILDREN:
Sean Arthur, April 25, 1947; Kevin Eugene, June 1, 1953.

occuPaTION: Professor of philosophy.

OFFICES HELD: President, Western Pennsylvania Philosophical Society, 1947-48,
International Society of Torch (Pittsburgh chapter), 1948-49.

PUBLICATIONS: The Naturalism of Samuel Alexander, Kings Crown Press, New
York City, 1948, Some Mozart and Wagner in Munich, musical forecast,
Pittsburgh, 1935; “Samuel Alexander,” article in the Schoff-Herzog En-
cy clopedia. ,

GRADUATING from Harvard in 1934, I went to Europe on the
[ 855]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

‘subject, or who was concerned with applied music. For me, there

was too much emphasis on specialization at Harvard. I wanted to

immerse myself in the world of ideas and in many courses. I did not

wish to concentrate in a particular subject at the time. Consequently,
I found myself fighting the system. Even today it seems to me that
specialization 1 is only necessary in a professional field and is nota
necessary feature of a liberal arts education. Too many students
waste valuable time trying to decide what they should major in.
What difference does it make? In my case, my symphony came
out as a book in philosophy. Others have had a similar experience
studying in one field and earning a living at another.

The house system at Harvard is what I remember most and value
most. There were great teachers, like Whitehead, there was an
awareness of English style, which permeated the books and lectures
of the men in the Yard, which the student from Western Penn-
sylyania unconsciously imbibed and attempted to ape. The Boston
Sy mphony under Koussevitzky was also unforgettable in its bril-
liant presentation of new and exciting music. It was a great era
which shall never come again. Ah! Youth! The wonder of it and
the glory of it!

There were the many friendships of youth made in Kirkland
House which were destroy red almost immediately upon graduation.
The years at Harvard were exciting. The influence of the Uni-
versity made a professor of me. If I had finished my course at

Pittsburgh, I most likely would have become an M.D. instead of a
Ph.D.

HERBERT CARELTON McCLEES

  

HOME appress: West Lake Drive, Austin, Texas.

[ 858 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: Commerce Clearing House, Inc., Chicago, Il].

porn: Nov. 21, 1910, Middletown, N.J. parents: Herbert Carelton McClees,
Edith Arline Blanchard.

PREPARED AT: Red Bank High School, Red Bank, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932. DEGREE: LL.B. (Rutgers Univ.), 1935.

MarriED: Ione Beattie Gillig, 1933, Red Bank, N.J. (divorced, 1935); Mary
Jordan Hass, Oct. 23, 1936, New York, N.Y. (divorced, 1954); Norma
Helen Wright, Aug. 22, 1955, Austin, Texas. cH1LpreN: Herbert Carelton,
Jr., Oct. 9, 1941; Mary Noel, Dec. 21, 1943; Hugh, March 26, 1945.

occuPATION: Law publishing; sales representative, Commerce Clearing House,
Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Austin, Texas; Delta Theta Phi Law Fraternity,
New York 7th Regiment, Company B.

AFTER college I was associated with the United States Trust
Company of New York as real estate analyst, leaving that employ-
ment in 1938 for my present connection with the Commerce Clear-
ing House.

In 1942, I received a commission as lieutenant (j.g.), Mediter-
ranean and Pacific Waters, serving as commanding officer of several
sub-chasers and eventually, during the last year of the war, as com-
manding officer of the USS Cofer, high speed destroyer — Trans-
port (APD-62) with rank of lieutenant commander. I received the
award of the “Legion of Merit — Combat” for action in Borneo and
the Philippines.

Hobbies include landscaping, swimming and sailing.

>.

LOUIS McCLENNEN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2201 N. Central Ave., Phoenix, Ariz.
OFFICE appress: Fennemore, Craig, Allen & A{cClennen, gth Floor, First
National Bank Bldg., Phoenix, Ariz.

[ 859 ]

SARS A APRA ct ene

a “
ae
eee

PARENTS: Edward Francis McClennep,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

BoRN: May 29, 1912, Cambridge, Mass.
LL.B. 95, Mary Crane.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1934; LL.B., 1937,

MARRIED: Sarahanne Adams, May 13, 1934, Cold Springs, N.Y. (divorced
1942); Dorothy L. Petrovich, Feb. 20, 1943, Orlando, Fla. cHitpren: Adams,
Feb. 28, 1935; James, May 24, 1937; Helen, July 31, 1939; Persis, Feb, 2,
1944; Crane, July 31, 1946; Emery, Oct. 4, 1957.

HARVARD SON: James McClennen, ’59.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Joshua McClennen, °35, A.M., 738, PH.D., 40; Alan McClennen,
38.

occupaTion: Lawyer; partner, Fennemore, Craig, Allen & McClennen, lecturer

in federal income taxation, Graduate College of Business Administration,
Arizona State University.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, since 1948, president, 1953-55,
Phoenix Symphony Association; president, Visiting Nurse Service, 1950-
52, Maricopa County Legal Aid Society, since 1957; member board of
directors, Tucson Festival Society, 1951-57; member board of directors,
since 1951, vice-president, since 1957, Phoenix United Fund, vice-president,

Maricopa County Bar Association, 1952; Arizona chairman, A Program for
Harvard College, since 1957. °

MEMBER oF: American Bar Association, State Bar of Arizona, Maricopa County
Bar Association; Indiana State Bar, Massachusetts State Bar; Harvard Club
of Phoenix (president since 1957); Paradise Valley Country Club; Phoenix

Country Club; Kiva Club; Eastward Ho Country Club, Chatham (Mass.)
Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Arizona Income Tax Regulations, Arizona Estate Tax (co-author).

AFTER graduation and my first marriage I continued on at Harvard
in the Law School, receiving my LL.B. in 1937. During this time
my two elder sons (Adams and James) were born. Jamie will
graduate from Harvard this spring, and if the last two years’ pat-
tern is followed, he will be seen rowing in the Varsity Boat at New
London.

Upon graduation from Law School, I became associated with the
firm of Nutter, McClennen & Fish, of which my father (LLB.
1895) was then senior partner. The pattern of practising law in
Boston would probably have continued had not my father-in-law
died, which resulted in moving my family to Indianapolis for the
purpose of settling his affairs and acting as counsel for J. D. Adams
Manufacturing Company in which he had been a principal stock-
holder.

In 1942, I entered the Air Force as a second lieutenant. My mili-
tary career was far from arduous, consisting of teaching at the
Army Air Force School of Applied Tactics in Orlando, Florida
until the spring of 1944, and thereafter, until relieved of active duty

| 860 |}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in 1946, settling contract terminations in New York City. In De-
cember, 1945, I was promoted to major.

While in Orlando, Dorothy and I were married, and a year later
Persis was born. Upon leaving the service, Dorothy and I decided to
explore the much-talked-of virtues of the Southwest as a place to
settle and practise law. Our thinking was that one should earn
one’s livelihood in pleasant surroundings, rather than struggle
through cold New England winters, only later to retire to a pleasant
climate. We looked at Los Angeles which was not to our liking.
Our second stop was Phoenix and we immediately fell in love with
it. We have never regretted for a moment our decision to settle
here. Fortunately, we retained a summer place at Chatham on
Cape Cod, which allows Dorothy and the children to escape the
Phoenix summer heat. With refrigerated home, office and car, one
can stand the Phoenix summers quite well, and I usually get away
for a month on Cape Cod.

Upon being admitted to the Arizona Bar, I associated informally
with a group of Phoenix lawyers. In 1949, I opened my own office,
confining my practice to tax matters. In 1955, I joined my present
firm and have continued to specialize in tax matters.

Last fall, I assumed the role of lecturer and in that capacity con-
duct a course in advanced taxation for the graduate students at the
College of Business Administration of Arizona State University.
Needless to say, the teacher is learning more than the students.

Although I can’t claim the Class Baby (Pesky beat me by a few
months), I believe I can claim the greatest spread in children’s ages.
Peter (Adams’ nickname) is almost twenty-three years older than
Emery. Incidentally, her birth is already an historic event in the
annals of Harvard affairs in Phoenix. A year ago October qth, I
was presiding at our Kickoff Dinner for the Program. During the
showing of “To The Age That Is Waiting,” I received word that I
had best go to the hospital. J arrived just as they wheeled Dorothy
and the baby into her room. I visited with them for the allotted
time and returned to the meeting before the picture ended. When
the lights went up, with feigned calm, I announced that the Pro-
gram in Phoenix was being launched with the birth of an eight-
pound daughter. Jt wasn’t until next morning that we heard that
Emery and the space age have the same birthday.

[ 861 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

JOHN McDONALD, JR.

 

HOME AppRESS: 177 Washington St., Woburn, Mass.
BORN: Jan. 25, 1913, Quincy, Mass. ParENTS: John McDonald, Katharine
Waugh.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.
OCCUPATION: Business.

NO questionnaire returned.

DONALD FRANCIS McENROE

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 238 South Ave., Whitman, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 3, 1914, Whitman, Mass. parents: John Francis McEnroe, Eva
Marie Angie.

PREPARED AT: Whitman High School, Whitman, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1932. DEGREE: M.D. (Middlesex Medical School), 1939.

Marrigp: Edna Marie Anderson, Aug. 23, 1938. cHILpreN: John Francis, Nov.
5, 19453; Kathleen, Nov. 21, 1946.

occuPaTION: Physician; general practice.
MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Socicty.

[ 862 ]

 

t
t

et get pe RMN TE RE went

san i NEP ERR HE

pene men epee ath

pone See

sare NORRIE TE”

ape nnetintEN

|

t

“ preset eT aI

ne sepa’
7

ip eoreti eA EIT
ose any NT?

sen EET MATE HE
a te ae tad
cammeqceccanon vr peng epee oe ttetet arene

spemweneey a agpin FE)
app Peep ee Ire FAT gene rere

sap pe ee en I OP

ap pry pee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER my funds were exhausted, | left Harvard and worked in a
shoe factory in Brockton to earn money to return to school. In
1934 I entered Middlesex Medical School in Waltham, where I com-
pleted one year of a premedical course and four years of medicine,
receiving an M.D. in 1939.

While junior-interning after the third year of medical school at
the Burke Memorial Hospital in Lawrence, Massachusetts, I met
and married the night supervisor of nurses, Edna Marie Anderson,
keeping it a secret until I returned to the same hospital after gradua-
tion to intern.

In April, 1940, I began a general practice of medicine in Marsh-
field, Massachusetts. Having been refused a commission in the Army
Medical Corps because of a chronic back injury, I continued my
practice in Marshfield, until January, 1947, when I moved to my
present location,

We move to our summer home in Pembroke, Massachusetts, each
year as soon as the children finish school at Thayerlands in South
Braintree, Massachusetts, which is usually around the end of May.
There the children water ski, swim, etc., until we return to Whitman
in September. Next year, we hope, John, aged thirteen, will con-
tinue on into Thayer Academy, and also Kathy, a couple of years

Jater.

WILLIAM CRISS McGUCKIN

   

HOME appreEss: R.F.D., Carrollton, Isle of Wight County, Va.

OFFIcE apprEss: P.O. Box 331, Fort Monroe, Va. (OCDS /I Hq., U.S. Continen-
tal Army Command).

BORN: Aug. 23, 1912, Bayshore, N.Y. Parents: Benjamin Floyd McGuckin,
Mildred Criss.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

[ 863 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Jane Shreve, June 6, 1936, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN: Mary Jane,
March 29, 1937 (am. Francis Welch Laidlaw, March 29, 1958); Michael
Criss, Dec. 19, 1939.

occupaTion: Intelligence staff officer, Chief of Plans Branch, Plans and
Operations Division, Office of Deputy Chief of Staff, Intelligence, US,
Continental Army Command.

OFFICES HELD: Partner, Southgate & Company and Williams & Southgate, mem-
bers of New York Stock Exchange, 1936-42; U.S. Army, 1942~45, since
1951; master of foxhounds, The Groton Hunt, 1947-50.

MEMBER OF: Association of the U.S. Army; Reserve Officers Association,
Military Order of the World Wars; Order of Lafayette; Kandahar Ski
Club (UK); Tenth Mountain Division Alumni Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Classified military briefings and studies.

I DID not enjoy the securities business and was not very good at it.
World War II demanded specifics; and it was a privilege to serve as
private, corporal and later as lieutenant and captain with a very fine
regiment, the 87th Mountain Infantry, roth Infantry Division
(Mountain). The captaincy was the result primarily of the tragic
casualties of Infantry combat . . . Unpleasant realities. One does
not forget the good men who fell. After the war, the renewed
drudgery of selling securities was relieved by honest effort with
foxhounds in the world’s best, if costly, sport . . . foxhunting.
Being an officer in the modern army is a challenge; and the job is
worth the effort it requires.

Oncoming grandparenthood is a rather startling novelty; but it
is good to observe the increase in poise and dignity of one’s off-

spring.

LEE WESLEY McGUIRE, JR.

 

HOME apprEss: Route 6, Batavia, Ohio.

[ 864 ]

——

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Feb. 5, 1912, Portland, Oregon. parents: Lee W. McGuire, Ethel Wines.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1034. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.
OCCUPATION: Cartoonist.

NO questionnaire returned.

CHARLES JACKSON McILVAIN

  

HOME ADDRESS: 266 Bryn Mawr Ave., Bryn Mawr, Pa.

OFFICE AbpREsS: Atlantic Creosoting Co., Norfolk, Pa.

BORN: July 17, 1909, Ardmore, Pa. parents: Charles Jackson Mcllvain, Jr.
Mabel Dickerson.

PREPARED AT: Westminster School, Simsbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934.

occuPATIoN: Manufacturing.

NO questionnaire returned.

RALPH AUBREY McININCH | 7

fh [ESA Rees ep é

    

HOME ADpRESS: 847 Maple St., Manchester, N.H.
OFFICE aDprEss: Merchants National Bank, 35 Mechanic St., Manchester, N.H.

[ 865 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

BoRN: June 15, 1912, Manchester, N.H. parents: John Aubrey Mclninch, @
Vivian Ruiter. ula

prepareD AT: Manchester Central High School, Manchester, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., magna cum laude, 1934

marrigeD: Elizabeth Barbara Farmer, Sept. 16, 1938, Manchester, N.H. citprey
Richard Donald, June 9, 1940; Douglas Allen, July 8, 1944.

oocuPaTION: President, Merchants National Bank; vice-president and treasurer,
Merchants Savings Bank, Manchester, N.H.

orFices HELD: Director, Merchants National Bank, since 1948, Salvation Amy,
since 1951s Manchester Community Chest, since 1955, Manchester Rotary
Club, since 1956, American Red Cross, since 1959; trustee, Merchants
Savings Bank, since 1948, First Congregational Church of Manchester, since
1951, Manchester City Library, since 1954, Colby Jr. College, since 1957;
trustee, since 1949, treasurer, since 1952, Gale Home for Aged & Destitute

Women; director, since 1951, member executive committee, since 1957,

New Hampshire Fire Insurance Company; director, since 1954, Vice-
chairman, 1958, New England Council; chairman, board of trustees, Young

Men’s Christian Association, since 1952; treasurer, Trust Funds, Young

Women’s Christian Association, since 1952;

; president, Daniel Webster
Council, 1957, regional vice-chairman, 1958, Boy Scouts of America;

member, Executive Committee Trust Division, 1953-56, executive council,
1958 for three-year term, Committee on Executive Development, since 1955,
American Bankers Association; various committees, Mortgage Bankers
Association, since 1954; member, Executive Council, since 1954, president,
1957, New Hampshire Bankers Association; member, Committee on Cor-
porate Securities National Association Mutual Savings Banks, since 1957,

Committee on Relations with Supervisory Authorities, since 19573 presi-
dent, Manchester Rotary Club, since 1958.

MEMBER OF: Calumet Organization; Harvard Club of New Hampshire; Man-

chester Country Club; Manchester Riding Club; Newcomen Society;
Rotary Club.

IT is rather an awesome thing to realize twenty-five years have sped

on winged feet since we all left Cambridge that summer day in June,

1934—the new starry-eyed, ambitious crop of graduates from

Harvard College. How old we thought was the Class of 1909 cele-

brating then its Twenty-fifth Reunion! But now, twenty-five years
out, we continue to experience a thrill from new challenges, to seek
new opportunities and to believe new thresholds are ours to cross
as our youthful enthusiasm carries us forward. Age, we conclude,
is only a mental phenomenon. Yes, the twenty-five years have passed
all too swiftly. And I’m just where several of our classmates said
I would be — in Manchester, New Hampshire, still in the banking
profession. The set pattern was broken, however, by a sojourn to
the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, from 1942 to 1945, where
the field of bank examination commanded my keenest thoughts and

[ 866 ]

'

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

attention. But the circle was being recast as we moved to Provi-
dence, Rhode Island, in September, 1945, to become vice-president
and trust officer of the Union Trust Company. This experience was
very rewarding and enjoyable so, just as we hated to leave Phila-
delphia, now the ties in Providence were so strong it was difficult
to agree in June, 1948, to return to the land of my birth and early
upbringing —eéven though it meant assuming the presidency of
the banking institution that I once served as messenger during high
school and college days. However, the crystal gazers were right
— at our Twenty-fifth I would be still at the old stand.

This whole experience was aided and abetted by my entrance
on the sea of matrimony in September, 1938. How my wife, the
former Elizabeth Barbara Farmer, has stood these twenty years
with me, only she can explain. Our life has been a wonderful ad-
venture together. Two boys — Richard Donald, now eighteen, and
at Holderness Preparatory School, and Douglas Allen, just fourteen,
home at Central High School — complete our family.

As a so-called banker in a small town, one finds oneself typically
engaged in a myriad of outside activities that are usually quite en-
joyable in spite of the gastronomical problems involved in the
banquet circuit. Being president of Daniel Webster Council of
Boy Scouts of America, chairman of the trustees of the Manchester
YMCA, president of Manchester Rotary Club, trustee and treasurer
of the Gale Home for Aged and Destitute Women, president of
New Hampshire Bankers Association, trustee of the F irst Congrega-
tional Church and Colby Jr. College, director of several corpora-
tions, ete., all add variety to the scene of living in a New England
town.

Perhaps my most beloved hobby is my work. I still relish the joy
of embarking on another day of banking. However, badminton,
hunting, fishing and family traveling add that mixture to life which
makes it sweet. Now Model A Fords (present inventory — four)
in various degrees of assembly or revamping are a top conversation
piece at our dinner table.

In summation, it has been a broadening experience since gradua-
tion — mentally, I hope; physically, I know. Harvard has made a
great contribution to my life’s happiness these past twenty-five
years. The years seem to shrivel as we grow older. May this ac-
celeration of time slacken as we move on to our Fiftieth!

[ 867 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

WALTER CECIL McKAIN, JR.

  

HOME ADpREsS: Spring Hill, Storrs, Conn.

oFFice abprEss: University of Connecticut, Storrs, Conn. -

BorN: Oct. 12, 1912, Columbiana, Ohio, pareNts: Walter Cecil McKain, Grace
Frances VanKirk.

PREPARED AT: Boardman High School, Boardman, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. Magna cum laude, 1934; AM. 1938;

PH.D. 1047
Marrigp: Elizabeth Frances Seckerson. CHILDREN: Richard S., Oct. 7, 1935;

Nancy E., Nov. 22, 1940; Walter Cecil, 3d, May 11, 1942, Douglas H.,,
Sept. 30, 1944; Susan L., Sept. 14, 1948.

occupation: Professor of rural sociology and head of Department of Rural
Sociology, University of Connecticut.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Mansfield School Building Committee, 1952-59; vice-
president, Connecticut Health League, 1957, Rural Sociological Society,
1958-59; president, Connecticut Society of Gerontology, 1958; book review
editor, Journal of Rural Sociology.

MEMBER OF: Rural Sociology Society; Gerontology Society, American Sociology
Society; Harvard Club of Connecticut.

publications: Rural Life in the United States, with C. C. Taylor et al., Knopf,
1949; Earning Opportunities for Older Workers, Chapter XVII, University
of Michigan Press, 1955; The New Frontiers of Aging, Chapter VII, Uni-
versity of Michigan Press, 1957; numerous professional and popular
articles and bulletins on a variety of topics.

AFTER graduation I spent two months in the Harvard Law School
~—not long enough to learn any law but apparently long enough to
earn a permanent place on several mailing lists. Then followed two
pleasant years as a research assistant at Connecticut State College
where I began to prepare myself for a career in sociology. Fortu-
nately, I was able to return to Harvard as a tutor and graduate as-
sistant in the Department of Sociology where I completed the
residence requirements for an A.M. degree in 1938.

[ 868 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The next nine years were spent in government service. As regional
research director for one of the divisions of the U.S. Department of
Agriculture, I was assigned first to the twelve northeastern states
and four years later to the seven western states, plus Hawaii and
Alaska.

Meanwhile I acquired a most wonderful wife and we began to
pick up birth certificates from Pennsylvania to California, five in
all. I was awarded a Ph.D. degree in June, 1947, accepted a posi-
tion at the University of Connecticut and we settled down to the
joys and concerns of academic life.

Except for administrative duties, most of my work is in the field
of research. Trends in suburbanization, the problems and potentials
of our aging population, and the impact of the new highway system
upon Connecticut are some of our current research topics. Oc-
casionally, I am called upon to teach a course, serve as the faculty
adviser to the Student Bridge Club or fill in as squash coach. Then
I realize how different and yet how similar are the undergraduates
of today and those of our day.

According to the U.S. Census, we live on a farm but most of the
land is devoted to children. A baseball field, a football field, a
basketball court, a playhouse, a trout stream without many trout,
cabins and forts in the wooded areas, fireplaces and bicycle sheds
—— those are the principal land uses. And yet I find the whole family
1S spending more and more of its time away from home, The hiking
and ski trails of the North, the salt-water fishing and swimming to
the East and New York City with its theatres and museums and its
Yankee Stadium are stern competition for the old homestead.

In recent years my attendance at meetings held by the Harvard
Club of Connecticut has become more regular. I was pleased to
serve as an area chairman for the Program for Harvard College.
The scores of Harvard football games have assumed new importance
and the prospect of our Reunion is most exciting. These are some
indications that I may become an alumnus as well as a graduate.

[ 869 J

CMa MBE A ek Hi

se TES
vo ee FETA TPT bie

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

PAUL LACHLAN MacKENDRICK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 208 Bordner Drive, Madison 5, Wis.

OFFICE ADpREss: Bascom Hall, University of Wisconsin, Madison 6, Wis.

Born: Feb, 11, 1914, Taunton, Mass. parents: Ralph Fulton MacKendrick, Sarah
Harvey.

PREPARED AT: Taunton High School, Taunton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., Summa cum laude, 1934; A.M., 1937;
PH.D. 1938.

MARRIED: Dorothy Grace Lau, March 17, 1945, Oxford, England. cHILpren:
Andrew Lachlan, March 23, 1950; Sarah Ann, Aug. 23, 1953.

XCCUPATION: Professor of Classics, University of Wisconsin; professor-in-charge,
Summer Session, American Academy in Rome.

»FFICES HELD: President, Local 223, American Federation of Teachers, 1948;
secretary-treasurer, American Philological Association, 1954-56; secretary,
American Council of Learned Societies, 1956-57.

EMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Philological Association, Archaeological
Institute of America; American Association of University Professors.
usLicaTions: Classics in Translation (2 vols.), with Herbert M. Howe, ’34,
1952; Rome: An Exhibition of Facts and Ideas, 1954; The Ancient World

with V. M. Scramuzza), 1958; The Roman Mind at Work (in press).

s TTENDED Balliol College, Oxford, 1934-36. Assistant and tutor
1 classics, Harvard, 1937. Instructor in Latin, Phillips Academy,
.ndover, 1938-41. In naval service, 1941-45 (ensign to lieutenant),
rvice in Brazil, Azores and the invasion of Sicily. Instructor in
nglish, Harvard, 1946. At University of Wisconsin, since 1946:
sistant professor, 1946-48, associate professor, 1948-52, professor,
nce 1952. Fulbright Fellow, American Academy in Rome, 1950-51.
rofessor-in-charge, Summer Session, American Academy in Rome,
nce 1956. Guggenheim Fellow, American Academy in Rome,
57-58. Democrat. Unitarian.

[ 870 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GRAEME MACLEOD

 

HOME apprEss: Mariomi Road, New Canaan, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Young & Rubicam, Inc., 285 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.
BORN: Sept. 28, rg11, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: Frederick Joseph Macleod,

Elizabeth Connor.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.
OCCUPATION: Advertising.

NO questionnaire returned,

NORMAN MacLEOD

 

HOME ADDRESS: 110 Maple St., Rome, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Revere Copper & Brass, Inc., Rome, N.Y.
BORN: Nov. 4, 1911, Fairhaven, Mass. parents: Everett. Burnside MacLeod,

Elizabeth M, Layton.
PREPARED AT: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.; Tabor Academy,

Marion, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.
MmarRiED: Dorothy Byrnes, April 27, 1936, Rome, N.Y. cHitpReN: Nancy Ann,

Dec. 10, 1939; Barbara Jean, Sept. 30, 1942.
[ 871 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

occupation: General Manager of Industrial Relations, Revere Copper & Brass,
Inc.

OFFICES HELD: President, 1957-58, director, 1954-58, Rome Rotary Club; dj.
rector, Rome Chamber of Commerce, 1957-58; director, 1954-58, presi-

dent, 1956, Community Chest of Rome; president, Central New York Per.

sonnel Managers’ Association, 1956, president, 1957, director, 1955-58,
Rome Club.

MEMBER OF: Fort Stanwix Hose Company, No. 2; Elks Club; Teugega Country
Club.

AS general manager of industrial relations with the Revere Copper
& Brass, Inc., I am assisting in the making of and directing the ad-
ministration of policies in labor relations, cost control, wage and
incentive standards and personnel administration. Revere is a major

fabricator of non-ferrous metals and the manufacturer of Revere
Ware utensils.

JOHN FARRELL MADDEN

  

HOME Abpress: 11 Sandy Valley Rd., Dedham, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS; 24 School St., Boston 8, Mass.

Born: Feb, 4, 1913, Brookline, Mass. parents: Michael Lester Madden, Grace
Elizabeth Farrell.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 19343 LL.B., 1937(38); LL.M. (New
York Univ.), 1946.

marrigp: Mary Joan Mcintosh, July 2, 1949, Palatine, Ill. campren: Mary
McIntosh, Jr.. Dec. 21, 1950; John Farrell, Jr., Dec, 8, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHERS: James L. Madden, 731, M.B.A., 734; Robert C. Madden, °39.

occupation: Lawyer, partner in the firm of Cross & Madden.

orFices HELD: Clerk, Dean Foundation for Little Children, Inc.; treasurer,
Wianno Yacht Club; president, Wardroom Club, 1951-53.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club, Brookline, Dedham Country and Polo Club;
Down Town Club, Wianno Club; Harvard Club of Boston; Schussverein.

[ 872 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

UPON graduation in June, 1934, my somewhat indulgent father
gave me a summer in Europe, which I spent with classmate Joe
Russell. In the fall, I enrolled at the Harvard Law School with
perhaps as many as fifty additional classmates. Here my career was
scholastically undistinguished, but successful to the extent of earn-
ing a degree in June, 1937. One summer I spent in Honolulu,
visiting the family of a law school friend, another I spent on a
ranch in Sheridan, Wyoming, as a working (non-paying) guest of
our late classmate, Waldo Forbes.

In the fall of 1937, I became the law secretary of Judge George
C. Sweeney of the Federal District Court in Boston.’ About mid-
summer, 1938, I went to work for the Boston Legal Aid Society
in the Domestic Relations Department, where I washed much dirty
linen for the ensuing year and a half. On January 1, 1940, I re-
ported for my first professional practising job with the firm of
Withington, Cross, Proctor & Park at 73 Tremont Street, Boston,
a middle-sized firm well staffed with competent Harvard men and
Yale men as well,

This activity lasted only through October, 1940, because I
was reminded ‘by Uncle Sam that I had received a commission as
ensign in the U. S. Naval Reserve upon graduation from Harvard.
I did not have to suit up as promptly as I did, on November 4,
1940, but, since it looked like such a long haul, and I was single,
I took the opportunity of enrolling at a “ninety day wonder” re
fresher course for rusty and newly commissioned reserve officers,
conducted at the Boston Navy Yard. Classmates Bud Ritchie and
John T. G. Nichols, 3d, were also in that group of local early birds.

Then commenced the five most interesting years of my life up
to the point of my marriage in 1949. My duty was entirely sea
duty, apart from short hitches ashore at training schools, which
was my preference — again, I suppose, because of my single blessed
state. Aly service was also entirely in the minesweepers, which
proved to be an unusual and genuinely interesting branch of the
Navy. My time was spent in the Atlantic, Caribbean and European
waters, including the invasion of Normandy. I never had Pacific

duty, although I had orders to that theatre when the whole ruckus
was mercifully wound up.

My thoughts about this phase of my life are various. I would
not have missed it, I am very thankful that I didn’t get hurt physi-
cally, I am quite certain that I did get hurt economically and pro-
fessionally, and I sti]] am strongly critical of the type of leadership

[ 873]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

the regular Navy establishment provided, or failed to provide, to
the “hooligan” minesweeper Navy. .I learned soon enough that the
“trade school” boys were very anxious to be where they might
earn a decoration or two or three, and that the minesweepers did
not appear to them to present many such opportunities. However,
I still feel that the Navy Department was caught short at the out-
break of hostilities in its knowledge of and preparation for mine
warfare, both offensive and defensive, and never did make an ade-
quate effort to catch up by assigning enough of its more able per-
sonnel to this field. The money was spent, but the activity was
left pretty much to the operation of the Reserves. We probably
liked it better that way, but in retrospect, I feel that the foregoing
indictment is deserved and can be supported.

To resume with things chronologically, upon becoming inactive
in the fall of 1945, I enrolled at the New York University Graduate
School of Law to become refreshed in a way, but primarily to take
courses in federal taxation which had become such a factor in
everyone’s existence since I had departed practice five years
previously. I completed this curriculum in June of 1946, and re-
turned to the firm I had left. I was made a partner in 1951, and
here I staved for five more years, enjoying a varied and interesting
type of practice until January 1, 1956, when I formed my present
connection with a former colleague, and together we are doing
general practice. .

On the domestic front, I married Mary J. McIntosh on July 2,
1949. She is from the Chicago area and was graduated from North-
western University in 1943. We have had one of each, now eight
and four, and find them to be increasingly fine sources of interest,
fun and companionship. We do regret that neither of them will
qualify age-wise for the full Twenty-fifth Reunion program. We
started out living in an apartment on Beacon Hill, and in 1951 we
purchased our house in Dedham, Massachusetts, which has proved
an extremely pleasant town to inhabit.

Our recreational pursuits have included golf, sailing, cruising,
skiing, bridge, fishing and a certain amount of drinking. We have
spent vacations to date in such places as Sun Valley, Canada, Nassau,
Jamaica and Florida, but not Europe — to my wife’s dismay, be-
cause she has never been there.

With reference to charitable activities, I feel that I have given
adequately of my time and services, although I hold no responsible
positions in their field, with the possible exception of my being the

[ 874]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

clerk of the Dean Foundation for Little Children, Inc., a Boston
organization which has been spending its income on underprivileged
children for the past thirty years. I have worked nearly each year
for the United Fund in one capacity or another, for the Cerebral
Palsy organization, and several years ago I ran the Salvation Army
campaign in our home town of Dedham. For the past year, I have
been working on classmate Bill Kimble’s team for the Harvard pro-
gram.

My politics have been Republican, but are definitely turning
Independent. My religion is Roman Catholic; my wife’s, Methodist;
and to date we have experienced no real difficulties with our so-
called mixed marriage.

The Harvard program, I feel, has afforded me a real opportunity
to evaluate what Harvard means to me, its alumni and the nation.
I initially came up with an amount which I considered both gen-
erous on my part and just about what I could afford. When I finally
made my pledge, six months and much deliberation later, I tripled it.

HAROLD ERIC MAGNUSON

 

HOME AppREss: 10 Upland Rd., Arlington, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Martin, Magnuson & Hennessey, 73 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan, 20, 1912, Everett, Mass. parents: Ephraim Eric Magnuson, Gerda
Oula Anderson.

PREPARED At: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 7agna cum laude, 1934; LL.B. 1938.

MARRIED: Sally Louise Benner, June 28, 1941, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Sally Linda, Jan. 24, 1946, Paula Louise, Feb. 21, 1948, Philip Eric, Novy.
28, 1953.

OccuPaTION: Lawyer; member, Martin, Magnuson & Hennessey; Massachusetts
District Court Judge (part-time).

[ 875 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

OFFICES HELD: Assistant attorney general of Massachusetts, 1941-42; assistant
district attorney of Northern District (Middlesex County), 1947-51:
moderator, Arlington Baptist Society and First Baptist Church of
Arlington, since 1947; Arlington Town Moderator, 1950-56; corporator,
Symmes Hospital, Arlington, since 1951; incorporator, Arlington Five
Cents Savings Bank, since 1952; Special Justice, Third District Court of
Eastern Middlesex, since 1953, chairman, Arlington Development Com.
mission, 1957-58; various other Arlington Town offices, Town Meeting
committees, civic, political and charitable organizations.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Boston, Middlesex, Cambridge and Massachusetts
Bar Associations; Russell Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; American Legion, VF.W,

AS our Twenty-fifth Class Reunion approaches and this attempt
is made to give some account of the years since graduation, a pause
for reflection reminds me that I have been too much engulfed in
the swift and steady current of everyday living that seems to flow
relentlessly faster and faster. This pause finds me thankful for hav-
ing been undeservedly blessed with a wife and three children who
are more precious to me than all else in life. While we share the
usual fluctuations in the degrees of joy and grief to be expected
from the frailties of human nature, our home and family life are
rich with happiness.

To some extent good fortune and adversity that have come my
way seem to have been fortuitous or attributable to conditions or
events beyond individual control and affecting our generation gen-
erally, such as the economic depression of the 1930’s, World War
Il and the dawn of the atomic age. However, in casting a backward
glance over the past twenty-five years, I find a discernible pattern
of cause and effect in my personal life between long-term influences
and the course of my personal history. The sources of the best and
most important of these influences during these years include my
Harvard College education, my renewed church affiliations, my dear
wife and children and some good friends.

Two turning points in my personal life seem to have been my
return to Harvard Law School in 1935, following an interlude in
the insurance business in New York City after graduation, and my
marriage to Sally Benner in 1941.

The highlights of my legal career have been a pleasant association
from 1938 to 1957 with the Boston law firm of Hale, Sanderson,
Byrnes & Morton, a term of about one year as an Assistant Attorney
General devoted largely to representing the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts in tax litigation, four years’ service as an Assistant
District Attorney of the Northern District (Middlesex County),

[ 876 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and my present law practice as a member of the firm of Martin,
Magnuson & Hennessey, organized in 1957. Incidental to these have
been many local, civic and political activities, including chairman-
ship of the Arlington Republican Town Committee in the 1952
election and two three-year elected terms (1950-56) as Arlington
Town Moderator.

The radio broadcast of the attack on Pearl Harbor which reached
me in Cape Neddick, Maine, while listening to the Philharmonic
Symphony concert, was followed by restless months until I was
accepted by the Navy in the late spring of 1942 and sworn in as a
lieutenant (j.g.) on July 4, 1942. Indoctrination at Dartmouth and
various other training led to several months at sea as gunnery officer
on the fleet minesweeper, USS Prevail. 1 celebrated my first anni-
versary on active duty in the Navy by a memorable shore liberty
at Casablanca. More a lawyer than a sailor, even in the Navy, 1
served several years as an assistant legal officer at Third Naval Dis-
trict Headquarters i in New York City. My navy career was con-
cluded as a lieutenant commander and senior Judge Advocate of
the General Court Martial of the First Naval District. After nearly
four years in the Navy, I was glad to become a civilian again in
the spring of 1946.

Time has always seemed a precious commodity and has become
ever scarcer with the passing years. Moreover, too much of it has
been and continues to be spent at work. However, there have been
saving grace notes in living such as social occasions with friends, a
brief fling at golf and full, glorious summers and relaxing weekends
at Brewster on Cape Cod, where we have had a summer home since
1953. Despite increasing responsibilities, Sally and I find our greatest
joys and happiness are becoming more and more those we share with
our children.

A regrettably inactive classmate thus far, I am generating en-
thusiasm for the Twenty-fifth Reunion, especially from the growing
anticipation of daughters Linda and Paula who are determined to
make the most of it. Philip will have to wait another five years but
the rest of us hope to see you next June.

[ 877 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

JOHN MAIER

  

Ses
a
:
Q

'
4

   
 

HOME AppREss: 216 Villard Ave. Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rockefeller Foundation, 49 W. qoth St., New York 20, NY.

BorN: March 3, 1912, Royersford, Pa. PARENTS: John Bernhardt Maier, Bess
Monshower.

PREPARED AT: The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B.. magna cum laude, 1934; M.D., cum
laude, 1938; M.p.4. (Johns Hopkins Univ.), 1950.

marriep: Mary Richmond, Jan. 31, 1942, Cleveland, Ohio. cHi~pReN: Hugh
Paul, Dec. 23, 1942; John Richmond, June 17, 1950; Jan, Nov. 21, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Paul Maier, ’37.

occupation: Associate director for biological and medical research, Rockefeller

Foundation.
MEMBER OF: New York Academy of Sciences; Harvard Club of Paris,

Aesculapian Club of Boston.
pusLicaTions: Articles on malaria and virus diseases.

AT Harvard Medical School, 1934-38; East Medical Service, Massa-
chusetts General Hospital, 1938-40; began service with Rockefeller
Foundation, 1940; Malaria Laboratory of the Foundation at the
Rockefeller Institute, N.Y., 1940-43; leave of absence for army
service, in New Guinea and the Philippines, major, Medical Corps,
A.U.S., and Chief Theatre Malariologist, 1943-46; malaria research,
Venezuela, 1946-49; Johns Hopkins University, 1949-50; malaria
research, Sardinia, Italy, 1950-51. At European office of the Founda-
tion in Paris, France, 1951-58. Life begins anew for an expatriate
in New York, in 1958, but you can have it, and my heart belongs to
the Ile-de-France, along with that of such other distinguished
graduates as, for example, Henry Adams.

[ 878 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWIN HAYS MAIRS

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 4116 Douglas Rd., Coconut Grove, Miami 33, Fla

Born: March 22, 1912, Albany, N.Y. parents: John Dows Mairs, Mary Mattison.
PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1034.

marriep: Mary Vail Hewitt, Oct. 22, 1937, Irvington, N.Y. cHipren: John
Dows, Sept. 14, 1938; James Hewitt, April 29, 1941; George Hewitt, July
29, 1945 (died Feb. 2, 1947); Katherine Latourette, Jan, 14, 1948 (died
Feb. 12, 1948).

OccUPATION: Naval architect and designer; self-employed.

MEMBER OF: Society of Small Craft Designers; Biscayne Bay Yacht Club; Coral
Reef Yacht Club; International Oceanographic Foundation.
PUBLICATIONS: Several short articles.

THE fall of 1934 found me back in Westchester County, New
York, engaged in the heating and air-conditioning business. First
jajor change came with marriage, in 1937, which incurred moving
0 yards and saw me starting off in business for myself.

This status quo remained steady, except for the production of
vo sons, until the war. In a burst of patriotism, I enlisted in the
avy as a Bm2, whose duty it was, presumably, to protect and de-
id New York with a converted yacht. No go—shore duty in
ooklyn. Commissioned in 1942 and ended up as big cheese on a
uple of anti-submarine vessels. If a lion-like courage exists within
, the war did not bring it out, as I never even heard a shot fired
anger. Nice letter from F orrestal, however. Status quo much
red by wartime orders to Florida and a heavy collection of sand
he family shoes.

1 1945, bought a house in Coconut Grove — sometimes seems
2 like a hotel. Back in air-conditioning —no go. Even tried

nsurance but couldn’t sell even myself. Took advantage of the

[ 879 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

generosity of a grateful nation and polished up a hazy knowledge
of naval architecture. Good go. Have been operating independently
since 1949, endeavoring to cover the seas from here to Pakistan with
pleasure boats, passenger boats, fishing boats, work boats and what
have you. Enjoyable occupation involving business sailing trips
from Newport to Bermuda, Miami to Nassau, St. Petersburg to

Havana, and the like.

Have had the opportunity to write some minor articles and make
some minor reports on marine matters. Still discuss the horrible
world situation with pseudo-authoritative philosophy.

Due to the locale of existence, recreation is in a pretty good
state. Sailing, goggle-fishing, cruising the Bahamas, business trips
and catching a glimpse of old friends escaping the winter seem
the most important items. Ranked high is turning off the television
set, and reading.

Wife is an active do-gooder. Joins every cultural, civic and
political organization in sight and is, invariably and unwittingly,
elected secretary. Same wife, incidentally, so she is doing good
there, too.

Personally, I note few changes in myself over the last twenty-five
years, a purely personal opinion. Due to the recent deterioration
of the printing art, I have been forced to wear reading glasses;
otherwise normal: highway driving speed high, temper touchy,
cussing and alcoholic libation — solaces.

Hope that this is sufficiently narrative and factual. For further
details, call Mohawk 7-3427.

 

RAYMOND JOSEPH MAKOWSKY

    

~

HOME appress: 167 Rolling Hills Rd., Clifton, N.J.
— [ 880 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: Stop-N’-Save, New Shrewsbury, N.J.

BORN: June 15, 1912, Bristol, R.I. PARENTS: Max Makowsky, Eva Novogroski.

PREPARED AT: Colt Memorial High School, Bristol, R.1.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932, 1933-1035. DEGREE: A.B. 1934 (35).

MARRIED: Charlotte Mae Suzman, Aug. 18, 1934, Taunton, Mass. cuitp: Mitchell
Frederic, Feb. 10, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Makowsky, ’22.

occuPaTION: General manager of discount department store.

MEMBER OF: Redwood Masonic Lodge, Providence, R.I.; Hope Chapter, Bristol,
R.I.; Narragansett Chapter, Sojourners.

RETAILING has occupied a great deal of my postgraduate life,
from department store to the fast-growing discount-type operations.
About a year ago I moved from Rhode Island and am now connected
with Atlantic Superama in New Shrewsbury.

During the war I saw service with the Artillery as battalion in-
telligence officer in the Southwest Pacific Theatre from 1942 to
1945. Upon returning to civilian life I served with the Rhode Island
National Guard as group plans and training officer and battalion
executive officer.

My spare time is devoted to my family, busily engaged in bringing
up my son, leaving me little free time for outside activities.

WILFRED MALENBAUM

4
hin cl ahs al

 

HOME appreEss: 77 Kirkstall Rd., Newtonville 60, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Center for International Studies, Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology, 50 Memorial Drive, Cambridge 39, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 26, 1913, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Harry Malenbaum, Bertha
Brandwyn.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

_ YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1934; AM. 19353

PH.D. I941.

[ 881 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

MarriED: Josephine Orenstein, Feb. 26, 1950, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Bruce

Terry, Oct. 5, 1951; Roxanne Faye, July 22, 1953; Ronald Gary, July 26
1957+

occuPATION: Professor of economics; director, India Project, Center for Inter-
national Studies, M.LT.

OFFICES HELD: Adviser to U.S. Delegation to UNRRA, 1943; adviser to UN
Economic and Social Council, 1948-52; adviser to UN Economic Com.
mission for Latin America, 1951; U.S. Official Representative, Colombo

Plan Conference, Karachi, Pakistan, 1952; member, editorial advisory
board, Journal for Asian Studies, since 1958.

MEMBER OF: American Economic Association; Asia Society; Association for

Asian Studies; Society for International Development (charter member),
listed in Who’s Who in America, since 1951.

publications: World Wheat Economy, Harvard University Press, 1953; India-
China: Development Contrasts, New Delhi, 1956; “The Asian Economic
Potential,” Annals, July, 1958; India Between East and West, Nauonal

Planning Association, Washington, D.C. (to appear in 1959); many
articles in learned journals,

I CONFESS to a good deal of self-consciousness in attacking this
questionnaire. Perhaps some of you are so assured about the achieve-
ments of these tumultuous years as to be oblivious to the rest of
the Class peering over your shoulders. Not I, and yet I do feel by
and large that this was a worthwhile and enjoyable span of years.

I went to Harvard expecting to prepare for a teaching career and
I am now a college professor — which sounds direct, but how cir-
cuitous the route! Mathematics led to statistical method, and then
to its application in the social sciences, thence to a straight economics
Ph.D. From an instructorship at Harvard, I went to Washington
early in the war and served with the Office of Strategic Services
(OSS). This was followed by a long State Department associa-
tion, In 1952, I resigned my government post to return to uni-
versity life. With my original love I hope long to stay.

That’s my professional career nicely fitted into the ever-present
nutshell, except that the route was scarcely that compact or orderly.
Indeed, an unkind person might term mine a rambling path, and I
can’t deny that. I seem always to be going or returning from some-
where. This all began, as I remember, with a wonderful year in
Europe, especially Norway and England. That year was the result
of the unexpected award of a foreign travel grant by Harvard in
1937. (My thesis adviser in economics said I could never make it
on my economics record, and my faculty friends in mathematics
felt the same way about their favorite discipline. The committee

[ 882]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

members, bless them, decided to go along with me when I said I

could manage both disciplines.)
The war years seemed again to be filled with much going and

coming — from Atlantic crossings in a Boeing Flying Boat (seven
days from Shannon to New York via Liberia, Brazil, and Trinidad)
to the rolling coke bottles in the hospital bay of a troopship. With
the State Department, I could travel much more elegantly and the
destination tended to vary more. Now the Malenbaums are still
always going somewhere, but generally it’s to Asia and especially to
India.

Actually, however, there has long been a focal interest and pur-
pose to these activities. I am concerned with relative levels of living
of the people in different parts of the world, with what makes
these differences, and with what can be done to eliminate or at least
to narrow them. This interest emerged in my doctoral thesis so
many years age. It found an outlet in wartime intelligence: How
badly off was the average German? With the: State Department,
there were decisions about loans and grant assistance to help poorer
people throughout the world. And now my special field of interest
concerns what I consider a major international problem: How can
we Americans help initiate economic progress among the poorer
two-thirds of the world’s total population — among “people who
have never known economic improvement, but now want it?

The urge to work in Asia got me when I first went to Pakistan
as an official in 1952. There I resolved to try to dig deeply, at least
for a while, and was happy to have the opportunity to come to the
Center for International Studies at M.I.T. Here I headed a study
on the problems of economic and social change in India, the major
results of which are now in process of publication.

This is scarcely the place to launch into a lecture, but the prob-
lem of national growth is a tough one which we will need to learn
more about, and do more about — outside of America. The tasks
of accelerating economic expansion are only partly economic. In-
deed, we’re beginning to appreciate that what makes growth is not
so much the resources and the investment as the basic attitudes and
motivations of the populations involved, and particularly of their
leaders. For this range of problems it is good for an economist to
join up with a psychologist.

My wife Jome was a child psychologist when she was a maiden
and childless. Now with three young ones, I suspect she feels more
confident diagnosing Asia’s problems than her own children’s. We

[ 883 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

were all fortunate in being able recently to spend more than a year
together as a family in India. This turned out to be the mos
profitable in this interdisciplinary line; it was also good fun.

You pay a price for the experiences and joys of moving about,
It costs in getting settled, in digging roots, in becoming integrated
into a community. Jome and to a lesser degree I do play a role in
the local PTA, but we still feel we haven’t been able to do what we'd
like in community and religious activities. Our children are still
quite young; we hope the opportunities here are still ahead of us.

Looking at the whole, my years since 1934 have been good ones.
Mostly I’m thankful to my wife who has actually enjoyed our voy-
aging, all these costs notwithstanding. I frequently think of how
much I owe Harvard for furthering the interests and competence
that made my range of activities possible. Nor do I simply take for
granted the fortune of good health. In my places of work there seem
always to be tennis facilities, and I feel that my singles game 1s
actually better now than it was back at college. This year I’ve even
returned to squash, thanks to a chance re-acquaintance with another
classmate, Mike Lepie, who has kept at it all the time.

How glad we are that we’re back in Cambridge in this year of
our Twenty-fifth Reunion!

RALPH VINCENT MANCINI

 

HOME appress: 150 Lincoln Ave., Elizabeth, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 570 N. Broad St., Elizabeth, NJ.

BORN: July 23, 1912, Brooklyn, N.Y. parents: Eugene Mancini, Jessie Jerome.
PREPARED AT: Thomas Jefferson High School, Elizabeth, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934; LL.B. (Univ. of Newark).

MarrieD: Cecilia Boffa, June 17, 1942. CHILDREN: Cecilia Anne, Feb, 4, 1947;
Eugene, Aug. 31, 1948.

[ 884 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Attorney.
OFFICES HELD: President, Elizabeth Police Athletic League; member board

of directors, St. Elizabeth Hospital; former member and _ president,
Elizabeth Board of Works, Elizabeth Planning Board, member of board,
Elizabeth Visiting Nurse Association; former member, Northeastern New
Jersey Rent Advisory Board (by appointment of the governor); chairman,
Elizabeth Charter Study Association; member, officer and campaign chair-
man, Cancer, Red Cross, Polio Fund Drives.

MEMBER OF: American Legion; Harvard Club of New Jersey; American, New
Jersey State and Union County Bar Associations,

ROBERT MANDEL

 

HOME ADDRESS; 7003 Woodland Ave., Takoma Park 12, Md.
OFFICE appREsS: Dept. of Justice, Washington 25, D.C.
BORN: Nov. 20, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: Joseph Mandel, Helen Gold-

schmidt.
PREPARED AT: Franklin School, New York, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1934; LL.B. (Columbia

Univ.), 1937.
MarRiED: Abby Jane Woodle, Dec. 14, 1946, Ridley Park, Pa. cump: Helen

Jenner, Feb. 4, 1958.
occuPaTION: Lawyer, Government Claims Section, Civil Division, U.S. Depart-

ment of Justice.
MEMBER OF: American, Federal and Cleveland Bar Associations; United World

Federalists; Spring Park Community Association; Takoma Park Independ-

ence Day Committee, Inc.
PusBLicaTions: Articles in Columbia Law Review.

LAW practice was always my ambition from high school on. I did
enter that profession; and I have remained in it. My first five years
were in private practice, since then I have been a government lawyer.
It is a paradox that, although I am chiefly an office lawyer, and I
seldom appear in court, I have obtained admission to practice in

[ 885 ]

RO SRD ET ON Fe

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

the state courts of New York and Ohio, the federal courts of the
District of Columbia and Northern Ohio, the U.S. Supreme Court,

two federal Courts of Appeal, the Tax Court and the Court of
Claims.

On graduating from law school, I went to work for a law firm
in Cleveland which represented the liquidator of a closed bank.
After some eighteen months, the fortunes of politics caused the firm
to lose this account, and I was Jet out. After several months’ un-
employment, I went to work for another law firm in Cleveland,
this time in general civil practice. In January, 1942, I joined the
legal staff of the Office of Price Administration, Cleveland Regional
Office, where I spent a hectic year and worked more overtime than
in any other phase of my career. At the end of 1942, I transferred
to OPA’s Washington headquarters. In May, 1943, I moved to the
Petroleum Administration for War, where I was of counsel to the
Refining Division. At that stage, I often wished that I had gone
bevond Chemistry A in my undergraduate days. The Petroleum
Administration was an interesting interlude, in that most of the men
there were “on loan” from their regular jobs in oil companies. This
contact enabled me, already resolved on a career in government
service, to learn something about the industry point of view.

In July, 1944, [ transferred to the Department of Justice, where
I have worked ever since, in what was then the Claims Division,
but was later renamed the Civil Division. At first I worked on war
fraud cases, then on renegotiation cases. Since June, 1949, 1 have
been in the Government Claims Section, which is concerned with
collecting money owed to the government. Ours is a residual juris-
diction; there are more specialized parts of the department to handle
taxcs, anti-trust, patents, admiralty, and so forth, and we handle
whatever does not fall within such special subjects. As I said at
the beginning, it is an office practice; the actual court appearances
are usually handled by our local representatives, the United States
Attorneys. In recent years, I have had some interesting claims
against debtors in foreign countries. Local attorneys are retained;
and I correspond with them, but so far I have not wangled any trips
abroad at the expense of you taxpayers.

During World War II, the Selective Service rejected me because
of lung scars. Thus my contribution to the war effort was far from
the combat zone. In addition to the work I did in wartime govern-
ment agencies, I folded bandages for the Red Cross, and served as a
volunteer orderly in a hospital. Although the Coast Guard rejected

[ 886 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

me for enlistment, I later got into its Volunteer Port Security
Force. Members of that organization received no pay (we kept our
civilian jobs and were Coast Guardsmen in our spare time), but we
received food and lodging while on duty, and had the honor of
wearing the uniform. We patrolled the Potomac in the Washington
area, day and night; but if any Nazi spies or saboteurs penetrated
that far, we failed to catch them.

I have held various offices in our local civic association, including
president; and I have been an officer in other civic groups. One
that often involves frenzied activity is the post of fireworks director
of the group that puts on our July Fourth celebration. I have rung
doorbells for all sorts of charity drives and similar causes. For
several years, I have led discussion groups for the American Founda-
tion for Political Education. As a federal employee, I am debarred
by the Hatch Act from political activity; but the small suburban
city I live in has been exempted from the ban by the Civil Service
Commission, so I dabble a bit in city politics. My main organiza-
tional interest has been, and still is, in the United World Federalists,
as I strongly believe that the human race will exterminate itself with
nuclear weapons, unless a system of world government is worked
out. I have held various offices, including chairman, in the Wash-
ington Chapter and the Central Atlantic Region of United World

Federalists.

I did not marry until 1946 and did not father a child until 1958.
When the statistics in this book are “totted” up, it may turn out
that I am entitled to an award as “Slowest Starter, Class of 1934.”

SEATON WESLEY MANNING

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1032 Gilman Ave., San Francisco 24, Calif.

[ 887 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934
OFFICE ADDRESS: San Francisco Urban League, Inc., 2015 Steiner St., San Fran.
cisco 15, Calif,

BORN: July 21, 1912, Kingston, Jamaica, B.W.I. parents: Edward Sigesmond
Manning, Catherine Amanda Scully.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., cur laude, 1934; A.M. (Boston
Univ.), 1938.

MarrieD: Eugenia Elizabeth Alexander, Sept. 3, 1938, Boston, Mass. cuitprey;
Hayes Edward and Catherine Eugenia (twins), April 18, 1940.

occuPATION: Social worker; executive director, San Francisco Urban League,
associate professor of social welfare, San Francisco State College.

OFFICES HELD: Third vice-president, American Association of Social Workers,
1952-54; first vice-president, National Association of Social Workers,
1955-56; member, board of directors, Community Chest of San Francisco,
1955-56; member, Governor’s Commission to Survey the Agricultural
Labor Resources of the San Joaquin Valley, 1949-51; member executive
committee, American Civil Liberties Union of North California.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Social Workers; National Conference on
Social Welfare; California Conference on Social Welfare; National As-

sociation for the Advancement of Colored People; Council for Civic
Unity of San Francisco.

pusnicaTions: Negro Trade Unionists in Boston, The Colored Worker in New
England; British West Indians in the United States.

THE twenty-five years since graduation have not been marked by
either great triumphs or great crises. There have been, however,
moments of great personal satisfaction, emotional highlights in a
career which has been, for the most part, undramatic but not drab.
To list them in the order of their occurrence, there was, first of
all, my marriage to a Radcliffe woman with whom I have spent
twenty rewarding years; the birth of our twins and the delight of
watching them grow from infantile helplessness to their present
status as college freshmen; receiving the award of the California
Conference of Social Work for outstanding contributions to the
field of social welfare in California; my recent year in India with
my family, as a consultant in social welfare education.

My work for the past eight years (not counting the year in
India) has been a combination of directing a social service agency
and teaching social work in an undergraduate institution, I find
the two functions complementary. There is much to be said for
having one foot in teaching and the other in practice.

When I am not teaching or at my desk in the agency, life for me
is a seemingly unending round of meetings, conferences, institutes
and workshops. Yet my wife and I have managed to become ac-
quainted with that ancient musical instrument, the recorder, From

[ 888 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

time to time, we play with a group which calls itself the Lethal
Chamber Music Society. The essential requirement for membership
is that one must have no talent. And that just about describes us.

GEORGE MANOUSOS

 

ADDRESS: 322 Commonwealth Ave., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

BoRN: January 29, 1910, Calamata, Greece. parENTS: Athaus Manousos, Despina
Marianon.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931,

MarrieD: Demetra Carcasio, April 19, 1936, Boston, Mass. cHip: Virginia.

OCCUPATION: Business.

NO questionnaire returned.

ANDREW MARSHALL, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1329 Wood Ave., Colorado Springs, Colo.

[ 889 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

OFFICE apprEss: Union Land & Grazing Co., 1329 Wood Ave, Colorado

Springs, Colo.

BORN: Aug. 16, 1912, Gloucester, Mass. PARENTS: Andrew Marshall, LL.B, ‘04,
Jessie Ames.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
_ YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

marrigD: Lee McKean, June 5, 1936, Beverly Farms, Mass. (died Dee. 28
1943); Margaret F. Lincoln Sayre, March 9, 1946, Hanover, N.H. cutorey;
Ford Kent Sayre, Jr., Dec. 27, 1935 (a. Sarah Franklin Parsons, June 21,
1957); Margaret Fisher Sayre, Sept. 7, 1937; Robert Heysham Sayre, Nov.
3. 1939 (children of present wife by her previous marriage); Andrew, 34,

Jan. 28, 1938; Lee McKean, Oct. 27, 1940 (by first marriage); Ellen Butler,
June 24, 1947. GRANDCHILD: Ford Kent Sayre, 3d, Oct. 25, 1958.
HARVARD BROTHER: Malcolm Marshall, ’q1.

occupation: Cattle rancher; treasurer and general manager, Union Land &
Grazing Company.

MEMBER OF: Rocky Mountain Harvard Club; The Schussverein; Cheyenne
Mountain Country Club; Broadmoor Golf Club.

AS I remember it, graduating from Harvard and going to work in
1934 felt something like getting out of a warm bed on a cold morn-
ing. At least, the textile industry was cold that year and for several
more to come. I spent a year in a worsted mill in Lowell, then
moved into the Boston office of J. P. Stevens & Company, and sold
cotton goods around New England until the end of 1940. Lee Mc-
Kean and I were married in 1936 and we lived happily in Boston
and on the North Shore during these years, having two children,
expecting more, working and playing hard.
I had been in Battery A of the rorst F.A. for some years and
had just been commissioned when we were put on active duty in
January of 1941. We went on southern maneuvers that autumn and

while we were there, my own pleasant world fell to pieces when

the doctors found that Lee had cancer. The Army, which at that
time was still small enough to be merciful, ordered me to Harvard

as an ROTC instructor, allowing us to be together for the next fif-
teen months. I was then ordered to the 13th Armored Division,
with which I spent the rest of my service. Brave and lovely Lee
put up a tremendous fight against her illness, but lost, and died in late
1943. Our children went to live with one of my sisters and her
family and the Army absorbed me completely. It took me on up
through the more interesting jobs in an Armored Field Artillery
Battalion, in this country and the ETO, until late 1945 when I was
released from active service.

It seemed better not to go back alone into the former scheme of

[ 890 ]

epee
mavexryeincnrsis i
peeve ten MEANT ASE AI:

eee pew srmaternnes

werinerein print vores ett
ge BO IR EME “
Le AEE ITER

prprretnaneponne pene

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

*

things and, after looking around New England for something else,
I bought (with some friends) a small frozen food business in Han-
over, New Hampshire. This went well at first but, as the larger food
concerns became more active in frozen foods, it became harder and
harder to make a profit, and seven-day work weeks are hard to
take when you are not making money. I went to work for the
Dartmouth Savings Bank, and we later sold the frozen food business.

Peggy and Ford Sayre (Dartmouth ’33) had been managing the
Hanover Inn for Dartmouth College when Ford was called into the
Air Force. He was killed in a crash in 1944, and Peggy, who had
three children, continued to manage the Inn, We met when I
arrived in Hanover and were married four months later with our
five children sitting in the front pew. The sixth, Ellen, was born
a couple of years later. Our principal extra-curricular interest in
Hanover was helping to run the Ford K. Sayre Memorial Ski Pro-
gram. Ford had been the moving spirit in a program which gave
free ski lessons to hundreds of children in the area and it was con-
tinued after his death as a memorial, which is still going strong.

The directors of a family corporation, The Union Land and
Grazing Company, asked me in 1950 to move west and act as treas-
urer of the company which was having some of the troubles often
connected with absentee ownership. After much discussion, and with
many misgivings, we decided to do so. We moved to Colorado
Springs and have been here ever since. The company operates two
large ranches, one in New Mexico and one in Colorado, running a
commercial Hereford herd. We live on the New Mexico ranch in
summer, during the rest of the year I divide my time between of-
fice work and frequent trips to both ranches. The job is both de-
manding and fascinating, and if I had my choice of any other job
in the country, I can’t think of one which I would choose over this.

Our avocations are skiing, a little golf, a good deal of photog-
raphy, a lot of reading. Skiing has been very good for our combined
family; Peggy and I had both done a lot before our marriage and it
has drawn us and our various combinations of children together as
perhaps nothing else might have done.

Five of the children are in college this year, plus a daughter-in-
law and a grandson. Ellen is in boarding school, and Peggy and I,
alone in the house, find ourselves with time on our hands — time to
Start catching up on some of the things which have slipped by us
during this up-and-down, bright-and-dark, long-and-short twenty-
five years.

[ 891 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

EDWIN BATEMAN MARSHALL

  

HOME AppRESS: 173 Forest St., Winchester, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Af, Steinert & Sons Co., 162 Boylston St., Boston 16, Mass.

BorN: March 14, 1912, South Portland, Maine. parents: Laurence Leonard
Marshall, Eloise Sprague Bateman.

PREPARED AT: South Portland High School, South Portland, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. 1934.

MarriED: Carolyn S. Packard, Dec. 31, 1940, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Nanette
Ruth, May 12, 1942; Glen Fabyan, July 10, 1946.

OccUPATION: Salesman of organs and pianos, M. Steinert & Sons Company.

MEMBER OF: William Parkman Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Harvard Club of Eastern
Middlesex; Tandem Club, Parish of the Epiphany, Winchester, American
Guild of Organists; AAA. —

GRADUATING from college, in the depths of what has been con-
ceded to be a major depression, posed a few problems as far as
earning a living was concerned. I fell back on a hobby, piano-
playing, and earned a respectable income for several years. In 1936,
I worked a season as a junior accountant, repeated in 1937, and
finally latched onto a more steady position in 1938, as a statistician
with the American Mutual Liability Insurance Company. | ad-
vanced slowly to supervisory work, but kept up the piano-playing
to provide champagne and caviar.

In December, 1942, I enlisted in the Naval Reserve, was called to
active duty immediately and served until October of 1945. After
oeing born on the seacoast, having lived on the coast all my life, |
‘ound myself shipped 1000 miles inland by the Navy. Here I utilized
ay background in mathematics and was retained as an instructor for
Il three years, in Michigan City, Indiana. I returned to American
futual, found the income inadequate, resigned to accept an opportu-
ity offered by M. Steinert & Sons. I] had always shunned selling, but

[ 892 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

now, after twelve years of it, I would never want to do anything

else. I am principally concerned with sales of electronic organs,

Hammond and Allen, but am able to find a piano for a friend now
and then. I am still playing for dances occasionally and with some
of the same musicians I had in 1934, with the Crimson Club Orches-
tra. We find that most of our audiences ask for the same songs we
played then; this is because we choose to play for people in our

general age group.
Among the many advantages Harvard has bestowed on me, di-

rectly or indirectly, I am most proud of and happy with my wife.

I met her while playing piano for rehearsals of the Twenty-fifth
Reunion of the Class of 1912, of which her father is a member. This
class staged a superb musical revue, and she was one of the young
daughters who sang and danced. Her father is Dr. Fabyan Packard,
who, for seventeen years, had charge of the clinic at the Harvard
Business School. We ‘“‘dated”’ for three years and finally went to the
altar on New Year’s Eve, December 31, 1940. This is one anniversary
which is not easy to forget! We have been blessed with two
wonderful children, a girl aged sixteen and a boy aged twelve. Glen
talks of going to Harvard and we hope sincerely that he can. Nanette
has chosen, one by one, all the expensive colleges in the country.
My wife is currently second vice-regent in the Boston Tea Party
Chapter of the D.A.R., having located a revolutionary ancestor
interred in Kent’s Hill, Maine. We are officers in the Tandem Club
(an adult social group at our church), and try to use as much of our
time as we can to enjoy things together. We moved nine times in
the first eight years of our marriage, but have completed nine years
in one place to compensate.

Our political sympathies are largely with the Republicans, but
we vote more for the man than for the party. While I was brought
up a Baptist, I had to give it up because I found it was against my
religion. My wife is Episcopalian, so we embraced this denomina-
tion, possibly because her brother is a priest in the church. We are
both very fortunate, at this writing, in having all parents living, so
our children enjoy a full quota of doting grandparents.

While we have, as a matter of course, many unfulfilled wants,
we feel that life has been good to us in that we enjoy good health
and general well-being. We try to be good to life right back.

[ 893 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934.

IAN CAMPBELL MARTIN

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 40 Sherwood Drive, Westport, Conn.
BorN: April 29, 1912, Glasgow, Scotland.
Violet Gilmour.
PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, New York, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.
marriED: Inge Adams, Jan. 17, 1942, Greenwich, Conn, cuiwpren: Kip, Dec.
17, 1942; Toby, Aug. 20, 1945.

ICCUPATION: Actor; writer-director.

DFFICES HELD: Appeared in over 5000 radio shows on all major networks; over
soo TV shows; Broadway plays include “Finian’s Rainbow,” “The Devil's
Disciple,” “Captain Brassbound’s Conversion,” “The King of Friday's
Men,” “Cock-a-doodle-dandy.”

(EMBER OF: American Federation of Radio and TV Artistes, Actor’s Equity
Association; Writers’ Guild East; Screen Actors’ Guild, Radio and Tele-
vision Directors Guild.

BLICATIONS: Over fifty short stories, some three or four hundred TV and
radio dramas.

PARENTS: George Henry Martin,

NCE I left college after my freshman year, there will be few
assmates who have reason to recall me. With the exception, that
of the editors of this publication who have been on my tail to
cord my history. I went directly into the theatre and have never
rretted it for an instant —nor left it, for that matter, except for
ee years in the Air Force during 1943-44 and 1945. Even there
ontinued as an actor and an entertainer. |
am a free-lance, foot-loose and fancy-free, and more than oc-
onally flat broke. At the moment I am writing more than act-
a fact that has kept this paragraph short. To those few who
ember me, my sincere regards; to the multitude who don’t, my
wishes, I had a wonderful year at Harvard — am SOIry it
dn’t have been the full term of four. To the Harvard Club of

[ 894 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

New York, who made even that one year possible, my profound

thanks.

JOHN ARTHUR MARTIN

 

HOME apprEss: 14 Mansfield Ave., Norton, Mass.
OFFICE AppRESsS: Wheaton College, Norton, Mass.
BORN: Dec. 11, 1912, Westmount, Montreal, P.Q., Canada. parents: John James

Martin, Harriet Hewitt.
PREPARED AT: Mfoses Brown School, Providence, R.I.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., su7mia cum laude, 1934; A.M., 19365

S.T-B., C471 laude, 1939; 8.T.M., 19413 TH-Dy 1947.
MaRRIED: Virginia Knowles Crosby, Sept. 17, 1938, Milton, Mass. cHtLpren:
Helen Knowles, Oct. 19, 1940; Elizabeth, May 8, 1945; William Henry,
Nov. 6, 1947; Kenneth Hewitt, June 28, 1951.
HARVARD BROTHER: Paul Thomas Martin, s.7.B., '34.
OccUPATION: Professor of religion, head of department, Wheaton College.
MEMBER OF: National Association of Bible Instructors; Association for Realistic
Philosophy; Phi Beta Kappa (Harvard Chapter); Religious Education As-

sociation.
PUBLICATIONS: Chapter in The Return to Reason.

PROBABLY all of us are a bit startled to discover that we have been
out of college for a quarter of a century; as for myself this discovery
is all the more startling because I have not been away from Harvard
for all of these twenty-five years. Half of this period I was doing
graduate work at the University. The first year after our Com-
mencement I was in Europe, studying somewhat at Berlin and
Heidelberg and traveling about the continent. In the fall of 1935,
I was back at Cambridge working for my Master’s degree in phi-
losophy. With that safely nailed down, I spent the summer of 1936
as a student minister in Maine (my third summer as such), and when
I returned to the Yard I found myself irresistibly drawn to the

[ 895 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

All this seems to me to be but the manifestation in the area of religion
of an attitude which is quite generally characteristic of the present
college generation. As I compare my college contemporaries (at least
as I remember us) with my present students, I should say that we
were more eager to be critical than are the present collegians. The
latter are eager for answers and uninterested in questions. They are
not particularly insistent that the answers be infallibly true; they
are eager that the answers will enable them to fit into their im-
mediate society. Perhaps we, without knowing it, had a security
they lack; there! [ve used the watchword of the age. Probably
there is a rhythm about these things, and the cantankerous, critical,
quarrelsome generation of college students will be with us again for
our Fiftieth Reunion.

During the intervening twenty-five years I anticipate teaching
batch after batch of students, talking to them about religion, reading
their bluebooks and papers, correcting their miserable spelling and
worse composition, and rejoicing occasionally in a gem mixed in
with all the colored glass, finding relief from the boredom and
tedium of work in my family and in a few hobbies. My earliest
hobby — stamp-collecting (I never can spell the tony “ph” word
for it) —still continues as my number one hobby, although |
neglect it for months on end. I have tried to develop other hobbies,
gardening and piano-playing to mention two, the former shows
signs of growing into something, the latter withered on the vine,
much to the relief of my family. I like to travel, and if the salaries
of college professors were better, I could make a hobby of travel.
But my last trip to Europe (taken on sabbatical leave in 1957) made

me realize that in traveling I want more creature comforts, less
roughing it, than I did during my Wanderjahr as a Sheldon fellow.

[ 898 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

KENNETH McGEOCH MARTIN, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 626 Grove St., Framingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1 Wall St., Framingham, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 30, 1907, Keene, N.H. Parents: Kenneth McGeoch Martin, ’oo,
Frances Mary Morse.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass., New Preparatory School,
Cambridge, Mass.; Westminster School, Westminster, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.

MARRIED: Virginia Caldwell Hodder, Oct. 19, 1931, Framingham, Mass. cHt-
DREN: Judith Alden, July 28, 1932 (2. Ted Lewis Moore); Kate, Sept. 27,
1937; Penelope Clark, Dec. 31, 1938; Kenneth McGeoch, 3d, Feb. 13,
1946. GRANDCHILD: Katherine Rile Moore, May 27, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Francis A. Martin, °32; Roger H. Martin, °34.

OCCUPATION: Farmer and mailman.

ROGER HARPER MARTIN

¥
¥

   

HOME ADDRESS: 1238 Canton Ave., Milton 86, Mass.
OFFICE appREss; Westinghouse Electric Corp., Sturtevant Division, Hyde Park
36, Mass.

[ 899 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

BoRN: March 3, 1912, Keene, N.H. PARENTS: Kenneth McGeoch Martin, ? 00,
Frances Mary Morse.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933. DEGREE: A.B. cunt laude, 1934.

marrieD: Sylvia Jean Leach, June 6, 1936, Concord, N.H. CHILDREN: Roger
Harper, Jr., Nov. 28, 1938; Star, March 3, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Francis Alden Martin, ’32, Kenneth McGeoch Martin, Jr. "34.

occupation: Manager of transportation and marine sales, Westinghouse Electric
Corporation, Sturtevant Division, manufacturers of air handling equipment.

OFFICES HELD: Town Meeting Member, since 1942, member, warrant committee,
1955-57, Lown of Milton.

MEMBER OF: Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers, American So-
ciety of Naval Engineers.

. AS a matter of financial necessity, I graduated from Harvard College
in three years and went to work for the B. F. Sturtevant Company
in Hyde Park, Massachusetts, for fifteen dollars a week. I have
just comp leted twenty-five years of continuous service which has
entitled me to a fifteen-year service pin for my coat lapel and a three
weeks’ vacation.

Sturtevant was a small family-owned concern which offered an
opportunity for a bright future. However, in 1945, the business
was bought by Westinghouse. I have always liked the operation
of a small business with friendly associations as contrasted to the
impartial and impersonal workings of a big machine with its business
politics and personnel insincerities. I have thought many times of
looking for other sources of revenue, but find it hard to part with the
dubious security that long service with a large corporation can
afford.

Several years ago I developed an interest in surf-casting for striped
bass, which led me to buying land on Cape Cod and building a
summer place. T’o date, I have spent large sums of money in prepara-
tion but have not as yet caught my first bass.

In 1936 I married a Westover graduate and moved to Milton,
Massachusetts, to live. Both my children have graduated from
Milton Academy and are now in college, one a junior at Williams,
and the other a freshman at Skidmore.

[ 900 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALEXANDER BURR MARVIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 129 E. 61st St., New York 21, N.Y.

BORN: July 7, 1911, York, Maine. Parents: Alexander Burr Marvin, Minna
Jones.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

UNMARRIED,

occuPaTION: Representative for several graphic arts manufacturing companies,
in selling graphic arts to advertising agencies.

DURING the past fifteen years I have lived variously in Buffalo,
New York, Indiana, Baltimore and New York City. Since my job
is neither very lucrative nor demanding of time, I spend most of
my time duck-hunting and fishing in season and beachcombing.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 220 Martroy Lane, Wallingford, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Worden & Risberg, F idelity-Philadelphia Trust Bldg., Philadel-
phia 9, Pa.

[or ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

BorN: Dec. 29, 1912, Cleveland, Ohio, pareNts: Vaclav George Mateyo, Mary
Slapnicka.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: S.B., magna cum laude, 1934; MBa,
cum laude, 1936.

marrieD: Harriet Redfern, Aug. 31, 1940, Ravenna, Ohio. cHILDREN: George
Redfern, May 18, 1942; Anne, Aug. 14, 1945.

occupaTION: Management consultant, Worden & Risberg.

MEMBER OF: American Marketing Association; Harvard Club of Philadelphia,

Harvard Business School Club of Philadelphia, Amateur Chamber Music
Players; Crater Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in various trade journals— Journal of Marketing,
American Exporter, Printers Ink, etc.

CREATURES of habit — that’s what we are. Here we are accepting
the notion that a Twenty-fifth Reunion should be the “big” one;
yet, now that geriatrics is so fashionable, perhaps we’re at the stage
where the first “big” one will be the Thirty-fifth or maybe even the
Fiftieth. But seriously, the years since 1934 have treated me well.
Measured in terms of the number of titles, dollars or oil wells ac-
quired, I can offer nothing exciting; but measured in terms of family,
job and general living satisfaction, I have a really exciting story to
tell. . . . Ican tell it with a clear conscience.

First, I should explain what I am not, because our graduation book
stated that I was headed for the law. Actually, I was admitted to
both the law and the business schools in 1934, and my choice of the
latter was probably the second best decision I’ve made in my life.
The first, obviously, was the selection of a certain Radcliffe graduate
for my wife.

I left the “B” School definitely committed to the thought of
becoming a marketing and management consultant; and all I had to
do was to follow the advice of school professors and “kick around”
for a number of years before trying to consult. So this I did; and I
took particular care to select jobs on the basis of the character of the
man running the company rather than the job itself. This led me to
spend time first with Ted Streibert, then president of Mutual Broad-
casting System; and subsequently with Frank Stanton, president of
CBS. During some evenings of those New York years, I was in-
structor in marketing and advertising at the School of Commerce
of New York University. Marriage in 1940 put an end to the eve-
ning teaching. Members of our wedding party included classmates
Richard Glove, Kayler Jenkins and Willard Jones.

I didn’t have a chance to fight in the war because I had my own

[902 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

private war. In 1942 I was suddenly struck down with an illness
starting from a ruptured appendix and spent a year getting ac-
quainted with hospitals, operating room techniques and the seamier
side of the medical profession, This gave me pause to think that the
time had come to enter consulting; and as soon as I regained the
eighty-five or so pounds that had been lost, I did. I became associated
with McKinsey & Company in New York and stayed for seven
years. We lived in Mamaroneck during this period and entered
actively into community and church affairs.

It was Harvard friends who wrenched us from the East and con-
sulting and urged us to join the materialists at Ford and Detroit.
Ford was a highly worth-while and financially rewarding interval.
I was in charge of budgeting and cost analysis at the Ford Division
for several years, and this furnished me with much administrative
and management control experience. Living in Detroit, however,
was anything but worth while. We learned that friendship in that
area is measured essentially in greenbacks and length of fender fins.
Our decision to return East was made simultaneously with my de-
cision to return to consulting. First, we chose suburban Philadelphia
as the place to live, and we are once again in a small town. I had
intended to “go it alone,” but fate intervened when I ran into two
men who had organized a firm in 1946, and I joined them. We now
have offices in Philadelphia and San Francisco.

My business covers the whole range of marketing and sales
activities and general corporate organization matters as well. I
conduct studies for boards of directors and for company manage-
ments; help to run companies for which we as a firm have been given
complete operating responsibility; serve as personal adviser to com-
pany executives on recruiting matters and on hosts of other subjects;
and supervise the development of marketing programs.

The rest of the story is the most exciting and the most boring to
anyone but myself, because it concerns my family. Our vacations
are spent at Crater Club at Essex on Lake Champlain (where I
started going in 1932 as the fiddler in a Harvard String Trio made
up of classmates Ed Lawton and Kayler Jenkins). My son has been
going to a camp in the same area and will be a counselor there this
coming summer. My daughter plays the clarinet in the high school
band, takes piano lessons and is a first-class student.

We have been to Bermuda but are postponing our travels until
the children are in college. Hobbies are reading of non-fiction and
music, especially playing duets with my wife at the piano (we are

[ 903 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

now working on the Dvorak and Fauré violin sonatas). I have
been a member of various chamber music groups and in Detroit
played with the University of Michigan orchestra. One of the
reasons for living in Philadelphia is the symphony, for which we
have had season tickets. My athletics are confined to tennis, swim-
ming and suitcase-lugging. Aside from the normal run of com-
munity activities — teaching Sunday School, wheedling people to
serve On committees, serving on committees, collecting fifty-cent
dollars for fund drives, etc. — I have little else to report.

OWEN FRANKLIN MATTHEWS

 

HOME appress: West Main Street, Hillsboro, N.H.

BORN: Dec. 25, 1911, Boothbay Harbor, Maine.
Matthews, Virginia W. Matthews.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. 1934.

marriep: Ethel M. Glynn, Aug. 30, 1940, Boston, Mass. cHiLDREN: Virginia
Ethel, May 13, 1941; Raymond Francis, Aug. 6, 1943; Esther Mary, Aug.
23, 1945; Charlotte Patricia, Feb. 22, 1947; Ruth Holly, Dec. 23, 1949.

occupation: Home baking wholesaler.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary to Boston District Manager, 1942-47, salesman,

Framingham, Mass., 1947-50, Boston, 1950-53, Armour & Company.
MEMBER OF: Knights of Columbus, Keene, N.H.

PARENTS: Russell Vaughan

AFTER four years of tossing about on the sea of life, I finally landed
in a steady job with Armour & Company in Boston, in June, 1938.
I tried to be a career man with Armour, working up through the
district office to be secretary to the district manager during the war
years. After the war I entered the sales field with Armour, moving
to Framingham. In 1950 the Framingham branch was closed and I

[ 904 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

was moved back to Boston and was salesman in the Belmont-
Waltham-Newton area for some time.

In 1953, changing conditions in the packinghouse business
(brought about by the growth of large chain supermarkets and the
shrinking number of independent grocers) forced me to make an
“agonizing reappraisal” of the situation. Although I had been a
devoted employee of Armour & Company for fifteen years, I decided
to leave and try my luck elsewhere.

We had purchased a house in Hillsboro, New Hampshire, in 1949
and had spent summers there. In September, 1953, we moved here
permanently and began a venture, suggested by my wife, and ex-
panded through my years of experience in calling on stores. We
manufacture a completely hand-made doughnut, package and label
it and distribute to stores throughout this area, covering Keene,
Jaffrey, Greenfield, New Ipswich and New Boston. It may not
sound impressive, but we are proud of our product and the demand
for it. Our sales run close to $11,000 per year, and that is a lot of
production for just two people.

We have five children. Four are in school. Our oldest, Virginia,
aged seventeen, graduated from high school this year. She is cur-
rently working at Sears in Concord, New Hampshire.

My chief hobby is trying to make my income equal my outgo.
I was not involved in the war, due to the highest draft number I
could draw and some exemptions.

In looking back to Harvard days, I believe that I could have
benefited from some personal guidance. Many of my early difh-
culties resulted from a paralyzing fear of meeting and talking with
strangers. This was a heartbreaking handicap back in the depression
years. It took me twelve years to meet and solve this problem. I
hope that today’s guidance programs are helping young men and
women whose progress is hampered by personality problems.

[ go5 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

KENTON CHRISTY MAYSE

 

LAST KNOWN abpreEss: St. Regis Hotel, Fifth Avenue, San Diego, Calif.

BorN: Aug. 4, 1910, Peoria, Okla. PARENTS: Harrison Archibald Mayse, Margaret
Starr.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931, 1932-1933. DEGREE: B.A.E. (Univ. of Florida),
1948,

marrieD: Audrie Griffiths, Dec. 28, 1935, Torrington, Conn. (divorced 1945).
CHILD: Francis, April 1, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Education.

MAYSE has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since 1953.

SEDGWICK MEAD

 

HOME appkess: 1530 Arlington Blvd., El Cerrito, Calif.

OFFICE appress: California Rehabilitation Center, 2600 Alameda St., Vallejo, Calif.

BORN: July 2, 1911, Guymon, Okla. parents: Redmond Boyd Corbett, Bertha
Maybell Hunter.

PREPARED AT: Flagstaff High School, Flagstaff, Ariz.; Tempe Union High

School, Tempe, Ariz.
[ 906 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREES: S.B., Cun laude, 1934; M.D., 1938.

MARRIED: Marjorie Frances Chick, Sept. 22, 1940, North Berwick, Maine.
CHILDREN: Sedgwick, Jr., Jan. 18, 1943; Marshall, Oct. 30, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Physician, psychiatrist, medical director, Rehabilitation Center;
consultant in neurology, Kaiser Foundation Hospitals; consultant, Letter-
man and Brooke Army Hospitals and Crippled Children Services, State of
California.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Division of Physical Medicine, assistant professor, as-
sociate professor, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis,
Mo., December, 1947, to June, 1954; Lieutenant colonel, Medical Corps,
US. Army Reserve.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American Association for Advance-
ment of Science; New York Academy of Sciences; American Academy
of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation; American Academy for Cerebral
Palsy; American Academy of Neurology (associate); Association of
Military Surgeons; Gerontological Society, Inc.

pusLicaTions: More than thirty-five scientific articles and book chapters in the
medical literature; chiefly on physiology, neurology, physical medicine
and rehabilitation.

ONE might almost say that I never went to Harvard. I was in-
adequately prepared by high school experience and one year at the
University of Arizona, and by the lack of a family tradition of
higher education. A combination of shyness and stubborn pride
kept me away from social contacts with my peers. Although cor-
rectly advised not to concentrate too much in scientific subjects, I
skimped on the humanities in my passion to be thoroughly prepared
for medicine. I had not the courage to take some advanced courses
from personages like Kittredge and Whitehead; I declined the
privilege of hearing Copey read; I barely scraped acquaintance with
Dean Briggs of the rusty umbrella, L. J. Henderson was a vivid
disappointment, but then I should record the pleasure of hearing
G. H. Parker, G. H. Edgell and André Morize. I got more of the
values that the University represents from places like Symphony
Hall and the Museum of Fine Arts than from the College. Some of
the blame belongs with my tutors and advisers, none of whom made
much of a real effort to find out what I lacked, but most of it belongs
to me. : |

In contrast to this dreary time, my four years at Harvard Medical
School were happy indeed. Study time was redoubled, and social
life as constricted as before. I should have got to know the 125 men
in the class intimately, but by now the solitary habit was confirmed.
I plunged happily into the empirical, approximate, descriptive
sciences of the Body of Man, under the illusion that somehow I was

[ 907 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

* THOMAS ASHER MEADE

 

porn: May 4, 1g10, Kirkville, Mo. Parents: Thomas Asher Meade, Zoe

Faddis.
PREPARED AT: Tabor Academy, Marion, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.
Marritp: Grace Springstead, Nov. 23, 1938, Champaign, Ill.

piktp: Nov. 10, 1947, Pullman, Wash,

wipow; Mrs. Thomas A. Meade, 5529 Kimbark Ave., Chicago, Ill.

AFTER graduation Meade attended the Business School for a year

and then spent several years in the business field. In 1938 he entered

the University of Ilinois Library School and at the time of our
Sexennial Report, he wrote that he was working toward a Ph.D. and
had a part-time job in the University Library. He was survived

by his wife.

DANIEL MELCHER

  

IME ADDRESS: 45 Dodd Sc. Montclair, N.J.
“FICE Apress: R. R, Bowker Co., 62 W. 45th St, New York 36, N.Y.

[912 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: July 10, 1912, Newton Center, Mass. parents: Frederic Gershon Melcher,
Marguerite Fellows.

PREPARED AT: Montclair High School, Montclair, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1034. DEGREE: A.B., cut laude, 1934.

MARRIED: Pegev Zimmerman, Feb. 19, 1937, Ridgewood, N.J. cxitp: Frederic
Gershon, 2d, Nov. 19, 1946.

occupation: General manager, R. R. Bowker Company, publishing firm,
specializing in trade papers and reference books for the book and library
fields,

OFFICES HELD: Director or trustee, Unity Church (Unitarian), Montclair, N.J.,
Child Study Association, Beacon Press, Boston, Mercantile Library, New

York City.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; American Civil Liberties Union.
PUBLICATIONS: Young Mr. Stone, Book Publisher, 1938 (a career novel for
young people about book publishing), The Printing and Promotion Hand-
book, 1948, revised edition, 1956 (a sort of propagandists’ bible); So You
Want to Get into Book Publishing (pamphlet, last revised 1957); various
articles for Publishers’ Weekly, Library Journal.

I HAD a ten-year plan, namely to work for a series of firms in a
variety of jobs for ten years, then set up my own publishing firm.
For my first year after graduation I lived in Europe working for
several book firms —I did layout for Allen & Unwin in London,
indexing for Simpkin Marshall, order picking for Koehler & Volck-
mar in Leipzig. Back home, I did a bit of selling for the University
of Chicago Press; was reader of unsolicited manuscripts and sender-
outer of review copies for Henry Holt & Company; sold the Holt
line to retailers in New York City and Philadelphia, did trade pro-
motion for Oxford University Press, becoming advertising man-
ager, then director of mail sales; was production manager and gen-
eral factotum for the Alliance Book Corporation; did publicity
and promotion for the Viking Juvenile Department.

After Pearl Harbor (I was 4-F), I went to the U.S. Treasury De-
partment, the War Savings Division, becoming national director of
the Education Section where my job was to promote the sale of
war bonds through schools and colleges and youth groups. The
kids were credited with selling two billion worth. High spots were
making symbolic presentations of jeeps, planes, etc., thus financed to
FDR and HST.

Became director of the National Committee on Atomic Informa-
tion, a group dedicated to saving the world from atomic holocaust
and having on its advisory committee Einstein, Oppenheimer, Urey
and Condon. Normally warring groups (religious, labor, fraternal,
political) were going to bury their differences and turn to face the

[913]

Sen ced

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

common danger. Somehow the differences did not stay buried.
High spot: a fund-raising telegram signed by Albert Einstein and
sent to a highly selected list of 1000 people —that raised over
$80,000! I then wrote a book for McGraw-Hill (jointly with
Nancy Larrick), mostly because the best possible way to learn
anything well is to write a book about it. This one was about print-
ing publicity, mail-order and all the other means of mass communi-
cation —a sort of encyclopedia for executive secretaries and other
propagandists. It has been through two editions and eight printings.

I then joined the R. R. Bowker Company, subsequently becoming
a director and general manager. Some of the Bowker publications
I had a hand in launching include: Books in Print, Subject Guide to
Books in Print, Paperbound Books in Print, Junior Libraries (a
magazine for school and public libraries) and Books from the U.S.A.
(a magazine going to all overseas booksellers and librarians). The
work has lots of variety —in recent weeks I have been trying to
work out a new profit-sharing plan, planning an experimental new
direct-mail campaign, trouble-shooting on the electric counting
mechanism we use for circulation analysis, entertaining publishers
from overseas, gathering material for a “Source Book on Book
Distribution in the U.S.A.” that I am trying to put together, and
trying to integrate into a single punched card system both our busi-
ness departments and our addressing operation.

Hobbies: reading, inventing, flying, skin-diving, skiing, wine-
tasting. Politics: I am a horrid example of what Robert Frost was
warning against when he wrote: “I never dared be radical when
young for fear it would make me conservative when old.”

[914]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT GORDON MELENDY

 

HOME appreEss: 17 Maugus Ave., Wellesley Hills, Mass.
BORN: Oct. 14, 1911, Pittsfield, Mass. parents: Melville Blanton Melendy,

Eleanor Chandler Davey.

PREPARED AT: Nantucket High School, Nantucket, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933.

MARRIED: Josephine Longworth Anderson Thacher, Dec. 14, 1946, Hoechst,
Germany. cHmprEN: Henrietta Thacher, Nov. 23, 1947; Robert Gordon,
Jr., May 26, 1949, Nicholas Longworth Anderson, March 25, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Public relations.

WHEN IT laid aside the textbooks, I went to work for the George
C. Frye Company, a Portland (Maine) dealer in physicians’ and
hospital supplies. After close to two years there, I thought I saw a
greater opportunity with Johnson & Johnson, who were large manu-
facturers in that same field. But three years of total hotel life proved
quite enough, so I switched into the Massachusetts Blue Cross or-
ganization, in whose behalf I spent a year near Boston helping set
up subscriber groups.

There then followed the World War II years. I was in the Army
from early 1941 to December, 1946, with service in the South Pacific,
Paris, France, Frankfurt, Germany, and its suburb, Hoechst. I was
fortunate enough in a most interesting variety of assignments to
progress from the rank of private to that of major at discharge.

Through these active Army years [ — along with many others —
nursed a sort of dream aim which I swore repeatedly I would make
real once I got back to civilian life. For better or for worse I did.
My wife and I thus bought the venerable Ipswich (Mass.) Chronicle,
a community weekly newspaper which had been established in 1872.
Thereupon, I became many things at once: the president and treas-
urer of a corporation, editor, publisher and advertising solicitor for

[915 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

one and, later, for two newspapers. It was quite an expericnce and
taught us both much during the five years we had the business — or
during which it had us.

Very shortly after we sold the Chronicle, I learned that at some
time in the past I had had tuberculosis. Although the lung area at-
tacked was not large in size, a sealed-in pocket of what might have
been active tuberculous matter was discovered. The best advice was
to undergo a long period of bed rest, medication, surgery, more bed
rest and medication. This I did. Since that time, I have been in-
volved in various activities, the latest of which found me in charge
of the public relations of the Massachusetts Memorial Hospitals in
Boston.

J am sure that I am more fortunate than most people in my wife,
my children, even my house. They are wonderful. It is not likely
that in the remainder of my life I shall be particularly spectacular.
I certainly hope not.

LESTER MERMELL

 

ADDRESS: 78 Watkins Ave., Middletown, N.Y.

BoRN: April 15, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: Harry Hyman Mermell,
Bertha Gottlieb.

PREPARED AT; Middletown High School, Middletown, N-Y,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1032.
OCCUPATION: Medicine.

NO questionnaire returned.

[916 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EUGENE WEBSTER MERRY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 122 Yorkshire Drive, Pittsburgh 8, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mine Safety Appliances Co., 201 N. Braddock Ave., Pittsburgh
8, Pa.

BORN: Oct. 14, 1912, lowa City, Iowa. parents: Glenn Newton Merry, Luella
Helen Eakins.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1934; M.B.A., cum laude,
1936.

MARRIED: Mary Sara Hall, May 12, 1941, Pittsburgh, Pa. cutLpren: Kathleen
Anne, Dec. 29, 1944; Helen Jeanne, Sept. 2, 1946; William Bruce, July 17,
1949 (died July 18, 1949); Susan Eileen, March 9, 1951; Sheila Marie,
March 4, 1955. -

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Watson Merry, ’34, M.B.A., "39, D.C.S., "43.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Industrial Products Group, Mine Safety Ap-
pliances Company, manufacturers of safety appliances for industrial, mining,
construction and military applications; general management of Safety
Products Division and Technical Products Division. .

MEMBER oF: American Marketing Association; American Statistical Associa-
tion; American Society of Safety Engineers; Veterans of Safety; Pittsburgh
Athletic Association; Longue Vue Club.

[917]

LCN were ya wore ae

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ROBERT WATSON MERRY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 41 Woodfall Rd., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Doctoral Program House, Harvard Business School, Soldiers
Field, Boston 63, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 29, 1913, Iowa City, Iowa. parents: Glenn Newton Merry, Luella
Helen Eakins.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931, 1932-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1934(35);
MB.A., Magna cum laude, 1939; D.C.S., 1943.

marriep: Kay Marguerite Bingold, April 15, 1936, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Marilyn Jo, Aug. 31, 1942; Glenn Woodruff, Nov. 15, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Eugene Webster Merry, ’34, M.B.a., 736.

occuPATION: Professor of Business Administration and director of Doctoral
Program, Harvard Business School; director, The Institute for College
and University Administrators, management consultant.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of directors, 1950-55, vice-president, 1952-53,
president, 1953-54, Boston Chapter, Society for Advancement of Manage-
ment; member of choir, Christ Lutheran Church, 1950-55, Centenary
Methodist Church, 1955-57; Cub Scout officer, 1953-55; member board of
trustees, Wentworth Institute, since 1956, member, administrative board,
1956-58, board of directors, since 1958, Cambridge Consultants.

MEMBER OF: Society for Advancement of Management; American Management
Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Sundry articles.

TRYING to keep with one full-time and two part-time jobs keeps
me happy, in hot water and mostly out of mischief! My work at
the Business School keeps me hopping during the academic year, the
Institute work comes mainly, but not entirely, in the summer, while
the business consulting continues throughout the year. But it’s loads
of fun and I really love everything that I am doing. This state of
euphoria is somewhat of a contrast to my undergraduate days.
During my freshman year I relaxed from the severe discipline of

[918 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

prep school and got by, but little more. Lack of money took me to
work (after several months of depression job-hunting) for a pub-
lishing house in New York City for the year 1931-32. Returning
to school in the fall of 1932, I found roommate assignments already
made and lived alone until my senior year when I roomed with two
fellows from the Class of 1936. Being an “out of course” student, I
saw few of my classmates in my classes. I felt pretty much out of
the stream of things and although I attended to work I found my
undergraduate days generally distasteful.

Within my first year after graduating I acquired a job and Kay.
I went to work for a different publishing company, subsequently
served a short term as assistant to the executive vice-president of
a hotel management chain and then had a similar job for a bank
president. Kay had worked for the same publishing company, then
the New York Public Library and finally a bank. One of our true
rackets and joys in this period was the frequent distribution to
library staff of tickets for dress rehearsals or beginning nights of
Broadway hits — shows that had not yet caught on and shows that
died the night we saw them!

In January of 1938, we entered the Business School M.B.A. Pro-
gram in a special session primarily of men with business experience.
I loved the challenge of the School and on receiving the degree ac-
cepted eagerly the invitation to remain on the staff; ['ve never re-
gretted the decision (for long!). During the last twenty years I’ve
capitalized on my business experience, increased it substantially, and
explored new fields extensively. Along the way I picked up a
doctorate. My Business School work has continually taken me into
business firms for case materials, for consulting work and for ex-
ecutive training programs. I’ve worked in the areas of finance and
banking, accounting and control, production engineering and or-
ganization, and business policy formulation and administration.

A major fascination in my work is the continual change, the new
problems, the constant learning (this time being paid for learning! ).
I have been so fortunate as to have taught in all six of our programs
at the Business School: the M.B.A. Program for young men plan-
ning business careers, the Doctoral Program for prospective teachers
and researchers, the Harvard-Radcliffe Program in Business Ad-
ministration for graduate girls planning to enter business, the Trade
Union Program for union executives, the Middle Management Pro-
gram for younger executives and the Advanced Management Pro-

gram for senior business executives.

[919]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

For the first time in years I am not teaching. In order to fulfill
what we believe to be our responsibility as a leading business school
to help provide teachers of business for the explosively expanding
student body choosing the business field, we have increased our
doctoral program over the last three years from about a dozen
candidates until this year we have more than one hundred fifty, each
studying an individualized program, This fall 1 took on the job as
director of the Doctoral Program to try to set up needed organiza-
tion, greatly extend curriculum, interest existing faculty in giving us
more time, recruit new faculty, raise money, expand student ap-
plications, spread the word to other colleges and the like.

About twenty per cent of my time has been given over to activi-
ties outside the Business School work; the combination package of
‘teaching and business consulting has been fascinating, delightful
and helpful to the pocketbook. The consulting work has been a
tremendously effective training ground for me, while at the same
time the companies reveal some satisfaction with the arrangement
too. For one J have been on retainer as a continuing consultant,
meeting with its executives monthly, for ten years now. For an-
other I gave a day a week for four years, serving during the last
year as chairman of its management committee until we could em-
ploy some new top management in which we had confidence. Many
other shorter, specific problem jobs have carried me into a variety
of industries and entrancing situations.

Among the most interesting of my experiences has been the work
of the last five years organizing and developing, until it is now well-
known among senior academic officers, The Institute for College and
University Administrators. Begun experimentally in 1954 at the re-
quest of the Carnegie Corporation, it grew out of a decision to
try a training institute for relatively new college presidents if as
many as fifteen would come. We received nearly one hundred fifty
applications and have been oversubscribed for our annual eight-day
session ever since. We have run five one-week sessions for student
personnel deans and shorter ones for senior trustees, holding the
meetings all over the country, and have begun sessions for academic
deans. More than six hundred academic administrators from nearly
four hundred institutions have participated in our work so far.

Unfortunately travel has kept me too much from my family. Kay
came to me already skilled beyond most experienced persons in the
art of cooking — plain or fancy. Meals have always been superb and
Tam much pampered. Her choir solo work for long was her greatest

[920 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

interest until a year ago a friend induced her into oil painting. Her
skill here has amazed us all and her fine work is beginning to sur-
round us, to our own joy and pleasure. Her sorrow of the moment
is my inability to continue, because of the existing work pressures
on my time, our common choir work, which I also enjoyed greatly.
Marilyn has developed considerable skill (but little enjoyment) in
household work and cooking, but derives her principal satisfactions
from painting and drawing, for which she has considerable talent.
Glenn may be unable to spell some of the more common words, but
has little trouble with “troposphere,” “ionosphere,” “asteroids”; he
is clearly heading for engineering — space engineering, that ts.

Not only has my family had no space travel as yet, but school
needs for the children have kept the family from joining me when
my work has taken me all over the United States and to Canada
and Mexico — until last summer. Finally, we were blessed with a
deal for us all. Six exciting weeks in Honolulu last summer teaching
an Advanced Management Program for executives from Australia,
the Islands and the mainland! And to make things better, we are all
returning for a repeat performance shortly after the Twenty-fifth
Reunion is over!

LEON MERZ, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 904 Laburnum Lane, Wyncote, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Publicker Distillers Products, Inc., 1429 Walnut St. Philadelphia,
Pa.

BORN: Dec. 4, 1912, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Leon Merz, Sara Herrman.

PREPARED AT: Jenkintown High School, Jenkintown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1934.

MarrieD: Helene Deutsch, April 20, 1952, Philadelphia, Pa. chmprex: Robert
Leland and Andrew Keith (twins), Nov. 6, 1953.

[921 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

HARVARD BROTHER: William Howard Merz, ’q2.

occupaTION: Distilling; director of administration, Liquor Case Sales Division,
Publicker Distillers Products, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Philmont Country Club; American Legion; Phi Beta Kappa.

MY first thoughts are of the more recent past, for the perpetual
motion and clamor of five-year-old twin sons remind me of my
marriage, a little later in life than for most, but none the less stimu-
lating and full. The wedding, the multiple birth, the purchase of
a suburban home, the growing of grass, garden and children have
all been crowded into comparatively few years. Yes, there is still
the occasional game of golf, some music and reading on a quiet
night, the business trip, but the days of unlimited time for outside
activities are all but forgotten.

To flash back — I investigated several types of businesses, notably
insurance and retail selling, before landing in a more permanent
vocation. I even graduated from a night school devoted to insurance,
and then decided to abandon that profession in favor of the distilling
industry in which I have labored for about fifteen years.

Of course, my business career was punctuated by a long term of
service in the Army. Drafted early in 1942, I reacted violently to
the duties and the twenty-one dollars a month of a private and sur-
vived the humbling experience of OCS to become a full-fledged cop
—to wit, an MP. Seven months’ training of a company in sub-
tropical St. Augustine, Florida, logically led to assignment on the
sub-zero Alaska Highway where | shiveringly served for three
years. Time and attrition brought me a captaincy and the job of
provost marshal of the highway area. With no regrets, I retired in
the summer of 1946 and made a quick adjustment to civilian life.

Re-entering the sales department of a large distillery after the
war, I progressed through several levels until a reorganization three
years ago led to my present role of director of administration. It’s
really a catch-all term because I dabble in practically every phase
of the business from production to advertising. One of my earlier
assignments was packaging manager and I still serve as chairman
of our packaging committee. Our company is engaged in the world-
wide distribution of such alcoholic beverages as bourbon, gin and
vodka.

Our full-fledged vacations have ranged from Cape Cod to Nassau,
from the Adirondacks to Bermuda, and the odd visit to Chicago
“in-laws.” The attractions for us in all these places are water, sun
and rest. -

[922 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I am happy to have survived a few local disasters including the
destructive hurricane of ’54, the paralyzing blizzard of ’58 and, to
the vast amusement of my colleagues, a nasty case of the mumps!
‘| shall be fortunate indeed if the years ahead are as filled with
vivid experiences, warm friends and close family ties as those since

1934.

EDWARD MESHORER

 

HOME appRESs: 55 Avondale Rd., Newton 59, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Mental Health, Metropolitan State Hospital, Waltham,

Mass.
BORN: Dec, 30, 1911, Berditcheff, Russia. parents: William Meshorer, Sarah

Jolles.
PREPARED At: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934; M.D. (Kansas City Univ. of

Physicians and Surgeons), 1938.
MARRIED: Sandra Sandler, Sept. 16, 1938, Milford, N.H. cHipren: Rayna Lea,

Nov. 11, 1939; Joel Henry, June 12, 1942; Dorothy Jean, Nov. 1, 1947.
occuPaTION: Psychiatrist; assistant superintendent, Metropolitan State Hospital,

Waltham, Mass.
MEMBER OF: American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology; American Psy~

chiatric Association; New England Society of Psychiatry; Henry Price
Lodge, A.F, and A.M.; Temple Ohabei Shalom.

AFTER graduating from medical school, I had a very low opinion
of my present specialty. Psychiatry was not taught very well. It
consisted mostly of description and classification of mental illness.

Very little dynamic psychiatry was taught then; furthermore, some
of my senior ‘medical colleagues, whom I admired and esteemed very
much, dismissed psychiatry with the derisive statement that it con-
sisted of “a diarrhea of words and a constipation of ideas.”

[ 923 ]

PPA cremate

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

grant me health and enough years to accomplish all the things that
I wish to do.

As an undergraduate I really didn’t know what I wanted to be.
My parents wanted me to be a physician. While I liked the idea,
] also aspired to a career in teaching or in diplomacy (to be a consul
general somewhere representing my country in a far-away place
with a strange sounding name). So now I have combined all three
careers in one. I am a psychiatrist.

My charming wife, contrary to natural expectations, seems to be
growing younger every day. Besides being a very busy mother and
wife, she manages to devote considerable time to helping the blind,
and seems to derive a great deal of satisfaction from it.

As for my basic philosophy (according to custom, all old grads
must have one), I cannot do better than to quote a little poem by
Ella Wheeler Wilcox:

So many Gods, »

So many Creeds,

So many ways

that wind and wind
While just the art

of being kind

Is all this sad world needs.

RICHARD EDWARD METZ

 

OFFicE appress: Clark, Dodge & Co., 61 Wall St., New York, N.Y.

BORN: June 19, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents; Herman A. Metz, Alice Van
Ronk.

PREPARED AT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932, 1933-1935. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1934(35).

[ 926 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marriED: Princess Marie Louise Croy, March 6, 1941, Blanche Thebom, 1950,
New York, N.Y. cnitp: Valerie Marie Louise Croy, Jan. 23, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Harry A. Metz, 733.

occuPaTION: Investment banker.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Commercial Ores, Inc., Christiani & Nielsen (Panama),
Inc., BASF -(overzee) N.V., Teck-Huges Gold Mines, Lamaque Gold
Mines, member, men’s committee, American Museum of Natural History,
New York Philharmonic Symphony Society. °

MEMBER OF: American Museum of Natural History; New York Philharmonic
Society; Blanche Thebom Scholarship Foundation; Racquet & Tennis
Club; Piping Rock Club,

SINCE graduation with the Class of 1935 — illness kept me nearly
two years out of Harvard as an undergraduate and I lost my Class
as a result—TI have pretty much continued in orbits early estab-
lished. My main interests at college and before were finance, history
and art, and they still are, though perhaps not always in the proper
proportions.

After graduation I went to Europe where I worked in several
divisions of the former I. G. Farbenindustrie. This was valuable
experience since, because of family connections with the company,
I was rotated around and given an excellent exposure to both indus-
try and finance. I also had the privilege of working in London
with Hambros Bank and of studying that matchless money market
at first hand. The year I spent at the First National City Bank was
also an instructive experience and I am still working with some of
the friends I made during my apprenticeship there. Besides work-
ing in Europe, England and New York, trying to learn something
of finance, I also spent nearly a year in India between graduation
and our entrance into the war. The same illness that caused me to
lose two years at Harvard kept me from duty with the armed forces

during the war years.

In 1941, I started working with Clark, Dodge & Company in New
York because of a college friendship with Arthur Choate. [I have
stayed there ever since. During my pleasant years at Clark, Dodge. - — -
I have gotten to know a little about the stock market, the mining
industry, particularly Canadian mining, and have also kept up my
contacts and friendships in the chemical industry. Other business
interests are in the construction industry, where I have had a long
association with one of the leading international companies.

My work takes me abroad frequently and I greatly enjoy my
travels as they help me in my hobbies, the study ‘of history and of
art. I enjoy visiting the places I read about and seeing the great

[927 ]

eee ot i ee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

masterpieces of art and architecture at first hand. I am an ardent
museum goer, both here and abroad.

The music world has also been a source of much pleasure, not
because I am in any way talented or knowledgeable in that field,
but because my wife, who is known professionally as Blanche
Thebom, and who has a leading position here and abroad as both
an opera and concert singer, often sings at the Metropolitan Opera
and sometimes lets me accompany her on her tours, as she did last
rear when she was the first American woman to sing at Moscow’s
famed Bolshoi Theatre. We try to make our paths cross when she
sings on tours and have done so in many places, such as Iceland,
Austria, Scandinavia, England, Germany and Russia, as well as in
many cities in both the U.S. and Canada. This summer we plan to
fly around the world, when she will sing in Japan, India, Indonesia
and other points both East and West.

The state of the world worries me, but then it always has. What
particularly worries me, however, is the many parallels one can
so easily draw between the Roman world in its decine and our
own, and these not to the West’s advantage. We have let and are
letting too many things go by default. Perhaps this is just another
way of saying there are not enough Harvard men in some places,
too many in others.

I don’t think I have learned as much from life as I should have,
but not from want of trying. I have been luckier than I deserve,
and now that I am past the half-way mark, my regrets are not of
the things I haven't done, but rather of my inabilities to learn enough
from those I have.

[ 928 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DAVID MILLER

 

HOME appREss: 2848 Fourth Ave., San Diego 3, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2852 Fourth Ave., San Diego 3, Calif.

BORN: Sept. 8, 1912, Malden, Mass. parents: Manasha Miller, Sarah Rubin.

PREPARED AT: Revere High School, Revere, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934, MD., cum laude (Tufts Coll.)
1938.

marrieD: Lillian Atlas, 1938, Boston, Mass. cHitpren: Richard Elihu, Jan. 5,
1942; Jonathan David, Dec. 23, 1943; Jere Alan, Sept. 21, 1950; Felicia
Flene, Jan. 3, 1952.

HARVARD SON: Richard Elihu Miller, ’62.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Credentials and Classification Committee, San Diego
County Medical Society, since 1953; secretary-treasurer, San Diego Surgical
Society, 1956-58; secretary-treasurer, San Diego Society of General Sur-
geons, 1958; first vice-president, American Cancer Society, San Diego,
1957-59; member, board of directors, San Diego Symphony Orchestra As-
sociation.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Surgery (diplomate); International College
of Surgeons (fellow); American College of Surgeons (fellow); American
Medical Society of Vienna, Austria; National Board of Medical Examiners
(diplomate); Harvard Club of San Diego; International College of Sur-

_ geons (diplomate).
PUBLICATIONS: “Trichobezoar”; “Papilloma of the Gallbladder”; “Mucocele and

Myxoglobulosis of the Appendix”, “Adenocarcinoma of the Appendix”;
“Pre- and Post-operative Care”; other papers include one on geriatric
surgery and one on the treatment of acute cholecystitis in the aged, and
a series of lectures on peripheral vascular diseases.

WHEN my progeny thumb through these pages to see upon whom
fortune has smiled, they will note that fame has considerately hesi-

tated to set her scratchy crown upon my balding head. (See ‘before
and after photographs.) If only to reassure them, I must set down

[ 929 ]

TE TT NEP PRE RR nar wee eres

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

at once that if aging has brought me neither fame nor wisdom, it
brings me daily closer to acquanimitas,

In 1938, having been graduated from Tufts College Medical
School, I and my w ife Lillian, who completed her nurse’s training
at the Afassachusetts Memorial Hospitals, were joined in marriage,
then set off by way of the overnight boat from Boston to conquer
New York. I interned, served as surgical resident, and later as staff
associate in surgery at Mount Sinai. Hospital in New York City.
On completion of my training, | became associated with my former
chief, Dr. Ralph Colp, clinical professor of surgery, Columbia Med-
ical School, in private practice. Although my private practice was
meager, my ward and clinical responsibilities were heavy, since |
was attending surgeon on two surgical services simultaneously. |
also dabbled in physiology in the laboratory of Dr. Franklyn Hol-
lander at Mount Sinai Hospital. I had been rejected from military
service because of a chronic otitis media, and was therefore free to
work twenty-four hours a day at anything other than military
activities.

The lure of California finally, after two exploratory visits, drew
us to San Diego, where we have grown and multiplied, moderately.
This year there is at Harvard, Richard Elihu, who is sixteen and
a freshman. Jonathan David is fourteen and a sophomore in high
school. Jere Alan is nine and in the fourth grade. Felicia Elene is
six and in the second grade.

1 am engaged in the practice of general surgery and am associated
at the County Hospital and all of the other hospitals of the city.
I have long ago obtained my certification by the American Board
of Surgery, the International College of Surgery and the American
College of Surgeons. .

Endeavoring to do good works, I have for several years been on
the board of the San Diego Symphony Orchestra. I have served on
the executive committee as an officer for the San Diego Branch
of the American Cancer Society for the past ten years, and have
been first vice-president for the past two years. In addition, I am
secretary-treasurer of the San Diego Surgical Society and of the
San Diego Society of General Surgeons. I have been the chairman
of the San Diego County Medical Society Credentials and Classi-
fications Committee for several years.

The most exciting reportable event in our lives was a recent trip
to Europe to attend the American College of Surgeons meeting at
Stockholm. This gave us an opportunity to visit England, France,

[ 930 |

cw os eetmammp he. hae tis bhdes tsp depen a assum, .samssssmmm miss satiate tren entsnesrncicmmccna,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Italy, Austria, and a glimpse of Germany. We were abroad for a
period of about two and one-half months, In Austria, I joined the
American Medical Society of Vienna.

My avocation is chamber music. I play the violin avidly, with a
degree of proficiency a shade less than professional level. This gives
me an opportunity to play with professional musicians who then
have the opportunity to be operated upon by me for a shade less
than the usual fee. This has led to a most pleasant arrangement.
Last year, I was chairman of the San Diego Symphony Orchestra’s
chamber music series at the Fine Arts Gallery. As with Fogg Art
Museum and others, music in the home of art seems such a happy
union.

So, with music, surgery and the cares and j Joxs of raising a family,
time passes pleasantly i in ‘California, and daily I grow older.

HAROLD PALMER MILLS, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 192 Lamont Drive, Decatur, Ga.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New England Waste Co., 661 Spring St., N.W,, Atlanta 8, Ga.

BORN: Feb. 25, 1912, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Harold Palmer Mills, ’1o,
Florence June Mason.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

marrieD: Alice Means, June 2, 1934, Hamilton, Mass. cHipren: Robert Dudley,
Dec. 22, 1935; Suzanne, Dec. 14, 1937 (71. Robert Atmar Smith, 3d, Jan.
2, 1954); Alice June, April 17, 1942; Richard Bronson Warren, Sept. 11,
1944; Kathryn, Aug. 11, 1949; Samuel Hubbard, Sept. 29, 1953. GRAND-
CHILDREN: Elizabeth Anne Smith, Oct. 30, 1954; Deborah Lee Smith, Dec.
7, 1955; Robert Atmar Smith, 4th, Dec. 25, 1957.

occupPaTION: Traffic manager, New England Waste Company, dealers in textile
mill waste and rags, cotton linters, etc. .

[931]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, 1954-57, chairman, 1958, Traffic and Tariffs Com-
mittee, Textile Waste Association, director, Transportation Club of At-
Janta, 1956-57.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Atlanta; Transportation Club of Atlanta;
Venetian Country Club.

BY comparing this report with that of our Twentieth Anniversary
Report, it will be noted that the only additions to our family since
then are a son-in-law and three grandchildren. Of course, this over-
looks changes in the family vehicle, the addition and subtraction of
various household pets, all of which loom important in our daily
life.

Since Suzanne and Bobby live in Jacksonville, where he is sta-
tioned at the Naval Air Base, we have ample excuse to stop off to
visit them on our fairly frequent trips to and from Florida. That
state is rapidly becoming one of our favorites.

Our eldest son, Bob, after graduation from Brooks School, and a
year at Decatur High School, entered the insurance business; then
took a leave of absence to serve his six months’ service with the
Army at Fort Jackson and Fort Gordon. He, of course, continues
active in Reserve duties —and insurance. His engagement is im-
minent and we expect a wedding in July. .

We continue to like the South —with reservations. Atlanta is
reasonably cosmopolitan, but in our opinion education and social
moves grow more worldly and modern at a very slow pace. Despite
the amazing rate of industrial development — and incidentally sim-
ilar rate of growth in county and city taxes — the old order changeth
reluctantly.

Our major concern? Integration. We are naturally greatly con-
cerned with the public school situation, since we have two in high
school, one in elementary school and one in kindergarten. More
than I believed possible, I have come to sympathize with the South’s
feelings about integration, but we realize that she is once again
fighting for a lost cause. We personally do not want integration,
we know it is inevitable. If the southern politicians and hot-heads
could be induced to calm down, and the NAACP could be per-
suaded to slow down, it could be accomplished with little real
trouble. Since neither is likely, we hold grave doubts that it will be
brought about other than with strife and shame.

I thank God, Harvard and my parents for my opportunity to en-
joy a college education. The older I grow, the more I realize what
a precious asset it was and is.

[ 932 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT BOWNE MINTURN

 

HOME appress: 155 Hart St., Beverly Farms, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Old Colony Trust Co., Boston, Mass.

BORN: May 2, 1911, Baguio, Philippine Islands. parents: Hugh Minturn, ’og,
Ruth Winsor.

PREPARED aT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. 1934.

MaRRiED: Mary Yorke McCawley, June 12, 1937, Ithan, Pa. cHitpren: Robert
Bowne, Jr., June 20, 1939; Mary Yorke, March 4, 1942; Richard Shaw,
Nov. 1, 1949.

HARVARD SON: Robert Bowne Minturn, Jr., ‘6r.

HARVARD BROTHER: Hugh Minturn, '36 (deceased).

OccuPATION: Assistant vice-president, Old Colony Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty
to Children; trustee, Boston Home for Incurables.

AT times during the past twenty-five years I have been somewhat
of a rolling stone, but for the past twelve I have been living on the
North Shore of the Bay State, with my wife, three children, two
dogs and several waterfowl.

After graduation I thought a slight trip to some of the islands
in the Pacific with a few friends would be broadening before settling
down and trying to earn a living. This was most pleasant but hardly
added to my desirability as far as prospective employers were con-
cerned at a time when jobs were all but non-existent. I found that
an A.B. degree was almost a drug on the market but was lucky
enough to obtain employment just outside of the city of Philadelphia.
Until the war I worked for a couple of other patient employers and
also acquired a Philadelphia wife.

Shortly before Pearl Harbor the Navy requested me to become an
active member of that organization and later on afforded me the op-
portunity to travel in both the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. Most of

[ 933 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

the time I was in destroyer escorts with other reserves equally
inexperienced, but somehow we were able to operate with a rea-
sonable amount of efficiency. After this interlude of four and a half
years my New England blood urged me to return to Massachusetts
in spite of the fact that the Democrats appear to be trying to dis-
courage this type of maneuver. I am now engaged in the trust end
of the banking business, concentrating in pensions and deferred
profit-sharing, and find it an extremely interesting occupation. |
wish that I had started in it earlier instead of attempting to make
my fortune in a more rapid fashion.

As a family we enjoy a variety of activities such as golf, tennis,
skiing and trying to keep our place looking slightly better than when
it was virtually in the eye of hurricane Carol. This is easier said
than done in spite of an occasional assist from the younger genera-
tion. Nine-tenths of our land is marsh and woodland and the hurri-
cane left about three hundred devastated trees in its wake.

Having a son admitted to Harvard seems to be quite a feat these
days, but I am proud to say that my eldest is now a sophomore
who, at this writing, is in good standing. My daughter is at boarding
school and I hope my younger son will eventually become a member
of the Harvard Class of 1970. All in all the last twenty-five years
have been anything but dull and one of my few regrets is that they
seem to have passed so quickly.

JOHN KEARSLEY MITCHELL, JR.

 

HOME ApbrEss: Mt, Pleasant Road, Bryn Mawr, Pa,
OFFICE apprEss: Provident Tradesmen’s Bank & Trust Co., 1632 Chestnut St.,
Philadelphia, Pa.

| 934 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Nov. 7, 1912, Bryn Mawr, Pa. parents: John Kearsley Mitchell, Frances
Butcher Stotesbury.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MARRIED; Susanna Shaw Minturn, Feb. 23, 1935, Hamilton, Mass. cHitpres:
Susanna Shaw Minturn, Feb. 6, 1936 (mm. Harry R. Neilson, Jr., 50, June 146,
1956); Joan Kearsley, June 8, 1938, Ruth Winsor, July 11, 1941, Cynthia,
Jan. 12, 1945. GRANDCHILD: Ruth Winsor Neilson, May 10, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Banker; assistant vice-president in charge of investment administra-
tion, Provident Tradesmen’s Bank & Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman of the board, Plymouth Golf Ball Company, director,
United Fund, Community Chest; director and former campaign chairman,
Pennsylvania Chapter, American Red Cross.

MEMBER OF: State in Schuylkill, Rabbit, Philadelphia Club, Racquet Club,
Racquet & Tennis Club, New York; Gulph Mills Golf Club; Harvard Club

of Philadelphia.

AFTER graduating I took a trip to Tahiti for the summer of 1934,
accompanied amongst others by my brother-in-law, Bobby Minturn
(another graduate of this illustrious class), who did not return until
just before we were married the following February! I went to
work for a small family-owned manufacturing concern in Con-
shohocken, Pennsylvania, and we moved into the house we now
have in Bryn Mawr.

Life marched on in pleasant fashion until the war which started
an incredibly short seventeen years ago, Much of it is still very vivid
in my mind, but suffice it to say after failing many physical examina-
tions by being too tall I finally * ‘officially shrank” and entered the
Navy in the summer of 1941 as a lieutenant (j j-g.). After a brush-up
course at Northwestern I went to sea in the summer of 1942 and
remained at sea for the balance of the war. Somehow or other I
got mixed up in thirteen major engagements in both the Atlantic
and Pacific, received several decorations, and had the rank of com-
mander when the war ended. I was subsequently placed on the re-
tired list with the rank of captain in 1953.

As to the family — all daughters — the eldest is married to Harry
R. Neilson, Jr., a Harvard graduate of the Class of r9s5o0. They live
not far from us in St. Davids, Pennsylvania, and have presented us
with a charming granddaughter, but even this fails to make me
realize that I shall soon be pushing fifty. Daughter number two lives
in New York and works for the Republican Finance Committee.
Number three graduates from boarding school this spring and goes
to college in the fall, and number four starts in at boarding school

this fall.

 

[ 935 ]

1 TRON ERRERRENE 0 Face HARRIS 1 AR aa Nahe ent ma
* : tT eRe Aen,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

As to hobbies, they have changed little in the last twenty-five
years. I am a keen follower of sports and still play lots of golf and
tennis, with fishing thrown in during the summer at a place we
have near Murray Bay in the Province of Quebec. As to politics,
I am a staunch Republican and I might add not very optimistic about
the near term outlook. As to reunions, I have been terrible as my
attendance stands at zero, but this one I do not intend to miss and
shall corral as many of the family as possible.

KENNETH CARL MITTELL

 

HOME appress: 26 Arlington Rd., Wellesley Hills 86, Mass.
OFFICE apprEss: UBS Chemical Corp., ggt Main St., Cambridge 42, Mass.

BORN: July 20, 1912, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Carl L. Mittell, Edythe B. Mariani.
PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934 (35).

MarrieD: Mary Elizabeth Salisbury, June 13, 1936, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Janet Eleanor, Oct. 21, 1941; Peter Reid, Nov. 21, 1943.
HARVARD BROTHER: David Alan Mittell, ’39.

occupation: Director of merchandising, promotion of new products, UBS

Chemical Corporation, developers and suppliers of synthetic polymers,
rubber compounds, etc.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, St. Andrew’s Episcopal Church, Wellesley, Mass.
MEMBER OF: Duxbury Yacht Club; Harvard Club of Boston.

MY life, since June, 1934, has been a happy one. I married Mary
Elizabeth Salisbury in June, 1936, and she and our two children,
Janet Eleanor and Peter Reid, have been a continuous source of
joy and contentment. We live in Wellesley Hills and have been

here since January, 1946. Janet is a senior at Dana Hall and Peter
is in the fourth class at Noble and Greenough.

I have been with UBS Chemical Corporation since July, 1945)
[ 936]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and for the past two years have been responsible for the promotion
of certain new products. Our philosophy being one of growth and
new ideas, I find myself in the middle of a fascinating and rewarding
experience.

Extra-curricularly, I am treasurer of St. Andrew’s Church in
Wellesley, as well as past President of the Roxbury Latin School As-
sociation. Serving on various committees at the Duxbury Yacht Club
and the Harvard Club of Boston, as well as on the Alumni Advisory
Committee of the Harvard Band, has kept my interests sufficiently
scattered so that each one has remained interesting and apart from
the others, We spend our summers in Duxbury, Massachusetts,
where I still indulge in something resembling pat-ball tennis.

I can’t reflect on my past twenty-five years without being tre-
mendously aware of Harvard’s influence on them and the joy of
my associations with the University. The latter have increased in
tempo through the years. This trend, I anticipate, will continue in
the years ahead. Should it not, one of my main sources of happi-
ness will have been eliminated.

CHARLES GALLOUPE MIXTER, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 708 South St., Needham 92, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 319 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: July 27, 1912, Swampscott, Mass. parents: Charles Galloupe Mixter,
Helen MacIntosh.

PREPARED AT: St, Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN OOLLEGE: 1930-1933. DEGREES: S.B. (Trinity Coll.), 19353 ib. (Harvard
Univ.), 1930.

MarrieD: Elizabeth W. Sawyer, June 12, 1937, Hamilton, Afass. cHtpreN:
Elizabeth Wentworth, May 12, 1938; Charles Galloupe, 3d, June 30, 1939;
Linda Pope, July 21, 1947; Timothy Ruggles, Jan. 19, 1949.

[ 937 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

HARVARD BROTHERS: Roger Conant Mfixter, 38; Worthington Mixter, ’49, M.z.a,,
"51.

OccUPATION: Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: President, Wildlife Conservation, Inc., 1957.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; American Medical Association;
American College of Surgeons; Southern Surgical Association, Wildlife
Conservation, Inc.; Boone and Crockett Club; Dedham Country and Polo
Club; Delta Psi Fraternity; Spee Club; Aesculapian Club.

pusLicaTions: “Medical Support of Air Warfare in the Pacific, World War

II”; a number of contributions to surgical literature.

FOLLOWING graduation from Trinity College, Hartford, Con-
necticut, in 1935, I spent the next four years learning the intricacies
of medicine at the Harvard Medical School. For several years I had
as a roommate another member of the Class of ’34, Dr. Guy Hayes.
The summers of 1935 and 1936 brought a trip to Scotland and a
hunting trip to Alaska. The latter was culminated by a rather miser-
able episode contracted from eating a bear.

In the spring of 1937 I was married to Elizabeth Wentworth
Sawyer. This was obviously the most fortunate thing that has hap-
pened to me since graduation. She kept the home fires burning for
the ensuing ten years when our home life was interrupted by the de-
mands of a surgical training and those of Uncle Sam.

After two and a half years of internship and residency in surgery
at the Massachusetts General Hospital, the Army Air Forces saw fit
to use my services for the next five years. During this time I
became a flight surgeon, served for three years in the Pacific,
managed to rise from lieutenant to colonel, but practised no medicine
whatsoever. Though entirely administrative in nature, my duties
during this period were varied and interesting, and they certainly
gave me the opportunity to see most of the southwest Pacific from
New Zealand to Japan. I finally returned to civilian life and two
more years of residency at Massachusetts General Hospital in 1946.
This rather hectic and disjointed period also saw the addition of a
daughter and a son to our family in the prewar years and another
daughter and son during the postwar years.

Following the completion of my surgical training I became as-
sociated with my father for a delightful and rewarding three years of
surgical practice prior to his retirement, and since that time I have
continued on in the practice of surgery in a solo fashion. This has
been primarily concentrated in metropolitan Boston where I have a
teaching connection with the Harvard Medical School which is
always rewarding and stimulating. I also devote a certain amount

[ 938 |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of time to the Veterans’ Hospital in Boston and in a consulting
capacity to various community hospitals in Eastern Massachusetts. "

Our home life has been concentrated in and around Boston. We
lived in Cambridge and Brookline for a period of time and just
recently we have moved to a lovely home in Needham. The jovs
and tribulations of a growing family are known to all and I suppose
our experiences are no different from anyone else’s. One begins to
feel old and somewhat decrepit when one has two children in
college, but with two younger ones at home our spirits remain young
and our outlook youthful. An active interest in conservation, hunt-
ing and fishing, a certain amount of tennis and the demands of caring
for a country home have managed to keep the waistline within
reasonable bounds though I am no longer able to qualify for Bert
Haines’ 150-pound crew. In summary, each day reminds me of my
good fortune for the things of the past, promise of the future, good
friends and, above all, a wonderful family.

JOHN USHER MONRO

INGE ee Tee RN RSE ET CR ME pgs

r
e
I

  

HOME AppRESS: 24 Park Rd., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Harvard College, Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 23, 1912, North Andover, Mass. parents: Claxton Monro, ‘06,
Frances Sutton.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1935. DEGREE: A.B. cv laude, 1934(35).

MarRIED: Dorothy Stevens Foster, July 21, 1936, Andover, Mass. CHILDREN:
Ann, Jan. 21, 1939; Janet, April 1, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Dean, Harvard College.

OFFIcES HELD: Writer, Harvard News Office, 1934-41; correspondent, Boston
Evening Transcript, 1937-41; U.S. Navy, 1941-46; assistant counselor for
Veterans, 1946-47, counselor for Veterans, 1947-52, assistant to provest,
1949-52, director, Financial Aid Office, 1950-58, director, since 1958 Elar-

[ 939 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

vard College; chairman, College Scholarship Service of the College
Entrance Examination Board, 1953-56; member, board of trustees, National
Scholarship Service and Fund for Negro Students, since 1956; member,
Andover Alumni Council, 1956-58; Andover Charter trustee, since 1958.

puBLications: Articles on college student financial aid programs for Harvard
Alunmi Bulletin and College Board Review.

THE longer I live the more aware I become of the mystery,
sacredness and promise of the individual human soul. I am an
earnest democrat because, as it seems to me, democracy contains
the promise that after centuries of stupidity, cruelty, killing and the
suppression and suffering of millions upon millions of individual
human personalities, mankind has at least a fighting chance someday
to win through to a sane and beneficent world society. Yet it is
only a fighting chance still and may well be lost. The great question
of this dreadful century seems to be whether we as individual men
and women have the qualities it will take — the generosity of spirit,
intelligence, patience and courage in adversity, the integrity, vision
and the will — to stand by our principles and our faith in other men
during the enormous struggles still ahead. I commit myself easily to
education because I see education at the heart of our democratic
process, sharing a large part of the task of assuring each young
person the chance to develop his own talents, and of awakening and
strengthening each individual mind and spirit.

Pray God we may come to be humble and patient and generous
without the terrible punishment of another great war.

STEPHEN CARTWRIGHT MONROE

4

pe
- aan ‘
we Nt |

 

HOME appreEss: 5 Mohawk, Corte Madera, Calif.

BORN: June 22, 1912, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Stephen Henry Monroe, Agnes
Eleanor Berry.

[ 940 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1034. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.
MARRIED: Lois Peters, Feb. 2, 1944, San Francisco, Calif. cxiLp: Stephen Stuart,

Aug. 3, 1947.
occupation: Lieutenant Colonel, U.S. Army.
MEMBER OF: San Francisco Press Club; Union League Club.

AS I write these few notes partly in Heidelberg and partly in Bar-
celona I realize that, although my life during the past twenty-five
years may not have been unusually eventful, it has on occasion taken
me many miles from Harvard Square. Shortly after graduation I
migrated by degrees to the West Coast and San Francisco, a city
which I selected for my home — and with never a regret, except
that I don’t see it often enough.

Gradually I found myself attracted towards newspapering. Fol-
lowing a brief stint with a weekly publication, there came the
Golden Gate International Exposition where I served in a news and
public relations capacity for two years. After the “Fair,” as it was
called, I joined the Wine Institute in San Francisco as a public rela-
tions adviser and remained there until I joined the Army in early
1942.

I was commissioned at Fort Mason, California. There followed
an assignment to the Indian Army in Burma as an observer of am-
phibious operations. Following the end of hostilities, I served as
military observer to Malaya at Singapore and finally home to Head-
quarters, Sixth Army, at the Presidio of San Francisco.

At this time Marin County, across the Golden Gate Bridge from
San Francisco, began to look very attractive and the Monroe family,
to include Lois and young Stephen, one year old, moved into the
small community of Corte Madera. Once again the Army called,
and garden, barbecue and outdoor ‘living temporarily vanished to
be replaced by the more vigorous climate of Alaska.
~ Two years were spent in the new forty-ninth state, where I served
as Chief of Information for the Army and found time to join with
alumnus Governor Gruening at Anchorage to found a Harvard Club
there.

Another tour of duty as Information Officer, Sixth Army, military
schools, attendance at atomic exercises in Nevada, and more garden-
ing in Corte Madera rounded out three fine years.

In June, 1956, I left the United States for Heidelberg, Germany,
where I am now serving as a lieutenant colonel at the Headquarters
of the United States Army, Europe. My wife and son joined me

[ 941 ]

° SN rN A ein ap

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

shortly after my arrival and our time here in Baden-Wuerttemberg
has been most pleasant. We all have had Opportunities to visit and
revisit other European countries, Stephen, now eleven, is learning
German rapidly, and our stay —for all of us—has been most
informative.

As I write this, we have just returned from a visit to Spain and
shortly will be preparing to return to the United States.

In recent years I have become an active Episcopalian. My hobbies
include music, stamp collecting and electronics.

HUGH MONTGOMERY, JR.

     
 

PELE te OOOO

‘ia -_, ; Bee Z i 5 Oe 4
4 . Ping ee fog a wi 7

 

HOME ADDRESS: 30 Harris St., North Amherst, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: University of Massachusetts Library, Amherst, Mass.

BORN: June 10, 1911, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Hugh Montgomery, Helen E.
Bonney.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931, 1932-1935. DEGREES: S.B., 1934(35); S.B. IN LS.
(Columbia Univ.), 1939.

MarriED: Elizabeth Beal, Sept. 28, 1946, Phillips, Maine.

occuPaTION: University librarian, University of Massachusetts.

OFFICES HELD: Member, numerous committees of several library associations

MEMBER OF: American Library Association; Association of College and Re-
search Libraries; American Political Sciences Association, Appalachian
Mountain Club; Massachusetts Library Association; Massachusetts Audu-
bon Society; Pacific Lodge, A.F. & A.M., Amherst, Mass.

NOT long after leaving Harvard as an undergraduate, the oppor-
tunity presented itself to return to the Harvard Yard as an appren-
tice assistant in the Harvard College Library to begin the training
for my future occupation in life as a librarian. Again I found in the

[942°]

einai a
RETIRE en AUN o

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Harvard associations limitless opportunities for study and learning
which have added so greatly to my enjoyment of an academic life.

Working under such outstanding librarians as Walter Briggs,
Alfred C. Potter, Thomas F. Currier and Keyes D. Metcalf, I came
to realize and to appreciate the satisfaction afforded by a career in
the library profession. In September, 1938, encouraged by Keyes
Metcalf, director of the Harvard University Library, I attended
Columbia University and received my Bachelor’s degree i in library
service from the School of Library Service.

Then followed three years of very practical yet very interesting
work as an assistant in the Reference Department of the New Y ork
Public Library. I was fortunate in being able to work in the social
sciences, particularly law and economics, in the Economics Division.
Life was never dull with the varied clientele and the many humorous
incidents coincident with reference work.

In March, 1942, I was drafted by the USS. Army and spent two
years in the United States follow ed by two years in the Pacific Area
as an enlisted man in the Field Artillery.

In 1946, soon after leaving the Army, I was married to Elizabeth
Beal and returned to Harvard once again as a senior assistant in Wide-
ner Library. Shortly thereafter I was transferred to the Graduate
School of Public Administration as assistant librarian and Betty be-
came an acquisitions librarian at the Harvard Business School Li-
brary. We spent four very interesting years in Cambridge. With
the exception of a trip to the British Isles in 1950, our vacations
have been spent at our remote summer home, a small farm under
Mount Saddleback near Rangeley, Maine.

In 1952 I was offered the post of librarian at the University of
Massachusetts in Amherst. There has seldom been a quiet moment
in my life since taking this position, as the institution 1s expanding
rapidly and the planning and building of a library addition have
taken a large portion of my time. All things considered, the past
six years have been particularly satisfying and I can always escape
with my wife for a hike of a few hours in the country side of the
beautiful Connecticut Valley.

[ 943 J

A ane EP RRR RE OH

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

JOHN DEVANNY MONTGOMERY

 

HOME abpress: Carmen Road, Old Brookville, Long Island, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Prentice-Hall, Inc., 70 Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 19, 1912, New York, N.Y. PARENTS: "Matthew John Montgomery,
Irene DeVanny.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Catherine Walsh, April 23, 1948, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN: Catherine
W., Oct. 14, 1950; Matthew J., Oct. 27, 1953; Renée, Nov. 16, 1954.

occuPATION: Publisher’s representative in financial district of New York City,
Prentice-Hall, Inc.

AFTER graduation in 1934, I somewhat reluctantly entered the Law
School — for background purposes more than anything else. Events
bore out my intentions as I left after the first year. In 1935 I en-
tered the financial field and it is in this area that I have passed most
of my business life.

In 1942 Tentered the Army where I did my bit in the most obscure
and unspectacular manner, After the end of the war, I returned
to my old stamping grounds around Broad and Wall, however, this
time in the publishing business, and it is in this same field that I am
presently engaged. ,

In 1948 I married Catherine Walsh who came from Gloucester
Street in the Back Bay section of Boston. The strange part of all
this is that I had not seen her (until some six months before our
marriage) since college and prep school days in Boston. We have
three lovely young children — Kate, Matt and Renée. We live in
the Oyster Bay section of Long Island, probably the only area left
where you can have a lot of room to move around in and still get
in to New York City im an hour.

[ 944 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

As for pastimes, golf and tennis were about it; that is until about
five years ago when an unfortunate accident ended it.

LLOYD MOORE

   

band fe Lsconand

HOME ADDRESS: 76 Rue Chauveau, Neuilly-Sur-Seine, France.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 9 Rue Richpense, Paris, France. .
BORN: Nov. 29, 1911, Washington, D.C. parents: Clarence Moore, Mabelle

Swift.
PREPARED AT: Wixenford School, Berkshire, England.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.
MarriED: Colette Cahen d’ Anvers, June 17, 1946, Paris, France. cup: Heather,

July 20, 1947.
OccuPATION: Director, Compton Francais des Products Aromatiques (basic ma-

terials for making perfumes), since 1953.
MEMBER OF: Travelers Club, Paris; Reserve Officers’ Association, Nivelle Golf

Club, St. Jean de Luz, France.

MY father, co-founder of the Chevy Chase Club, Washington, D.C.,

died in the Titanic, April, 1912.

I left Harvard on account of my mother’s illness and subsequent
death in February, 1933. After selling the estate, I worked in Wall
Street. In 1937 I came to France on estate business and was still
here when war was declared.

Joined the American Ambulance Corps in September, 1939. Ex-
changed for a German in June, 1942. Served in American Army,
with the rank of captain, 1942-47.

[945 ]

aL TN TT an THEN 8 mt neg
Seen wee veh ha

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ROBERT LEVERETT GOODALE MOORE

 

HOME AppRESS: 724-17th St., N., St. Petersburg, Fla.

BORN: Sept. 12, 1912, Springfield, Mass, parents: Walter Erwin Moore, Helen
Langdon Seavey.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Springfield Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Enumerator for R. L. Polk & Company.

MEMBER OF: Second Air Division Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Some genealogical papers; one or two magazine articles, His-
tory of the 2d Air Division (1942-1945).

AFTER leaving college, I became a book salesman, selling diction-
aries for G. & C. Merriam Company. Later, I left the publishing
field and worked successively for Springfield Coca-Cola Company,
Vellumoid Company of Worcester, Massachusetts, National Trans-
parent Box Company of Springfield, and the U. S. Envelope Com-
pany. I was a salesman for all of these firms.

After the war, I re-entered the dictionary field and sold Merriam-
Webster dictionaries throughout the South from 1947 to 1958, with
occasional lapses into horse racing and the pursuit of hedonism.
Since the spring of 1958, I have worked as a business enumerator
for the R. L. Polk Company, solely in Florida.

My war record began as a private on April 6, 1942, and ended in
March, 1946, as a captain. I graduated from the Harvard Statistical
School in 1943 and served as a statistical officer in the USAF for
some months before I was appointed historian of the Second Air
Division. I was the only occupant of that “mighty” post and re-
turned to the States in the fall of 1945, having been in England for
thirty months, to become one of the official historians of the Air

[ 946 |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Force, which work held me in the service until February or March

of 1946.
Apart from my fair war record, my life has been absolutely medi-

ocre and, like the lines in Macbeth, “signifying nothing.” I have
only myself to blame.

GEORGE EVERETT MOREDOCK, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2835 Highland Drive, Northbrook, Il.

OFFICE appress: International Harvester Co., 180 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago 1,
Il.

BORN: Sept. 16, 1912, Cincinnati, Ohio. Parents: George Everett Moredock,
Nola Humphrey.

PREPARED AT: Tucson High School, Tucson, Ariz.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.
MarriED: Lydia Lackland, Aug. 1, 1942, Chicago, Ill. cup: George Everett,

3d, July 31, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Assistant manager of labor relations, International Harvester
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Industry board member, National War Labor Board, Region 6,
1943-45; member, industry board, National Meat Packing Panel, National
War Labor Board, 1944; member, Labor Relations Committee and Fair
Employment Practices Subcommittee, Illinois State Chamber of Commerce,
since 1952; director since 1950, finance chairman, 1951, vice-president,
1952, executive vice-president, 1953, president, 1954, treasurer, 1957, vice-
president, 1958, Chicago Committee on Alcoholism; commissioner, Hlinois
State Commission on the Care of the Alcoholic, 1955-57.

[ 947 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

CULVIN FORD MORRILL

  

HOME ApprEss: 41 Portland PL, St. Louis 8, Mo.
OFFICE AppRESS: W. H. Markham & Co., 506 Olive St. St. Louis 1, Mo.

BORN: Dec. 29, 1912, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Charles Henry Morrill, ’oo, Lenita
Collins.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. 1934.

UN MARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Leighton Morrill, ’32.

OCCUPATION: Insurance: partner in firm of W. H. Markham & Company.

OFFICES HELD: Past director, St. Louis Chapter of American Red Cross; member,
board of governors, The Lunch Club, 1958; president, 1958, past secretary,
Harvard Club of St. Louis; past member of executive committee, Harvard
Business School Club of St. Louis.

MEMBER OF: St. Louis Country Club; Noonday Club; The Lunch Club;
Harvard Club of St. Louis, Harvard Business School Club of St. Louis; ©
Insurance Board of St. Louis.

FOR the first of the twenty-five years I moved across the Charles
to the Business School. Then, deciding I would not go back for
the second year (yes, I had the choice), I entered the general in-
surance business in the fall of 1935. I am a partner in the firm of
W. H. Markham & Company, an insurance agency — sell insurance,
service accounts, supervise claims and participate in management of
the firm. I have found it interesting and like the idea of my time
being my own, but I never seem to have time to take advantage of
it. I have been there ever since, except for a few years playing Boy
Scout with Uncle Sam. After several months as a private, I was
‘ortunate enough to get to Officers Candidate School in 1943, be-
came an eighty-four-day wonder, and spent the rest of the time at
Jatterson and Wright Fields near Dayton, I was separated in the

[ 948 J

2$TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fall of 1945 as a captain. Fighting the Battle of Dayton was rather
leasant, at least after working hours.

I like to play tennis and ski and, although my skiing is only once
a year, I have managed to take a skiing trip almost every year be-
ginning a few years after college. I play golf on rare occasions,
averaging only about once or twice a year. Other diversions are
photography, the theatre, travel, an occasional canoe trip in the
Ozarks, and friends.

Civic activities seem to have consisted of working on fund raising
campaigns, which I cannot say that I enjoy, but am frequently drawn
into. oe

Although I had intended to avoid mentioning it, I must admit
that I am not married, in spite of being constantly told that I should
be. I know that time is ever shorter, but I still hope the right com-
bination will come up.

It has been a constant source of satisfaction, beginning while
still an undergraduate, to note the reaction of respect, and fre-
quently surprise and even disbelief, when I reply in answer to a
question that I went to Harvard. This has held true regardless of
the corner of the earth or the inquirer’s position on the educational,
social or economic scale. I am proud that Harvard’s prestige is still
at the top.

DEWITT CUYLER MORRIS

 

HOME apprEss: Hillbrook Road, Bryn Mawr, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Polyphase Instrument Co., Bridgeport, Pa.

BorN: Feb, 8, 1913, Ardmore, Pa. parents: Caspar Wistar Morris, ’oz, Helen
Scott Cuyler.

PREPARED aT: Montgomery School, Wynnewood, Pa.

[ 949 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933.

mMarrigp: Gerd Krohn Wiese, June 17, 1936, Lisbon, Portugal. cumpren: Gerd
Krohn, July 28, 1937; Thomas Dewitt Cuyler, Nov. 20, 1940; William
Beekman, May 24, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Caspar Wistar Morris, Jr., °47.

OCCUPATION: Secretary-treasurer, Polyphase Instrument Company, manufacturers
of electronic instruments and components.

MEMBER OF: Philadelphia Club; Merion Cricket Club; University Barge Club.

WILLIAM MORRIS

  

gi *

bine

 

HOME ADDRESS: 6 Dialstone Lane, Riverside, Conn.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Grosset & Dunlap, Inc. 1107 Broadway, New York, N.Y.;
Bell Syndicate, Inc., 229 W. 43d St.. New York, N.Y.

BoRN: April 13, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: Charles Hyndman Morris, ’99,
Elizabeth Margaret Hanna.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933, 1934-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1934(35)-

Marrigp: Jane Simpson Frazer, Aug. 9, 1939, New York, N.Y.; Mary Elizabeth
Davis Pond, Feb. 8, 1947, New York, N.Y. caitpren: Ann Elizabeth,
Dec. 19, 1935; Susan Jane, Feb. 10, 1937; John Boyd, July 29, 1938 (all
stepchildren); William Frazer, Oct. 1, 1940, Mary Elizabeth, Feb. 8, 1948;
Evan Nathanael, Dec. 4, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Hanna Morris, ’29, Charles Hyndman Morris, Jr., '32;
Richard Irving Morris, '44.

occupation: Editor-in-chief, Grosset & Dunlap, Inc., book publishers, author
of two daily newspaper columns: “Words, Wit and Wisdom,” “Watch
Your Language” ‘(both syndicated by Bell Syndicate); advisory editor,
Funk & Wagnall’s dictionaries.

MEMBER oF: Society for General Semantics; Modern Language Association;
National Council of Teachers of English, etc., Harvard Club of New York.

PusLications: It’s Easy To Increase Your Vocabulary, The Word Game Book,
co-author with Mary D. Morris, both published by Harper & Bros.
editor-in-chief, Words: The New Dictionary, 1947; various magazine
articles for Esquire, Saturday Review, etc.

[ 950 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I LEFT college before the rest of you in 1933. Reason: lack of
funds. A year at a variety of jobs —all hard — taught me the truth
of the great American axiom: “Give the public what it wants.”
When I came back in 1934 to finish up, I found that Harvard pro-
fessors — especially in the English Department — are just as sus-
ceptible as the general public, with the result that I got scandalously
high grades for shockingly little work that final year.

The next two years were dismal—teaching English, Latin and
history in a now happily-defunct boys’ prep school. The experience
may have been good for my soul, but I doubt it. Two summers spent
in summer stock with such future greats as Logan, Fonda and
Windust were fun, but a test at Twentieth-Century-Fox fizzled
and with it any aspirations I might have had toward a career in
show biz. There followed a seven-year hitch with G. & C. Merriam
Company, mostly spent in comradely converse with college pro-
fessors in the interests of greater sales of the Merriam-Webster dic-
tionaries.

The Navy took a dim view of my performance on color blindness
tests, so I joined up with the Merchant Marine which took a much
more tolerant view of my color aptitudes, if any. Boot training and
a fiendishly tough communications course on Gallups Island right
out there in Boston Harbor qualified me for a federal communica-
tions commission license and I spent the last year and a half of the
war as “Sparks” on various tankers and liberties, mostly on the
North Atlantic run.

At war’s end I set up a dictionary and reference book department
for Grosset & Dunlap. In 1947 I moved into general editing and
was made executive editor of the firm, with a further promotion in
1953 to editor-in-chief.

The past few years have been unremittingly busy and, from the
looks of my work table and desk as I write — scrap for columns to
write and stacks of letters to answer —there’s no relief in sight.

Mary, an Ohio State graduate and expert journalist, is utterly
invaluable in working. with me on the columns and books. This
spring, with the publication of The Word Game Book, she finally
gets the “co-authorship” billing she has always merited,

[951]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

EDWARD PARKER MORSE

 

HOME ADDRESS; 265 Sturges Rd., Fairfield, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sikorsky Aircraft Division, Stratford, Conn.

BoRN: Nov, 28, 1911, Abington, Mass, parents: Henry Hoyt Morse, ’o3,
Barbara Stebbins Parker.

PREPARED AT: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.,; Procter Academy, Andover,

N.H
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MarrieD: Claire A. Creelman, Aug. 3, 1939, South Bridgton, Maine. CHILDREN:
Jane, March 5, 1941; Barbara Claire, Oct. 28, 1946.
occupaTion: Manufacturing; Aircraft Industry,

WHEN my career was launched twenty-five years ago it seemed
as if the years spent in preparation had been wasted. The craft had
no aptitude for the water and was either mud-bound in shallow
water or foundering in the deep from its lack of buoyancy. Then
the thin waters of economic uncertainty were replaced by the heavier
medium of wartime spending and, as if by magic, we were afloat.
The approaching war crisis swept me and my boat along into
marriage, a Job and parenthood successively, With this important
exception the war passed me by.

Fifteen years slipped away pleasantly while we lived in the small
town of Grafton, Massachusetts. During this period I was employed
first by the American Steel and Wire Company and later by the
Whitin Machine Works. In this latter unlikely spot I found Class-
mate John Sanderson engaged in editing and producing the company
trade publication. With an eye toward more economical living and
becoming more self-sufficient I joined the do-it-yourselfers. Also,
with the cooperation of my very adaptable wife, I coaxed vegetables
and fruit from the soil and preserved them for winter use as did our
forebears. We had a short but pleasantly rewarding experience with

[ 952 ]

ee _o_—_—_—_—_—_—_—_—_—_—_—_—_—_—_—_—s—n—s

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a coopful of chickens. My wife and I were happy to join in the
activities of the local P.T.A. that was always engaged in fund-
raising and of the Congregational Church where we both helped in
the church school for many years.

Then the rumblings of an economic recession gave the impression
that the Worcester area was due for some readjustment. I gathered
my small family and scurried to Connecticut where, in the aircraft
industry, government orders seemed to offer a haven. And so it
has been for three years.

Earlier this year my elder daughter and I dropped in on the Rad-
cliffe Admissions Office for an interview. The Common and the
Square seem to have withstood successfully the ravages of time and
progress, but I take a pessimistic view of the life expectancy of a
Radcliffe girl astride a bike in the Square. Cambridge is making a
brave attempt to effect a numerical equalization of the sexes in this
area. However, at this writing, we have not given up hope that
arrangements can be made for the next generation to enter these
slightly less-hallowed precincts.

We'll have a fifth at the Twenty-fifth.

JOHN MOORE MORSE

Bey cea were
‘

   

HOME ADDRESS: 14836 S.E. sqth St., Hilltop Community, Bellevue, \WWash.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bassetti & Morse, 1602 Tower Bldg., Seattle 1, Wash.

BORN: Aug. 23, 1911, Brookline, Mass. parents: Arthur Moore Morse, ’9s.
Helen Shaw Stearns.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; B.ARCH., 1940.

MarriED: Emily Hall, May 9, 1941, Boston, Mass. cHuprex: David Hall, Sept.
2, 1942; Catherine Stearns, Jan. 4, 1945.

occuPATION: Architect; partner, Bassetti & Morse.

[ 953 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

~ OFFICES HELD: Member, 1934 Class Committee, since 1934; treasurer and member
board, Washington State Chapter, American Institute of Architects, 1950-
55; president, Greater Seattle Housing Council, 1958-59.
MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects; American Institute of Planners
(affiliate); East Shore Unitarian Church, Bellevue; Museum of Modern
Art, New York; Hilltcop Community, Bellevue.

pusLications: Articles of architectural criticism in professional and trade
publications.

TO Architecture I am dedicated — and I love it. My interest and
ability in this field have been slow to develop — but, thank goodness,
I believe they are still developing. After majoring in English at
college, and trying my hand at teaching at Loomis School for two
years, I returned to Harvard’s architectural school at the same time
that Gropius arrived (fortunately for me!) and spent three and one-
half years there. Classmate Carl Koch was ahead of me and about to
begin his good practice. I found architectural training very creative
and broad — much more related to a productive life than had been
my previous education and activities. Several student-transfers from
Columbia, together with two Cuban students, a refugee from
Germany, and sons of a nationally prominent doctor and of an art
director made this school for me a memorable experience, among
other more serious things, none of us will soon forget the all-night
work-party in Robinson Hall which kept the firemen awake across
the street!

Soon after marriage, my wife and I moved to Washington, D.C.,
for a year and a half stay, where I worked for architects, contractors
and even for the Navy (three months as a civilian here were enough)
on airplane catapults. By then I had decided to make the complete
break (for a New Englander) and go west — to the Northwest, the
land of promise of new ideal towns in the Columbia Basin prophesied
by Catherine Bauer. (As it seems to be turning out now, the
“prophecy” was wishful—rugged individualism and greed are
creating towns in this new-watered country as unplanned and ugly
as before.)

Seattle in 1943 was still a jumping-off place —and primitive
despite its size. For two and one-half years I worked in Boeing’s
engineering department, then at the end of the war opened my own
architectural office, soon to be joined by Fred Bassetti, a native
Seattleite, in a partnership which is still going and growing. Seattle
“has been good to me,” and the pace and spirit I find tolerable and
congenial. It is a sprawling city of home-lovers and gardeners, of

L954 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sportsmen (of which I am not one), of political revolutionaries
(with whom I would like to be identified at times), and of pre-
dominantly small-office architects in abundance — many of whom
have national reputations for original and individual work.

Two activities have taken most of my attention the last ten years:
my professional practice and the community life which my family
and others have founded and lived with.

Hilltop Community, Inc., is a venture in residential living for
forty families motivated by the desire to live in a beautiful planned
neighborhood, with homes of only contemporary design, where
site and utility development is sold at cost and in equal amounts to
all participants. This has proven to be happy and friendly living
for both adults and children — with privacy and individual opinion
and action safe guarded for each family. Here I designed our
house — large and almost crude. Our children go to the public
schools; my wife heads the art department in a girls’ private school
in Seattle.

High points in my architecture thus far, I feel, have been several
school projects on nearby Mercer Island. I have also recently had
a chance to do some remodeling of a theatre-auditorium at the uni-
versity: designing for festive gatherings and theatrical performances
has been a “secret desire,” and I hope more follows in future years.

I do not feel old or accomplished enough for a Twenty-fifth
Reunion, but I guess there’s no putting it off. My New England
friends will be pleased to know that finally with the aid of almost a
twenty-year absence, I now see more clearly the beauty of that
region; may I sometime have the understanding to build in the West
architecture of sensitivity equal to the best of New England. I
look forward to many more years of practice and (I hope) to no
years of retirement!

[955 ]

ON Ne tS i AHEM

ne |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

JESSE WHITMAN MORTON, JR.

    

HOME ADDRESS: 5519 N. St. Louis Ave., Chicago 25, Ill.
orFice ApprFss: Lakeview High School, gorg N. Ashland Ave., Chicago, Ill.

Born: Aug. 4, 1911, Reading, Mass. parents: Jesse Whitman Morton, ’03,
Marion Addie Howes.

pPrePaRED aT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

makrriep: Viola Marie Carlson, June 8, 1946, Chicago, Ill. cHrmpren: Robert
Whitman, Oct. 2, 1948, Deborah Louise, May 5, 1951.

occupation: Education; teacher of social studies.

OFFICES HELD: Educational chairman, 1953-55, vice-president, 1955-57, Uptown
Chapter, Toastmasters International, Chicago, Ill.,; vice-president and pro-
gram chairman, Dickens Fellowship, Chapter 33, Chicago, Ill, 1954-593
recording secretary, Tri-Park Community Council, Chicago, Ill, 1956-585
merit badge counsellor, Arrowhead District, Boy Scouts of America,
Chicago, Ill.

MEMBER OF: North Park Covenant Church, Chicago, Ill, Uptown Chapter,
Toastmasters International, Chicago, Ill., Dickens Fellowship, Chapter 33,
Chicago, Ill., Chicago Council, Boy Scouts of America; Peterson School
Parent-Teachers Association, Lakeview High School Parent-Teachers As-

sociation, Chicago; Tri-Park Community Council, Chicago; Harvard Club
of Chicago.

AFTER leaving college, I studied law for a while, then went into
the field of education, studying at Harvard Graduate School for
two years. I taught in a small private school in Salem, Massachusetts,
for a few months, and spent one year teaching at Staunton Military
Academy in the Blue Ridge Mountains of Virginia until the draft
caught me in 1942. From 1942 to 1946, I served in the Army Security
and Intelligence Division as an investigative agent, screening appli-
cants at home for jobs in war security work. Upon my discharge
in 1946, I married and went to Cuba for an extended honeymoon

[ 956 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of two years, where my wife and I each taught in an international
private academy in Havana.

Because of the serious illness of my wife’s mother, we returned
to the States in June, 1948, to be with her family. I then was em-
ployed in several insurance companies, an evening adult school, and
a map making company, until I returned to teaching this past fall.

Since my family and my work occupy most of my spare hours,
my daily existence has been more sedentary than in the past. I lead,
recreationally speaking, a very quiet life, as my main hobby or inter-
est is in reading (catching up on all the good things I didn’t have
time for in college). You might say I’m becoming a book publisher’s
delight; an omnivorous reader who likes to delve into writings on
archaeology, history, biography, belles-lettres, ancient and modern,
and in books on travel and exploration. I also have indulged in
recent years in the challenging but rewarding avocation of dramatic
raconteur of famous works of literature before clubs and societies
in the Chicago area, and in giving serious public addresses on raising
funds for worthy charities.

I am still a rabid baseball enthusiast and attend an occasional game
at Wrigley Field or Comiskey Park. However, the Red Sox are still
my favorite team —TI’m loyal to Boston, as a real New England
Yankee should be. I hope to take my family back East some day,
for a tramp over the White Mountains.

FRANCIS JOSEPH MOSLEY

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 265 Mt. Vernon St., Dorchester, Mass.

BORN: July 28, 1912, Canton, Mass. parents: James Mosley, Isabel Bucklev.
PREPARED AT: Canton High School, Canton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

[o57 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Clergyman; administrator, St. Christopher’s Church, Dorchester,
Mass,

oFFicEs HELD: Chaplain, U.S. Army, 1943-53-

AFTER two years at Harvard, I entered St. John’s Seminary,
Brighton, Massachusetts. The seven-year course of study was com-
pleted in 1939, with ordination to the Catholic priesthood. With the
exception of about ten years in the Army, I have been assigned to
churches in and around Boston since 1939. My army career as
chaplain began in the fall of 1943 and ended in 1953. During almost:
ten years of service, I served in this country and made three separate
tours in Korea. In 1956, I received an assignment to Columbia Point
Project, Dorchester, to organize a church for this the largest
housing project in New England. My present assignment is ad-
ministrator.

I believe the liberal education at Harvard was an excellent be-
ginning for my priestly work with many peoples in many lands
throughout the world.

ROBERT OTTO MULLER

  
       
             
 

  

SR tie 1
oe os
af

ae,

Se go
S

Ras

, ¥
z > f q
te vei

vit
nN
4
So

gen

+ MS

bY we |
itis, i Mae
HOME aporEss: P.O. Box 155, Newtown, Conn.

OFFICE appREsS: The Robert Lee Gallery, Newtown, Conn.

BORN: Oct. 5, 1911, Pelham Manor, N.Y. parents: Robert Otto Muller, Ger-
trude Erbsloh.

PREPARED AT: Gunnery School, Washington, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931, 1932-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1934(35).

MarriED: Ingeborg Lee, Feb. 3, 1940, New York, N.Y. cHitpren: Christina,
Jan. 24, 1941; Diana, March 27, 1942; Frederica, Oct. 25, 1944; Gertrude,
Nov. 25, 1947; Robert Lee, Dec. 12, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Erhart Muller, ’32.

occupation: Art dealer, Oriental art, owner of The Robert Lee Gallery.

[958 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PHILIP SIDNEY MUMFORD

  

HOME ADDRESS: 1401 30th St., Moline, Iil.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Deere & Co., Moline, III.
BORN: Jan. 27, 1912, Short Hills, N.J. paRENTs: Norman Winthrop Mumford,

*g90, Harriet Scelye Oliver.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1934.

MARRIED: Jane Slocum Harris, June 12, 1937, Rochester, N.Y. cumpren: Ann
Margaret, Nov. 11, 1946; Martha Harris, July 5, 1951.

occuPATION: Manager, Deere & Company, manufacturers of earth-moving and
logging equipment.

OFFICES HELD: Director, since 1948, president, 1953-55, Quad-Cities Iowa Post,

, American Ordnance Association, First National Bank, Moline; chairman,

Fund Campaign, Moline Chapter, American Red Cross, 1956.

MEMBER OF: American Ordnance Association; Illinois State Chamber of Com-
merce; Moline Rotary Club; Rock Island Arsenal Golf Club.

WHEN I got through college, I headed west to see about getting a
job and got no farther than the American Machine & Metals factory
in East Moline, Illinois, where I worked in the plant for a couple
of years. This was the beginning of many moves, including two
stays of a year apiece in Chicago and a two-year stretch in New York
City, working for the sales division of American Machine & Metals.

During that period, 1 was married, and my wife and I enjoyed
New York City apartment life very much indeed. However, at this
point, with two children and looking back at the commuter problem,
I think that two years in New York City were quite enough.

When the war came, American Machine & Metals pulled me back
into war production work at the East Moline plant. Illinois seemed
to be rather far from the centers of action, and in the fall of 1942 I
entered the Navy. This didn’t improve matters very much, as the
Navy stationed me for some months in California — a very pleasant

[959]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

life. Subsequently, I was sent overseas and ended up on the staff of
the commander of Naval Bases, South Solomons Area. After the
war, my wife and I returned to Moline where I resumed my con-
nection with American Machine & Metals, becoming general manager
of their East Moline plant in 1947.

By 1954, Deere & Company looked pretty good to me, and I .
joined that large manufacturer of farm machinery. My main occupa-
tion, for the last year or two, has been in connection with converting
one of the John Deere implement plants in Moline into a factory
for producing earth-moving machines. This has been an occupation,
a preoccupation and a hobby. In fact, it hasn’t left much time for
any outside hobby. However, Jane and I like to go fishing whenever
we can. We have also acquired two children, growing girls, who
keep us amused and occupied in our spare time.

We enjoy living in the Middle West. We find people are
wonderful wherever we go. Living is simple, commuting is easy,
and the golf course is near by. We both miss seeing our friends back
East and hope we shall make it for the Twenty-fifth Reunion.

ALBERT SUMMERS MURPHY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 330 Reservoir Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 520 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

BorN: May 21, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Albert Stephen Murphy, ’o5,
Gertrude Lyons. 1

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School; Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. Cum laude, 1934; M.D., 1940.

MarRieD: Marjorie L. Sheppard, Nov. 24, 1938, Boston, Mass. (died Aug. 6,
1948); Frances M. Shellenbach, Feb. 22, 1949, Newton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Sheila, April 22, 1940; Scan, Aug. 9, 1941; Kevin, Nov. 15, 1942; Brian,

[ 960 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

March 25, 1944; Terence, July 25, 1945; Rory, May 29, 1947; Deirdre,
Sept. 28, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Murphy, ’32.

occupaATION: Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: President, House Officers’ Association, Boston City Hospital,
1942-43, Guild of St. Luke, 1953; teaching fellow, 1942-43, instructor of
surgery, 1943-59, Tufts College Medical School, president, Medical Staff,
Holy Ghost Hospital, 1950-51, Long Island Hospital, 1954, Mount Auburn
Hospital, 1956-58; chairman, New Boston Committee, 1952-54; advance-
ment chairman, 1953-54, district chairman, 1954-57, vice-president, Boston
Council, 1954-58, Boy Scouts of America; councillor, Massachusetts Medical
Society, 1953-59; legislator councillor, Suffolk District Medical Society,
1956-59; visiting surgeon, St. Elizabeth’s Hospital, New England Baptist
Hospital, Mount Auburn Hospital, Holy Ghost Hospital, Boston City
Hospital, Brooks Hospital, Long Island Hospital; consultant in surgery,
Winthrop Community Hospital, Wrentham State School, Boston State
Hospital; member, Courtesy Staff, Newton-Wellesley Hospital, Leonard
Morse Hospital, Faulkner Hospital, Sancta Maria Hospital, Waltham Hos-
pital, Carney Hospital; member, Tumor Clinic Staff, Massachusetts General
Hospital.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Surgery; American College of Surgeons;
American Federation for Clinical Research; Boston Surgical Society;
American Medical Association; Boston Orthopedic Club; Society of
Examining Physicians, National Gastroenterological Society; Harvard Club
of Boston; Charles River Country Club; Guild of St. Luke, Se. Ignatius
Holy Name Society; Catholic Alumni Sodality; Eire Society; Boston
Wine and Food Society.

PUBLICATIONS: ‘Sarcoma of the Liver,” March, 1947; “Endothelial Cell Sarcoma
of the Liver Following Thorotrast Injections,” July, 1947; “Prolongation of
the Coagulation of Whole Blood by Dicumural in Man,” July, 1948; editor,
“Medical Chats,” Pilot, 1950-54.

GOD has been good to me and mine during the past quarter-century.
Every setback or disappointment has been soon equalized with good
fortune. When ill health of my father combined with the depression
threatened my Harvard Medical School career, the University was
more than generous with scholarships and remunerative jobs. This
is just another reason for my gratitude to our Alma Mater. Even
during my own nearly fatal illness which interrupted Medical School
for two years, the University renewed my scholarships and provided
custom-tailored jobs for a semi-invalid. Fortunately, most of these
Opportunities were ones which could be carried on even during my
intern and resident days, when finances were the worst and expenses
beginning to mount.
In 1938, I married Marge Sheppard, whom I had known through

[ 961 ]

es

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

College. As can be seen by the birth dates of our children, the re-
sponsibilities of a growing family were soon upon us.

Because of my medical problems from 1936 to 1938, Uncle Sam
was not interested in my services. Although disappointed to some
extent, I had very little time to reflect on that as I worked my head
off here at home, professionally and in teaching and Civil Defense.

Just as we were beginning to reap the rewards of our years of
struggle, and were proudly watching our little family progress,
Marge was taken sick and died. Again the hand of God came to our
aid, and within a year our family was again complete and happy with
my marriage to Fran, whom you have all come to know in our recent
reunions. After nine years of futility, this union has been blessed
with our year-old Deirdre.

As the family progressed, my interests were centered around
them, This led me to continue very active in all sports until I was
almost forty years old. It also led me into Boy Scouting, in which
I remained and advanced even after the boys had grown too old.
My interest in their schooling led me to consider running for School
Committee. However, when the potential danger to my professional
standing was emphasized to me, 1 went on to what is euphemistically
referred to as a “civic” organization. Needless to say, I was
catapulted precisely into the area my advisers had warned against.
However, my activities in the early fifties as chairman of the New
Boston Committee were stimulating, educational and, at least,
temporarily productive. |

When the gout made squash-playing impossible, and my spirit
was broken by the frustrations of our civic labors, and the children
were now finding no further need for the “old man” in their ath-
letics, Fran and I turned to golf in 1953. Fortunately, we have im-
proved consistently and at the same rate, so that we can enjoy our
hobby, or addiction, together. As a result, we have lost almost all
interest in spectator sports, except to follow them in the newspaper,
and see a few Harvard games.

When I say we are looking forward eagerly to our Twenty-fifth,
I’m really only one of our eight who is. The teen-agers have been
the most ardent enthusiasts for all of our pre-reunion events, and can
hardly wait until spring. We think we may bring them — or they
will bring us!

[ 962 ]

v; Aug 4, 1908, Newbur cypor, Mas : Thomas James s Murphy, |
Mary Si
: Newburyport High Schoo ol, Newburyport, Mass
931.

RETT MICHAEL MURPHY spent only the freshman year
sur Class. He was survived by his mother.

FRANCIS XAVIER MURPHY

 

‘Bruce St, Dorchester 24, Mass

Joodrow Wilson Junior High School, Dorchester, \iass

}, Charlestown, Mass, PARENTS; Timothy Franos Murphy,
Callaghan,

Latin School, Boston, Nass

H0-10}1, DEGREES: AB, 1934 EDA, Bra Tess

ward Uni), 1952.
ones Kiley, Ju i" 1¢ 28, 1048, Dorchester, Na.

9

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

HARVARD BROTHER: Paul James Murphy, ’39 (deceased).

occuPaTION: Submaster, Woodrow Wilson Junior High School.

OFFICES HELD: Member executive board, 1948-58, treasurer, 1950-52, president,
1952-54, Boston Teachers’ Alliance.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Schoolmasters’ Club, Boston Teachers’ Alliance.

I SPENT the year following graduation at Boston Teachers College
to prepare myself for the teaching profession in the public schools
(Class Agent and Class Treasurer please note!). I went through the
business of substituting and was finally appointed a permanent
teacher in January, 1939. Just as I was getting settled in my job
the Army called me for further education. I spent about half of my
forty-two months of military service in various schools, finally
winding up at the Signal Corps Language School at Georgetown
University, where I was subjected to an intensive course in Japanese.
The rest of the war I spent at the Signal Security Agency in Wash-
ington doing classified work. The only gun I heard was the sunset
gun at Fort Myer — the sunrise gun went off too early.

I returned to civilian life in 1946 and have been happily teaching
the teen-agers in Boston ever since. In 1954 I was appointed a sub-
master and assigned to my present school where I teach part of the
time and spend the rest of the day in administrative work.

As the formal statistics show, I have spent much of my outside
time on behalf of the Boston Teachers’ Alliance — an organization
which has devoted its efforts to bettering the position of Boston’s
public school teachers. I have enjoyed the work, though progress
was at any given time almost at a snail’s pace due to the overall condi-
tion of the City of Boston.

Four years ago we made a down payment on a little place at
Harwich on Cape Cod. If all goes well it will be ours free and clear
by the time of our Fiftieth. We’ve spent our summers there and
divided our time about equally between the beach and the establish-
ment and expansion of a garden. If the garden expands any more the
beaching will be cut, so I’m in the market for suggestions.

I suppose I could go on but Bert Loewenberg’s twentieth reminder
that this was due lacked his usual warmth and charm.

[ 964 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT BLAINE MURRAY, JR.

 

HOME ApbRrEss: 1875 Willow Rd., Hillsborough, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pan American World Airways, Inc., International Airport, San

Francisco, Calif.

BORN: Jan. 31, 1911, Hampstead, Md. parents: Robert Blaine Murray, Mabel

Fairfax Abbott.
PREPARED AT: Mercersburg Academy, Mercersburg, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.
MaRRIED: Elinor Lindley, Dec. 9, 1939, Alexandra, Va.

OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president, Pacific-Alaska Division, Pan American

World Airways, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, 1938-40, chairman, 1940-41, United Republican Fi-

nance Committee for Metropolitan New York; president, Pennsylvania
Economy League, 1946-53; member, Executive Committee, Eisenhower
National Finance Committee, 1952, Republican National Finance Com-
mittee, 1952-53, Northern California Republican Finance Committee, since
1957; Under Secretary of Commerce for Transportation, 1953-553 trustee,
United Seaman’s Fund, 1953-56; chairman, President’s Air Coordinating
Committee, 1953-55, Transportation Committee, Office of Defense Mobili-
zation, 1953-55, American Delegation to 1953 Conference of International
Civil Aviation Organization at Brighton, England; vice-chairman, Air
Navigation Development Board, 1953-55, White House Conference on
Highway Safety, 1954, member, National Advisory Committee for
Aeronautics, 1953-55, President’s Advisory Committee on \Weather Con-
trol, 1954-55; consultant to Department of Commerce, since 1953; member,
Mercersburg Academy Alumni Council, since 1955; member board, San
Francisco Chapter, American Red Cross, since 1957, San Francisco Bav
Area Council, 1957; chairman, San Francisco Pacific Festival, 1958;
recipient, San Francisco Aviation Award for 1958; member board, San
Francisco Chamber of Commerce; vice-president, American-Australian

Association.

MEMBER OF: San Francisco Golf Club; Burlingame (California) Country Club,

Chevy Chase Club (Washington); Racquet and Midday Clubs (Philadel-
phia); Duquesne Club (Pittsburgh); Pinnacle and Pilgrims Clubs (New

[ 965 ]

ek a aecereceniatneainn e.ammieielittetaimntadaaiatitaimsitassnnititieiti iat aie ne ae

nee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

York City); Ekwanok Club (Manchester, Vt.); Chevaliers du Tastevin;
Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers; National Defense
Transportation Association; Governmental Research Association; American
Academy of Political Science; National Tax Association.

WITH little more than a sheepskin and fond memories of our years
in Cambridge, which in itself seemed quite an accomplishment at
times, the austere days of ’35 through ’38 found me in the stock
exchange business with Tucker, Anthony & Company, in Baltimore,
Rochester and New York City. For reasons best known to Messrs.
Tucker and Anthony, I was given a leave of absence from 1938 to
1940, in an endeavor to swell the coffers of the Republican party.
This proved to be a fascinating experience and challenge. And,
during this period, I took on another challenge, my bride. I am
happy to report that we shall celebrate our twentieth anniversary
during the Twenty-fifth Reunion year, 1959.

In 1940, I invaded an Eli stronghold, the New York Trust Com-
pany, and, I might add, most Monday mornings were made bearable
only by the stalwart support of our late, great, little Eddie Mays.
With Pearl Harbor, I left for Washington and reported in to the
Army Air Corps, compass in hand, only to end up flying a desk
until March of 1946. Emerging with chickens on my shoulders,
but, alas, none in the pot, the Murrays hurriedly got under way in
Harrisburg, where I spent six interesting years as president of the
Pennsylvania Economy League, an organization dedicated to effi-
ciency and economy in government. This experience was invaluable
for the work I was later called upon to do, as the Under Secretary
of Commerce for Transportation in the first two years of the Eisen-
hower administration. Government service is something I wish
more of us had both the desire and opportunity to do. For while,
at times, it is most frustrating, yet I believe it was the most gratify-
ing and satisfactory work I have ever undertaken. However, this,
too, had a highly-deflating effect on my pocketbook, and, having
specified a two-year stint in accepting the appointment, I tendered
my resignation and went to Philadelphia, as vice-president and assist-
ant to the president of the Baldwin-Lima-Hamilton Corporation,
where I was concerned with the guided missile program in which
that company had quite a part. However, aviation always has been a
great interest of mine, from my early Air Force days, so I found
my way to Pan American World Airways, in May of 1956, and have
held my present position since February of 1957. And, once again,
I find myself surrounded by Elis, but I couldn’t enjoy anything

[ 966 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

more than working in an industry as dynamic as the airlines, now
just on the threshold of the greatest revolution in transportation.
Moreover, the jet aircraft is more than a means of transportation; it
is a way Of life. The increase in travel between nations, which the
jets will bring, will lead to understanding, and from understanding
comes peace. In the long run, the jet transport will out-sprint the
jet bomber, as the greatest force for a peaceful world. —

Since my responsibility extends from the west coast to Calcutta,
from Australia and New Zealand to Alaska, and over the pole to
London and Paris, we keep very much on the go. Aside from travel-
ing and trying to make a dollar, my free time is taken up with
gardening, a golf game when time permits, and photography. I am
still a black Republican — just a bit fatter, balder and grayer — and,
I hope, wiser.

KENNETH LUCIEN MYERS

on bie

   

PRM te

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1607 N, Hillside St., Wichita 14, Kans.

BorRN: Nov. 23, 1912, Broken Bow, Nebr. parents: Edwin Francis Mfvers, LLB.
07, Christie Julie Haumont.

PREPARED AT: Public Schools, Broken Bow, Nebr.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1930, 1931-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.

MarrigpD: Ellen M. Cremer, July 2, 1948, Stuttgart, Germany. CHILDREN: Ken-
neth Lucien, Jr, May 17, 1949; Edwin Carl, Jan. 8, 1951; Karen Maria,
June 15, 1952; Mark Cecil, April 15, 1954; Christie Marcelle, May 18, 1956;
John Daniel, Aug. 12, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edwin Jules Francis Myers, 33.

occuPATION; Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Christian Social Relations Committee, 1951-35, 1938
member executive board, 1951-56, Wichita Council of Churches; chairman,
Kansas State Sunday Observance Committee, since 1956.

[ 967 ]

nee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

MEMBER OF: American, Nebraska and Sedgwick County Bar Associations; Re-
serve Officers’ Association; Veterans of Foreign Wars.

PUBLICATIONS: “Let's Expose the Communist Capitalists,” VF.W. Magazine,
February, 1956, co-author, “The Challenge to Our Schools,” Wichita

Beacon; “Right to Work and Freedom of Association,” “Academic Free-
dom and the Reds,” Wichita Beacon, and other articles.

THE Twenty-fifth will be my first commencement exercise as |
“jumped ship” in 1934 in order to take advantage of a ride to my
home in Broken Bow, Nebraska. In 1930, I had registered with the
Nebraska Supreme Court as a law student under the preceptorship
of my father, Edwin F. Myers, Harvard Law, 1907. By including
summer vacation periods, I was able to add three years’ time, and
became a lawyer via competitive examination in November, 1935.
In the thirties, fees were modest and often “in kind” — eggs, fruit,
poultry, home-butchered meat.

In 1940, I took a little flyer in politics, running second out of
four for the Republican nomination to Congress, Fifth Nebraska
District. I opposed the “I hate wah” war party, on the ground that
the destruction of Germany and Japan would open the flood gates to
Communist conquest, and leave us with less security than before.

Because I was a good swimmer, I applied for a commission in the
Navy, received approval notice and then a rescission. Some in-
vestigator had decided I might be “subversive.” To warn against
Communist world design was to be typed a “Fascist.” But “Uncle”
still wanted me, so, as an army private, I joined three brothers in the
military services. My CO’s thought more highly of me than did the
investigators, so 1 made OCS and a commission. After being buried
at the Quartermaster’s School in Virginia for a long year, applica-
tion got me into Civil Affairs and Military Government. In February
of 1944, I was informally introduced to the sidewalk commandos of
Piccadilly Circus, and learned the art of self-defense. In September,
1944, Paris was revisited, then Brussels, Li¢ége and Germany. Al-
though I always made it plain to the enemy that quartermasters
were not primarily for combat, some of them neglected to pay at-
tention, as I got nicked at Siegen.

The end of the war found me in the beautiful city of Quedlin-
burg. Unfortunately, F.D.R. decided that the Soviet Union wasn’t
big enough, so we were pulled out, and “Joe” moved in. I was suc-
cessively assigned to Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary
Forces, Hdqtrs. U.S. Forces European Theatre, and then to Eco-
nomics Division of General Clay’s staff in the beautiful city of

[ 968 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Stuttgart, as German Economics Agencies officer for the Province
of Wuerttemberg-Baden, My assignments in Germany were in-
tensely interesting. After the Potsdam Conference, another Ameri-
can and I had the mission of lining up candidates as possible heads
of the projected central German economic agencies. Incidentally,
the present chancellor, Dr. Adenauer, and his close associate, Dr.
Pferdmenges, received our highest recommendations. The hardest
fight Was against the “Morgenthau Plan,” and its political-economic
insanity. While the late, Harvard- schooled, Harry Dexter White
was masterminding the plan for the complete disintegration of
Germany, this Harvard-schooled character was checkmating from
the field of operations, All of which goes to prove that the most
frustrating opponents of Harvard men are Harvard men.

In Germany came the demise. I blame it all on World War II.
In Stuttgart IT met a talented (nine languages) and buxom (180
pounds) lass, who interpreted for General Clay, Herbert Hoover,
Robert Murphy, the Herter Committee and many allied commissions.
I told her I would date her if she reduced. Darned if she didn’t lose
fifty pounds, and held me to my word. And — well you know how
one thing leads to another! Our union could be called reasonably
fruitful as we now have six “springoffs.” And don’t say history
never repeats, My wife’s father met his demise in World War I, as
a German military government officer in Poland. The gal who did
it was an enemy (Russian) national, My German friends, however,
always censured me for taking a wife as unauthorized reparations.

In August, 1948 (the year Dewey had the election sewed up), I
brought my bride to Nebraska. In 1950 we moved to Wichita,
Kansas, where our family has steadily increased, and where I have
succeeded in losing money in guaranteed, loss-proof ventures. I
have also made some, so that I could keep losing some.

The illfare state has taken much of the adventure out of life. We
need more mavericks, and fewer conformists and organization men.
Our “republicrat” party system stands for everything and nothing.
The well-organized and wealthy special interests consistently defeat
and compromise the public interest. Under the new exploitation,
individuals are systematically penalized for their productivity and
creativity. With the new Caesars, aided by a bevy of Harvard-
trained bureaucrats, claiming to solve all the problems of man,
perhaps God is feeling just a bit useless.

Modern social reform is dehumanizing man. The scornful
irresponsibility of so many moderns, as reflected in the awful figures

L 969 |

rE TT HeReHHerMN-enmsenneecunenneEenensensinsrurtnimprtanentrPeinses rote TPM mesenger ree rene epee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

on divorce, crime, delinquency and mental illness, indicate that the
shift from personalized responsibility to state responsibility voids
the sense of individual moral worth. When problems, germane to
individual conduct, are largely treated as “social” and “state”
problems, the stature of individual man declines in favor of “Bi
Brother.” This erosion of the responsible, free-willed, moral self is
the basis for our illness —an illness which can never be cured by
larger appropriations and more governmental agencies.

JAMES FRANCIS NAGLE

 

HOME appress: 29 Martin Rd., Wellesley, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: National Cash Register Co., 537 Commonwealth Ave., Boston,
Mass.

BORN: Dec. 31, 1911, Cambridge, Mass. parents: John Joseph Nagle, Ellen
Wynne.

prepared at: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: 8.B., 1934.

marriep: Henrietta Reid, Dec. 28, 1940, Dedham, Mass. cHupren: Peter Reid,
March 26, 1947; Reid, May 26, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Assistant manager of accounting and electronic machine sales,
National Cash Register Company.

MEMBER OF: Boston Executives Association; Financial Advertisers Association.

IT was indeed a bitter blow to my ego to discover in 1934 that the
giants of industry were not bidding frantically for the services of
a “‘pseudo super salesman.” However, after my alleged selling quali-
fications had been materially dampened many times by cold water
applied by prospective employers, I entered the selling ranks (pun
not accidental). I became a sales trainee with Remington Rand, Inc.,
at a salary it would be gross exaggeration to call nominal.

After six months I made my selling debut. At the end of two

[970] |

a

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

years I concluded that I was going nowhere with steady, relentless
strides. Naturally, I looked subjectively for the cause of this and
concluded that some other company was deserving of my tireless
selling efforts. Having heard that the National Cash Register Com-
pany, which was prominent in cash register equipment, was a promis-
ing newcomer in the accounting machine field, | camped on their
executive doorsteps until they succumbed (the executives) to my
blandishments in the fall of 1936. Since then I have enjoyed a busy
and happy selling career here in Boston with the National Cash
Register Company and have shared in a moderate degree in their
tremendous growth.

In 1940, | had the good fortune of meeting Henrietta Reid of
Dedham and selling her the idea of changing her surname to Nagle.

With the advent of war, although my military training had been
limited to the Boy Scout salute, I applied for a commission in the

Army Air Corps. In May, 1942, 1 was commissioned a second lieu-
tenant in the Eighth Air Force with a classification of “methods and
control officer” — the idea being that after basic training I would
sit in an office somewhere and control the movement of aircraft on
paper with a pencil. Can you imagine anything so logical happening
in the Air Corps? Naturally, it didn’t! Three days and twenty
shots later, still using my treasured Boy Scout salute, 1 was walking
up the gangplank of the Queen Elizabeth. A truly warlike figure —
complete with oversized helmet, gas mask, forty-five filled with
grease and two canteens filled with bourbon. Five nights and four
hangovers later, 1 was interviewed by a personnel colonel who had
far less military experience than I and a much less i impressive salute.
He immediately assigned me to detached service with the Royal Air
Force in order that I might control aircraft — not on paper, but
rather from the control tower of a heavy bomber airdrome. Six
months later, after many harassing experiences (for the pilots under
my control), I was returned to the Eighth Air Force and given
American pilots for my experiments. Then three years of landing
everything in all kinds of weather in England and France and 7]
emerged from the service as a bottle-scarred captain with many over-
seas stripes, no bourbon, but original salute intact.

- After a normal readjustment period which included the elimina-
tion of liquor from my diet, my business life with the National Cash
Register Company progressed and my home life became fruitful.
In 1947 I was put in charge of bank sales in Boston and in the same

5
year Henrietta and I begot a son, whom we named Peter Reid Nagle.

[971]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Five years later, we named a second son Reid Nagle and I threatened
that a third would simply be designated Nagle. However, the oc-
casion to carry out the threat has not arisen. In 1955, I became
assistant manager of accounting and electronic sales in Boston.

Our family of four enjoys a full family life in Wellesley. Early
American furniture and pewter has become a hobby and I find
that auctions, my workshop and restoration of antiques are an
excellent change of pace therapy. In the summer, we usually squeeze
in a week or two beaching and fishing down the Cape and break
up the winter with a short vacation to a warm climate. In the fall,
Saturday afternoons find us sitting hopefully with the loyal in the
Stadium — although the Yale Bowl game in ’57 almost converted us
to lacrosse or soccer.

All in all, the past twenty-five years have passed reasonably
smoothly but much too quickly, and my family and I have become
happy advocates of moderation and toleration in our pursuits.

THOMAS EDWARD NAUGHTEN

    

HOME apprEss: 4830 Calvert St. N.W., Washington 7, D.C.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Director, U.S. Operations Mission to Thailand, Bangkok,
. Thailand.

BORN: July 29, 1913, Washington, D.C. parents: James Clancy Naughten, Isa-
belle K. Murphy.

PREPARED AT: Western High School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREES: S.B., 1934; LL.B. (Georgetown Univ.),
1938.

UN MARRIED,

occupation: US. foreign service; director, U.S. Operations Mission to Thailand.

OFFICES HELD: Special agent and F.B.1. inspector, Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion, U.S. Dept. of Justice, 1938-50; intelligence officer, SHAEF, 1944-46;
director, Office of Personnel Security & Integrity, 1953~56, assistant to

[972 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

director in charge of Security Affairs, 1956-58, International Cooperation
Administration; senior U.S. adviser, Fourth SEATO Council Meeting,
Manila, Philippines, March, 1958.

MEMBER OF: Georgetown University Alumni Association; Delta Upsilon Fra-
ternity; Royal Bangkok Sports Club; Honorable Order of Kentucky Colo-
nels; Army-Navy Club of Washington, D.C.; D.C. Bar, U.S. Supreme Court
Bar.

PUBLICATIONS: Member, editorial staff, Georgetown University Law School
Journal, 1935-38.

FROM lawyer to foreign service. That briefly is the change of
course I have taken. After securing my LL.B. and passing the bar
examinations in Washington, D.C,, I served with the U.S. Department
of Justice until 1952. During those years I did a great deal of travel-
ing, not only within the United States but also in Europe, Latin
America, the Middle East and the Far East. During the war years I
was temporarily attached first to SHAEF in Europe and then GHQ
in the Far East.

After these years of government service, I decided in 1952 to
leave government and be my own boss in practising law in Wash-
ington, D.C. That gave me time to crystallize my thinking, and I
found I had come to the deep conviction that the postwar period
would be increasingly critical for the U.S. in view of its recognized
responsibilities in international affairs. And to carry these responsi-
bilities, people would be necessary to serve U.S. interests overseas.
So, in 1953, I joined the Foreign Economic Aid Program which is
now being administeréd by the International Cooperation Ad-
ministration,

Here in Thailand I have the responsibility of administering under
the American ambassador the U.S. economic aid program, a vast
complex of activities, but immensely rewarding in participating in
activities which are of critical importance to U.S. interests.

I cannot claim much activity in the normal community work
sense. Temporary residences outside the United States do not seem
conducive to that. Yet we Americans in Thailand find a full life in
our association with the Thais and others.

I am hopeful that the slight matter of being half-way round the
world from Cambridge, Massachusetts, will not stand in the way of
my joining in the Twenty-fifth Reunion in 1959.

[973 ]

eet ee a A aR CRORES

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

* THOMAS WIBIRD NAZRO

 

BoRN: May 5, 1912, Jamaica Plain, Mass. parents: Arthur Francis Nazro, ’o3,
Evelyn Penhallow.

prePaRED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

piep: March 26, 1951, Concord, N.H.

THOMAS WIBIRD NAZRO graduated with our Class. While at
college he was a member of the freshman football team and crew
and served as president of our freshman class. He was also a mem-
ber of the varsity football team and the university rugby team. On
graduation he was elected Third Marshal of our Class. Since 1935
he had been a schoolmaster at St. Paul’s School, where he taught
history and coached football. During the war he served as an officer
with the Navy’s North Atlantic anti-submarine patrol and was
awarded the Bronze Star and the Purple Heart. In 1945 he was dis-
charged from the Navy a lieutenant commander and returned to St.
Paul’s School, where he was soon made Director of Admissions. At
the time of our Fifteenth Reunion, Nazro was chosen chairman of
our new Class Committee. He was survived by his parents.

‘

[ 974 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JACOB NEBER

Yai meer sora ta
; pn ,

  

HOME ADDRESS: 2300 Sunset Drive, Sunset Island 3, Miami Beach, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1680 Meridian Ave., Miami Beach 39, Fla.

BoRN: Oct. 2, 1912, Rowno, Poland. parENts: Joseph Neber, Fannie Basher.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1934. DEGREES: a.B., cum laude, 1934; M.p., can laude
(Tufts Coll.), 1938.

marriep: Mabel Louise Goff, Aug. 22, 1954, Miami Beach, Fla. cmp: Jennifer
Frances, Aug. 14, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Physician.
orFices HELD: Hematologist, director, Blood Bank, Mt. Sinai Hospital, Miami

Beach, Fla.; attending in internal medicine, Mc. Sinai Hospital, St. Francis
Hospital, Miami Beach, Fla., and the Jackson Memorial Hospital, Mami,
Fla.; consultant in hematology, Veterans Administration Hospital, Coral
Gables, Fla.; clinical assistant professor of medicine, University of Nfiami
Medical School.

MEMBER OF: Alpha Omega Alpha, Phi Delta Epsilon, American Medical As-
sociation, International Society of Hematology.

puBLicaTions: “The Improved Demonstration of Circulating Antibodies in
Hemolytic Anemia by the Use of a Bovine Albumin Medium,” Blood: 2,
July, 1947; “Transfusion Reactions to a Plasma Constituent of Whole
Blood,” Blood: 5, February, 1950; “SNewer Techniques in the Differentia-
tion of Acquired and Congenital Hemolytic Anemia,” Bulletin of New
England Medical Center: 9, August, 1947; “Agranulocytosis following
Phenylbutazone Therapy,” JAMA: 151, April 11, 1953; “Agranulocytosis
following Diamox Therapy,” JAMA: 157, Jan. 22, 1955.

AFTER Harvard, the years were very full, with medical school

and three years of internship and residency training succeeding each

other in steady fashion, to end up making me feel very important

as pathologist for a local hospital. Then came July, 1942, and three

years of New Guinea, Biak and the Philippines to make me feel

very unimportant and once again very ignorant.

So I spent the three years from 1946 through 1949 doing research

[975]

a NNT NT TE RL UE aT INC Rete tS RCP SORA N  ge o

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

in hematology, learning over again the exacting disciplines of honest
medicine. I tried practice in Boston for about nine months, and
learned that the nice old city did not particularly care about another
hematologist in her bustling medical world. So I moved to Miami,
where for a short time I was unique, and quickly became busy and
once again felt important. In 1954, I married, and now I am humble
again.

The years since graduation have been varied and full. The war
was a nasty, boring but very enlightening experience. Medicine is
constantly ‘changing, surprising and preoccupying, so that the months
and years go by with incredible speed. But always with rewarding
emotional experience and rich satisfaction. My adopted city has

been very kind to me, and a happy marriage has completed a good
and full life for me.

RICHARD BARCLAY NEFF

 

HOME ADDRESS: 114 E. 84th St., New York 28, N.Y.

OFFICE ADpRESS: J. Walter Thompson Co., 420 Lexington Ave, New York 17,
N.Y.

BORN: July 30, 1912, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: James Stanley Nichols, Winona
Mae Day.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield-Shields School, Highland Park, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931, 1934. DEGREE: AB. (Univ. of Georgia), 1935.

Marriep: Mary Alice Jester, June 29, 1939, New York, N.Y. camoren: Richard
Barclay, Jr., Sept. 17, 1943; Nicholas Carlton, Aug. 16, 1951.

occuPaTiON: Advertising copywriter and supervisor.

OFFICES HELD: Member, New York Committee, Program for Harvard College,
1958; chairman, New York Class of ’34 Dinner, 1955; chairman, Publicity
Committee, since 1955, member, Nominating Committee, 1956, St. James

Episcopal Church; member, Admissions Committee, Church Club, 19573
member, Dance Committee, New York Southern Society, 1956.

L 976 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Devon Yacht Club, 1957; St. George's
Society; Church Club; New York Southern Society; Copy Research
Council, American M: arketing Association,

PUBLICATIONS: Advertisement and comments included in 100 Top Copywriters
and Their Favorite Ads by Perry Schofield; quoted in Madison Avenue
U.S.A. by Martn Mayer, and in forthcoming book on how ideas are
conceived, by Herbert True, a professor at Notre Dame; contributor
(columnist), Advertising Age, since October, 1958; same column, “The
Peeled Eye Department,” in Advertising Agency Magazine, 1955-58.

IF acid schizophrenia and dandruff of the ego set in while I'm

Ww riting this, it's because nothing Is as ‘frustrating to an advertising
writer as writing about himself. On the one hand, this highly sensi-
tive creative mechanism, the copywriter, wishes to be loved and
hence is repelled by the very idea of boasting of his accomplish-
ments, thus appearing to be any thing but the lovably modest fellow
he is. On the other hand, if he has even an ounce of selling instinct,
he is, by inclination and training, filled with an overpowering urge
to share with the audience his enthusiasm for the product — w hich,
in this case, happens to be that dazzling, king-size package of talent,
himself. Obviously, the only sensible solution, then, is to let some-
one else write it for him. (‘Impartial tests by a leading independent
laboratory reveal. . . .”)

When I demonstrated to my dear wife the brilliant logic in this
position, however, and offered to let her handle this exciting and
challenging assignment hersclf, I found that for some reason she not
only did not welcome this amazing opportunity but, what's worse,
accused me of av viding work and worse still, laughed. Aloud. This
leaves me no alternative but to try to strike a compromise between
hiding my candle under a bushel basket and turning it into a Roman
candle,

My first plunge into the cold commercial world after college, a
mere year and a half of which, incidentally, were at Harvard be-
cause of an unfortunate inability of Greek verbs to understand me,
was made, chin high, over the threshold into Batten, Barton, Dur-
stine & Osborn in New York City. My second plunge was made
over the same threshold half an hour afterwards into the street. One
would have thought from the casual way they studied their finger-
nails during our interview that brilliant young Harvard men who
knew someone who knew one of the partners were to be emploved
merely for the asking.

Never mind, There were other advertising agencies in New York
which would jump at this opportunity. And jump they did, after

[977 ]

aA a ee TEP TSSTAIISSNSTE SENS CRP ADSLEETINESD SEENON SNAITRPNTON NNR ne

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

actually shot any footage using this technique. But others at Thomp-
son, who had independently conceived the same notion, did. And
interesting commercials done by Thompson in this technique for
Ford and Aecroshave, just recently put on the air, are already being
acclaimed as setting a new trend. I mention this to show you the
kind of thing we experiment with. It is enormously stimulating
and helpful to television’s creative efforts. ] know of no other agency
that does this or even has the facilities for it.

This is just one of the many services that JWT offers that adver-
tisers can’t get elsewhere.

Twice monthly I write a column for Advertising Age called the
Peeled Eye Department. If you see any funny and/or ridiculous
ads or other items of interest for a column that advertising people
read, please let me have them with your comments, if any. My rates
are guaranteed the lowest in the industry — 2¢ an item — but aside
from the fame that greets my contributors, they stand a chance to
have their items reprinted (for a fair fee) in Reader’s Digest, as was
the case recently when I printed a secretary’s clever plea for a raise.

My only other brush with the arts was when I was approached
by 20th Century Fox once with a suggestion that I write stories for
the movies, After struggling for one week of my vacation with a
plot they liked, trying to iron out a kink, I gave up. But the time
was not lost; during those seven days of my vacation I became easily
the most proficient pencil sharpener i in New York.

Other vacations have been spent, oftener than not, with my wife’s
family in Athens, Georgia, although Cape Cod, Nantucket, Sea
Island, a bit of the West and Mexico are not strangers. We spent
a delightful vacation at Hobe Sound one winter, and spent the sum-
mer before last at Amagansett, Long Island, about three miles from
East Hampton.

Our elder son, Dick, Jr., a handsome six-footer in his fourth form
at St. Paul’s, is currently making an 80-plus average, I’m proud to
say, even though some of his studies are in the difficult honors courses.
Nichol is in second grade at Buckley School here in New York Citv
and doing very nicely, too. His Junior Planetarium is now his pet
interest, although Siamese fighting fish, a turtle, word games and
beating up Dad are favorite interests also.

Mary Alice is a loyal worker for the Children’s Health Service,
the Blue Ridge School Auxiliary and other charities, looks as pretty
as the day I met her, and is one of the best bridge players I ever
knew (I’m horrible).

[ 980 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

As I mentioned in my Twentieth Report, my ambition is to find
an honest, well-heeled promoter and/or inventor to market a drawer-
ful of ideas I have for new inventions and such, which I haven’t the
mechanical aptitude to construct working models of, or the time to
patent and market. A kind classmate has volunteered to help in his
spare time, but what I probably really need is full-time professional
help. If you know of anyone who'd be interested in making himself
and me rich, please holler.

And that, my friends and classmates, is the story of my post-
Harvard life, Thank you for your kind attention, and I implore
you not to report me to my employers for putting you into a
cataleptic state.

FISHER HILDRETH NESMITH, JR.

  

HOME apprEss: 128 Landon Lane, Orange, Va.

OFFICE ApbRESS: Edgewood Farms, Madison Mills, Va.

BorN: March 25, 1912, Manila, PI. parents: Fisher Hildreth Nesmith, ’o6,
Elizabeth Flint Nash.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; M.B.A., 1938.

marriep: Pauline Agassiz Shaw, Sept. 16, 1938, Concord, N.H. (divorced
1945); Phyllis Stewart Burke, Jan. 4, 1947, New Canaan, Conn. CHILDREN:
Hildreth Shaw, July 9, 1939; Pauline Agassiz, July 14, 1942; Joan Stewart,
Sept. 2, 1947; Fisher Hildreth, 3d, Dec. 27, 1948; Philip Morrison, Aug. 30,
1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Nesmith, ’38, M.B.a., 40.

OCCUPATION: Investment management; management consultant.

OFFICES HELD: Securities analyst, Merchants National Bank, Boston, 1938-42;
control officer, Office of the Chief of Transportation, U.S. Army, 1942-46;
managing partner, Estate Management Company, Washington, D.C.. 1946-
48, Edgewood Farms, since 1949; consultant, Office of the Chief of Trans-

[ 981 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

CHARLES JOHN NEVIN

 

HOME AppRESS: Route 115, Walnut Hill, North Yarmouth, Maine, R.F.D. 2,
Cumberland Center, Maine (mailing address).

BORN: Sept. 12, 1911, Mlatamoras, Pa. parents: Frank Lee Nevin, Anna Russell
March.

PREPARED AT: Aforristown School, Morristown, NJ.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: $.B., 1934; A.M. (Columbia Univ.), 1950.

MarrRiED: Elizabeth H. Haven, March 20, 1952, Morristown, N.J.

CCUPATION: Experimental gardening and worm-raising, working for painting
contractor m Yarmouth, Maine.

MIEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Western Maine; Presumpscot Lodge No. 127,
ALF. & A.AL; 12-5 Investment Club.

AN unusual interest in sports and a belief that one’s work should
d¢ interesting and enjoyable led me into the field of education. It
nust be confessed that the teaching of academic subjects was a
yurden which had to be borne so that the enjoyment of the after-
w0on on the athletic fields could be attained.

In the fall of 34, after the trip to Japan with the baseball team
still one of the highlights of my life), I joined the faculty of the
forristown School for Boys in Morristown, New Jersey. In the
nsuing eight years I became director of athletics and coach of
0tball, basketball and baseball. Four years in the Signal Corps
‘ith the 399th Co. AVN, attached to the Ninth Bomber Command,
uiled to change my interests. Consequently I took a position with
re Trinity School in New York City for a period of six years,
iterrupted by one year in the public schools of Caldwell, New
srsey. During this time I attended Columbia Teachers College at
ight and received an A.M. degree.

Success in the matter of wins and losses (apparently the only
ardstick by which the rabid alumni measure it) was moderate.

[ 986 ]

at da tine «eens. enmen Gremmenrnrn'

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Financial success was not expected, but if somewhere along the
line I have helped mold some character, or build some ideals, then
1 am happy and, in my opinion, successful.

Life really began at forty when I married Elizabeth H. Haven,
Wellesley °28, of Morristown, New Jersey. Since 1937 I had been
working summers as a counselor at Camp Kingsley, Crescent Lake,
Maine, and the first summer after marriage, we bought a small Cape
Cod in North Windham on one of the busy highways to the White
Mountains, where my wife ran a tourist home and gift shop. That
fall we returned to our home in Montclair, New Jersey, to a year
of metamorphosis. The coaching was no longer fun — perhaps be-
cause of the three hours a day on busses and subways — and life in
suburban New York was one big traffic problem. Above all, we were
homesick for Maine. So, like Louise Dickinson Rich, “we took
to the woods,” only we didn’t go in so far.

We have now sold our little house in North Windham and bought
an old farmhouse and some forty acres of land, some cleared, some
wooded, in North Yarmouth, Maine. (The latchkey’s always out!)
We are having fun experimenting with certain garden crops and
raising earthworms, of all things! We have no animals except a
“money” cat, “Miss Muffy,” who came to us stray and promptly
took over the house. In addition to the farm, we have a business
property consisting of a restaurant and land on Route 1 in Yarmouth.
Next year we hope the man who leases it will again have the baby
seals which proved to be so popular with young and old in former
years.

One of my hobbies is woodworking. Over a period of two sum-
mers, working weekends, I have built a shack on a nearby lake
where we have spent many enjoyable hours and hope to have many
more.

At times things have not been easy. Wrong decisions were made
in business deals, culminating in a period of unemployment last
winter, Which was unfortunate and proved nearly fatal to the savings
account, but resulted in a great deal of improvement to the house.
However, we are not dismayed, A temporary (we hope) job with
a painting contractor provides the necessities and we have no
thoughts of returning to our former life. Most people think we are
crazy. If we are, we like it.

[ 987 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

BURTON EDGAR NEWCOMB, JR.

 

LAST KNOWN AbbRESS: % Peruvian International Airways, Casilla 3049, Lima,
Peru.

BorN: Aug. 8, 1911, Omaha, Nebr. parents: Burton Edgar Newcomb, Patience
Augustine.

PREPARED aT: Santiago Army and Navy School, Santiago.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1933 (34).

occuPaTION: Transportation.

NEWCOMB has been carried as a “lost’” man on our records since
1958.

JOSEPH NEYER

 

HOME apprEss: §5 W. rith St. New York 11, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rutgers University, New Brunswick, N.J. -

BORN: March 8, 1913, New Rochelle, N.Y. parents: Louis Neyer, Tillie Berzon.

PREPARED AT: New Rochelle High School, New Rochelle, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1934; A.M. 19353
PH.D., 1942.

UNMARRIED,

[ 988 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Education; Chairman, Department of Philosophy, Rutgers Uni-
versity.

MEMBER OF: American Philosophical Association, American Sociological So-
ciety; Phi Beta Kappa.

PusLicaTtions: Articles and reviews in the general area of the philosophy of the
social sciences and social philosophy.

I REMAINED in Cambridge for two years after graduation, to
pursue the study of philosophy at the Harvard Graduate School of
Arts and Sciences. The Department of Philosophy awarded me the
James H. Woods fellowship, which enabled me to spend the
academic year, 1936-37, in Europe, mainly in Paris. I was supposed
to be studyi ing philosophy at the University of Paris, but my
Curiosities and energies were directed toward French politics, art,
European “manners,” and French sociology. (My doctoral disserta-
tion, submitted to the Harvard Department of Philosophy five years
later, was based upon rescarch in French sociology that was started
that year in Paris.) Back in America, I spent the years 1937 to 1940
mainly in Cambridge, as an assistant in philosophy, with some
excursions which were the consequences of my venturing into the
domains of anthropology and clinical psychology. From 1940 to
1942, | was an instructor in philosophy at Vassar College.

I Ieft Vassar to go into the U.S. Army, with the intention of
fighting Fascism and becoming a general as fast as possible. How-
ever, neither my confrontation of the enemy nor my rise in the
military ranks was as rapid as I had anticipated. The closest I ever
came to being the object of gunfire was the consequence of my
being stationed on the rifle range next to a man who was too feeble
to hold his rifle steadily in the general direction of the target. I
began my three and a half years in the Army as an engineer rifleman
(private), and after twenty-five months as an enlisted man, I was
directly commissioned a second lieutenant (in the capacity of
clinical psychologist) — a rank which I was destined to carry with
me to the end.

There were rich experiences in the Army. As an enlisted man, I
was transferred after six months in the Engineer Corps to Air Corps
Psychological Research, which concerned itself mainly with the
selection and reclassification of air cadets. Then I became a member
of the Psychology Department of an Air Corps Convalescent Hos-
pital, where some of us enlisted non-medical personnel tried to teach
the untutored doctors something about psychiatry. (A.ML.A. take
notice.} As an officer, I served in a General Hospital, in a Ground

[ 989 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Force Convalescent Hospital and, finally, in a Disciplinary Barracks
(a prison for serious violators of army regulations). Out of these
army experiences came a lasting interest in the problems involved in
utilizing personnel from the various social sciences in coping with
new types of social problems.

Since 1947, I have been a member of the Department of Philoso-
phy of Rutgers University. I live on the most charming block in
Manhattan, and I commute to the New Brunswick (N.J.) campus
no more than four times a week (the dean will not see this), and so
I have the best of two worlds. During the past five years, my
energies appear to have been absorbed by the “administrative” side
of university life. (Those who can’t teach or write administrate.)
In addition to serving as chairman of my small and congenial de-
partment since 1953, | have been a member of a number of very
active committees during a period of transformation and reorganiza-
tion of the university. I am looking forward to the second semester
of the present academic year, when | shall have a one-semester leave
of absence (my first since 1947) and the opportunity to do some
concentrated study and writing.

When I came to Rutgers in 1947, it still seemed to me (as it had
seemed in 1934) that the good fight was the fight for social justice —
for a more equitable distribution of the goods of the world. But this
is no longer the case. Both management and union leadership now
share the same concern to keep the production machine smoothly
running and the pace of consumption feverishly maintained —
without any concern for the consequent quality of life. The good
fight now is the fight against the impoverishment of human vitality
and awareness, which is the consequence of the development of
mass markets in “cultural” products, as well as in automobiles and
television sets, This change in the world and in my own outlook
has been reflected in a gradual and inevitable change in the content
of my teaching during the past six years.

Since 1947, I have worried about the problem of world population
growth. But I régret to report that | myself have not contributed
to the exacerbation of this problem. And I shall read with some
envy the accounts of my classmates concerning their mates and their
progeny. While considering my difficulty in writing here about
this important dimension of life, I was reminded of how David
Hume, that eighteenth-century analytical genius and philosophical
bachelor, coped with this same difficulty in the brief autobiographical
sketch written at the close of his life. In his mood of quiet vanity,

[ 990 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

he says, “\fy company was not unacceptable to the young and care-
less, as well as to the studious and literary; and as I took a particular
pleasure in the company of modest women, I had no reason to be
displeased with the reception I met with from them.”

JAMES CHRISTOPHER NEYLON

 

HOME abpress: 5 EF. iggth St. Euclid 19, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1235 WV, Sixth St., Cleveland, Ohio.

BorN: May 15, 1911, Springficld, Mass, parents: Daniel Andrew Neylon, Mary
M. Flannery.

PREPARED at: Springfield Technical High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 61712 latide, 1934.

sarrito: Carla Wilhelmina Melander. cHi_pren: Jean Carla, 1937; Ann Jennifer
(m1. Thomas Herringshaw), 1939; Lynn Valerie, 1941; James Christopher,
Jr. 1943; Eric Geoffrey, 1948; Bruce Alan, 1950. GRANDCHILD: Constance
Lynn Herringshaw.

OCCUPATION: Salesman, mill supplies.

SIX children and a deferment as an engineer during World War II
circumscribed the periphery of my adventuring. There are no flam-
boyant highlights to report. The quietly beautiful, frustrating.
poignant, or terrifying interludes revolve about my family.

My family and Harvard are the most satisfying entities in my
life — perhaps the only verities.

[ 991 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ACOSTA NICHOLS

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADpREss: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. ro, 1911, New York, N.Y. Parents: Acosta Nichols, Elizabeth
Abbott Lane.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: AB., cum laude, 1934.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Schoolmaster, teacher of history and government, Groton School,
special partner in investment banking firm.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Yaddo Corporation for the Creative Arts, Groton School
Camp.

MEMBER OF: Piping Rock Club, Racquet & Tennis Club, New York; Harvard
Clubs of New York and Boston; Society of Cincinnati.

TEACHING was always my intended vocation, and when in
November of our senior year, I was offered a position at Groton, |
iccepted it at once. That decision set the course of my life, for ]
rave been at Groton ever since (except for four war years).

It has been a thoroughly happy existence. The rewards and
atisfactions of teaching at a boarding school are great: the close
riendships that develop with the students (as boys and later as
lumni), the intellectual stimulus of classroom discussions when
everal of the participants are eager and intelligent, the chance for
laily air and exercise in the country, the hope that one is doing
omething of value, and, not least, the opportunities afforded by
ong school vacations. I have no regrets whatever at my choice of
rofession. .

History is my subject —all fields of history, for a school-master
as to spread himself thin, and can not be a specialist. I coach soccer,
lub baseball and tennis in season, am housemaster of a dormitory
uilding housing ninety boys, and have my share of the routine

[ 992 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

committee assignments and extracurricular jobs that come in any
educational institution.

In addition to my teaching duties, I am a special partner in
Spencer Trask & Company, investment bankers in New York. This
activity affords a nice balance to academic life.

Some years ago, I built a small house at Oyster Bay, Long Island,
on land that had been owned by my family. There I spend my
suinmer vacations, playing a lot of tennis and golf, sailing a Light-
ning, reading, swimming, gardening and enjoying the adult evening
sociability that is precluded in a boarding school during term-time.

Long vacations make travel possible, and I have done my share
since graduation: half a dozen trips to Western Europe (three in
company with members of Harvard ’34), a leisurely sabbatical jaunt
through Egypt, the Sudan; India, the Near East and the Mediter-
ranean countries, and several expeditions to Bermuda, Nassau, or
other comparatively nearby spots —all these in addition to alto-
gether too much travel on a destroyer escort during the war. For
the coming spring vacation, I have chartered a schooner in the
Aegean for a cruise among the islands. This cruise should be fun.

Politically, I am an enrolled Republican, but vote as an Inde-
pendent. In the seven presidential elections in which I have par-
ticipated, I have supported each major party three times, and in
1936, cast a protest vote for Norman Thomas. Erratic as this
record may seem, I am prepared to justify each ballot.

Marriage? I suppose I should feel unhappily conscious of missing
it, but I don’t. For me, the past twenty-five years have, from every
standpoint, been all that I could ask.

[ 993 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

HAROLD WILLIS NICHOLS, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS 7315 Indian Hill Rd., Cincinnati 43, Ohio.
OFFICE ADDRESS: The Fox Paper Co., P.O. Box 97, Cincinnati 15, Ohio.

BORN: Jan. 3, 1911, Cincinnati, Ohio. PaRENTs: Harold Willis Nichols, ’o7,
Margaret Rowe. "

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.

MarrigD: Katherine Harkness Edwards, May 30, 1936, Lexington, Ky. cHILpren:
Martha Harkness, May 25, 1938, Katherine Edwards, April 15, 1941, Mar-
garet Rowe, 2d, May 28, 1945; Elizabeth Marsh, June 25, 1948.

occupation: President and treasurer, The Fox Paper Company (and subsidiary
companies).

OFFICES HELD: Director, the Drackett Company, Plastics, Inc., The Hambletonian
Society; president, Lexington Trots Breeders Association, The Horseman
Publishing Company, American Shetland Sheepdog Association, 1948-51,
Madeira and Indian Hill Fire Company; treasurer, Tattersalls Corporation,
Southwestern Ohio Water Company; trustee and secretary, Cincinnati
Summer Opera Association; trustee, chairman, 1955, campaign chairman,
1954, Heart Association of Greater Cincinnati; trustee, chairman, 1957-58,
Ohio State Heart Association; director, member of executive committee,
chairman of fund-raising advisory and policy committee, American Heart
Association; chairman, Initial Gifts Division, United Appeal Fund, 1957.

MEMBER OF: Queen City Club, Camargo Club; Cincinnati Country Club; Maid-
stope Club; Devon Yacht Club; National Golf Links of America, East
Hampton; Idle Hour Country Club, Lexington; Commonwealth Club,
Cincinnati.

UPON graduation, introduction to the business world was through
the bag converting plant of a paper mill located in the Cincinnati
suburbs. I had a great deal to learn — production, sales, supply,
labor relations — but older employees were good instructors.

Life moved along pleasantly with marriage, the birth of two
daughters, vacations, etc., until that fateful Sunday in December of
i941. By February of ’42, Mrs. Nichols and the children were in

[ 994 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Washington with Lt. Nichols on duty in the AAF, Personnel Di-
vision. Military service took us to the West Coast, back to the East
Coast and the Midwest — always in personnel — and I was never
fortunate enough to get an overseas assignment

Returned to business in 1946, this time to the paper mill itself,
more settled living conditions, and by ’48 we had two more
daughters. Mrs. Nichols inherited Walnut Hall Farm in late ’46,
and the breeding of standardbred horses, including one-quarter of
all Hambletonian winners, and participation in Trotting Horse ac-
tivities, as well as the management of a diversified farming operation,
became more than a hobby. Fortunately, Lexington is only ninety
miles from Cincinnati and we try to spend as many weekends as
possible at the farm.

The acceptance of an assignment in fund raising for the local
chapter of the Heart Association proved to be another time-consum-
ing, but rewarding, activity in which each year finds deeper in-
volvement.

Our eldest daughter is a junior at Vassar, the second daughter ts a
senior at The Masters Schoo] at Dobbs Ferry, and the two younger
girls are in school in Cincinnati. Mrs. Nichols and the girls usually
spend the summers in East Hampton and I try to manage a week or
two there and a few additional weekends.

All in all, my job at Fox Paper Company, plus the farm and various
civic and charitable activities, leave time for little more than an oc-
casional game of golf.

.

JOHN TAYLOR GILMAN NICHOLS, HI

  

vd
einai
HOME ADDRESS: 19 High St, Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Second Bank-State Street Trust Co., 53 State St., Boston, Mass.

[ 995 ]

ee ae eno eaeeemameaiaiidenen SI: ON ete etm or me Co RUIN aE TeRE Eee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

BorN: July 28, 1912, Newburyport, Mass. Parents: John Taylor Gilman
Nichols, ’99, Emily Alan Smith.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934-

marriED: Marv Alice Thomas, May 16, 1942, Portland, Maine. cHitpren: John
Taylor Gilman, 4th, April 3, 1943 (died April 21, 1947); Timothy Gilman,
May 15, 1948 (died Nov. 25, 1958).

OCCUPATION: Vice-president in charge of account supervision, Personal Trust
Department, Second Bank-State Street Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: Past secretary and member executive committee, Corporate
Fiduciaries Association of Boston; member of corporation and past presi-
dent, Alumni Association of Belmont Hill School.

THE fall of 1934 found me no nearer a decision as to my future
life’s work than had graduation. Having no business knowledge
whatsoever, it seemed wise to acquire some general background, and
a year or two in a bank was one accepted method of so doing. By
good luck, I joined the State Street Trust Company in Boston, as a
messenger for the trust department. I became so fascinated by the
broad scope of the work that I am still in the same department today,
although my present job is somewhat more sedentary than my first.

In spite of my growing interest in this phase of banking, progress
was slow, and in 1940, when the Navy announced a local Defense
Force School to refresh the meager knowledge of ROTC graduates,
I was glad to take a three months’ leave of absence to join the first
class, together with John Madden and Bud Ritchie. The original
three months led immediately to five and a half years of active duty
which began very pleasantly on a tug doing experimental work out
of Boston.

Early in 1941, I went to Florida to pick up a new coastal mine-
sweeper to which Dick Bassett soon reported as my executive officer.
With more luck than skill we proceeded to Newfoundland for the
Atlantic Charter Conference where we presumed to give orders to
Winston Churchill and the British Fleet on what channel to use.
Apparently they realized that our intent was good, if our manners
were not, and we were never called to account.

Returning to Portland, Maine, just before Pearl Harbor, I met
and quickly married Mary Alice Thomas, daughter of John P.
Thomas, ’og. Fortunately for us, I was stationed in Portland for the
next two years, most of the time as training officer on the staff of
Commander Destroyers Atlantic Fleet. Thus we were able to have
more home life than many of our friends. However, my request for
a more active type of duty was finally approved, bringing the usual

[ 996 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tour of schools before assignment as executive officer of an Attack
Transport leaving Norfolk for the Pacific, which ocean we covered
very thoroughly until February of 1946, when I was released from
active duty as commander.

After some bargaining back and forth, the bank and I agreed upon
terms of my re- -employment. There followed three years of apart-
ment dwelling in Cambridge while we debated the question of
which suburb seemed most attractive as a permanent base. Since
we both love the ocean and sailing, Marblehead seemed the perfect
place. We have never regretted a minute of the ten years we have
lived here.

From a social standpoint, our activities have been somewhat re-
stricted because of the time which we have given to our two sons
who shared a similar muscular handicap. But for that very reason,
we have been privileged to lead an exceptionally close and happy
family life.

WILLIAM FLOYD NICHOLS

  

HOME appress: Judges Lane, Smithtown, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Minot Hooper & Co., 40 Worth St., New York, N.Y.

BorN: March 25, 1911, Englewood, N.J. parents: John Treadwell Nichols, ‘os,
Cornelia DuBois Floyd.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MarRiED: Catherine Gallatin Gay, Aug. 21, 1942, Baltimore, Md. CHILDREN:
William Gallatin, March 6, 1950; Charles Floyd, Jan. 26, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Slocum Nichols, ’37.

occuPATION: Vice-president, Minot Hooper & Company, cotton mill selling
house.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Inc. Village of the Branch Smithtown, Long Island, N.Y.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

[ 997 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

AFTER graduation in 1934, I taught sailing to teen-age boys on
the Great South Bay, Long Island, through the summer and got my
last real sun tan to date, as 1 went to w ork for an importing house
in New York City that fall and since then have not been able to
have as prolonged a period outdoors in summertime.

In the spring of 1935, 1 went to work for Minot Elooper & Com-
pany, a selling house for cotton textile mills. 1 was a salesman for
this house when Pearl Harbor was destroyed and went into the
Army in April, 1942.

We managed to get married on a short army pass in August,
1942, and shortly after that I was shipped to England with the 29th
Infantry Division on the Queen Elizabeth. D-Day finally came and I
went in on Omaha Beach as a staff sergeant — was wounded once a
couple of months later, but wound up on the Elbe River in May,
*45, with some of the original D-Day bunch. Was overjoy ed to
get home in September, ’45, and we had three months’ livi ing on the
land, mostly the south shore of Long Island, before going back to
work for Minot Hooper & Company,

Our two boys are still very young (six and eight), but we have
much fun on weekends and yacations with friends and Beach Club
here in Smithtown and a small sloop which we keep on the South

Bay.

LESTER SOUPCOFF NOLAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1400 Bennington Ave., Pittsburgh 17, Pa,
OFFICE ADpRESS: Keystone Box Co., Pittsburgh 15, Pa.

BORN: Aug. 23, 1912, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Mark Efenry N
cof.

PREPARED AT: Shady Side Academy, Pittsburgh, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1934. DEGREE! A.B. 1934.

[ 998 ]

olan, Fannie Soup-

29TH ANNIVERSARY REPOST

Marrikp: Thelma Sarah Dyoy June ta. tgia Prrsburgh, Pa creamee boa,
April 16, tgyo Ci. Mr. Segal, June og. faethe, Mariive, Slack tan tines
occuPaATION: Chairman of board, proudent. Nevetene Boa Cem paey, tae pres

dent, Elyria Corrugated Box Company. Elv ra, Ota,
orrices HeLD: Member, board of crustees, United Jew mh bund Pocdzer gh be

racl Bonds, Pittsburgh, Montcflore Plespital tevendwt end eset e:
member, board of directory Westmorcland Counery Chots nye 4”
MEMBER OF: Westmorcland Country Club, Ssdonwn's Pantew Naa, NP aN SE

UPON graduation from Harvard in 1934. Poured the Nev stone Bees
Company of which my father was president. In tyi4, | bec ane ans
president, and in 1952 [became president. Upon ims fathers ole es
in November of 1952, | became chairman of the bound We ys
ate a plant in Pittsburgh and have just put a new plant in operates
in Riegelsville, New Jersey. Wee alsa have half anterest aaa wes
corrugated box plant in F- Ivria, Ohio.

In 1939, I married Thelina Dvm and we have two children, BE
and Marilyn. F llen was marricd last year but as vet we have me
become grandparents. Our other daughter, Marily mor omp bests
school, Aly chief reercation besides my fanuly aml business re pent
I play to a five handicap.

I have done some work with different charitable org ais ate ars
However, my wife is much more active along these hac thas Phare
been. For the past two vears she has been the Wornen's (haseias

of the Israel Bond organization in Pittsburgh.

THEODORE BARR NORDELOM

 

Hose apoartss: ¢ Clark Ral, Brookline, Vise.
OFFICE Apps: Frank J. Elennessy & Car, ga Qoencenet 8 Below Ul es

howN: Feb. a, tang, Miablen, Mac. pesewre Bactecet YN ee Pee sme,

Campbell.
[ uo |

HARVARD CLASS OF 19034

PREPARED AT: Cushing Academy, Ashburnham, Mass.; New Preparatory School,
Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

UNMARRIED,

occupation: Real estate broker and accountant.

FROM February, 1941, to June, 1945, U.S. Army. Overseas Au-
gust, 1942, to January, 1945. Took part in Africa, Sicily and Italy
campaigns. ,

JOHN WYETH Norris

 

HOME AppRESS: 195 Marsh St., Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ellis & Andrews, 4 Brattle St., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 16, 1912, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Albert Perley Norris, Harvard
Medical School ’03, Grace E, Wyeth.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.; Phillips
Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934(35).

MarRieD: Mary Elizabeth Sparks, March 4, 1939, Rockford, Ill. CHILDREN:
Deborah Jean, Jan. 19, 1941; Nancy Wyeth, May 18, 1943; Elizabeth Allen,
Sept. 24, 1947.

occuPATION: Real estate and insurance agent.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, North Avenue Savings Bank of Cambridge, The Mar-
garet Fuller House, corporator, Cambridgeport Savings Bank, North
Avenue Savings Bank, Cambridge YMCA, former director and vice-
president, Cambridge Boy Scouts.

MEMBER OF: Economy Club of Cambridge (secretary, 1942-56); Souhegan
Country Club (president, 1955-56, director, since 1956).

SINCE graduation I have not wandered far from the Harvard Yard.
As I write this at my desk overlooking the Square, 1 can look out
ipon many things which to most of my classmates are but dim
nemories. Progress is traditionally slow in New England and the

[ 1000 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

at

heart of Cambridge varies little from this pencral pattern. Dba ry
still periodically experimenting with various trathe pattern hos
they always revert to the same old entangling contusion. ike?
jay-walkers (both young and old), foolhardy eyeliner and hese ts ‘
characters, to say nothing of motor vehicles of every des types
Most of the familiar buildings are still an tmpertant part " tog
Square. The fagades of the Coop and of the Pharvarnd Brust, bec.
ever, are new, the result of complete renovation or rebukes bos

enerally we have the same old brickfrone buildin, the. Parry
MTA kiosk, the Salvation Army Santas — all unchanged sere pee
undergraduate days.

In the meantime, however, the Norris family has been dhe vctoy
more rapidly. Three fine daughters, cach with a distuntive pes
sonality, have kept Betty and me on the hop. Four years ax we
moved to our present home located on a tworacre plot in Boo
This marked the commencement of the “tramsportin” ena
school, to Scouts, to Sunday School, to the bus cte. But we ae
happy with our unpretentious, yet comfortably adequate, bore
tennis court at the front door makes for the opportunity tree
cise and with a permanent ty pe surface the scason in prone of

Summers generally find us in southern New Hlampsture, a)
we varied the usual scheme of things in 1986 and tyge* by soya:
in Minnesota and on W innipesaukee. respecavely, Iran. ae sti
have not played an important part in our mode of hte its bates
get five independent individuals to have “available” tere qon un
rently. Pressure, however, is being exerted to cerury te Mire ott
next summer, but the Twenty- -fifth comes first in poeriy tae.
we all agree. Four years ago I took my entire family taney Eocots
fifth at Phillips Andover. What a time we all hall Phe Noes.
girls promptly signed up for the Harvard Twentyenitth ant ross «s
all look forward with keen anticipanien to the Rennie my foe

What happens after that we don’t know, Furse chin obese

y

ey

\

[ rear |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

WILLIAM STANLEY NORTH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 321 Hilldale Pl, Lake Forest, Ill.

OFFICE appRESS: 400 N. Franklin St., Chicago 1o, Ill.

Born: May 1, 1911, Chicago, Ill. parents: Francis Stanley North, Julie Morgan.

preparRED AT: Asheville School, Asheville, N.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1935. DEGREE: S.B. IN MECH.ENG., 1935.

marrigD: Sarah G. Jackson, June 30, 1934, Asheville, N.C. (divorced 1957)3
Patricia Cathcart Armstrong, March 20, 1958. CHILDREN: William Stanley,
3d, Jan. 9, 1936 (died Dec. 21, 1955); Sarah R., May 3, 1939; Elizabeth H.,
April 22, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Stanley North, Jr., 736.

occupation: President, Union Special Machine Company, manufacturers of in-
dustrial sewing machines.

OFFIcEs HELD: Member board of directors, since 1953, president, 1954-55, Chicago
Branch, National Metal Trades Association; member board of directors,
since 1953, president, 1958, Illinois Manufacturers’ Association; director,
Goodman Manufacturing Company, Union Special Machine Company,
Lawson Y.M.C.A.; member, International Relations Committee and Ad-
visory Group, National Association of Manufacturers; member, Interna-
tional Operations Council, Machinery & Allied Products Institute, vestry-
man, Episcopalian Church, 1949-52, 1954-57.

MEMBER OF: University Club; Chicago Commonwealth Club; Harvard Club of
Chicago; Old Elm Club; Oventsia (member board of governors, 1950-56);
The Winter Club (member board of governors, 1946-56).

| 1002 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN DEWITT NORTON

 

HOME appREss: 1621 T St., N.W., Washington 9, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Planning Association, 1606 New Hampshire Ave,
N.W., Washington g, D.C.

BoRN: Dec. 1, 1911, Winnetka, Hl. parents: William John Norton, Jean Peoune
Wales.

PREPARED aT: Columbia High School, South Orange, N.J.; Ficldston Schoed,
New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREES: S.B., 1934; A.M. (Vale Univ.), rgy>.

MarRiED: Lorraine Nye, July 3, 1950 (divorced 1955); Carmen Atecha Vian.
ford, Sept. 19, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Economist; director of a study of economic programming.

OFFICES HELD: Lieutenant Colonel, USAF Reserve, Information Services Otheer,
9463d Air Reserve Squadron, Arlington, Va., 1957-58.

MEMBER OF: American Society for Public Administration; Insutute of Manae-
ment Sciences.

AS an unreconstructed egghead, I will report in kind. Four critical
experiences are shared by members of our Class: colleve. the de-
pression, the war and the bomb. Back of the common labels of
these public events are quite diverse private histories, To begin
with, no two of us can have known the same Harvard. Today how
many of us really feel the ever present threat of nuclear war?

I came to Harvard from Antioch at the beginning of sophomore
year. Later ] attended several graduate schools, inchiding Yale
The influence of each is now somewhat difficult to disentany le
Men like Leiserson at Antioch and Schumpe ter and Mason at tive.
vard perhaps counted for more than the institutions, “Poday TP otiad
more of my close personal friends are Antiochians, while my stron:
est professional ties are with Harvard. As an undergraduare coer
omist my interests received a decisive twist there. Pheurh bore
sisted the doctrinal orthodoxy of Alfred Marshall ay well as to.

[ 1003 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

WALKER GREENWOOD NOTMAN

   

a
ae

HOME ADDRESS: 51 Exeter St., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 11, 1912, St. Catherine’s, Ontario, Canada. parENTs: Archibald Henry
Nouman, Kathleen Greenwood.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.

occuPaTion: Literary work.

NO questionnaire returned.

S. THOMAS NOTTINGHAM, JR.

 

HOME aporess: Timberland Drive, Fort Madison, Iowa.
OFFICE Appress: E. J. du Pont de Nemours & Co., Fort Madison, Iowa.

BORN: March 13, 1913, Chesapeake, Va. parents: S. Thomas Nottingham, Lucy
Taylor Redwood.

PREPARED AT: Cape Charles High School, Cape Charles, Va.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934,

MaRrRiED: Mary Souther, Oct. 8, 1938, Fitchburg, Mass. crinprReEN: Susan Red-
wood, May 16, 1942; S, Thomas, 3d, July 26, 1945.
OCCUPATION: Plant engincer.

[ 1006 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
OFFICES HELD: President, North Junior High School Parent. Poa hers Rees
tion, Newburgh, N.Y., 1956-57

MEMBER OF: Parent-Teachers Association (Life member}

SHORTLY after graduation in 1934, I gained a foothold with
du Pont Company in Leominster, Massachusetts, ino theet plants +
department as an engineer in plant enginecring. At this loc aren,
was possible to get back to Cambridge once in a while and alee te
take some night school work about the “banks of the Charis”

Also, skiing became interesting and my courehip of Mary stirrest

on some trail in New Hampshire. In 1938, we were married anit,

after weathering a real hurricane, were relocated to a coated Faber s
plant in Newburgh, New York

‘The war years were spent here trying to keep the w heels turness
with baling wire and chewing gum, although ration stamps, hous
hunting, baby bottles, poor tires, etc., kept the time from hare
heavily on our hands. In the early 1950's, we spent three very cries
able years in Fairfield, Connecticut, where we found the Lircst
colony of Harvard men that we have experienced outside of Carr.
bridge. In 1952, Papa du Pont sent us back to the Efudsen Valles
and again moved us to Fort Madison, Iowa, in 1938 where we are
enjoying some real midwestern hospitality.

With all this moving, much of my spare time has been taken up
with getting our home the way we want it; however, for other
hobbies I have found time to do some skiing and golting, Hradec,
poker, electronics and a couple of teen-age children also take a tor
share of my time. Oh, yes, J must not forget the two-hundred ver
old family house on the farm on the eastern shore of Virginra thot
lam trying to keep from falling down, so Til have a pl Ie to retire
to when I’m put out to pasture

For vacations, we have been dividing our time between Marv’
folks around Cohasset, Massachusetts, and mine in Virginia, althen

1 have been able to get side trips in to such pl toes ay Willranestieree

why
Monticello and Mount Vernon to try to press my ehiideen works
the greatness of the past southerners.

[ 1007 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

++ FREDERIC RUSSELL NOURSE, JR.

 

orn: Feb. 5, 1910, Dedham, Mass. PARENTS: Frederic Russell Nourse, Dorothy

Quincy.
prepared aT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.
marrieD: Margaret Dunn, Jan. 26, 1935, Portsmouth, N.H. cuivp: Frederic

Russell, 3d, Feb. 9, 1936.
bieD: June 5, 1943, Nashville, Tenn.
FREDERIC RUSSELL NOURSE, JR., left Harvard at the end of
his freshman year. At the time of our Triennial Report he was asso-
ciated with the Pepperell Manufacturing Company. At the outbreak
of the war he entered the Officers’ Training Corps, where he re-
ceived his commission as a second lieutenant. He was killed in an

accident. He was survived by his wife.

JAMES LEONARD NOYES

    

HOME AppbrEss; 3415 Circle Close, Madison 5, Wis.
OFFICE abpress: Demco Library Supplies Co., 2120 Fordem Ave., Madison, Wis.

[ 1008 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Feb, 14, 1913, Lexington, Ky. parents: George Harold Novex ‘y-.
Frances Louise Fugate.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., Cunt laude, 1934. MBA, 1yih.

MARRIED: Ruth Wood Church, June 10, 1936, Boston, Mass. cuttomes: James
Leonard, Jr., Dec. 16, 1940; Marjorie Louise, Jan. 9, 1945. Richard Beecher.

June 10, 1950.
HARVARD BROTHER: Harold Beecher Noyes, ’24.
OCCUPATION: Secretary and purchasing agent, Demco Library Supphes Con.

pany.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Village of Shorewood Hills, since 1946, scercearm,
treasurer, Madison General Hospital Association, since 1951.
MEMBER OF: Madison Club.

TWENTY-FIVE years do rather ship away. I feel many regrets
as I look back, all of which seem to revolve around lack of time
After all, the Lord gives everyone the same amount of time. Who
takes it away? Of course, it’s the boss! But which boss? The one
at the office? the wife? the children? the community actvities? Or
one’s own self?

In 1934, I had already decided on Harvard Business School, thus
being able to dodge the depression for another two years, On
June 10, 1936, I married Ruth Church of Cambridge, Wheaton and
Radcliffe, following four years of thoroughly enjovable courtship.
After an idyllic honeymoon (which still continues) in Canada and
at the family cottage on an island in Casco Bay near Portland, Maine.
we faced the facts of public accounting w ith Arthur Anderen &
Company in New York. The next three years were interesting and
stimulating. It is a fine introduction and entree to the busines.
world, and I cannot recommend this approach too highly.

In 1939, we moved to Clinton, Massachusetts, Although FE wa.
now a certified public accountant, I was tempted by a firm chent
to become their office manager (later assistant treasurer). “Three
years with Blake Manufacturing Corporation, making Hlashliches,
gave us a thoroughly pleasing experience in small town living and
the joys and sorrows of a small manufacturing business, 1gg: found
us in Madison, Wisconsin, at the home office of the parent company,
Ray-O-Vac. Here, as assistant to the treasurer and later as chief
accountant, I worked out the war in various accounting furrre treet
pertaining to Browning rifles, Bazooka grenades, and signal Gate.
batteries. :

Jim, Jr., had arrived in 1940, Louise in to45, and Richard in tayasee
These added responsibilities helped me to decide in favor of a secl

[ 1009 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

smaller company, So, on June 30, 1952, I cast my lot with Demco

Library Supplies Company, as secretary and purchasing agent. This

has proven to be a wise and stimulating choice. The increase in
school and library needs has made this a steadily growing field and
kept me thoroughly engrossed.

My spare time has been happily occupied with various gardening
and family acuvities. We usually manage two weeks at our Maine
cottage each summer to renew the salt water in our veins. Even SO,
my tennis and sailing have slipped a lot, however, I keep promising
myself to start up again in earnest. Good music, via records and
radio, and occasional visits to symphony and opera and theater help
to keep the beast within me less savage, Also, 1 have been singing
for several years with a local community chorus and the Congrega-
tional Church choir. Between times, I am treasurer of our local
suburban village of Shorewood Hills, and secretary and treasurer
of Madison General Hospital. This introduction to local govern-
mental matters has been something of a revelation. The suburban
metropolitan controversy, including the educational aspects, strikes
me as one of our more serious long range national problems. I say
this despite living in what several magazines have described as one
of the most desirable communities in the nation.

I seem to have too little opportunity left for reading necessary
current material or literature. I keep hoping that the active life in
connection with my fine business, civic, religious and community
associations will partly compensate for that gap. Which brings me
back to where I came in; a thought-provoking quotation that I hope
can be reproduced herewith (from the Central Methodist, Phoenix,
Ariz.):

TOO BUSY?

If you are .
too busy to read a book that promises to
widen your horizons,
too busy to keep your friendships 1 in
good repair;
too busy to maintain a consistent
devotional life;
too busy to conserve your health in the
interest of your highest efficiency;
too busy to keep the warm and vital
loves of, your own fireside glowing,
too busy to cultivate the sense of a
personal acquaintance with God,

{ 1010 |

/ 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

too busy to spend one hour during
the week in worship,

too busy to give time to the culture
of your own soul —

Then you are indeed . . .

TOO BUSY!

LUDWIG WILHELM RUDOLPH OBFRNDORE

é\

ec We | ou bevenennon A

 

HOME ADDRESS: 7500 Radnor Rd., Bethesda, Md.

OFFICE apprEss: Federal Bureau of Investigation, U.S. Dept. of Justa, Wash
ington 25, D.C.

BORN: Sept. 18, 1913, Strassburg, Germany. parents; Ludwig Oberndorf, Mire
Louise Bischoff.

PREPARED AT: Columbia High School, Maplewood, N_J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933.

MARRIED: Katherine Morrow, April 6, 1938, Elkton, Md. catoaes. Peter bai
bot, Oct. 17, 1941; Michael Richard, Sept. 29, 1944; Lucy Ebcabeth, Des

TO, 1949.
OCCUPATION: Special agent, FBI.

AFTER leaving school I was associated with the editeral depart
ment of the New Yorker Statszeitung Und Herold, a Gwin
language newspaper in New York City, unal February, ryge. Sere
that time I have been associated with the FBI.

[ iott |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934 ,

* GEORGE EDWARD O'BRIEN

 

Born: March 26, 1912, Willimantic, Conn. parents: Patrick Francis O'Brien,
Bertha kirby.

PREPARED AT: Franklin High School, Franklin, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

pieD; Dec. 4, 1943, near Reading, Pa.

AFTER graduation George Edward O’Brien was assistant housing
economist with the Federal Housing Administration in Washington
and later was assistant to the president of the Equitable Life Assur-
ance Society of the United States in New York City. In September,
1942, he enlisted in the Army Air Force and was a member of the
zoth Combat Mapping Squadron, stationed at Will Rogers Field,
when he was killed in the crash of a B-24 bomber near Reading,
Pennsylvania. He was survived by his mother.

~ VICTOR DUNCAN O'BRIEN

 

s
BORN: Dec. 25, 1911, Carlstadt, N.J. parents: Paul O’Brien, Elsie Downer.

[ ro12 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Peddie School, Hightstown, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1935. DEGREE: $.B., 1934(35)-

mMarrieD: Doris Fritts Latimer, July 2, 1937, Ridgewood, N.J. cemto: Karen Eee,
June 1, 1941.

piep: July 8, 1952, Caldwell, N.J.

wivow: Mrs. Victor D. O’Brien, 18 Sanderson Ave., West Caldwell, NJ.

VICTOR DUNCAN O'BRIEN graduated from Harvard in 1933.
as of our Class. While at college he was a member of the Adams
House swimming team. After a few years as analytical chemist
with Jaques Wolf & Company in Clifton, New Jersey, he became
associated with T, A. Edison Industries in Silver Lake, New Jersey,
as assistant to the plant engineer and later as process engineer for
the company. He was survived by his wife.

WILLIAM MICHAEL O'CONNELL

ee ee \
\
lee |

  

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 8 W. Main St., Corfu, N.Y.

BORN: June 19, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Daniel J. O'Connell, Mary M.
Foley.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Jane Bidwell Palmer, Feb. 8, 1941, Batavia, N.Y. ctitpres: Wilhain
Michael, Jr. Oct. 14, 1942; Charles Frederick, Jan. 26, 1947; Sarah Jane,
April 6, 1949; Ann Elizabeth, April 6, 1952.

occupaTION: District manager, Cribben & Sexton Company, Chicago gas and
electric domestic appliances manufacturer.

OFFICES HELD: Various offices in community affairs such as Parent- Peachers Vs.
sociation, scouting, youth programs, school expansion programs,

UPON graduation, I made a decision to enter the selling tel
g ’ s

and started with a public utility company on a rural electrification
program. I successively sold domestic apphances, moved mite ti

[ 1013 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

sale of various types of gas heating equipment as a heating engineey
and, later, became commercial and industrial salesman in the Uses
of gas fuel. As I reflect on these early years from college UP to the
war, I find that meeting new people daily, facing new situations
constantly, and growing along with an expanding industry — al]
of this gave me a definite mental stimulus. The war interrupted this
effort of mine.

My army service involved considerable travel and transfer (as it
did all my compatriots, I am sure), both in this country and in the
ETO, where I made rank of first lieutenant. I was connected with
ADSEC and the Third Army in gasoline and food supply and trans-
portation and also for a short time in prisoner of war labor super-
vision.

AFTER the war, I resumed where I left off in the sales field. 1 be-
came district manager (western and southwestern New York and
northeastern Pennsylvania) for Cribben & Sexton Company, Chicago
appliance manufacturer, selling a multiple line of domestic appliances
to utility companies, distributors, department stores, appliance
dealers and other types of retail outlets. We also distribute a line
of commercial cooking equipment through established dealer out-
lets. The appliance business today is a rugged one; to say that
competition is keen is to grossly understate the case. However,
maybe the grass only looks greener on the other side of the fence.

To become personal, I have been very happily married for al-
most eighteen years. 1 was blessed with an understanding wife and
four energetic children, two boys and two girls. Watching the
personalities of our children develop provides us with a constant
source of enjoyment, humor and interest (with an occasional frus-
tration).

We live in a small village in upstate New York, where it seems
as if all families are neighbors. I participate (but presently to a
lesser extent) in normal community activities, including Parent-
Teachers Association, scouting, youth program work, school ex-
pansion planning, etc. As my work takes me away from home for
some.time each month, I am pretty much domesticated when I am
not traveling: My intellectual pursuits are quite simple today —
reading novels and a classic now and then, trying to keep abreast
of current affairs, and following the stock market. My hobbies
include a little photography, gardening, and encoura

include a iit ging my wife
in oil painting, as she has a definite latent talent in this direction

 

[ 1014 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
I gave up golf several years ago as I didn’t have the time to learn

to play the game right.
In retrospect, let me say that the years have been good to me.

While I have not stored up an abundance of worldly goods, I have
enjoyed living and have developed a peace of mind which, Tf trust.

will stay with me in the years to come.

JOHN JOSEPH O’DONNELL

  

appREss: 38 Thayer St., Milford, Mass,
BORN: Nov. 20, 1912, Milford, Mass. parents: William J. O'Donnell, Ellen

O’Sullivan.
PREPARED AT: Milford High School, Milford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932, 1935-1936.

NO questionnaire returned,

THIEMANN SCOTT OFFUTT, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 509 VW, Joppa Rd., Towson 4, Md.

[ rors ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

OFFICE appRESS: The Martin Co., Middle River, Md.

porN: Feb. 4, 1907, Towson, Md. parents: Thiemann Scott Offutt, Lydia
Traill Yellott.

PREPARED AT: Tome Institute, Port Deposit, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933. DEGREE: A.B. cu? laude, 1933.

UNMARRIED,

occupation: Technical illustrator, Engineering Department, The Martin
Company.

MEMBER OF: Baltimore Art Directors’ Club; Artists’ Equity; Baltimore Water
Color Club.

BY a happy chance I did open this Harvard Alumni letter and found
news of a project which interests me very much. I may become
better acquainted with my former classmates this way than I ever
did when I was there! Here is my contribution:

Immediately after I graduated, I went to Paris where I lived for
about a year and a half. I had majored in Romance languages and
my objective was to know the French. I lived with a French family
and hardly saw an American or Englishman during the time I was .
there. While abroad I joined Hunt Hartford (my best friend of
college days) in London, and together we toured Scotland, England
and France. In Paris, with Hunt, I saw the tourist attractions I
never visited while living there!

Back in this country I lived in New York a while doing free-
lance illustration for the pulp magazines. Then, in 1938, my father
had a stroke and I returned home, where I have been living ever
since. I might point out here that the prospect of unremittingly
working for a living came as a shock from which I never fully re-
covered. ;

I went to work at the Glenn L. Martin Company (aircraft manu-
facturers). Came the war: I was rated 4-F, so I continued at
Martin’s. In fact, 1 am there today. It is not, however, a record
_ of continuous service. Several times, when I would get financially
ahead, I retired for as long as the money would last, then went back
to work.

At long last, at the age of fifty-one, I am reconciled to the role
of working-man (in this case, production illustrator in the Engi-
neering Department of the Glenn L. Martin Company). Most of
the time I like my work, but I am subject to occasional stretches of
dreary boredom which I realize I must weather.

In my spare time I do occasional portraits and water-colors and
have exhibited in a fair number of shows. As a portrait painter I
specialize in children. In spite of the fact that I do get paid for

[ 1016 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

portraits, I feel like a public benefactor in doing them. Years and
years later, some graceless clunk of forty-odd can peint to one of
these charming pastels and say — “That is how I used to look!”

I never got married. The occasion of my one proposal of mar-
riage may be of interest. I presented this proposal in writing to the
girl of my choice. It was a two-column affair: column one — the
things I felt I would lose by marriage, and column two — the things
I would gain. I was refused. In my own mind I felt I was voluntecer-
ing for Sing Sing because I couldn’t help myself. I shall never know
how it looked to her.

For hobbies: I am an armchair sports enthusiast (I gave up golf
when the courses became too crowded). I like to sketch, model
and paint; love reading, listening to music (opera, symphonic and
the like), have a lively interest in plays, movies, TV “educationals’
and psychology in theory and practice. Most of the time I am

grateful for being alive.
Here at home my family consists of my mother and myself.

(Should I count the dachshunds? )

GEORGE ALFRED O’HARE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1133 Prospect Ave., Plainfield, NJ.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Congoleum-Nairn, Inc., Kearny, N_J,
BORN: Oct. 9, 1912, Salem, Mass. Parents: George Mathew O'Ubare, Hloren: ¢
Mills.

PREPARED AT: Dean Academy, Franklin, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREFS: A.B. 1934; PHD. (Univ, of Penrsy ty aria’,
1939-

MarRiED: Elvina S. Castle, July, 1938, Wayne, Pa. coitprrs:
May 28, 1942; Donald Lincoln, May 14, 1946.

[ 1017 |

N hie } ts Ye e,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

occuPATION: Manager of contract sales, Congoleum-Nairn, Inc., manufacturer
of floor coverings.

OFFICES HELD: President, Northeast Oil Chemists Society, 1955.
MEMBER OF: Plainfield Country Club; Chemists’ Club of New York; American

Chemical Society; American Oil Chemists Society; Building Research In-
stitute.

. .
PUBLICATIONS: Contributor to technical journals and Engineering Materials

Handbook.

OUR Twenty-fifth Reunion year finds me completing my twentieth
year with Congoleum-Nairn, Inc., Kearny, New Jersey. After
five years of graduate work and teaching at the University of
Pennsylvania, I gave up academic life for the business world and
joined my present company. Since that time I have been exposed
to all phases of corporate business and have held the positions of
supervisor of research, assistant to vice-president for operations,
manager of technical service, director of quality control and man-
ager of contract sales. My business travels have taken me to all
parts of the United States as well as to many foreign countries.

I have been active in American Chemical Society and American
Oil Chemists Society and have contributed several technical articles
to scientific journals, including the recent edition of Engineering
Materials Handbook (McGraw-Hill).

My home life has been occupied with assisting my good wife in
the problems of raising two children; one girl who is now thinking
about college and one boy who for some reason is thinking about
Princeton. Seashore vacations at Cape May, New Jersey, have made
our summers very pleasant. When at home my time has been taken
up with activities such as growing roses, gardening, mixed doubles
in tennis and spectator sports on television and at Franklin Field and

Palmer Stadium where Harvard is occasionally seen in Ivy League
games,

In summary, my twenty-five years since graduation have been
most rewarding and enjoyable with a wonderful family, a pleasant
and comfortable home in a friendly suburban community and a
stimulating, interesting business life.

[ 1018 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALBERT ERNEST OHLER

 

HOME ADDRESS: §14 Homestead Ave., Haddonfield, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: RCA, Missile and Surface Radar Dept., Camden, N_J.

BORN: Sept. 23, rg11, York, Pa. parents: Clarence Edward Ohler, Mary Bixler.

prepareD at: William Penn High School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B. IN ENG., 1935.

MarRiED: Florence A. Abel, May 12, 1945, Collingswood, N.J. citprex: Deborah
Louise, June 26, 1948; Nancy Ellen, Nov. 16, 1954.

occupaTion: Manager, project engineering, BMEWS Transmitters.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Society of New York; Institute of Radio
Engineers; Instrument Society of America; American Association for the
Advancement of Science.

PUBLICATIONS: Specialized technical articles.

AFTER graduation I was affiliated briefly with independent radio
and telephone companies until joining the engineering department
of the Radio Corporation of America in 1940. My association with
RCA has continued to date and has covered rather comprehensively
the fields of engineering development, design and management in
both commercial and national defense areas.

Earlier engineering assignments included FM transmitter develop-
ment, the development and design of broadcast, communications and
radar antenna systems, the handling of broadcast transmitter projects
and the design of industrial electronics equipment. Activity in the
latter category has included the supervision of dev clopment and
design of radio-frequency generators for dielectric and inducten
heating applications, equipment for industrial television and electron
microscopy, scanning systems for color correction in the graphic
arts, machines for the inspection of bottled beverages, devices for
metal detection, and instruments for gas detection applications for
the U.S. Army Chemical Corps. During the course of this work, I
have served as manager of industrial electronics engineering,

[ ro1g ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Presently, I am attached to the Defense Electronics Products Divi-
sion of RCA in the field of Weapons System Management as engi-
neering projects manager for BMEWS Transmitters.

To comment tersely on a twenty-five-year engineering career, I’d
do it again. I find engineering to be a challenging and stimulating
occupation from which considerable satisfaction. can be derived from
participating in and witnessing the translation of ideas into useful
products.

My hobbies have remained simple — reading, walking, travel and
work. My principal avocation is assisting my wife in raising our two
small daughters, The whole family are Methodists and seem to prefer

vacations in Maine and Cape Breton Island in the summer and Florida
in the winter.

HERBERT VINCENT OLDS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4733 32d St., N., Arlington, Va.; 184 Av. Franklin Roosevelt,
Brussels, Belgium (temporary).

OFFICE apprEss: Dept. of State, Washington 25, D.C.; American Embassy, Brus-
sels, Belgium (temporary).

BorN: Dec. 19, 1913, Lynn, Mass. parents: Herbert Vincent Olds, Mary Emer-
son Lovejoy.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: AB., magna cum laude, 1934.

Marriep: Mary Elliott Rankin, June 26, 1937, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Patricia Elliott, Sept. 17, 1938 (mm. Donald Lee Frantz, Sept. 13, 1958)5

Michael Vincent, March 8, 1940; John Carter, July 25, 1943; Margaret
Lovejoy, July 3, 1948, Anne Kirkpatrick, Sept, 22, 1951.

occupation: Foreign service officer, Department of State, presently assigned as
First Secretary of Embassy in Brussels.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Brussels; American Club of Brussels

AFTER graduating from Harvard, I worked for a year as a vol-

[ 1020 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY RFPORT

unteer at the Notre Dame Bay Memorial Hospital in Tw ilhe sie,

Newfoundland. The next year I spent in Washington, studs my ter

the foreign ‘service examinations, and trying to add to my Plarsvard

education a knowledge of such subjects as international, maritime

and commercial law, Far Eastern and Latin American hietory. In
May 1936, I took the written examinations (a three and one-half alas
ordeal in those days), followed by an oral examination in Oktober,
‘During the fall of that year I enrolled in graduate courses at Colharilita
University, but left in December upon being notified that Thad
been accepted for the foreign Service.

The year 1937 was an important one for me, Timet my future
wife and we were married three days after her graduation frown
Radcliffe and about two weeks before receiving My appointinent ty
the foreign service and assignment to Habana, Cuba. We arrivest at
our first post exactly one month after our marriage.

After a year and a half in Habana, we were transferred to Rotter:
dam, Netherlands, arriving shortly before war broke out in Purepe
in 1939. My wife and two children returned to the United States
in April, 1940, but I remained in Rotterdam during the invasies
of the Netherlands and the first year of the German OCCUp ations
By August, 1941, I was able to rejoin my family, and we were then
sent to Buenos Aires, Argentina, where we liv ed for over four Vicars
Shortly after the end of the war, we returned to Rotterdam for
another three years, followed by two and a half vears iy Pansat a,
Colombia. In 1952 we returned to Washington for vont herve
assignment in the State Department. Since 19¢5 we have been sta.
tioned in Brussels, Belgium, where, during the past suminer, Wwe bo. 4
the excitement of the. Brussels Universal and International Pa: ee
tion.

During the years we have had five children, one born in each of
our first five posts, resulting in a small United Nations watton the
family. Our eldest daughter was married recently to ane cer of
the U.S. Coast Guard, and for this important occasion we Pos
back briefly to the United States.

Like most Americans, at home or abroad, we always beouee ot
volved with community activines, such as school, PEAS Scone ao!
church affairs. I served for a vear as amember of the beastie
directors of the International School of Brussels, hers rep tie tte
my wife who had previously been president of the PY \, at
now a leader of a Girl Scout Troop, ay well ay vice pry hotof
the American Women’s Club of Brussels. Tai presently seer cn

[rozt ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

the American member of the Church Council of the Anglican
Church of the Resurrection.

In the twenty-five years since graduation I have spent approxi-
mately eighteen years abroad, which explains why I have been un-
able to attend any of our Class Reunions. One of the nice things
about living abroad, however, is that we appreciate the United
Srates more each time we return, and we look forward to the time
when we shall eventually re-occupy the home we own in the
United States. The foreign service has been a rewarding career,
not only because of the travel involved, but also because of the
variety of work assignments at different posts, and the opportunity

to meet so many interesting persons whom we would not other-
wise have had the occasion to know.

A. JOHN OLIKER

 

HOME appress: Walnut Street Ext. Auburn, N.Y,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 80 North St., Auburn, N.Y.

BORN: July 20, 1912, Rockland, Mass. paRENTs: Joseph Oliker, Bertha Fox.

PREPARED AT: Rockland High School, Rockland, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., cur laude, 1934; M.p. (Columbia
Univ.), 1938.

MaraieD: Margaret Louise Wiseman, Sept. 26, 1942, Memphis, Tenn. CHILDREN:

Jane Hope, July 22, 1943; James Michael, Nov. 17, 1945; David William,
March 29, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Physician — urologist.
orrices HELD: President, Central New York Urological Society, 1955; secretary;

Staff of Auburn Memorial Hospital; chief of Surgical Section, Mercy Hos-
pital, 1959.

MrMBER oF: Harvard Club of Syracuse; Auburn Chamber of Cormmmerce;

Auburn Golf and Country Club, Owasco Yacht Club; Auburn Rotary
Club; American Urological Association; American College of Surgeons

[ 1022 |

25TH ‘ANNIVERSARY REPORT

(fellow); American Board of Urology (diplomate). Northeastern Section
of American Urological Association, American Medical Axeciunon, Sere
and County Medical Societies.

PUBLICATIONS: Iwo articles on urological topics in the West Virgsna Medi af
Journal.

AFTER receiving my M.D. from Columbia in 1938, TP spent two
years at Fordham Hospital as intern and house surgeon. I then de-
cided to specialize in urology and went south to become urological
resident at John Gaston Hospital in Memphis. One of the graduaning
student nurses, Margaret Wiseman, became my wife on Scptember
26, 1942. By that time, however, my training had been interrupted
and I was in the Army, where I remained for almost four years.
While participating in the invasion of Sicily as a battalion surgeon,
I received word of the birth of my first child. I saw her for the first
time nine months later. After returning from overseas, I was sta-
tioned for fifteen months at Cushing General Hospital in Fram-
ingham. Following my discharge from the service, I spent a vear

oS
at the Jersey City Medical Center, completing my urological train-

ing.

Following a try at : group practice in West Virginia, I finally
settled in Auburn, New York. My family and I have now lived in
this Finger Lakes city for almost ten years, Most of my time ix de-
voted to my work. I am the urologist for our two local hospitals
and am consultant for a nearby hospital. I try to have a vacation trip
every year. These have included Florida, Havana, Bermuda and
Quebec. I play golf once or twice a weck; I play in the high go's,
Two years ago we built a new, rather modernistic home on land
roomy enough to bat fungos to my youngest, an aspiring Little
Leaguer.

I expect I fall into that group called “the faithful” by the Bulle-
tin’s sports editor. Throughout the years I] have been an ardent fol-
lower of the football team. This has included sitting through the
hurricane of °55 at Baker Field (victory) to climbing over the
Alleghenies to Charlottesville to suffer through the Virginia gine
of ’47 — these, in addition to visits to all of the Ivv League statu,
and many back to Soldiers Field. Our entire family has artended
the Heptagonal Track Meet at Ithaca for the past five Veary and we
are there each winter as lonely rooters for the basketball tear an
its annual meeting with the Big Red. Tam registered ay a Republican,
but do not adhere to strict party lines in my voting.

[ 1023 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

HARRY GEORGE OLKEN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 81 Stanley Rd., Swampscott, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Lynn Hospital, 212 Boston St., Lynn, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 14, 1912, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Max Olken, Sarah Harris.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., Cum laude, 1934; M.D. (Tufts Coll.),
1938. ~

MaRRIED: Ruth Kaufman, June 29, 1947, Boston, Mass. cHiLpreN: Deborah
Jeanne, May 21, 1953; Michael Matthew, Aug. 14, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Samuel Charles Olken, ’22; Henry P. Olken, ’32.

occuPaTION: Physician, pathologist.

OFFICES HELD: Pathologist and director of laboratories, Lynn Hospital, since
1943; assistant professor of pathology, Tufts University Medical School,
since 1950; president, New England Society of Pathologists, 1957-58.

MEMBER OF: College of American Pathologists, American Association of Pa-
thologists and Bacteriologists; American Society of Clinical Pathologists,

- New England Society of Pathologists; New York Academy of Sciences,
American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Association.
PUBLICATIONS: Numerous publications in the field of medical pathology.

LIFE following graduation has been hurried and full. The first ten
years were occupied with obtaining my formal medical education,
followed by a period of internships and residencies in my chosen
field of pathology. This merry-go-round of training carried me
from Boston to Connecticut to New York City to Washington,
D.C., and thence back to Boston. The past fifteen years have been
spent in the practice of medicine. This practice has been restricted
almost entirely to teaching and to hospital work, chiefly within the
medical laboratory. |

My teaching activities have centered about the Department of
-athology at Tufts University Medical School. This phase of my
daily chores I find to be most pleasant, for medical students have

[ 1024]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the happy faculty of both stimulating and confounding their in-
structors. The more practical aspects of my work deal with the
daily problems of cancer diagnosis and with the application of
laboratory procedures in the diagnosis of disease, and the control
of its treatment.
The growth of my family although somewhat delayed has pro-
gressed quite admirably. My son showed his good sense and keen
reciation of his father’s absent-mindedness by arriving on my
own birthday, August 14th.

GERALD LEO O’NEIL

 

HOME AppREss: 16 Babcock St., Milton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Corps of Engineers, U.S. Army, New England Division, Bos.
ton, Mass.

BORN: Noy. 22, 1911, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Thomas A. O'Neil, Alice G.
Ford.

PREPARED aT: Milton High School, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas George O'Neil, ’30.

occupation: Architectural and civil engineer.

MEMBER OF: Society of Military Engineers.

FROM graduation until World War If, my business eXperienee
consisted largely of architectural and industrial designing work.
Sailing off Cape Cod dominated most of my spare time from carly
spring to late fall during this period.

With the outbreak of World War H my Naval Reserve con
mission was renewed and after a training period at the Naval Ai
Station at Quonset Point, Rhode Island, I was assigned to the Naval
Air Station at Anacostia, D.C. After doing administrative work at

[ 1025 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

a desk for approximately eight months I managed to have my
classification changed from air to deck and went to sea. I was as-
signed to a minesweeper and then to Mine Warfare School, York-
town, Virginia. Upon graduation I was given command of the
YMS 68 at Panama and ordered to the Southwest Pacific. Through-
out the Philippines and Borneo I had from five to fifteen mine-
sweepers engaged in combat sweeping for invasions in these areas
and finished the war as a lieutenant commander.

After the war I went back to architectural and industrial design-
ing work. At the present time I am a project engineer bringing some
Navy influence to the Corps of Engineers of the U.S. Army; how-
ever, my allegiance is still to the Navy.

Sailing off Cape Cod from early spring to late fall continues to
take up most of my spare time since I am still single and have no

family worries other than teaching my nephew and niece the
pleasures of sailing and cruising.

JOSEPH OPPENHEIM

WR ON, Stott nears tianigt EAR

  

 

 

HOME apprEss: 294 Greenwood St., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Raytheon Manufacturing Co., Missile Systems Division, 520
Winter St., Waltham, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 23, 1914, Roxbury, Mass. PaRENTS: Isaac Oppenheim, Anne Smith.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933, 1934-1935. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1934(35).

marriep: Florence Kaufman, Feb. 18, 1945, Springfield, Mass, CHILDREN:
Barbara Jo, July 23, 1946; Peter Bradford, March 14, 1948; Jane Ellen,

Oct. 6, 1949, Kathy Lee, Jan. 29, 1952; James Andrew, March 14, 19543
Elisabeth, March 26, 1957.

occupation: Manager of administration and planning, Missile Systems Division,
Raytheon Manufacturing Company.

[ 1026 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT .

OFFICES HELD: President, Boston State Hospital League.
MEMBER OF: Marlborough Country Club.

LOOKING back over the past twenty-five vears, I am tilled with
mixed emotions — regret that the years passed so swiftly and gratec-
ful for my extreme good fortune.

My business activities are somewhat twofold. Firse of all, TP have
been associated with the Raytheon Manufacturing Company for
the past fifteen years, presently the manager of administration and
planning for the entire Missile Systems Division. With the in-
creasing importance placed on the missile industry, I find there is
never a dull moment, and my only complaint is that the davs are
not long enough to accomplish all that must be done.

Secondly, I serve as president of Flo’s children’s clothing busi-
ness, Tots ’N’ Teens. I must confess here that this urle, although
impressive, is more or less honorary, because Flo herself ts the c¢a-
pable manager and director of her three stores.

For outside activities, by my own admission, I am a better bride
player than a golfer, but thoroughly enjoy both. Hlowever, T would
say that our principal hobbies are our six children: Barbara-twelve,
Peter-ten, Janie—nine, Kathy-six, Jimmy-—four and Elisabeth-one and
a half. Both Flo and I take keen delight in our family and in partici
pation in their activities. My interest in Cub Scouting and Little
League developed from Pete’s enthusiasm, and I have taken an active
part in both programs.

On the serious side, I have just recently accepted the appeint-
ment to the position of president of the Boston State Hospital
League. Much work remains to be accomplished in the ficld of
mental health, and I shall endeavor to do a good job.

So much for the highlights of the past twenty-five. As for Siar
of age, I have lost my ” hair and must continually fight the battle af
the bulge, but the spirit is young and Flo and I expect to centinuc
our activities and our busy lives for many more years to come.

[ 1027 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

IRA LEO OPPENHEIMER

 

HOME ADpDRESS: 49 E. 67th St., New York 21, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Weiss & Klau Co., 462 Broadway, New York 13, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 16, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: Leopold Oppenheimer, Minnie
W. klau.

PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B, IN MECH.ENG., cus laude, 1934.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Beitler, June 18, 1939, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN: Peter
L., Aug. 19, 1940; Lucy, April 13, 1943; Daniel J., Feb. 23, 1945, Amy, Aug.
18, 1951.

XcCUPATION: Vice-president, Weiss & Klau Company, manufacturers and dis-
tributors.

FFICES HELD: Treasurer, Fieldston Ethical Alumni Association, 1956-58.
IEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

T is not the easiest thing in the world to set down and review
wenty-five years in a few well-chosen words. One must be
lessed with not only total recall, but the ability to condense and
istill into a bare essence the many events and exposures, the
nxieties and the fulfillments which formed the years between.
acking these attributes, the next best approach would be to take a
uick look backward and pick out the most important mileposts on
ie road to now.

Marriage and the raising of children have naturally had the
eatest impact on the years between. My wife-to-be, observed
om afar, as I took care to do with all females in my high school
ass, perhaps didn’t strike me as the most likely candidate. A
hirlwind campaign of seven years’ duration ensued — ending in
arriage, a wonderful sunny trip through the western states and a
iall apartment household. Both of us are confirmed New Yorkers
d we have resisted all efforts to dislodge us from the city. Our
ly attempts at suburban living took place during the early years

[ 1028 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of the war when we took a house near Fort Monmouth, New

Jersey, so that I could bicycle to work at the Signal Corps General
Development Laboratories at Eatontown. At this establishinent 1
was an engineer, assisting with the redesign and modernization of
Signal Corps equipment. After about a year, our stay in New
Jersey was cut short by the arrival of our second child, althou, wh
I then became, for almost a year and a half more, part of that great
body of New Yorkers known as commuters.

Two more children were added in subsequent years, and trying
to keep up with them has taken care of almost all the time I have.
In whatever time there was left over I have been kept equally busy
trying to keep the roof tight, both figuratively and literally. Mtv
business experience, although in the shelter of family enterprise.
has been a varied one. Initially, I spent most of my time dealing with
production and its controls. This sort of work led to cost analy SIX,
personnel relations and administrative functions, all interwoven with
elements of sales and merchandising. We manufacture and distribute
a great variety of household items including window shades, Vene-
tian blinds, plastic drapes, shelf edging, plastic table coverings and
many forms of coated textiles.

In recent years I have been trying to fill in the gaps left in my
understanding and appreciation of some of the non-commercial
aspects of life. Lecture courses on music and the arts at museum and
school, a more intensive reading program, a reawakened interest
in secondary school and Harvard Alumni matters have combined to
take up whatever slack is available.

Not to be overlooked also is the travel phase of our existence.
Two European trips in recent years, concentrated on the Italian and
Greek peninsulas, left us with a desire for more of the same, a!-
though it seems that for a while anyhow we shall have to allow the
children their turns and let them go instead of us. Our other travel
has always revolved around skiing — ye arly trips to Aspen, Colo-

rado, or the Laurentians, have been S.O.P. It is mv only fori of
exercise and hopefully we can continue it without break (pun) for

many year Ss.

[ 1029 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ALVARO ORTIZ ORTIZ

 

HOME AbpRESs: Ponce de Leon Ave. 651 Stop 11, Santurce, Puerto Rico.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fortaleza St. 359, San Juan, Puerto Rico.

BORN: Feb. 19, 1912, Maunabo, Puerto Rico. parENTs: Vicente Ortiz, Paula Ortiz.
PREPARED AT: Central High School, Santurce, Puerto Rico.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1033. DEGREES: S.B., 1934; LL.B. (Univ. of Puerto Rico),
1936.

MarriED: Maria Isolina Castro, Nov. 14, 1936, Puerto Rico (divorced 1948);
Flydia Fort, May 14, 1949, Puerto Rico. cumpren: Diana L., Sept. 1, 1937;
Evelyn Net Fort, Oct. 8, 1942 (step daughter).

HARVARD BROTHERS: Antonio Ortiz, ’26, M.D. ’29; Benjamin Ortiz, 731, LL.B., ’34;
Rolando Ortiz, 48.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; private practice.
OFFICES HELD: Member, law firm, Fiddler, Cordova & McConnell, 1936-44, Ortiz
& Ortiz, 1945-59; legal adviser, Treasury Department, Puerto Rico, 1949-51.

MEMBER OF: Bar Association of Puerto Rico; Federal Bar of Puerto Rico;
Harvard Club of Puerto Rico.

AFTER finishing my last course at Harvard during the summer of
1933, I returned to Puerto Rico and applied for a job at the San Juan
Branch of the National City Bank of New York. I was offered a
position but the salary was not very encouraging, so I decided it was
better for me to enroll in the law school of the University of Puerto
Rico, The truth is that I never intended to become a lawyer, but
after beginning the study of law I fell in love with the subject and
was able to finish the course satisfactorily. While at law school
I had two part-time jobs. I worked in a study related to the ef-
fects of the U'S. tariff on Puerto Rican commerce and in a federal
project for the economic reconstruction of Puerto Rico.

A few months after Commencement I married for the first time
and by the next year I was the proud father of a baby girl. She is
now twenty-one and is also studying law.

[ 1030]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

When I obtained my degree I was fortunate enough to enter the
law firm of Fiddler, Cordova & McConnell, attorneys for the Na-
tional City Bank. All the lawyers in said firm were Eflarvard gradu-
ates, except one, who was from Georgetown University. T remained
with them for eight and a half years. Then I entered into a law
partnership with my brother Benjamin, another Harvard graduate,
who had been elected to the House of Representatives of Puerta
Rico in 1944. The partnership lasted only four years. Meanwhile,

my marriage had ended in divorce.
In the spring of 1949 I entered the Treasury Department of

Puerto Rico as legal adviser to the treasurer. That same year I had
the good fortune to marry my present wife, a statistician and econo-
mist. Since 1951, when I left the Treasury Department, I have en-
gaged in the private practice of my profession.
My favorite pastimes are reading and traveling. I do a lot of
reading and during the last few years I have visited Cuba and other
Caribbean Islands. It was not until 1952 that 1 was able to return
to the States. While in New: York, I couldn't resist the temptation
to see Harvard again, so we made the trip to Cambridge. The visit
was one of the most agreeable experiences in my life. Two years
later we made a trip to Europe. We spent three delightful months
in the old continent. We have also visited Niagara Falls and Canada.
Last year we spent two wonderful weeks at Miami Beach, and this
summer we made an automobile trip from New York to California.
This is about all I have done during the last twenty-five yoan.
Hope we can make our Twenty-fifth Reunion; we are looking for-

ward to it.

WILFRED OWEN

  

HOME ADDRESS: 4539 32d Rd., N,, Arlington, Va.
[ 1031 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

OFFICE ADDRESS: Brookings Institution, 722 Jackson Pl, N.W., Washington, D.C

BorN: Dec. 19, 1912, Birmingham, England. parents: Wilfred Owen, Miriam
Hanlon.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1934.

married: Ellie Bowen, April 26, 1941, Cumberland, Md. cumoren: Wilfred,
Jr, April +4, 1945; Kristen Elizabeth, April 30, 1949, Debra Jane, May
10, 19§1.

occupation: Senior staff member, Brookings Institution; economic adviser to
various agencies; free-lance writing on economic affairs.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Arlington Development Committee, 1955; member,
Arlington Planning Commission, 1936-57; vice-chairman, Arlington Com-
mittee of 100, 1957; consultant, Twentieth Century Fund, Committee for
Economic Development, National Research Council, Port of New York
Authority, Governments of Japan, Pakistan, Cuba.

MEMBER OF: University Club.

puBLicaTIons: “Transportation and National Policy” (contributing author),
1942, “Role of the Federal Government in Highway Development,” 1944,
US. Government Printing Office; “Regularization of Production and Em-
ployment: The Automobile Industry,” Geneva, 1947; “America’s Needs
and Resources” (contributing author), 1947, 1955; “Automotive Trans-
portation,” 1949, “National Transportation Policy” (co-author), 1949,
“Major Problems in United States Foreign Policy,” 1952, “A Mid-Century
Look at Resources,” 1954, “Metropolitan Transportation Problems,” 1956,
“Transportation for the Future City,” 1957, all published by Brookings;
“Automobile Transportation in Defense or War,” U.S. Government
Prinung Office, 1951; Aviation Column, Air Force Magazine, 1954-58;
“Kobe-Nagoya Expressway Survey” (contributing author), Tokyo, 1956;
“The New Highways: Challenge to the Metropolitan Region,” Con-

necticut General Symposium, 1957; “Japan: The New and the Old,” and
other articles, The Lanrp, Standard Oil Company of New Jersey.

THE Harvard Phi Beta Kappa Society initiated its prize essay award
in 1934. The decision made me author of a little red book on trans-
portation that has triggered a series of little-read books ever since.
First gainful employment consisted of breaking clinkers in’ a
Louisiana lime kiln, which helped me develop an empathy for labor
pending my publication date. When the PBK goods were delivered, |
complimentary copies wer€ sent to all persons sufficiently well
identified in the footnotes to be trapped in the mails, and hardly
eight months of clinker-breaking had passed before I was laying
down the crowbar and taking up the pen again. The jobs were
transportation research for the National Research Council, free-
lancing for Science Service and the Baltimore Sun and later for
aviation and business magazines. When the president (FDR) ap-

[ 1032 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pointed the Owen D. Young committce on transportation ant no.
tional policy, I landed on that team and [ater in the Ae Force.

After the war and four Brookings books, spent three Veare vr
international studies, several years on urban planning problenn ant
on a series of consulting assignments for Twenticth Century Bunt
International Labor Office, Port of New York Authority and more
recently for foreign governments. The most memorable evenes
study of economic aid in Western Furope, 1950, transport adi ner
to the Government of Japan, 1956; around the world. toc4, adv nee
to the Government of Pakistan on the Harvard-Ford Foun davceorn
group, 1958. On these and other foreign assignments my wits helps
with her flair for sightseeing, then beats a h: aStyY CUE to rescue tse
children.

My principal interests today are in the development of under:
developed areas around the world, and the untanghing of the over.
developed areas of the United States — our cities. The schedule
cludes a study of transportation’s role in economic des clopmens,
with repeat trips to Europe and Asia before Reunion time, play a
Viking book on America’s cities appearing early IN t9Q8Q.

Throughout the year there are frequent oceasions for landing my
Boston, walking through the Yard, and even dropping Woon se
lecture or two. All of us manage to get to Nantucket in the susnmes,
where a combination of free- lance work and play seems ta deliver
more mileage. Right now we're in the midst of foothall practee.
under the lights. |

As for the questions that accumulate over tw enty-fve veary, here
are just two of the troublesome ones. What about the slums ac!
decay of our old cities, and the blight that ix bound ta felon on
many of our newer suburbs? (Take a ride from Midway nits
Chicago, or as I was forced to do last week, from Provitenee Nic
port by bus to Boston, then through Cambrilue, Chelea ant bat
Boston to Logan.) Is ours really an athuent socieny? Or re ue
counting the wrong things w hen we tor up our standardef hve o
On this count many poorer countries purus to shame.

Second, if we mean business about maint HNN oUF pooten ie
world, when do we start taking an honest look at athour aces
having an impact on international atfairs -— trade, cueetso ge cosy
aid, economic assistance programs, racial practices, ete os bes
afresh? We need to design public and. private Probes Hor a |
produce the total strength that a free world demand.

[ 1033 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19034

FRED MALLERY PACKARD

 

HOME apprEss: Box 456, Route 2, Fairfax, Va.
OFFICE ADDRESS: International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural
Resources, 2144 P St. N.W., Washington 7, D.C.

BorN: April 2, 1913, Rutherford, N.J. parents: Elden Lord Packard, Pauline
Mallery.

PREPARED AT: Winwood School, Lake Grove, Long Island, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931, 1932-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1934(36); A.M. (Univ.
of Colorado), 1942.

MARRIED: Jean Nichols Roberts, June 9, 1951, Cincinnati, Ohio. cHiLp: Jean
Elden, Feb. 16, 1956.

occuPaTION: Acting secretary, International Committee on National Parks,
International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Emergency Conservation Committee, since 1942;
member, board of directors, Defenders of Furbearers, since 1946; executive
secretary, National Parks Association, 1950-58; member, executive com-
mittee, Natural Resources Council of America, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Cosmos Club, Washington, D.C.; Sierra Club; Wilderness Society;
Nature Conservancy; Federation of Western Outdoor Clubs; Izaac Walton
League of America; Outdoor Writers Association of America; and other
conservation organizations; American Ornithologists’ Union, American
Society of Mammalogists; Nuttall Ornithological Club and other scientific
organizations.

>UBLICATIONS: Many articles for technical journals on wildlife, land resource
use and national parks; articles for popular magazines and newspapers, in-

cluding foreign conservation magazines and others abroad on similar
subjects.

“ROM boyhood, I have been interested in science, especiall wild-
ife, and my college training was oriented at this field. After gradu-

ition, I worked at the largest bird-banding station in the country,

ind then had opportunity to join photographic expeditions to
suatemala and Mexico for the Pan American Union. This experl-
‘Nee aroused my interest in natural resource conservation as a vital

[ 1034 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY RF.PORT

and urgent program of world-wide significance. After helping the
Emergency Conservation Committee in its campaign to establish
the Olympic National Park, in 1938 the National Park Service ap-
pointed me as a wildlife technician to study wildlife in Rocky
Mountain National Park, Colorado, with special attention to bighorn
sheep. The results of this research led to a research fclluwship at
the University of Colorado. In 1942 I entered the U.S. Naval Reserve
and served four years’ active duty at sea, leaving the service as a
lieutenant commander. I am still in the Naval Reserve.

After the war I joined the staff of the National Parks Association
and became its executive secretary in 1950. The dutics involved
administering the organization, testifying on conservation before
Congress, field investigations in national parks and wilderness areca
and a broad scope of resource conservation affairs. In 1958, oppor-
tunity developed for me to enter the international field of con-
servation, which offers exceptional challenge, as it is a nearly un-
touched field. This work requires close contact with scientists and
ecologists throughout the world, and considerable travel. | am
especially fortunate in that my wife shares my outdoor interests,
loves to travel and is an indispensable aid in my work.

HAROLD RHEA PACKARD
" i r Sere

 

HOME ADDRESS: 7312 Piney Branch Rd., Takoma Park 12, Mad.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Western Junior High School, ss01 Massachusetts Ave, Pat,
Washington, 16, D.C.

BoRN: March 4, 1912, Urumiah, Iran. parents: Harry Phineas Packard, Frames
Julia Bayley.

PREPARED AT: Queen Anne High School, Seattle, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1930-1932. DEGREFS: A.B. (Colorado Coll), tyre, ane (Den
ver Univ.), 1943.

[ 1035 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934 |

marrigp: Catherine A. Corning, Aug. 24, 1936, Colorado Springs, Colo. cum

prEN: Harry Bayley, July 28, 1937; Helen Rebecca, June 25, 1940; Hugh
Corning, May 22, 1946.

occupation: Education; principal, Western Junior High School, Montgomery
County (Md.) Public Schools.

OFFICES HELD: Board of Counsellors, 1945, Board of Religious Education, 1946,
Plymouth Congregational Church, Denver; director, YMCA Stay-at-Home
Camp, Denver, 1946-47; treasurer, Rockville (Md.) Recreation Board,
1948-49; committee chairman, Troop 446, Rockville, 1949; Neighborhood
commissioner, northern district, Maryland — District of Columbia, 1950-52;
treasurer, Lions Club of Takoma Park, 1955; chairman, Pack 33, Takoma
Park, 1956; president, board of directors, Boys’ Club of Takoma Park, Inc.,
1955-57; Vice-president, Takoma Park Elementary School Parent-Teachers
Association, 1955; member, executive committee, Montgomery County
Educational Association, 1954-56; chairman, Professional Program Com-
mittee, since 1954; president, Montgomery County Public Schools Super-

visory Association, 1956; president, Montgomery County Secondary Prin-
cipals Association, 1958.

MEMBER OF: Montgomery County Education Association, Maryland State
Teachers’ Association; Colorado Education Association, National Educa-
tion Association (life member); Maryland and National Associations of
Secondary School Principals; Alden Kindred of America, Takoma Park

Presbyterian Church, Takoma Park Lions Club; Silver Spring YMCA; Phi
Gamma Delta, Delta Epsilon.

AFTER leaving Harvard, I graduated from Colorado College and
served a year as lab assistant in psychology. Marriage in 1936 was
followed by eleven years in the Denver public schools. Then came
our exodus to the East and four years in the District of Columbia
public schools. This was, and still is, followed by service in the
Montgomery County, Maryland, public schools— five years as
high school supervisor in junior and senior high schools and the last
three as principal of Western Junior High School. My own school-
ing since Harvard days has included Colorado College, Denver
University, Colorado University and, currently, American Uni-
versity.

I have never regretted the choice of teaching as my career, but
it has necessitated numerous sub-careers: directing recreation pro-
grams, being a floor man in a shoe store, serving as senior laborer,
Army Air Force Storage Depot, ordnance worker, 7th step, Rocky
Mountain Arsenal; and officiating a little football and basketball,
but mainly baseball and softball (over six hundred games before
the legs gave out!). The umpiring gave me an intimate acquaintance
with northern Virginia and southern Maryland.

Vocation, avocation, recreation and civic service have all con-

[ 1036 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

spired to make sure that work with young people continues to be
my life. I love kids and welcome every Opportunity to tell thers
that our greatest failure as Americans is that we do not realize how

lucky we are!

JOHN HOLLIS PACKARD

   

AppREss: 20 Morton Rd., Milton, Mass.
BORN: Dec. 20, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Abner Beale Packard, Helen Pratt.

PREPARED AT: Lenox School, Lenox, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1936.

NO questionnaire returned.

LEE SHALER PAGE

 

apprEss: Threefold Farm, Spring Valley, N.Y.
[ 1037 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

BorN: April 4, 1909, Washington, D.C. parents: Logan Walker Page, Anne
Shaler.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

NO questionnaire returned,

EDWARD PETER PAPALIA

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1130 Crescent Way, Palisade, N.J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1371 Teaneck Rd., Teaneck, N.J.

BoRN: September 9, 1911, West Hoboken, N.J. parenrs: Peter Papalia, Anna
Vita.

PREPARED aT: Emerson High School, Union City, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: a.B., cum laude, 1934(36); 11.8. (Columbia
Univ.).

MarrieD: Madeline Borrin, Sept. 16, 1945, Union City, N.J. cumpren: Diane
Ellen, April 26, 1947; Edward Peter, Jr., May 1, 1951.

occupation: Attorney-at-law.

MEMBER OF: New Jersey and American Bar Associations, as well as a member
of numerous title companies; affiliated with several local civic, religious
and fraternal organizations.

[ 1038 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FORREST HALLEY PARADISE

 

HOME apprEss: 19 Concord Rd., Billerica, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Raytheon Manufacturing Co., Waltham 54, Mass.

BorN: May 6, 1910, Beverly, Mass. parents: Oscar S. Paradise, Sarah E. Bonser.

prepared At: Elowe High School, Billerica, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1932, 1933-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1934(35).

MARRIED: Elizabeth J. Loring, Oct. 8, 1938, Billerica, Mass. cHiLpReN: Whitman
Loring, Dec. 10, 1939; Waldemar Forrest, Dec. 10, 1941; Priscilla Justina,

July 14, 1944; Ruth Malpas, March 11, 1946; Sarah Elizabeth, Dec. 8, 1947;
Seth Foss, Aug. 20, 1956.

occuPaTION: Engineering, administration.
OFFICES HELD: Selectman, Town of Billerica, 1951-58; senior warden, Thomas
Talbot Lodge, AF. & A.M., Billerica; deacon, First Congregational Church,

Billerica; a dozen minor offices in local Historical Society, Library Associ-
ation, etc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineers Club, Boston, Institute of Radio Engineers,
Boston; Four Tynes Club, Cambridge (private cultural group).

puBLicaTions: Minor professional writings.

THE fact that I have had only two jobs since college is the most
noteworthy item in my career history, perhaps indicating a seden-
tary soul. Ah, but what jobs! The first allowed me, a happy
bachelor, to roam the country six years. The second has provided
the wherewithal to marry a lovely Smith girl and raise a family of
SiX expensive youngsters. However, my work basically has been
engineering until the last few years when it turned toward ad-
ministration. Raytheon is chiefly a manufacturer of electronic ap-
paratus and missiles for the U.S. Government.

After working off the depression (and most of my youth), we
returned to our old home town determined to advance the causes
of Yankeedom and the Republican party. We have conrributed new
members to that element of society, and have participated even to

[ 1039 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

the extent of holding public office but, as you can see in any news.
paper, it’s a losing battle. Therefore, we now tend to put more of
our attention to the education and support of our offspring and
accept the situation of being part of a minority group.

One son is a sophomore at Cornell learning to be a mechanical
engineer, while another is at Mount Hermon School preparing (hope-
fully) for Harvard and a medical career. Three daughters all plan
to be Smith gals like their mother. The youngest boy is interested
merely in growing up in such an atmosphere.

BERG PARAGHAMIAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2232 E. Dartmouth Ave., Englewood, Colo.
OFFICE abpRESS: Martin Co., Box 179, Denver 1, Colo.

BorN: Dec. 4, 1912, Erzeroum, Armenia. parENTs: Hamazasb Paraghamian,
Adeline Kirkiasharian.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: S.B., cumt laude, 1934, A-M., 19373 SM-
IN MECH. ENG., 1948.

MarrieD: Mary Margaret Janjigian, Oct. 18, 1953, Fresno, Calif. cuitp: James
Berg, Jan. 28, 1955.

occupation: Chief, Plans and Evaluation Section, Martin Company, aircraft
manufacturers.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Aeronautical Sciences; American Rocket Society.
pusLications: Major publications are related to the development, design and
military usage of aircraft and missiles and are classified publications of the

Martin Company.
MY three degrees from Harvard have served as the basis of the dif-
ferent professional and military careers I have been engaged in.
After leaving the School of Education 1 taught mathematics and
physics in public high schools until World War I swept me into

[ 1040 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

uniform in the old Army Air Corps just after Pearl Harbor. Served
five years until discharge in November, 1946, rising to rank of
major as a weather officer. Served in the United States, England
and France, mainly with the Eighth Air Force. "

Upon discharge from the Air Force, 1 went into engineering.
Again called on Harvard to teach me the basic knowledge I required
for my new chosen field. My S.M. in mechanical engineering served
as excellent background for my use in adapting myself to the diverse
requirements in the aircraft industry. In my case, this was the
Martin Company. I joined Martin in 1948 when they were located
in Baltimore only and am still with them. Have served the company
in research and design roles as well as in the areas of operations
analysis, military requirements and program planning and manage-
ment. Have seen my company grow from a single Baltimore plane
to a corporation of some half a dozen divisions. Was sent to Denver
with the first Martin group in early 1956, to start work on the
Titan ICBM. Have been involved head over heels in developing the
Titan technically and breathing into it the qualities that make such
a complex gadget a useful weapon for our forces.

Aly wife Mary and son James (four years old) make up my little
family. Mary is from California and I from Boston and our marriage
, has been a most happy blend of the East and West of our spacious
hand. Our location in Denver is a wonderful midpoint for both of

. James is probably among the youngest of the children of my
classmates. He is a fascinating little creature whom we try very hard
not to spoil. He is our one and only, but a remarkable blend of
family traits from both parents and grandparents and perhaps even
further back.

My activities in politics have been limited to the exercising of
my voting rights. My votes have gone to both parties at ditferent
times. I feel that each party restrains the other as well as influences
the other to be more progressive in legislating the laws and agencies
which will assure our survival and will continue our economic,

spiritual and social growth as a nation.

I’ve indulged in a considerable amount of traveling, mostly for
business, but have often been able to take my family “along. Spent
the war years in Europe but have lived in Boston, W ashington,
Baltimore and now Denver, and visited California so often it has
been like another home. My hobbies have varied considerably
through the years, from sports to bridge and reading. There has
been always less and less time for such things as my professional

[ ro4t ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

responsibilities in the hectic aircraft industry have increased. Lately
they have consisted of less active endeavors as my spare time has

been spent with my family, our new home in Denver and the Con-
gregational Church which we attend.

EDWARD PICKERING PARKER

 

HOME AppRESS: 45 West St. Beverly Farms, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Parker Brothers, Inc., Salem, Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 4, 1912, Salem, Mass. parents: Foster Hegeman Parker, "ro, Anna
Merrill Pickering,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1934.

MarriED: Natalie Stevens, April 9, 1938, Winchester, Mass, CHILDREN: Diane,
April 30, 1940; Anne Pickering, June 9, 1943; Sally Sheldon, April 15, 1947-

OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president, Parker Brothers, Inc., manufacturer and
distributor of proprietary games.

OFFICES HELD: President, Pilgrim Enterprises, Inc.; vice-president, Salem Hotel

Corporation; director, Toy Manufacturers Association of U.S.A., Salem
Savings Bank, Salem Cooperative Bank.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and Boston; University Club of

Chicago, Eastern Yacht Club, Manchester Yacht Club; Essex Country
Club; Salem Marine Society.

IN the spring of 1934, when jobs were scarce, I was one of the
fortunate ones. I started work immediately for Parker Brothers,
Inc., a family business specializing in the publication and distribution
of proprietary games. After a brief training period, I was sent to
New York where our principal selling office is located. During the
following year, I lived with Dick Buzzell, Bud Wye and Deeb

Peter, all classmates. This was not a period of prosperity for any

of us but we certainly had some unusual experiences which have
made wonderful memories.

[ 1042 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

When the game MONOPOLY became a craze, I returned to our
home office in Salem, Massachusetts, and transferred to the produc-
tion side of the business. By being “Johnny on the spot,” I have
moved in and out of every branch of the business and have held
every position up to my present one of executive vice-president.
I have enjoyed my work and have always been glad that I did not
strike out for myself in some other direction. My only complaint
is the opinion of my friends that I have “a soft job — nothing to
do all day but play games.”

On the gth of April, 1938, I married Natalie Stevens of Win-
chester, Massachusetts. We have raised no sons to send to Harvard
but have three lovely daughters who we hope, in proper time, will
become mothers of Harvard men. The oldest daughter is now at
Connecticut College. The second is at Garrison Forest School in
Baltimore, and the youngest is still at home but will be leaving us
before long. Our life together as a family has been a happy one, ‘and
could I roll back time, I would take the same fateful steps over again.

Because of my position in a prominent business in a small com-
munity, I have been called upon to perform many duties of a civic
and charitable nature. I have been a director of the local Community
Fund for ten years and have successively performed the duties of
industry chairman, campaign chairman and president. Currently,
I am treasurer of the local Boy Scout chapter and of the Salem
Tuberculosis Association. Our classmate, Arthur Dupee, in order
to escape from the position himself, persuaded me to take on the
duties of president of the board of trustees of the Shore Country
Day School in Beverly, Massachusetts. This position entails a great
deal of work but has been a very rewarding extracurricular activ-
ity.

In 1941, Uncle Sam reached out his long arm and demanded that
I make good on the commission which he granted me at the end of
four years of Naval ROTC, I served for more than four vears, most
of that time in the far reaches of the Pacific Ocean. The DE which
I commanded was fortunate enough to destroy two Japanese sub-
marines, and for these actions I was twice awarded the Bronve Star.
I have now completed twenty years of credited service in the Naval
Reserve and am retired as a captain.

In college my sport was swimming and J still like the water as
much as ever. AsI grow older, I prefer to be on top of it rather than

in it and with my family sail and race an International 210, Pam nor
averse to accepting invitations to sail or cruise on larger boat. I

[ 1043 ]

‘HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

gave up skiing for a while but have returned to it recently with a
great deal of enthusiasm. It is a sport that the entire family can and
does enjoy together.

Recently I have been fortunate in serving on the Permanent Class
Committee as a Class Agent and am currently working on the Re-
union Committee as Chairman of Services and as a member of the
Budget Committee. Through these activities, I have kept in touch
with my classmates that ] otherwise might not have seen. - 1 am look-
ing forward to renewing acquaintances next June.

As a final note, in politics, ] am a member of a dying race, the
traditional “Black Republicans.”

PHILIP EDGAR PARKER

 

HOME Appress: 1 Casino Rd., Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE AvpRESS: United-Carr Fastener Corp., 31 Ames St., Cambridge 42, Mass.

BoRN; April 27, 1912, Marblehead, Mass. PARENTS: James Edgar Parker, Fdith
DeBlois Laskey.

PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1934; LL.B. 1949.

MARRIED: Jeanette E. Williams, March 27, 1948, Lynn, Mass.

occuPATioN: Patent and general attorney, United-Carr Fastener Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Lynn Unitarian Church, Lynn, Mass., 1945-48.

MEMBER OF: Corporation, Banking and Business Law Section and Patent Section,
American Bar Association; American Patent Law Association; Boston Bar
Association; Boston Patent Law Association, Harvard Clubs of Lynn and

the North Shore. |
AFTER graduation I entered the real estate brokerage business in
Marblehead, Massachusetts. However, that work did not satisfy me,
so I entered Harvard Law School in the fall of 1937. I kept my
nose to the grindstone in the Law School and graduated in 1940.

| 1044 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Following graduation from law school, I spent a year gathering
experience (but no money) in the general practice of law in Boston,
working, of all things, in connection with the disbarment of lawyers.

The month after Pearl Harbor I became a civilian lawyer for the
War Department, Boston Ordnance District, Boston, Massachusetts.
During the war my principal job was as legal adviser to the Small
Arms Procurement Branch of the Boston Ordnance District, in
which position I was able to assist the war effort in the procurement
of Browning Automatic Rifles and other small arms. I served as
the government legal liaison with. a corporation established with
typical Yankee ingenuity by six leading New England manufac-
turers, no one of whom was capable of taking a contract for
Browning Automatic Rifles by itself, but who together could handle
the contract.

As soon as possible after V-J Day, I determined to find an op-
portunity to get into the field into which my college and law school
training had directed me, the field of patent law, so I accepted a
job as general counsel and patent counsel to a small electronics firm
in Cambridge, Massachusetts. While on the job I studied patent law
and was admitted to practice before the U.S. Patent Office.

In 1947 I became a patent attorney for United-Carr Fastener
Corporation. I have continued with them until the present as a
patent and general attorney. My work involves the prosecution of
domestic and foreign patent and trademark applications and related
problems and acting as house counsel with respect to the many
problems of general and corporation law that can arise in the con-

duct of a business.

In 1948 I married Jeanette E. Williams of Lynn, Massachusetts.
In the spring of 1958, I was chairman of the Boston Dinner of the
Class of 1934, in an interlude between a hospital bout with pneumonia

and a recuperation trip to Bermuda.

[ 1045 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

THOMAS ILBERT PARKINSON, JR

r rine eee a

  

HOME ADDRESS: 215 Lakeview Ave., W., Bridgewaters, Long Island, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 37 Wall St., New York 5, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 27, 1914, New York, N.Y. parents: Thomas Ibert Parkinson,
Georgia Childs Weed.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1934; LL.B. (Univ.
of Pennsylvania), 1937.

MarrieD: Geralda E. Moore, Sept. 23, 1937, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN: Thomas
Ilbert, 3d, Feb. 14, 1939; Geoffrey M., Sept. 27, 1941; Cynthia M., Sept.
21, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of managers, Executive and Finance Committee,
State Charities Aid Association, New York City; director, Northern In-
surance Company of New York, Primadera Nepena Peruana, S.A., limited

partner, Pennington Colket & Company, Philadelphia, Pa.; secretary, British
War Relief Society.

MEMBER OF: Knickerbocker Club, Union Club; Down Town Association;
American Bar Association; Association of the Bar of the City of New York;
National Trust for Scotland; St. George’s Society, New York City.

I AM a conservative, politically and socially. I regard the “lib-
eralism” of my era and area as domestically corruptive and inter-
nationally treasonable. Under all the circumstances, I prefer not to
elaborate.

[ 1046 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THOMAS FREDRICSON PARSHLEY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 575 Grand St., New York 2, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 117 W. 48th St., New York, N.Y.

BORN: March 2, 1912, Brewer, Maine. parents: Howard Madison Parshlev, ‘oy,
Nancy Fredricson.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MaRRIED: Mary Longford Stearns, April 15, 1938, New York, N.Y. cia: Fhs-
abeth Stearns, June 5, 1947.
OCCUPATION: Musician.

OFFICES HELD: Manager of orchestra personnel, radio station WOR, 1942-48,
flutist, Fairfield Woodwind Quintet, since 1956; staff member, Mfuuc
School of the Little Red School House, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Greenwich Village Association; Museum of Moder Art, Mu-
seum of Natural History.

PUBLICATIONS: Book reviews for the Herald-Tribune, 1939-41; lengthy letter to

the Tises, used and quoted by Howard Taubman in 1953 fer double col-
umn on the desperate state of the “classical” musician.

MY life is almost too boring to sum up! Always music; first, at
seven, a doleful struggle with the violin. After a while the wood:
winds appeared. First the clarinet, then the flute, then the saxophone,
and then the rest. At first, all this was at home or more or less
associated with school groups unul Harvard Square loomed up on
a miserable, rainy day late in 1930. Later, somehow, the combina.
tion of Harvard and music was just right — hard to explain,

There were Davison, Merritt and Ballantine, at whose house |
first was involved in the beauties of Mozart’s chamber music; and,
most of all, Walter Piston who, as a former café planive ('), was
earning his way through college by playing many varieties of music
in the environs. (Here a nod to Professor Ray Elamson, now, |
believe, teaching up at Williams.) Perhaps too much Space has
been devoted to the years 1930 to 1934, or has it!

[ 1047 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Then came New York, where music has continued to hold the
main interest. I did free-lance work in New York studios in all
kinds of records, television, radio and concerts, in addition to
teaching. Only in New York can one be involved, either by playing
or conversation, with the best in all fields.

Asa Northampton, Massachusetts, New Englander, I blush at the
preceding and hurry on to the best event since Harvard. I married
Mary Stearns on April 15, 1938, at City Hall, New York, and had for
a best man Leroy Anderson (fellow Swede and Harvardian!).
Mary, after graduation from Smith College and achieving her Ph.D.
at the University of Pennsylvania, has spent most of the years up
at the medical center on 168th Street, College of Physicians and
Surgeons. For some time she has had her own laboratory in the
department of surgery, doing medical research, writing many
papers, including a fifty-page chapter summing up development of
tissue culture, ready for publication.

Our main mutual interest for the past eleven years has been our
daughter, Betsy. At this point she is winding up her eight years
of close to perfect life in the Little Red School House at 196
Bleecker Street, New York City. Then follow a “quick segue” to
Elisabeth Lou in high school, wherein Harvard man, Dr. Randolph
Smith (head of both schools), exerts the same magic in conjunction
with a second staff of remarkable teachers. What can I say about
Bets? Great girl! I love her honesty, humor, drawing ability,
modesty, sporadic audacity, unselfconscious excellence in school,
beauty, company while ice skating, etc!

As for the rest, there was some magnificent travel in the early
years of our marriage. A month in Mexico, which we loved; four
summers out on Vinalhaven off Rockland, Maine; brief skirmishes
with Bermuda, Nassau and Jamaica. I must confess to frightful sea-
sickness in the Gulf of St. Lawrence (Mary calmly dining at each
“sitting”) during an otherwise charming trip by car and boat.

Hobbies? Using the Rollei, skating, drawing, and reading books.

I regularly read The Nation, the New Yorker, and the New Yorb
Times, Political convictions? Summed up — 'F. D.R.” — plus one

small comment: Nobody seems to be getting educated in Little
Rock, colored or white.

[ 1048 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES PARTON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 12 Brookside Drive, Westport, Conn.

OFFICE Appress: American Heritage Publishing Co. Inc. 551 Fifth Ave. New
York 17, N.Y.

BoRN: Dec. 10, 1912, Newburyport, Mass. parents: Hugo Parton, ‘ot, Agnes
Leach.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., €u77 laude, 1934.

MarRRIED: Jane Audra Bourne, Dec. 9, 1950, Santa Barbara, Calif. cuipars:
_ James, 3d, Oct. 19, 1951; Dana, June 2, 1957.

OCCUPATION: President, American Heritage Publishing Company, Inc., publisher,

American Heritage, the magazine of history, and Hortzon, a magazine of
the arts.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, The Loomis Institute, 1952-58; director, American In-
stitute of the Graphic Arts, since 1957.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York; Overseas Press Club and Union
League Club, New York; University Club, Washington. .

HARVARD'S greatest influence on me, it would appear, was the
Lampoon, for I have followed the paths of journalism ever since.
The trail has been a winding one, with numerous ups and downs, a
fair share of cliff-hanging, at least one prat-fall and, currently, a
pleasant plateau after several arduous years of building a new pub-
lishing company. Aside from journalism, the only other consistent
factor I can find in looking back over the past twenty-five vears is
that I’ve never been bored.

For thirteen years (less four with the Air Force) TP worked at
Time, Inc., in a wide variety of tasks, both editorial and business.
I went there as a cub writer on Fortune in 1935. Presently | became
business editor of Tiare and then, in 1939, decided Tw as less inter:
ested in editing than in publishing. So T arranged to switch over te
the business staff, becoming chiefly concerned with launching T sree’

[ 1049 ]

—— Le

HARVARD CLASS OF 19034

Heritage, launched in 1947 by a group of historians who were b
1953 just about out of both money and persistence. Harking back to
my wartime experience with popularizing history, I believed Amer-
ican Heritage would succeed in the unorthodox format of a “book-
magazine” and organized the American Heritage Publishing Com-
pany to take it over in July, 1954. For a while the new company
shared space and people with Thorndike, Jensen & Parton, Inc.
Then we merged them, with Joe heading up all the editorial activities
and I the business ones. In happy contrast to my California venture,
this enterprise has gone very well and is now solidly established,
paying dividends and growing fast. Last year we launched a second
“book-magazine,” Horizon, devoted to the arts and we also publish
an expanding list of books. Next project: a line of historical books
for children.

One good thing did result from my three years in California —
my wife, Jane, a San Franciscan. We were married in 1950, with
General Eaker as best man, and now have two boys, one seven, the
other two. A third child is expected in April, 1959, just in time to
permit our presence at Reunion. We abide in Westport, Connecti-
cut, but plan to return to Manhattan next fall, A pox on commuting!

HENRY DAVIES PATTERSON

 

abpress: 1170 Washington Rd., Mount Lebanon, Pittsburgh 16, Pa.

BoRN: Aug. 31, 1912, Munhall, Pa. parents: Frank Harry Patterson, Jennet
Davies.

PREPARED AT: Munhall High School, Munhall, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B, 1934.
OCCUPATION: Education.

NO questionnaire returned.

[ 1052 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES WILLIAM PAUL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1935 S. Peninsula Drive, Daytona Beach, Fla.

OFFICE apprEss: A. G. Spalding & Bros., Meadow Street, Chicopee, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 12, 1911, Radnor, Pa. parents: Anthony Joseph Drexel Paul, ‘06,
Isabel Biddle.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

marrieD: Hortense Clark, August, 1934, Beverly Farms, Mass. (divorced 1939);
Frances Ellen Clark, Oct. 4, 1941, Roslyn, Long Island, N.Y. cHitpees:
James William, Jr., March 11, 1935; Frances Ellen, Dee. 23, 1942; Thomas
Edwin, Aug. 30, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Anthony Joseph Drexel Paul, Jr., ’36.

OCCUPATION: Assistant national pro sales manager, A. G. Spalding & Bros.

OFFICES HELD: Florida pro sales representative, 1954-58.

MEMBER OF: Piping Rock Golf Club, Roslyn, Long Island, N.Y¥.,; Gulph Mills
Golf Club, Philadelphia; Daytona Beach Golf and Country Club: Riviera
Golf and Country Club, Daytona Beach, Florida.

ELDER son, James William, Jr., now attending Boston University.
Daughter at St. Timothy’s School, Stevenson, “Maryland. Younger
son attending St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Massachusetts.

I served as deck officer in the U.S. Navy during World War I,
from 1942 through 1945. I have lived in Florida since 1939. Golf
has been my hobby.

[ 1053 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

HENRY GREENLEAF PEARSON

 

HOME appress: 177 Old Connecticut Path, Wayland, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Polaroid Corp., 730 Main St.. Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 10, 1912, Newton, Mass. parents: Henry Greenleaf Pearson, ’93,
Elizabeth Ware Winsor.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. 1934.

marriep: Eleanor Mowry, Dec. 31, 1941, Wellesley Hills, Mass. cutvpren:
Anne Mowry, Dec. 28, 1943; Henry Greenleaf, Jr., May 21, 1946; Mowry
Bartlett, June 28, 1949; Margaret Winsor, April 17, 1952. °

HARVARD BROTHERS: Robert Winsor Pearson, ’31, M.D. ’36; Theodore Pearson,
"25, LLB., ’28.

occupation; Personnel manager, Polaroid Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Wayland Community Fund Campaign, 1947, Wayland
Community Chest Budget Committee, 1952-56, publisher, Wayland Town
Crier, since 1952; member, Wayland Personnel Board, 1955-58, English
Advisory Committee, Wayland Public Schools; member of corporation,
Eliot-Pearson School, Tufts University.

MEMBER OF: Personnel Managers Club of Boston.

FOR half of this quarter-century my stock-in-trade has been per-
sonnel management. The other half has been spent in government,
military service, public relations, newspaper editing and publishing,
and political campaigning. The all-pervading, constant occupation
for seventeen of these years has been raising a family.

I served my apprenticeship in personnel work in a small Cam-
bridge chemical concern. The very compactness of the firm prob-
ably afforded faster and broader training than I could have re-
ceived in a large company. The aims of the enlightened manage-
ment were relatively easy to transmit through the organization.

A more rugged experience I gained as personnel manager for a
plastics manufacturer in Leominster, Massachusetts, The amenities

[ 1054 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of human relations did not have time to be thoroughly explored in
the daily rough-and-tumble battle for existence. The strugcle to
keep the ship on an even keel and on a true course lay not with the

- crew, but with the occupants of the pilot house. Here it is that the
personnel man soon learns to direct his efforts.

In contrast, Polaroid Corporation in Cambridge affords an op-
portunity to shoot for the highest goals in relating the industrial
establishment to people. The development of people as individuals
is an aim that holds equal weight with profit-making and with the
design and manufacture of useful consumer products like the picture-
in-a-minute camera. As the company grows our job is to provide
each employee who so desires the opportunity to follow a career
of his own planning. A sizable aim for the next twenty-five vears!

My nocturnal training on the Crimson resulted in two journalistic
ventures. In the ’30s I edited a chain of four weekly newspapers in
the Brookline-Roxbury area. More recently, with other Wayland
citizens, I started a monthly paper, the Town Crier, as a public serv-
ice. Over a period of seven years it has expanded to cover con-
tiguous Weston, passed from a bi-weekly to a weekly, and now
circulates to 3000 homes and employs a staff of five, not including
myself. We have just inaugurated the Town Crier Press which will
print the paper by means of the “cold type” Justowriter process,
making the Crier the only paper in New England printed by this
method.

This journalistic bent came to the rescue in World War II when,
after moving through the draft and a series of unsympathetic MOS
numbers, I ended up as a public relations officer in the AAF Ma-
tériel Command at Wright Field, Ohio.

My two stints as a civilian in government, first with the Works
Progress Administration in 1935, and second with the Wage Stabi-
lization Board in 1952, have taught me that it is easier to talk about
how government should be run than to run it. Much time ts spent
in overcoming administrative obstacles, little is left for ctfective
action. Every Harvard graduate should take a crack at it!

Political campaigning, however, is a pastime of decisive action.
You either succeed or you don’t. It’s amazing how effective you can
sometimes be with a little original thought and planning, a lor of
organization and work, and a worthy candidate. \ Iv CAmpaivninys
has been for a number of Democrats (worthy, of course) running

for Congress, county office and local town office. I'm one, toon
(no less worthy).

[ 1055 ]

——— =

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Church activities occupy an important segment of our home and
community life. The elders sing in the choir or play organ and
violin offertories in the Unitarian First Parish Church of Wayland.
The youngsters attend junior church which they themselves assist
in running.

Family life in suburbia is time-consuming, lovable, over-organized,
desperate. There are community affairs to run to, to run, and run
from. Four children are to be transported in all directions and
simultaneously for music lessons, Scouts, Little Leagues and in-
numerable unofficial and unorganized engagements. My wife,
Eleanor, supervises this menage with love and efficiency. I regard
the operation with amazement and admiration.

It is easy to see the connection between all this and four years
at Harvard tw enty-five years ago. The Crimson provided training
for one of my vocations, Professor Merriman’s History ,1 helped me
place the New Deal, the Truman Doctrine and John Foster Dulles
in their proper perspectives, Kirsopp Lake’s New Testament read-
ings are just as meaningful now as they were then, and the Glee
Club singing under Doc. Davison and Woodie have stimulated music
in the household and brought harmony to the spirit.

What more can you ask from a liberal arts education?

OLOF HJALMER PEARSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 36 Garretson Rd., White Plains, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Sloan-Kettering Institute, gio E. 68th St., New York 21, N.Y.

BORN: Feb. 7, 1913, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Nils August Pearson, Esther Sophia
Peterson.

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., Magna cum laude, 1934; M.D. CUM
laude, 1939.

| 1056 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marriED: Barbara Farr, Dec. 30, 1942, Portland, Maine. ctitore~: Kenneth
Walter, Sept. 11, 1943 (died July 23, 1944); Jane, Sept. 11, 1945; Alan
Bruce, April 14, 1947; John Barry, April 29, 1948; Thomas Leland,
March 30, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Carl August Pearson, ’25, A.M., "30.

occupation: Physician, associate member, Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer
Research; associate professor of medicine, Cornell University Medical
College; associate attending physician, Memorial and James F.wing Hos-
pitals, New York City.

OFFICES HELD; Trustee, First Baptist Church, White Plains, N.Y., since 1952.
member, board of directors, Jennie Clarkson Home for Girls, Valhalla,
N.Y., since 1953.

MEMBER OF: American Society for Clinical Investigation; American Society of
Biological Chemists; American College of Physicians, The Endocrine So-
ciety; American Medical Association; Harvey Society; American Federa-
tion for Clinical Research; American Association for Cancer Research,
American Association for the Advancement of Science, Phi Beta Kappa.
Sigma Xi.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles in medical literature.

AFTER graduation, I worked at the Huntington Memorial Hospital
(associated with Harvard Medical School) for one year, which
provided a great stimulus to my interest in a career in medical re-
search. Then followed four years at Harvard Medical School and
two and one-half years at the Massachusetts General Hospital,
which constituted my basic training in medicine. These wonderful
years were rudely interrupted by the war.

I served four years as a medical officer for Pan American Air-
ways, under contract-with the U.S. Army. The first year was spent
in Africa, the Middle Fast and India, in the development of this
air supply route. Thereafter, I was based in Miami, Florida, with
frequent excursions to South America and Africa. My job was to
look after the health of a group of our senior transport pilots and
crews who performed 1 in an outstanding manner. These Vears were
a great experience, especially for one who had hardly been outside
of New England before.

At the end of 1945, we returned to Boston and [ resumed mv
training as a research fellow at Harvard Medical School and Masva-
chusetts General Hospital. In July, 1948, T joined the stat of the
Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research in New York, where,
for the past eleven years, I have been engaged in full-time research
and teaching of medicine. These have been exciting and rew anda
years, although life can be quite hectic at times in this bie city.
Although no major breakthrough has been made in the treatment

[ 1057 ]

—_—_———— L__

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

of cancer, definite and significant advances have been made in the
treatment of these diseases, and I am happy to have had a small part
in this.

I am blessed with a wonderful family and hope to be able to report
a Harvard son or two in the future. We are active in civic and
church affairs in our local community, suburban White Plains.
Barbie, my wife, has been most active as chairman of the Heart
Fund, Cubs, Brownies, PTA, medical auxiliary, etc. I have been
quite active recently helping with a building program for our
church. My hobbies consist of do-it-yourself projects, water skiing,
and fishing, which I can share with the family. Summer vacations
in Maine with the whole family have helped me to keep close to my
children. Barbie and J have had two extended trips together in con-
nection with medical meetings — one to the Middle East and Europe
and the other through South America. We are hoping for further
opportunities of this nature, as we have been bitten by the travel
bug.

ive are looking forward to our Twenty-fifth Reunion, but it
doesn’t seem possible that so much time has elapsed.

HERBERT RUSSELL PEIRCE, JR.

    

HOME ADDRESS: 21 Appleton St., Arlington, Mass.
OFFICE appREsS: Boston Woven Hose & Rubber Co., Cambridge, Mass.

BorN: Dec. 1, 1912, Tarrytown, N.Y. parents: Herbert Russell Peirce, Edith
Neilson Fay.

PREPARED at: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: $.B. 1934.

marriep: Lucille G. Kelley, July 5, 1941, Hartford, Conn. cHitpren: Herbert
Russell, 3d, March 31, 1942; Jonathan Appleton, Sept. 5, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Shelley Dexter Peirce, ’30; Temple Harold Peirce, °31.

[ 1058 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Production manager, Boston Woven Hose & Rubber Company
manufacturers of mechanical rubber goods. °

+

WILLIAM DONALDSON PENN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4423 Westway, Dallas 5, Texas.

BORN: Feb, 24, 1912, Cincinnati, Ohio. parents: Frederick Harrison Penn, Roxie
L. Donaldson.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Southern Methodist University, Dallas, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1034. DEGREE: 8.B., cu laude, 1934.

MARRIED: Frances McKinney, Sept. 15, 1934, Dallas, Texas. critp: Frederick
McKinney, June 28, 1935.

occupation: Physicist; farming; ranching; investments.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Manufacturers Advisory Committee, War Production
Board, 1941-45; assistant professor, electrical engineering, Southern Mcth-
odist University, 1941-45. . .

MEMBER OF: Institute of Radio Engineers; American Institute of Electrical Fn-
gineers,; Acoustical Society of America; American Institute of Physics;
Harvard Engineering Society; American Radio Relay League, Sigma
Alpha Epsilon; Registered Professional Engineer, Texas.

PUBLICATIONS: “Fundamentals of Hearing Aid Design,” Electrical Engineering,
“Five Tube Pocket Superheterodyne,” Radio-Electronics, “Transistor Cir-
cuit Equations,” Tele-Tech and Electrical Industries, “High Frequency
Silicon Transistor Amplifiers,” American Institute of Electrical Engineers,
“Underwater Sound Measurements in Airborne Sonar,” Institute of Radio
Engineers.

AT the age of eight, I began to take apart the houschold electrical
appliances and, at fourteen, I built my first “ham” radio station.
Incidentally, when I visited Harvard in 1950, my antenna was scll
atop the roof of Adams House, where it had been placed in to3t.
There was no doubt in my mind that physics and engineering were
to be my life’s work. However, also at the age of cight, T was
interested in being a cowboy. I can truthfully say that only ar

[ 1059]

_—_——— |_ —

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Harvard could the foundations be laid for realizing both ambitions.

After graduation, I entered the electronics manufacturing busi-
ness, took out a few patents, wrote a few papers and led a quiet
life with my wife and son. During World War II, I taught classes
in electronics and communications engineering at Southern Methodist
University, concurrently with my other work.

After twenty-three years in my chosen field of physics and
engineering, circumstances combined to change my interests to
ranching, farming and investments. Armed with only my Harvard
education, I attacked the cotton and cattle business with great vigor.
I find it to be fascinating, interesting, and best of all, out of doors.
I have learned that scientific training helps, whether it be in study-
ing the Value Line Investment Survey or the Agribusiness!

Electronics has now invaded the cattle business with ultrasonic
devices to determine meat quality, servomechanisms to guide
tractors, and computers to determine the best farming program
under various conditions.

And so I may not be on the first moon rocket, but it’s a wonder-
ful life here in Texas.

RICHARD WENTWORTH PENTECOST

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1515 Berwick Ave., Ruxton 4, Md.
OFFICE ADDRESS; 11 E. 21st St., Baltimore 18, Md.

x: April 29, 1911, Topsfield, Mass. parents: Ernest Harvey Pentecost,
Marion Wentworth Pierce.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1932.

MarrieD: Jean Eleanor Bowman, April 15, 1939, Bronxville, N.Y. (divorced
1945). cHiLD: John Harvey, June ro, 1944.

[ 1060 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Owner, R. W. Pentecost & Company, manufacturers’ repre-
sentative in air conditioning, heating, ventilating and refrigeration equip-
ment.

OFFICES HELD: Student engineer, 1934-40, sales engineer, 1940-43, B. F. Sturtevant
Company; branch manager, Sturtevant-Division of Westinghouse, 1946-
50; general sales manager, Baltimore Aircoil Co., Inc., 1950-55.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Refrigerating Engineers; American Society
of Heating & Air Conditioning Engineers; Engineers Club of Baltimore,
L’Hirondelle Club, Ruxton, Md.

AFTER leaving Harvard in the spring of 1932, I set out to find out
that life was real and that life was earnest. After a brief fling at
life insurance, which consisted of Monday a.m. pep sessions and
thence to New Hampshire to ski for the rest of the week, I became
a runner for F. S. Moseley & Sons, at the princely salary of ten
dollars per week. This was fine, except that my daily trips around
the financial district always seemed to pass by Arthur Johnson's
Devonshire Street emporium of imported men’s clothing. The net
result of this was that I was usually broke by Tuesday. About the
time the bank holiday came along, I detided that I was not cut out
for the brokerage business and left it for greener pastures.

The summer of 1934 was spent in cruising and was most delight-
ful. In the fall, I went to work for the B. F. Sturtevant Company
in Hyde Park, Massachusetts, a manufacturer of heating and venti-
lating equipment. Classmates Gene Foss and Roger Martin were
also working there. In the spring of 1939, I was married. After six
years of working in various departments, I was transferred to Balti-
more, as a sales engineer. I found out after a few months in the
field that I did not understand all that I thought I knew about heat-
ing and ventilating, but thanks to the help of the home-office engi-
neers, I made out all right. My tenure of office in Baltimore was
short-lived, however, as Pearl Harbor happened and I found myself
in the U.S. Coast Guard Reserve, complete with bell-bottom trousers
and pea jacket. During boot training, I learned the whys and where-
fores of thirteen buttons, clothes washing and the care and feeding
of cockroaches. After a brief leave, I was sent to water tenders’
school. On completion of this course, I was detailed as an instructor
in basic marine engineering. Fortunately, I could read faster than
my pupils, so managed to keep a page or two ahead of them.

I was discharged in early 1946 and returned to my job in Bala-
more, with the Sturtevant Company, which was now a division of
Westinghouse. In 1950, I resigned to become general sales manager
of Baltimore Aircoil Company, manufacturers of water saving heat

[ 1061 ]

—— L_—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

transfer equipment, After five years with them, I started my own
manufacturers’ agency, selling air-conditioning, refrigeration, heat-
ing and ventilating equipment.

During the last twenty-six years, I have learned that life is chal-
lenging and interesting. Despite the pressure of modern living and
the world tensions, I find time to enjoy my son John, aged fourteen,
who is an excellent horseman, fisherman and will, be, I hope, a good
wing shot. I have two more years to enjoy my 3.4 Jaguar, before
he gets his driver’s license and takes over. The shooting and fishing
are excellent hereabouts and take up much of my leisure time.

My memberships in the ASRE and ASHAE keep me in contact
with architects, engineers and customers. I have served on various
committees and this season am treasurer of the local chapter of
ASRE.

I have enjoyed my life and, be the good Lord willing, hope to
live to see my son established in whatever profession he chooses.

JOSEPH EDWARD PEQUIGNOT

 

avprEss: 1 Elm St., Tidioute, Pa,

BoRN: June 22, 1912, Tidioute, Pa. parents: Edmund QO. Pequignot, Mary
Revard.

PREPARED AT: Tidioute High School, Tidioute, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B, 19343 LL.B. 1937.

NO questionnaire returned.

[ 1062 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PERCY WILLIAM PERDRIAU

 

HOME. ADDRESS: 3118 Athens Rd., Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio.
OFFICE ADDRESS: B. F. Goodrich Co., 500 S. Main St., Akron, Ohio.

BORN: Sept. 4, 1910, East Smithfield, Pa. parents: Leslie Harold Perdriau, Mary
H. Berry.

PREPARED AT: Crosby High School, Waterbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1934.

MARRIED: Isabelle Parker, June 22, 1935, Reading, Mass. cuitprex; Mary Gould,
Dec. 22, 1939; William Harold, March 17, 1942; Sara Ann, Aug. 21, 1933.

OCCUPATION: General manager, Aviation Products Division, B. F. Goodrich
Company, rubber and chemical manufacturers.

OFFICES HELD: President, Silver Lake Local School Board, 1951-57; trustee,
YMCA, Akron, Ohio, 1956-59; moderator, Church in Silver Lake, 195%,
vice-president, Cuyahoga Falls Rotary Club, 1958-59.

MEMBER OF: Alpha Chi Sigma; Rotary Club, Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio, Harvard
and University Clubs, Akron, Ohio; American Chemical Society; Amercan
Institute of Chemical Engineers; Wings Club.

LITTLE did I realize, as I started out for Ohio two wecks after
graduation, that I would spend the next twenty-five years with the
_ B. F. Goodrich Company. Family, friends and fiancée were all in
the “East” and the “West” was a place to visit, but-not to stay. I
soon realized that this area was the heart of industrial U.S.A. — the
best place to start and continue a career in manufacturing.

One year later, I married a real New Englander and brought her
out to Ohio, for a lifetime. Our children arrived in rapid SUCCESSION
after 1939 and we are now blessed with three active teen-ager.
Our oldest, Mary, is a sophomore at Cornell. We surely had to
evaluate all the pros and cons on cocducation before this was
settled (Mother is Smith, ’32 and daughter had been accepred at
Smith).

My advancement from job to job at B. F. Goodrich Company

[ 1063 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

has been most interesting and I have had a lifetime of experiences
within this one company, from laboratory chemist to production
manager, to factory manager, to divisional superintendent, to di-
rector of employee relations, to general manager of a division. Four
years were spent in Los Angeles, first as production manager and
then as factory manager. California has a way of holding on to its
transients and we all’ have a yearning to return, Throughout the
years, my views on labor organizations have changed from text-
book theories to actual practice. The strong, political influences in
these organizations now leave the employer and employee only a
means to an end. I have thoroughly enjoyed my career in manu-
facturing and still enjoy, most of all, getting out into the factory
and helping to make things go.

Our family has kept both my wife and me active in local com-
munity affairs. Both of us have realized the importance that assum-
ing these voluntary jobs will have in training our children to be
active in the affairs of their community in the future.

My only political venture has been to stand for election and re-
election for two successive four-year terms on the local school
board. No one should miss the opportunity to be a public servant.
It certainly is a leveling factor in the size of one’s importance. I
have to keep telling myself that those of us with ability must put up
with criticism or surrender forever to the incompetent.

The Fifteenth and Twentieth Reunions were grand affairs for the
boys. We are now all looking forward to the Twenty-fifth with
great expectations, and to seeing all the other members of the families.

WILLIAM FRANCIS PERRY

 

HOME AppREss: 28 Cochituate Rd., Newton Highlands, Mass,

[ 1064 |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston University College of General Education, Boston, Mass.
BORN: Sept. 9, 1913, Bradford, Mass. parENTS: William Francis Perry, Claudine

Donnelley.
PREPARED AT: Haverhill High School, Haverhill, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1934, A.M., 1946.

MARRIED: Judith Lee Bell, June 30, 1945, Pensacola, Fla.

OccUPATION: Associate professor of English and humanities and assistant dean,
Boston University College of General Education.

OFFICES HELD: Lieutenant commander, USNR (Ret.).

MEMBER OF: Haverhill Whittier Club; Republican Club of Newton, Inter-
national Society for General Semantics.

FOLLOWING graduation I taught in Haverhill while working to-
ward a Master’s degree. I spent the summer of 1937 at Oxford, but
found time to make the pilgrimages to the Harvard House in Strat-
ford (according to the register, Ed Cutter had preceded me by a
few days) and to John Harvard’s church in Southwark.

One spring day in 1942, I dropped in at the Harvard Club, where
Professor E. B. Hill, like Minos in the Inferno, was assigning us
lost souls to our appropriate places in the service. For the next
four years I taught aviation gunnery in the Navy, chiefly at Pensa-
cola, Florida, and Kaneohe Bay, T.H. The duty was not unpleasant,
it seemed like useful work at the time; and it was not beyond my
limited aptitudes. I am grateful to Professor Hill. I recall receiving
an official visit, one day in Pensacola, from Fred Packard w ho

brought along a brief case full of memoranda and directives from

the admiral at Corpus Christi. _
In 1946, I brought a reluctant southern bride up to the cold,

dark North. Since then I have been teaching at Boston University.
For two years one of my most learned colleagues at the College of
General Education (and certainly the most “charming) was Mrs.

Albert Lord.
Since 1949, my wife and I have lived in Newton Highlands. Ovc-

casionally, Bill and Trudy Reed come over for bridge; oceasion. lly
Al Seeler brings over from Waban what is unquestion: ibly the
coldest stethoscope i in Massachusetts.

[ 1065 ]

}

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

CARL ALBERT PESCOSOLIDO

 

HOME ADDRESS: County Road, Ipswich, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Valley Oil Co., 21 White St., Haverhill, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 21, 1911, Worcester, Mass. paRENTS: Bernard Pescosolido, Angelina
Razzini.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

marriep: Evelyn Bulkeley, Oct. 30, 1931, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1957).
CHILDREN: William Bulkeley, Dec. 30, 1932; Barbara, Feb. 8, 1934 (m.
Pattison Esmiol, *55, March 1, 1958); Carl Albert, Jr, Oct. 25, 1936 (m.
Linda Austin, June 21, 1958); Richard John Van Cleaf, Oct. 3, 1938;
Carol E., Oct. 8, 1939.

HARVARD sons: William Bulkeley Pescosolido, 55; Carl Albert Pescosolido, Jr.,
*59; Richard John Van Cleaf Pescosolido, ’61.

occuPaTION: President and director, Valley Oil Company, Pesco Fuel Corpora-
tion, Lawrence Oil Corporation; president and treasurer, Pesco Transport
Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, National Affairs Committee, U.S. Chamber of Com-
merce; director, Haverhill Fuel Associates; trustee, Pesco Realty Trust
Company.

MEMBER OF: Essex County Club; Manchester Bath & Tennis Club (governor);
Harvard Club of North Shore.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles about World Peace and a World Federation.

ADMITTEDLY, I'd rather be writing about somebody else, but
will give this a try.

After graduating, I started in the oil business — the usual process
— large company, bottom rung, etc.

Was fortunate enough to make pretty good progress over the
years while raising five wonderful kids in the process. All the while
was developing the conviction that P'd rather be wrestling with all
these matters on my own behalf—rather than for a large and
nebulous group of stockholders. Was always told during this period

[ 1066 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

by others more experienced that running your own enterprise would
mean much harder work and heavier responsibilities, but that the
rewards would surely be much greater — and thus it seems to be
for me.

Have been living a very busy and very full life over the last
several years but I can see a good possibility of retiring within
the next year. As for hobbies, I enjoy skiing, boating, tennis, and I
love bird shooting — most of my recent traveling has been in pursuit
of North America’s ducks and geese from Hudson Bay to the
Louisiana marshes.

With three sons presently undergraduates at Harvard (William’s
education was interrupted by three years’ service in the U.S. Air
Force), I am focusing a little more of my attention on Cambridge
than I did in earlier years and our Twenty-fifth, this coming June,
has extra appeal for me with my two oldest sons scheduled to get
degrees at that time. :

DEEB EDWARD PETER

 

HOME apprEss: 505 S. Arden Blvd., Los Angeles 5, Calif.

OFFICE appress: Blyth & Co., Inc., 215 W. Sixth St, Los Angeles 14, Calif.
Born: April 28, 1910, Boston, Mass. Parents: Joseph Peter, Anne Khoury,
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. Cu? laude, 1934.

MaRRIED: Margaret Stevens, July 1934, New York, N.Y. (divorced 1945); Jane
Griffith, April 28, 1948, Los Angeles, Calif. cHttpREN: Natalie Anne, Apnl
7, 1935 (am. William H. Gorham, June 15, 1957); Don M, Grithth, Aug. 20,
1943 (stepson). GRANDCHILD: Stephen Haight Gorman, June ti, 195%,
occupaTION: Security salesman, Blyth & Company, Inc.,, investment banking.
OFFICES HELD: Director, 1950-58, treasurer, 1951-53, Vice-president, 1954, presi-
dent, 1955-56, Harvard Club of Southern California; treasurer and di-

[ 1067 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

rector, Children’s Bureau of Los Angeles, since 1952, Bond Club of Los
Angeles, 1954-57; member board of governors, since 1955, vice-president,
1955-57, Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation of Southern California,

MEMBER OF: Beach Club, Santa Monica, Calif.; L’Alliance Frangaise; Town
Hall, Los Angeles.

MY last twenty-five years have been almost half a lifetime. With a
degree in one hand and a marriage certificate in the other, my
post-college learning started off with a bang! One year of teaching
French and coaching football at Pomfret School, Connecticut,
brought to a quick end my early intended vocation, My daughter
was born in April, 1935, and I was out of a job the following June.

The opportunity to learn the bond business in the New York
office of Halsey, Stuart & Company, Inc., was the beginning of my
practical education. Despite the lack of a formal economic back-
ground, the excellent training school of Halsey, Stuart provided
the tools of the profession — securities salesman — in which I am
still engaged. After an arduous two years of training, I was sent to
Boston to pound the pavements and ring doorbeils. It was an uphill
struggle to become established in the bond business and to keep my
family together. The beginning of World War II was a hiatus to
the former and V-J Day terminated the latter — divorced 1945.

Like many others exposed to Southern California (not quite so
smoggy then!), I succumbed — Los Angeles became home in 1946,
with Blyth & Company, Inc., investment dealer, my employer. This
new venture has proven both exciting and rewarding. Working in
a bustling, bursting, seething city, largely composed of new arrivals
like myself, was indeed different from the staid, stable and sedate
Hub — “more than somewhat!”

Family life was made complete when Jane Griffith became my
wife in 1948. I inherited a stepson, Don M. Griffith, who put me
through the throes of Cub Scouts, gave me the thrill of deep-sea
fishing (albacore and yellowtail off Mexico and California), and is
now giving his mother and me the headaches of adolescence. He is
floundering in his second year at Phillips Exeter Academy, New
Hampshire. My daughter graduated from Stephens College, married
William H. Gorham (Princeton ’55), and in June, 1958, gave birth
to my grandson, Stephen Haight Gorham. They are doing the
three-year stint at Randolph Air Force Base, Texas, where Bill is a
lieutenant in the legal department, having received his law degree at

Harvard in 1958. Two German shepherd females complete the
family picture.

{ 1068 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Thanks to Phillips Exeter Academy and Randolph Aw Force
Base, Jane and I drove cross-continene laste fall and enjoved the Class
festivities and the H-Y game. This has been the lonyest trip imate
since the war, and except for the occasional weekend trips to the
mountains, seashore or the desert, the Peters are usually at home play-
ing bridge, watching TV, or just relaxing.

Like many of our classmates, my war years were s spent (>) in the
Navy. But unlike most, 1 was strictly ‘land-based — HEC PL Dece
Island at Boston Harbor, then with the amphibious forces at the
Solomon Islands in the South Pacific, and finally at Terminal fy.
Jand, California, in charge of a training school for Advance Base
Harbor Defense Units. I am still in the Naval Reserve — rank of
commander — working toward completion of twenty year sates.
factory service and retirement. I am grateful to Uncle Sam for
exploding my thirty-two-year perimeter of New England and New
York City!

My political activities, once quite active, have now simmered to cv-
ercising my prerogative at the polls, as a staunch (though somew hat
bent by the late California and national results) Republican. After
the war, the Harvard Club of Southern California became a source
for new friends and a meeting-place for old ones. [have been active
in the Program for Harvard College, serving as areca chairman for
the Los Angeles area.

The Class pre-game activities last November whetted the appetite
for the main course at the Reunion this June. We hope to be there"

STEPHEN PETERS

 

‘
foo /
~
: x
\
Se re |

HOME AppRESS: 2500 Valley Drive, Alexandria, Va.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of State, Washingran 24. IC.

[ 1049 ]

_

‘ HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

porn: March 15, 1906, Treska, Albania. parents: Petro Jani Treska, Angelina
Kristo.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln Preparatory School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934; ED.M., 1936.

marriep: Martha Jean Lawrence, Oct. 20, 1945, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Lawrence Stephen, Sept. 16, 1946; Stephanie Jean, July 1, 1949.

OccUPATION: Foreign service officer; secretary and consul in Diplomatic Service
of United States.

IT’S hard to realize that twenty-five years have already passed since
President Conant delivered his first baccalaureate to us that bright
June day in 1934. Things have moved fast for me, because I have kept
so busy moving around the world. Among the highlights are three
years of teaching (1936-39) at a normal school in Albania, intro-
ducing American educational methods and ideals into that country’s
public system — an extremely rich and morally rewarding experi-
ence. The three years in the U.S. Army (1942-45), spent chiefly
in North Africa, Egypt, Italy and the Balkans, performing cloak-
and-dagger chores for O.S.S., were highly challenging and, at times,
breath-taking.

In 1942 in Chicago, I met my future wife, Martha Jean Lawrence
of Norris, South Carolina, we were married in the Yard Chapel
immediately after I returned from overseas. Married life has been
wonderful in all respects. And our two children — future fodder
for Harvard and Radcliffe, I hope—are just out of this world.
Lawrence’s interests, aside from baseball and Roy Sievers, are on
things that grow and the elements that make them grow. He claims
that he will do something about the weather when he is good and
ready. Stephanie, with a personality that is difficult to match, is
inclined to social rather than intellectual pursuits.

My work in the Department of State since 1945 has been devoted
chiefly to analyzing developments in the Communist world. From
1943 to 1945, it was my unpleasant experience to be an eyewitness to
the Soviet Empire’s imposing itself by brute force on the East
European countries, and to observe in subsequent years the destruc-
tion of the traditional political, economic and social system of those
countries by Stalin’s dictate. However, I can’t think of any other
task that could be more engrossing and intellectually satisfying than
the one I have performed in the past fifteen years,

[ 1070 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SEYMOUR MARCUS PEYSER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 60 W. Clinton Ave., Irvington-on-Hudson, N.Y.

OFFIce AppRESS: United Artists Corp., 729 Seventh Ave, New York 19. N.Y.

BORN: Dec. 29, 1914, New York, N.Y. parents: Michael Peyser, Bertha Karz.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., cum Lrude, 1934; U1. (Columbia
Univ.), 1937.

MARRIED: Minna Kayden Post, Feb. 27, 1949, Harrison, N.Y. cutpaes; Andrea,
May 8, 1950; Jill, March 25, 1952; Michael, Dec. 8, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, general counsel, director, United Artsts Cor-
poration, major motion picture distributing company; partner in law finn,
Phillips, Nizer, Benjamin, Krim & Ballon, 1301 Broadway, New York
36, N.Y.

OFFICES HELD: General counsel, National Screen Service Corporation, 1944-48,
secretary and director, J. Arthur Rank Organization, Inc. since tus,
chairman, Taxation Subcommittee of Copyright Committee, Association
of the Bar of the City of New York; chairman, Suburban Research Cam.
mittee.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Association of the Bar of the Cay
of New York; American: Civil Liberties Union.

THE first seven years after graduation seem now to have run ina
straight line: learning at law school, for the first time, how to work,
and occasionally even to enjoy the process; getting my first hicks
in the study of the law from my work on the Law > Review; joining
a small law firm and learning how to be a lawyer from IY Seniors
(who are still my friends and partners); and becoming, by the end
of 1941, something of a specialist in the legal problems of the enter-
tainment industry.

By January, 1942, I was scrubbing latrines at Fort Elanulton. Ne
more straight lines!’ There followed four bizarre army veary which
included service as a drill corporal, a plain-clothes ins estivator, an

[1071 ]

— |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

O.C.S, candidate, a J.A.G. officer, an instructor at the J.A.G. School,
a manpower “troubleshooter” for the Undersecretary of War, and,
finally, a member of Justice Jackson’s staff at the Nuremberg trials.
After the war, life seemed to take up where it had left off —
almost as if I had returned from a long lunch hour. But soon there
was a difference — and vive la différence! Early in 1949, I married
a beautiful and dynamic girl from California, who (thank Heaven!)
had no prior connection with motion pictures. We proceeded with
dispatch and efficiency, for which my wife must take almost full
credit, to acquire a huge, one-hundred-year-old “white elephant”
of a house overlooking the Hudson — and three wonderful children.
All the traditional symptoms of the suburbia syndrome have failed
to make us regret the house, and as for the children—-I am the
stereotype of the proud and doting parent. Our kids, who are prob-
ably much younger than those of most of my ‘classmates, help to
confirm my basic feeling that there must be some mistake here. It
can’t be twenty-five years!

My work? I am still a member of the same law firm I joined in
1947, but on a permanently detached basis. I run the Legal Depart-
ment of a motion picture distributing company with offices through-
out the world and with subsidiaries in television and music — very
much a full-time job. I spend most of my work-time in the areas

_ of contract, corporation, copyright and security law and try to
translate into approximate legal terms the rights and obligations of
a bunch of volatile and frequently talented people. It is sometimes
challenging, sometimes fun and, thus far, compensatory.

My point of view? I believe in people — in individual people.
I have a firm confidence in their good will, their strength, their
elasticity and their dignity. Yet, I am terrified that two billion of
them can, in my lifetime, come so close to complacent self-destruc-
tion. And my faith is often shaken by my own countrymen who
seem so ready to trade their positive values as individuals for a
membership card in the “lodge.” I should have hoped that in this
quarter-century, words like “intellectual,” “political,” “progressive,”
“controversial” and “non-conformist” might have become somewhat
respectable. But I haven’t given up hope, and perhaps, before the
Thirty-fifth Report, I shall myself be able to do some job in a
public or international sphere. Perhaps, despite the obvious frustra-_
tions, I may be able to justify my own belief that global suicide is not
inevitable and that men can work rationally to make better lives for
themselves and for other men.

[ 1072 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALBERT RICHARD PHILLIPS

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 119 High St., Greenfield, Mass.
BORN: June 24, 1912, Medford, Mass. parents: George Phillips, Grace Vickery.
PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass. .
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; BD. (Andover Newton Theo-
logical Seminary), 1937.
MARRIED: Betty Lillian Poutot, Sept. 27, 1941, Philadelphia, Pa. cHILDREN:
Richard Austin, June ro, 1943; Renée Susan, Oct. 28, 1946; Nancy Joan,
Feb. 16, 1951; Craig Andrew, July 10, 1953.

occuPATION: Minister; member of national staff of American Baptist Convention.

OFFICES HELD: President, Baptist Ministers Conference of New York and
Vicinity, 1945; member board of directors, Massachusetts Baptist Ministers
Conference, 1949-57; member board of trustees, Andover Newton Theo-
logical School, since 1955; chaplain, Fire Department and Town Meeting
Member, Natick, Massachusetts.

PUBLICATIONS: “Christ or Expediency,” Christian Century Pulpit, Chicago, 1940.

WONDERS never cease. This is one thing I can confidently declare
at this point in our common experience. I was the son of an ordi-
nary working-man who was an immigrant from Ireland (as was my
mother). I had no apparent right to expect that I could ever attend
college anywhere, let alone Harvard. Yet Harvard it was, and a
series of wonders began. As I never dreamed of attending Harvard,
so I had no notion at all of entering the ministry; but the call to that
came to me very vividly in a deep spiritual experience, shortly after
our graduation. That meant three years of seminary at Andover
Newton Theological School, followed by these years in the ministry.

While serving in Vermont (1937-41) and going to see “my girl”
in Philadelphia, I remember that as the train was going down through
upper New York City I had the thought that that was one areca in
which I never wanted to serve. Six months later I was in Brooklyn

[ 1073 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

— accompanied by my bride! After service there and in the Bronx
(1941-47), I was called to the pastorate of the First Baptist Church
in Natick, Massachusetts, thus returning to home territory, which
[ had not been expecting would happen. There we had ten fine years,
upon which I look back, at times, with a kind of nostalgia.

Now has come another of the completely unexpected changes that
seem, in retrospect, to mark a pattern in my life. I thought I was
set for life in the pastorate, but in the fall of 1957, I was faced with
an invitation to join the national staff of my denomination, the
American Baptist Convention. At first I was inclined to turn it
down, but after a deep struggle I realized that this new task was
one I must accept. It may sound strange to some of you, but I have
always believed in and depended on spiritual leading in my life.

So here I am, doing something I never dreamed of doing. I am
known in our Baptist jargon as a field counsellor, serving in New
England, with Vermont and New Hampshire as my special area of
responsibility, with some assistance being given in western Massa-
chusetts, There are occasional junkets to other parts of the country.
My job is concerned with the missionary giving of our churches
in support of our Baptist world-wide and nation-wide program. In
addition, I shall also be helping the churches in our latest major
project which aims to raise $7,500,000 for Christian higher educa-
tion, This fund will be used to strengthen our colleges, seminaries,
student work and scholarship fund. Naturally, I feel real sympathy
for Harvard’s current fund Program — which, by the way, has re-
newed my feeling of privilege in having attended Harvard.

Having to be away from home quite a bit now is giving me a new
view of my family and the meaning of the children, It has occurred
to me that we have them at home such a short time, really. At the
beginning of my last pastorate, our oldest was just a little four-year-
old. Now he's a big fifteen-year-old and taller than I — another
new stage in my life, which includes watching him give and take
on the football field, The youngest is five, which means that this
fall, for the first time, we sent all four kids off to school.

As I think of them and their future, I am disturbed by the same
problem with which many of us were obsessed in the late thirties —
the threat of war. None of us has any easy answer for this, but
at least I can feel some measure of satisfaction out of knowing that
my life is fully engaged in something which, I am convinced, does
have the only real answer to offer, not only to the threat of war,
but also to other messes we read so much about in the papers; like

[ 1074 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

low-grade politics, labor racketeerism, the denial of basic rights
because a man’s skin happens to be black, ete.

Actually, I feel quite hopeful that we are on our way toward
working these things out, and I do hope that privileged men — of
which group every Harvard man is one — will let themselves be
used in the service of man’s good and not waste their lives, talents
and resources on the building of a little world whose center is self.
Let this not be thought of as “preaching,” but the sharing of a con-
viction. I believe it is God’s world we live in, and His purpose for
it will not be prevented from being, finally, realized; yet 1 am also
sure that The Creator needs men with whom to work out Elis
plans, men who will allow the best that’s in them to be used for
bringing into reality the highest vision they can see.

This is symbolized for me in an oil painting I did this past summer
(1958). This, too, is another of those things I never dreamed of
doing or being able to do. It came out of the “creative arts” sec-
tion of a Christian camp experience. How it was done is too long
to relate here. None of us knew what we would be painting, but
starting with a sense of frustration I finally found what I was to
paint; and it turned out to be a painting of Mary, bowed in resigna-
tion, when she finally yielded to fulfilling God’s purpose for her
life, which was that she be the Mother of the Christ. In yielding to
the experience with which she was challenged, she found and ful-
filled the purpose of her life. So may we all.

ASA EMORY PHILLIPS, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 90 Sargent Rd., Brookline 46, Mass,
OFFIcE apprEss: Phillips, Morse, Altman & Galvin, 53 Srate St. Boston 9, Mans,

[ 1075 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

porn: Dec. 7, 1911, Washington, D.C. parents: Asa Emory Phillips, Virginia
Nalle Boyd.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 64072 laude, 1934; LL.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Anne Wight, Nov. 18, 1956, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: Asa Emory,
3d, Aug. 29, 1957; Anne Crocker, Sept. 15, 1958.

occupation: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: National director, Navy League of the United States, since 1957;
judge advocate, 1956-57, president, since 1957, Boston Council of the Navy
League of the United States; deputy treasurer, member of the council,
since 1956, delegate to the national convention, 1955-56, Society of Colonial
Wars in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, director, secretary and
treasurer, Friends of Chamber Music, Inc., since 1954; founder and presi-
dent, Trustees of the Charles Francis Adams Memorial Trophy, since
1955; commodore, Scituate Yacht Club, 1952-58; New England chairman,
Society of the Lees of Virginia, since 1954; New England chairman, Naval
Sea Cadet Corps, since 1957; president, Trustees of the Sidwell Memorial
Scholarship at the Friends School, since 1942; moderator, American Bar
Association Committee on Round Table Broadcasts, 1947-51; member,
committee on Substantive Law, Boston Bar Association, since 1957; vice-
chairman, Lawyer’s Division, Greater Boston Community Fund, 1948-50;
member, Harvard Alumni Advisory Committee on Debating, since 1954;
chairman, Massachusetts Heart Association, Brookline, since 1958.

MEMBER OF: Union Club; The Country Club; Eastern Yacht Club; Cohasset
Yacht Club; Badminton and Tennis Club; Society of Colonial Wars, Roger
Williams Family Association; New York Yacht Club, Harvard Clubs of
Boston and New York; Metropolitan Club, Washington, D.C.,; Chevy Chase
Club, Washington, D.C.; The Society of the Cincinnati, Washington, D.C.

AFTER college, stimulated by the confidence the Class showed in
me by electing me as Class Orator at Commencement, I fulfilled my
early ambitions to become a lawyer, attending Harvard Law School.
While there, I belonged to Lincoln’s Inn, Kent, and Pow Wow law
clubs and had the thrill of being a finalist in the Ames Competition.
Following graduation, came general practice of law in one of the
large Boston firms for a few years and then World War II.

During the war, I served very briefly as an officer in the Navy
and then was sent to Washington, D.C., where I first worked on
national enforcement of the decisions of the War Production Board
and, later, on the drafting of the United Nations Charter. I had
the rare pleasure of serving for two years in the office of John
Lord O'Brian, General Counsel of the War Production Board, and
became deputy head attorney for the Compliance Division, which
enforced the Board’s decisions on the allocation of all strategic ma-

terials under the vast powers delegated to it by the President under
the Second War Powers Act,

[ 1076 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In the later years of the war, Secretary of State Stettinius honored
me by asking me to transfer to the Department of State as the only
attorney on his personal staff and Assistant to the Secretary. My
job there included briefing him each morning on all important of
classified communications coming to the Secretary from foreign
governments, from our own diplomatic service, from our own
government, and from within our own country. My main task,
however, was to help him in carrying out the Dumbarton Oaks
Proposals for the formation of an international organization and
translating them into the effective and legal reality of the United
Nations.

Secretary Byrnes asked me to stay on with him after Mr. Srettinius’
resignation, and I had the pleasure of helping him with the postwar
problems upon which he worked.. One task involved my admin-
istration of three million dollars of the Personal and Confidential
Funds of the President.

My appointment to the Department of State read, “To perform
special duties under the direction of the Secretary and the Legal
Adviser in connection with the formulation and carrying out “of
matters of policy of great importance as affecting the international
relations of the United States.” It was signed by Green EH. Hack-
worth, who for many years had been legal adviser to the Department
and who became the first and single representative of the United
States in the new World Court.

Like most of us, after the war I returned to my old job, com-
pleting fourteen years of service in one of the largest law firms in
Boston and becoming a partner for the last four. The expericnce
gained there has been of invaluable help to me ever since.

In 1952, I had the temerity to venture out into the highly com-
petitive field of general practice of the law on my own and started
a new law firm. I am happy to report the venture has been a suc-
cess, We are handling every kind of legal problem both in court
and out and are growing. We now have eight lawyers in the firm,
of which I am the senior partner. In addition to working in Massa-
chusetts, I also practise law in Washington, D.C, and in Maine,

There has been only one hitch in my practice and that is the
nicest thing that has happened to me since graduation. In 1954, 1
became hitched to one of my clients. I courted her on the ski
slopes of New Hampshire and the waters of Blue Phill Bav, where
for many years I have raced and cruised with the New York and
Eastern Yacht Clubs in my schooner, drbella, She is as keen about

[ 1077 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

both as I, and we have grown so fond of the Maine coast that we
have bought an island “Down East” where we hope to build a cabin
some day. Incidentally, my wife is a doctor who teaches surgery
at the Harvard Medical School. Although late starters in matri-
mony, we couldn’t be happier. We have had two children in two
years and they are, of course, the finest youngsters in the world.
Anne Crocker, the littlest and our first girl, may well be the youngest
Class baby. She was born September 15, 1958.

After a quarter of a century, I look back on our years at Harvard
with a growing and deepening affection for it. The College ex-
ercised a refining impact on our lives which gave us not only re-
markable educational advantages to aid us in our chosen careers,
but a lasting bond of fellowship through the common experience of
the four years of undergraduate life.

At Commencement, ] prophesied World War II. Could I indulge
in another prophecy and predict peace for the world and that our
generation will finish its course in a steady breeze with calm waters?
In the midst of the unbelievable developments of science, great
good and happiness are becoming and will increasingly become
realities for humanity in our lifetime. We are learning to examine,
and even publicly to criticize and 1 improve, the human motivations
which must be harnessed to ensure security for all of us; the task
is great, but it is being done.

ROBERT CRANFORD PHILLIPS

 

HOME apprEss: 89 W. Shore Drive, Marblehead, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: American Airlines, Inc., Logan Airport, East Boston, Mass.

porn: Oct. 5, 1912, Irvington, N.Y. parents: John Frank Phillips, Harriett
Hammond Hoyt.

PREPARED AT: Tabor Academy, Marion, Mass.

[ 1078 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. 1934.

marrieD: Margaret Joan Mathers, Jan. 25, togt, Newport, Ri cit pass
Robert Cranford, Jr. Jan. 13, 1943; Mark Hloward, Mav ra. toa¢ (died
Jan. 2, 1946); Nancy Mathers, Oct. 22, 1947.

occuPATION: Airline pilot.

MEMBER OF: Corinthian Yacht Club, Marblehcad, Mass.

AFTER graduation, it developed that my intention of entering the
aviation industry via postgraduate engineering training must be
abandoned: no funds available for further education. “Thus, atter a
year’s delay, occupied with bank clerking, I became an av bation
trainee in the Naval Reserve in the summer of 1935. As one exper-
ence leads to the next opportunity, I have been actively engaved in
flying ever since.

The four-year tour of active duty included fourtcen months’
training at Pensacola, two years in the old Suratogs’s torpedo
squadron, and one year at the Naval Torpedo Station, New port,
Rhode Island. In 1940 I joined American Airlines as a co-pilot,

August of 1941 brought orders to active duty as an “nstrument-
flying instructor at Corpus Christi. The followi ing spring Twas
transferred to the embryo Naval Air Transport ‘Service in Air
Transport Squadron One at Norfolk. In the amvoeba-like growth
of NATS, detachments were established and later dev cloped inte
new squadrons, one of the earliest of these being VR-7 at Miami,
Florida, in which I served out the remainder of the war as pilot.
instructor, flight officer and, finally, operations officer.

VR-7’s job was two-fold: providing scheduled air transportation
to all the naval establishments in the Caribbean area and down the
east coast of South America, whence return flights carried a steady
dribble of scarce raw rubber and quartz cry stals too precious te risk
at sea in large quantities; and training pilots for the expandins
NATS operation in the Pacific.

Since the war, service with American Airlines has involycd pare
ticipation in expansion and great improvement of commercul air
transportation. I derive satisfaction from this with the thoughe that
our great transportation systems contribute significantiy to our
industrial and cultural growth and to our strength as a nanon, |
devote considerable spare time toward efforts to mmprove safery and
eficiency through the medium of the Air Line Pilot’ Assocation,

Our family life was fraught with much moving about Ciowenry >
one residences in our first five years) until we formed a barnacle-
like attachment to Marblehead, dating from r94y.

[ 1079 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Hobbies: Boat-building,; model boat building; and (recently)
painting.

Viewed with alarm: Overspending (U.S., Commonwealth of
Massachusetts, even Phillipses if we’re not careful); general abandon-
ment of old-fashioned virtues of financial soundness and self-reliance;
deterioration of the dollar; socialism, creeping or rampant.

Viewed with hope: Steady improvement of public schools (I
mean level of instruction, not the wildly expensive buildings); im-
provement of colleges (same stipulation); chances that the future
will bring a better-informed, better-oriented, more tolerant people,
broader ownership of corporate stocks; growth of churches, Cran-
nie Phillips, Nancy Phillips.

Greeted warmly hereby: Members of our Class and their families!

DWIGHT LINDSAY PIERCE

 

HOME apprEss: 16 Carron Lane, Oxford, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: E. P. Dubois Insurance Agency, 390 Main St., Worcester,
Mass.

BORN: July 14, 1912, Worcester, Mass. PaRENTS: Dwight Samuel Pierce, Marcia
Virginia Tillson.

PREPARED AT: New Hampton Preparatory School, New Hampton, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1934(35).

MarRRIED: Marie Anne E, Dubois, Jan. 5, 1933, Hallowell, Maine. cHILDREN:
Marilyn A., April 29, 1935; Suzanne E., Nov. 2, 1941; Dwight L., Jr.
June 27, 1943; Rosemarie E., Aug. 30, 1946.

occupaTION: Insurance agent and broker; partner, E. P. Dubois Insurance
Agency.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Oxford Recreation Commission, since 1957, Oxford
School Needs Investigating Committee, since 1955, member, Oxford Plan-
ning Board, since 1956, Oxford Democratic Town Committee, since 1957;
past president and director, Oxford Little League Baseball,

{ 1080 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
MEMBER OF: Veterans of Foreign Wars, Post 479; American Legion, Post 48.

MY first venture into the business world was in the fichd of in-
vestment banking. Employed by Foster & Company, New York
City, my first duties were of a statistical nature, progressing to the
more complicated and involved studies of security valuations and
corporate financing. In 1940, Foster & Company merged with
Spencer Trask & Company, and I remained in that organization as a
securities salesman until 1942, covering financial institutions in New

York City and Long Island.
In 1942, I was inducted into the armed forces and served with

the 80th Infantry Division in the European theatre of operations, |
managed to escape from that horrible experience with five battle
stars, the Purple Heart with cluster, Presidential Unit citation and a
few other baubles.

I returned to Massachusetts after the war ended and again be-
came involved in the investment banking business. However.
changes in institutional buying habits plus a new and scattered terri-
tory made for a brief sojourn. I joined the E. P. Dubois Insurance
Agency in 1947. I have continued in the general insurance field and
am now a partner in the aforementioned agency.

JOHN GREELEY PIERCE

ET AREER

    

HOME ADDRESS: 280 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: g Park St., Boston, Mass.
BORN: Nov. 27, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Wallace Lincola Preree, Viars

Agatha Day.
PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE! A.B, 1934(35).

[ 1081 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

marrieD: Barbara Graham, April 15, 1947, Roslyn, Long Island, N.Y. cHiLpren:
Mary Agatha, July 18, 1954; John Greeley, Jr., Sept. 19,1955.
occupation: Trustee.

SINCE the last Report I have had very good luck, on one hand: two
children — and rather bad luck, on the other hand: a frustrating
illness, chronic pulmonary emphysema, which almost completely
incapacitates me for long periods, ‘The compensation that the illness
has given me is that my wife taught me the fun of studying the
history of art, a field in which I was completely ignorant before
this time. And I have been cataloguing her collection of paintings
which consists mainly of the works of the American impressionist,
Maurice B. Prendergast.

What little time that I have left I devote to organizations con-
nected with research concerning chronic pulmonary emphysema.
Of course, my real joy is the fun of watching my children work

in their garden next to their playhouse in a patch of woods near
the Blue Hills in Milton.

WALLACE LINCOLN PIERCE

SORE PG MPEEAR

é
t
'

  

HOME appreEss: 101 Chestnut Hill Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: S. S. Pierce Co., 133 Brookline Ave., Boston 17, Mass.

BORN: March 4, 1912, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Walworth Pierce, ’99, Marie Burr
Harmon.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934.

Marriep: Mary Markle Bannard, Feb. 22, 1936, Irvington-on-Hudson, N.Y.
CHILDREN: Mary Markle, April 16, 1938; Patricia Stillman, March 11, 1940.

occupation: President, S$. S. Pierce Company, wholesalers and retailers, im-
porters, exporters and jobbers, fine foods, wines and spirits, perfumery and
drugs, tobacco.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, board of directors, Robert Breck Brigham Hos-

[ 1082 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pital; trustee, Massachusetts Memorial Hospitals, Sutfolk-Franklay Navies
Bank, director, S. S. Pierce Company, New England Trust Company, thos.
pital Purchasing Agency, National American Wholesale Grocers New.
ciation, Boston Arts Festival, Inc., member of corporation, Denison bors,
Children’s Aid Society (all in Boston); member, house committee, Phe
Country Club (Brookline); member, board of governor, chairman of
house committee, election committee, Boston Madison Square Garden
Club; member, board of governors, house committee, Harvard Club of

Boston.

MEMBER OF: American Management Association, The Country Club, Union
Club; Harvard Club; Eastern Yacht Club; Boston Madison Square Crar-
den Club; Wardroom Club (U.S. Naval Reserve, Buston).

IN the fall of 1934, after a wonderfully enjoyable summer ot
traveling first on the North Cape cruise (where I met my bride to
be) and then through the wine districts of France, I went to work
for the S. S. Pierce Company (the family business) as a stock bey
at $16 per week and was grossly overpaid. I received about two
years of intensive training, spending some time in each department
of all divisions of the company — all of which I found most inter-
esting and enjoyable. I had become a buyer and eventually an as-
sistant to the president (my Dad), with a wide varicty of duties,
when in December, 1941, the holocaust at Pearl Efarbor was the cue
for Pierce to see what he could do about joining the Navy.

I was finally accepted in June, 1942, after a six monthy’ battle
with Navy doctors and the procurement of an eve waiver (wo pazes
long, duly referenced, forwarded, signed and countersigned be abe
rection in true Navy fashion (8 copies, throw away -), After a
year at NYBOS (Navy Yard Boston, to you civilians) [went over-
seas with an Advance Base Unit to the English Channel Coast to
become part of the Amphibious Command preparing for the a
vasion. Eventually, I went to LeHavre and then back and fore)
across the Channel carrying supplies (ships stores and clothevs,
mostly on LCT’s. By now you have guessed that Poway no bere.
just an ordinary supply officer. On shore [managed to keep clear
of V1’s and V2’s, but came closest to my Maker on one occasion
while crossing the Channel in an LCT with a cargo of gro cases
of beer, An “E” Boat, by way of friendly gesture, sprayed us with
machine-gun bullets. Fortunately, not even a bottle of beer was
broken, but what a narrow escape from having had one's grand
children broadcast, “Grandpa was killed running beer acre. eo
English Channel!”

Two years of this duty and thence back to the Statue of Pesce

[ 1083 ]

ne

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

(being in the meantime awarded the Navy Commendation Ribbon.
The citation read, “For a job well done in face of etc., etc.,” but
deep down I suspect the real reason was because I doled peanuts,
candy and cigarettes to the right admiral). Finally said goodbye to
the Navy in September ’45 as a “leftenant commander” and returned
to my first love (that is, after the wife and kids) —the grocery
business. In due course I was made a vice-president of our company
(wonderful the way you can acquire a title in these family busi-
nesses). In December, 1954, I became the president and found life
was not to be as much fun, since I could no longer pass the im-
portant decisions along to somebody else. However, this is more
than compensated for by the joys of working through thick and
thin with my colleagues (I am blessed with several extremely capa-
ble and loyal ones) plus the challenge of keeping the 128-year-old
firm on the up and up and the leader in its field.
My charity connections, as well as my other business interests,
are listed above so I will just add that I have served a three-year
term on the vestry of my local Episcopalian church and hope to do
so again some time (if they’ll have me) and perhaps try to do some-
thing a little useful on a wider scope for the Episcopal Church as
a whole. Politically speaking, I am ashamed to admit that I have
done nothing by way of participation in “civic duties” at any level
—my excuse being that my particular business requires that I be
as neutral as a glass of spring water.
Recreationwise, my love of sailing and the sea comes first, with
a little fishing thrown in (salt water preferred). Then comes golf
at which I am unbelievably punk after thirty years of hacking, but
fortunately I thoroughly enjoy the exercise and the scenery. Also
I call myself a duck shooter. Most of all, I am fortunate in having
a great many friends, inside and outside business, and I am one of
those who have come to realize the value and need of friendship.
All in all Pm a happy guy who is grateful for many blessings,
including what little (little is the right word) I have been able to
accomplish these past twenty-five years.

[ 1084 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MITCHELL PIERSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 367 Orchard St., Rochester, N.Y.

BORN: June 12, 1910, Rochester, N.Y. parents: Fredrick T. Pierson, Dutta
Mitchell.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.
OCCUPATION: Farming.

NO questionnaire returned.

WILLIAM THOMAS PIPER, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 507 W. Main St., Lock Haven, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Piper Aircraft Corp., Lock Haven, Pa.

BORN: Sept. 8, 1911, Sharpsburg, Pa. Parents: William Thomas Piper. ‘os,
Marie T. Van de Water.

PREPARED aT: Bradford High School, Bradford, Pa. Mercersburg Academy,
Mercersburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DBGREE: A.B 1934.
MarRRIED: Margaret Ellen Bush, Jan. 2, 1940, Lock Hlaven, Pa.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Thomas Francis Piper, 36; Howard Piper, "39.

[ 1085 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

occuPATION: Executive vice-president and director, Piper Aircraft Corporation,
manufacturer of personal aircraft.

OFFICES HELD: Director, since 1940, vice-president, since 1955, First National
Bank, Lock Haven, Pa.

IT seems like only a few years ago (3014 to be exact) when my father
took the family to Cambridge for his Twenty-fifth Reunion, |
remember that the celebrating classmates were all well along in years
—rather old looking men — and it comes as a shock to realize that
I must now be in that same decrepit condition. Something about
that wonderful occasion must have impressed us deeply as all five
children spent their college years in Cambridge and vicinity: my
two sisters at Radcliffe and Wellesley; my brothers following me
in 1936 and 1939. And, with a little indulgence on the part of the
Admittance Office, there may be Pipers at Harvard for years to
come, As I have no children, it will be up to the ten nephews, one
of whom has already been graduated in 1958 and another only re-
cently enrolled in the Class of 1962.

My twenty-five years have been closely associated with the per-
sonal plane industry, which is currently experiencing the best year
in its relatively short history. In the late ’20s, my father became asso-
ciated in a minor way with the Taylor Brothers Aircraft Company,
a small concern that was moved to our home town of Bradford,
Pennsylvania, by the Chamber of Commerce. As business went from
bad to worse, the stockholders dropped out one by one until my
father was the only backer with faith left in the future of the in- -
dustry and the company. It was clearly a case of calling it quits or
continuing to back it financially alone, which, fortunately, he con-
tinued to do to the best of his ability and for the ultimate welfare
of his three sons. Sales were very slow in the early ’30s, but the
small plant provided my brothers and me with summer occupations
and by 1934 business had reached a point where a few factory sales
representatives seemed in order. Consequently, I had a job waiting
after graduation and although the pay ($15.00 a week) was not
stupendous, I did have an airplane for traveling and enough expense
money to cover hotel rooms, food, gasoline and oil. For two years
I covered most of the western states, becoming thoroughly ac-
quainted with the country and many fine people who are today still
active in aviation. By 1937, the small aircraft industry had de-
veloped definite signs of prosperity. The company changed its
name to the Piper Aircraft Corporation, was incorporated in the
state of Pennsylvania, and issued a small amount of preferred stock.

[ 1086 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Shortly afterwards, the government began sponsoring civilian train-
ing programs, particularly in colleges, and the demand for leche
planes increased almost overnight.

By this time, I was working in the office, where I spent all the
war years as secretary, assistant treasurer and a director of the
company. Predictions for personal aircraft ownership after the war
reached astronomical heights, but private individuals were far from
ready to have a plane in every garage, and a tremendous surplus
of government planes together with more than 30,000 new airplanes
manufactured in 1946 put most of the small aircraft concerns inte
bankruptcy. We were one of the few able to survive the crash,
which reduced our employment to a skeleton crew and demoted
me to a road job again for another two years. By 1950, new air-
planes were being developed with greatly increased power, speed
and comfort, and an entirely new market was unfolding in the sale
of airplanes to companies for business purposes. Small twin-engine
executive planes, with their tremendous safety and utility features,
appealed particularly to the corporations and were largely responsible
for putting the commercial industry on a very solid footing. To-
day, Piper is one of the three major personal, or as we term it,
general, aviation manufacturers in an industry that has an unlimited
future.

This was not intended to be a brief synopsis of the small airplane
and Piper Aircraft Corporation history, but was the only manner in
which I could describe my activities over the past quarter of a
century. As in the automobile history, new companies will certainty
enter the field and some of the present-day manufacturers may, for
any one of a dozen reasons, fail to compete successfully in the
years to come. The Piper Aircraft Corporation could be one of
these. Regardless of what the future holds, the past twenty-five
years have been very interesting and the small Piper company has
definitely been very influential. in shaping the Course of personal
aviation history. It is rapidly approaching its 50,o00th airpline —
more than any other civilian company in the world.

Naturally, with an airplane at my disposal (the company iv its
own best customer), travel around the United States is greatly
simplified and there are very few places within the continental Linits
that I have not visited. In 1955, my youngest brother and [thew one
of the small twin-engine Apaches to Pretori la, South Africa, by way
of the Virgin Islands, South America and across the South Athinte
to Monrovia. This was an extremely Interesting trip, but nor etre

[ 1087 ]

al

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

repeated unless one is in the business of ferrying aircraft. For the
most part, I am content to fly around the United States Visiting
places and friends. Florida is a must in the winter and occasionally
for a few days at odd times throughout the year. Lock Haven is
only a short flight from several metropolitan areas where we spend
several weekends each year, enough time in the large cities for
country people. Numerous vacation spots are installing landing
strips, catering to air traffic, and wherever we go, the golf clubs
usually go along, occasionally fishing rods, and almost certainly a
camera or two.

I have no interest in Service Clubs or local fraternal organizations.
There are not sufficient hours in the day to work, golf, trout fish,
or (in the winter) bowl, and I have no desire to tie myself down
to definite days and hours for lunches, meetings, etc. In a small
town like Lock Haven, one cannot help but be intimately associated

~ with various fund campaigns for the Community Chest, YMCA,
hospital and other similar organizations. Anyone connected with
a major industry in a small town is naturally in close contact with
the Chamber of Commerce and other civic organizations. These
are more than enough.

I am interested in sports and would like to see more Harvard
football games. However, we live only thirty-five miles from Penn
State and buy season tickets to its home games. I wouldn’t want to
enter into a debate on the merits of de-emphasis in college football.
It may be for the best interest of all concerned, but personally I
like to watch good football and if I lived in a large city would take
in all the professional games. I don’t relish the idea of flying all the
way to Cambridge to see Buffalo beat Harvard 6-2 any more, I
am sure, than the students in Ithaca appreciated the 55-o drubbing
that Syracuse handed Cornell the week after Cornell beat Harvard
21-14.

I would like to attend more Harvard (and in particular Class of
1934) dinners and other social functions, to keep in closer touch
with classmates, but living in the central part of Pennsylvania is in-
convenient, and I have seen very little of even my roommates, ex-
cept every five years. Cort Hubbard lives in relatively nearby Phila-
delphia and it has been four years since we have done more than
talk over the telephone. While Jim Potter was stationed in Wash-
ington and Norfolk, I managed to see him occasionally, It grieves
me to admit that he is a better golfer, but I must say that he has
always been a genial host and has let me win consistently, a fact

[ 1088 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

which grieves me sorely. We all miss John Curtis very much.
Through his tragic accident, the Class lost one of its finest members
and one who would today be an active and tireless worker on its

behalf.
I hope that my contacts with members of the Class will be far

more numerous in the next twenty-five years and to this end I expect
to put forth much more effort than in the past. At the same time,
I would thoroughly enjoy showing our factory operation to any
classmate who finds himself traveling in this part of the state,
whether he is just passing through, interested in buying, or even
selling. To the best of my knowledge, only Dick Stites and Archie
Brown have been in Lock Haven in recent years and they were here
primarily for business reasons. I am looking forward to next June
and our Twenty-fifth with a great deal of enthusiasm.

o

CHARLES MARTIN PLEUTHNER

 

HOME apprREss: 124 Cisney Ave., Floral Park, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Socony Mobil Oil Co., Inc., 150 E. 42d St, New York 19, N.Y.

BORN: May 24, 1912, Buffalo, N.Y. parents: Charles Pleuthner, Katherine Bick.

PREPARED AT: Bennett High School, Buffalo, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., cut laude, 1934.

MarriED: Helen Dorothy Krueger, Nov. 30, 1936, East Aurora, N.Y. cuit owes:
Charles Martin, Jr., Feb. 25, 1940; David Frederick, Sept. 29, 194.

OccUPATION: Petroleum business; Analyst in Controller's Department.

[ 1089 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

HARRY MORRIS PLOTKIN

 

HOME AppRESS: 4611 29th Pl, N.W., Washington 8, D.C.

OFFICE ApprEss: Berge, Fox & Arent, 1200 18th St., N.W., Washington 6, D.C.

BorN: May 18, 1913, Athol, Mass. parents: Louis Plotkin, Fannie Coffman.

PREPARED AT: Athol High School, Athol, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 77agna cum laude, 1934; LL.B., magna
cum laude, 1937.

marrigD: Esther Lipsez, Dec. 25, 1937, Chicago, Ill. cuitpren: Ira Lev, March
25, 1941; Judith Deborah, March 12, 1943.

occuPATIoN: Partner in law firm, Berge, Fox & Arent.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant general counsel, Federal Communications Commission,
1943-51; co-chairman, Government Division, United Jewish Appeal,
1946-50; special counsel, Senate Committee on Interstate and Foreign
Commerce, September, 1954, to February, 1955, member board of gov-
ernors, Congregation B'nai Israel, since 1957.

EVER since I can remember, I have wanted to be a lawyer. Ac-
cordingly, it was only natural after graduation from college to cross
Cambridge Street to Langdell Hall and Harvard Law School. |
now wonder whether it is a good idea to take your professional
training in the same university where you had your undergraduate
work. Most of my law school colleagues came to Harvard from
a different university and thus had the opportunity of tasting the
fruits of two different universities, Yet, despite my doubts today,
I am sure that if I had to do it over again, I would still travel the
same route, Harvard College and Harvard Law School — that is, if I
could meet the much stricter standards of admission to each place
that now obtain as | Jearn vicariously from my son who is anxious
to enter Harvard — because I would find it impossible to decide
whether to forego Harvard College or Harvard Law School.
Although I have enjoyed the private practice of law, I must admit
that public service is more to my taste. A lawyer has a unique op-

[ 1090 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT .

portunity in the federal service. Since other professionally-trained
people in the service tend to have a parochial and restricted point
of view that only rarely extends beyond their own specialized ficlds,
the able lawyer at an early date branches out from the handling of
legal problems to becoming a vital participant in the process
whereby policy is formulated, modified and applied. This is a most
satisfying role if you happen to have strongly developed ideas of
the public interest.

Pleasant and rewarding as government work may be, it is extremely
difficult to make a lifetime career of it. The very attractiveness
of participating in policy-making is also an Achilles Heel. Almost
any policy you are identified with is bound to alienate one interest
or another. As the number of such issues increases, the slings and
arrows directed at you multiply. There finally comes a point when
you have had it. At that point, you decide that the burden of the
job plus the meagreness of financial return are too much of a burden
to continue inflicting upon your family.

As a resident of the District of Columbia, I do not participate
in the electoral part of politics. My sympathies and contributions,
however, are made available to the Democratic Party. When I came
to Harvard in 1930, I was a staunch Republican as were the re-
mainder of my family — six brothers and three sisters. Although
they have clung to the GOP, I changed to the Democratic Party
early in my college career. I am the only Harvard man in the family.
I am the only Democrat. Ergo “Veritas” did it.

Aside from work, reading, some politics and active participation
in the affairs of my synagogue, I have few other strong interests. |
spend a good deal of time with my family. The process of watching
the children grow up and helping them as they mature is a fascinat-
ing one. I find the process most time- -consuming , energy -absorbiny
and gray-hair-producing at this stage of their dev clopment -— a son
seventeen and one-half years old going on eighteen and a daughter
fifteen and one-half going on twenty.

| rog1 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ALVAR WHITTINGTON POLK, JR.

 

HOME apprEss: 6 Bradford Rd., Wellesley Hills 81, Mass.

OFFICE ApprEss: John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., 200 Berkeley St.,
Boston, Mass.

BORN: May 12, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: Alvar Whittington Polk, Maybelle
Teel.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

marRieD: Margaret Edgar, July 24, 1942, Wellesley, Mass. caitpREN: Judith
Anne, May 28, 1944; Diane Clough, July 19, 1948; David Edgar, May 10,
1951.

occuPaTION: Director, Pension Trust and Employee Consultation Sales &
Service, John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD; Member, board of governors, Wellesley Country Club, 1952-54.

MEMBER OF: Wellesley Country Club; Wellesley Curling Club; Berkeley Street
Associates.

PUBLICATIONS: “Combination Plans for the Small Employer,” Journal of Com-
merce —12th Annual Pension Study (1954).

HAVING the picture taken was easy. It’s this writing business that
Somes hard. As a member of the Report Committee, I can now
inderstand the need for so many follow-ups. The spirit is willing
nut the pen is weak. After all, I majored in math, not English. Our
senior Class Album reports my intended vocation as actuarial work.
wasn’t too far off. Early in 1946 I made my connection with the
ohn Hancock where I have been using to good advantage in the
ension planning field some knowledge of the actuarial sciences. I
ained much of that knowledge as a member of the actuarial depart-
rent of the American Life Insurance Company in Galveston, Texas.
fy first employer, the Ludlow Manufacturing & Sales Company,
ent me to Texas in 1936 to learn the jute bagging business. I made
e transfer to life insurance about a year later. Not wanting to

[ 1092 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

settle permanently in Galveston, I returned to my native Boston in
1939 where I became associated with the Massachusetts Blue Cross.
Then came World War II — just at a time when I was ready to

settle down and get married — which I did on July 24, 1942. t
Peggy Edgar at Wellesley, Massachusetts, in the uniform of ensign,
USNR. I was fortunate enough to have about a year and a half of
shore duty in Boston before moving out to the Pacific where I
ultimately ended up as personnel officer, Naval Base, Iwo Juna—
not a bad station — once we got settled. Peggy kept the home fires
burning in Boston during our twenty months’ separation. She kept
busy at being a good mother to our first-born, Judy, with whom I
had to get acquainted upon my return home late in 1945. After
having our second daughter, Diane, in 1948, we were blessed with a
son David in 1951. We are most thankful to have three healthy and
normal kids — though at times we wonder whether we can endure
the usual problems of bringing them up!

We are leading a quiet suburban life. Much of our social life
centers around the local country club. We divide vacation time
between summer and winter. I have reluctantly found it necessary,
because of creaking joints, to give up skiing which had been one of
my first loves. For that reason we have been seeking warmer climes
for our winter vacations. Peg and I have many common interests
and golf is one that occupies considerable time. In the wintertime
it’s curling. I also find relaxation in outboarding and fishing which
we have been enjoying during our summer vacations on Squam Lake,
New Hampshire. We have been willing to assume our share of
community responsibilities, but try to keep them at a minimum

realizing that one thing leads to another.

[ 1093 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

SAMUEL ALEXANDER POLK

 

HOME appRrEss: 19 Maple Ave., Hershey, Pa.
BorN: Nov. 12, 1911, Conconully, Wash. parents: Alexander Murdock Polk,

Sarah Elizabeth Amos.
prepareD AT: Hershey High School, Hershey, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1934. DEGREE: A.B, cu laude, 1934.

UNMARRIED,

OCCUPATION: Retired.

THERE is little of interest to report since I left college, yet I
don’t feel any particular sense of dissatisfaction with my life. I
was employed most of the time on various jobs in Federal Civil
Service, and I retired because of accumulated physical disabilities
in May, 1957. I served in the army (in limited service) for three
years during World War II. One way or another I have managed to

o
see a large part of this country,

ROBERT CHARLES POLLARD

 

HOME Appress: 23 Alder Lane, Framingham Centre, Mass.

[ 1094 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

oFFicE AppREss: Todd Company Div., Burroughs Corp, 240 Newbury Sc, Hes
ton 16, Mass.

BORN: March 24, 1914, La Grange, Ill. parents: Harry E. Pollard, Margarce BF.
Sackett.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MarRiED: Dorothy D. Mooney, May 30, 1942, New York, N.Y. cuipars: Rob-
ert Charles, Jr.. May 2, 1947; Carol E., July 10, 1948, Douglas B. Apel
4, 1950; Wayne A., June 20, 1952.

occuPATION: Design and sale of accounting and statistical forms.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Accountants.

ON graduation, I joined the five-thousand-man (mostly part-
time) “field force of Ross Federal Service, Inc., to verify theatre
attendance and/or conduct market research interviews with “the
man on the street.” After a year, I transferred to the New York
home office where I remained until the war. Having worked
through the accounting department to become branch auditor, 1
acquired a permanent interest in the mechanics of record keeping.
Because of this, I started, in 1941, as a fiscal officer in the office of the
Quartermaster General, in what later became the Pentagon. Just
before the invasion of Europe, I was assigned as the executive othcer
of a QM Battalion. During three years with the battalion, T way
fortunate in spending almost half my time as a sort of Inspecting
officer for whatever general commanded the various arcas in Fng-
land and France where we were stationed. These assignments were
the most interesting of my life, because they were ~ mostly “riot
calls’? to visit all sorts of places and sift out the causes of discontent
among troops that had created violence in all its forms, including
mass murders. I left the service as commander over a group of
battalions that included most of the quartermaster troops in Belgium,
and am still a Reserve lieutenant-colonel.

I immediately returned to my field of accounting forms and
mechanics, where I have remained except during a period of re-
organization of the company and its purchase by Burroughs Cor-
poration. My sole distinction in business is the privilege of guest-
lecturing to the staffs of various accounting firms and to accounting
school students on my specialized field — the mechanics of recon
keeping.

My social life, other than bridge, is based on the pleasure of
having all six of our family enjoy whatever sport is in season, Vb
avid love of golf and bowling is superseded by a little We hinninns
pool in the back yard anda skating pond in the neighbor hood,

[ rogs ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

BERNARD JOHNSON POND

 

HOME abprEss: Hill Road, Boxboro, R.F.D., West Acton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Avenue, W'est Acton, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 4, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: Bernard Wesley Pond, m.., ’o1,
Mary Louise Johnson. ,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 614771 latide, 1934; M.B.A., 1936.

Marriep: Audrey M. Herrick, March 28, 1936, Newton, Mass. cHILpReN: Emily
Herrick, Aug. 15, 1946, Katharine Louise, March 8, 1948.

occupation: Owner and president of The Town Shop, Inc., hardware and
housewares retail store.

OFFICES HELD: Master, St. John’s Lodge, A.F. & A.M., Boston.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Concord; Royal Arch of Concord.

IT is tempting to let Parkinson’s Law set in and to give full inverse
importance to the amusing trivia of twenty-five years. Take our
honeymoon, for example. It was spring vacation at the B School and
we had decided on New York City as the best place to get lost.
But ours was a woeful woe, A large quorum of classmates was on
hand to greet us on our arrival and to dog our footsteps for the en-
suing week.

And so it has gone — the bitter with the sweet, All quite normal
and prosaic and that goes for my four years as supply officer in the
Navy during World War II.

Our two enduring little chuckles have already outgrown two
troublesome ages and at ten and twelve are hovering on the brink
of a third. Characteristically, our diversions and hobbies evolve
around them. Mother has become a quite competent chauffeur over
the years. I’m the gardener; I make money grow on trees, | might
say, parenthetically, this is a process not one whit aided by the
fertilizer generated in the barn... our girls raise horses, Then

[ 1096 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

there’s the wood pile always in need of replenishing as the nine
fireplaces in our old brick house devour uncounted cords of wood,
In this connection, our adult hobby is restoring architecturally
good old houses and collecting antique miscellanca.

Business is booming. The hardware business I bought four vears
ago just racked up another 25% increase over last vear. It may be
said that I have completed the shirt-sleeve cycle usually reserved for
three generations, After graduating from the B School, T went with
Filene’s to learn retailing from stock boy on up. In 1955 FT resigned
as controller and treasurer of a fair-sized chain of stores to start my
own business, and now I find myself frequently in shirt sleeves and
happy as a pig in mud.

We have, of course, other characteristics which are not as banal.
Our philosophical tendencies are organized in church work and, for
me, in Masonry. This year it has been my privilege to be elected
Master of St. John’s Lodge in Boston. Chartered in 1733. as was
the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts, we celebrated our 2zs5th anni-
versary this past year. St. John’s is the first duly constituted lodge
of Freemasons in the western hemisphere.

And so in June we shall celebrate another important anniversary.
May it be a significant and rewarding experience for us all.

FREDERIC HEDGE POOR, JR.

 

HOME ApprEss: 35 Cove Drive, Manhasset, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE apprEss: McKenzie, Hyde, Willson, French & Poor, 6+ Rroaheay,
New York 6, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 28, 1912, Yonkers, N.Y. Parents: Fredeme Uledge Poor. “ey,
Elizabeth Van Winkle Hubbard.

PREPARED AT: Barnard School for Boys, New York, N.Y.

[ 1097 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; LL.B., 1937.

MARRIED: F'lizabeth Louise Hart, May 6, 1943, Dallas, Texas. cuitp: Frederic
Hedge, 3d, July 17, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Hustace Hubbard Poor, ’36, s.m., 738.

occupation: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Down Town Association (New
~ York City); Manhasset Bay Yacht Club.

AFTER graduation from college, I entered Harvard Law School
and graduated in June, 1937. I then found a job with a New York
City law firm and spent three pleasant years there prior to my entry
into the Army in December, 1940.

Having taken ROTC courses while in college, I ‘entered the
service as a first lieutenant of Field Artillery. After the outbreak of
war, I was assigned to a tank destroyer battalion and spent the next
two years with that unit, much of the time in Texas. While there
I was introduced to my wife Elizabeth whom I married in May,
1943.

In June, 1944, I volunteered for service in China. I spent several
months studying the Chinese language, and arrived in China in the
spring of 1945, where I was assigned as adviser to a Chinese artillery
battalion. We spent an intensive two months preparing the unit
for a campaign intended to capture Canton from the Japanese. Just
as we were moving out in this endeavor the war came to an end,
leaving me at once frustrated, thankful and curious as to what we
could have accomplished. In March, 1946, I returned to the United
States as a lieutenant colonel.

My wife and I considered setting up a household in Texas but
financial considerations induced me to return to my old law firm in
New York, where I was admitted as a partner in 1947. In 1952,
various deaths and retirements made it seem advisable for me to merge
that firm with my present office, where we have had a successful
and happy enterprise going for the last six years.

In July, 1947, my wife and I became the parents of our only
child, Tex. This youngster is very fond of athletics and the time
may yet come when he will fulfill his present ambition of appearing
in Harvard Stadium in a crimson jersey. I hope he makes it.

My chief hobby remains sailing small boats and in other ways
doing things which have some connection with salt water. My
longest travel trip has been the one for which Uncle Sam footed the

bill. My wife, son and I had a very pleasant trip to Europe in 1957
and hope to go over again in the future.

[ 1098 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Looking back over the past twenty-five years makes me realize
that I have been extremely fortunate. I have a charming and
talented wife, a fascinating small boy and a circle of agreeable
friends and business associates. Although the Army brought an
interruption in my business life, I am grateful to have served in it.
It did far more for me than I was able to do for it and it furnished
me with an insight into the lives of many of my fellow Americans
which I would never have gained if I had continued unbroken
the white-collar career on which I was embarked.

I believe the future will present both spiritual and material op-
portunities for this country and for its people as individuals greater
than those offered in the past. If we are also granted vision and
initiative, the coming years should be bright indeed.

EDWARD FRANCIS PORTER, JR.

 

HOME apprEss: Watts Branch Drive, Glen Hill Subdivision, Rockville, Md.

OFFICE appRESS: Gaithersburg High School, Gaithersburg, Md.

BORN: Dec. 18, 1911, Milford, Mass. parents: Edward Francis Porter, Fulen
Agnes Sweeney.

PREPARED AT: Milford High School, Milford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933, 1936-1937. DEGREES: A.B, 1934037); an. Chgh-
lands Univ.), 1953.

MarRieD: Margaret Jane Porter, Jan. 1, 1948, Santa Fe, N.Mex. cuioars:
Frederick Edward, Aug. 18, 1949; David Ross, Nov. §, 19s0; Joan Marte,
Oct. 26, 1957.

OCCUPATION: History teacher.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-principal, Harrington Junior High School, Santa Fe. 1u¢g-
55; member, ethics committee, MCE A, 1947-48, 1048-40; secretary, Santa
Fe Chapter, Barbershop Group, 1953.

MEMBER OF: Presbyterian Church; NEA; MCEA.

I WAS in the Army in World War II and did all of my fighting
[ 1099 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

on this side of the pond. After the war I went out to New Mexico
to teach school. I am not too sure why. But among other things,
they told me that they had horses to ride. | taught for three years
in two small private schools and for six more in the city schools of
Santa Fe. While there I married my Margaret, a girl from Virginia.
In due process of time we had two sons. We named the first Fred-
erick Edward and the second, David Ross.

Four years ago we came back and settled in Maryland. We have
added a beautiful little girl to our family since our arrival. She
is called Joan Marie. I am teaching history in the high school of
Gaithersburg, Maryland, and trying to make an inspirational job
of it. I think that that is important. I have a world of talent, much
of it unused, and very little money. I love life and people and I guess
that is the real reason why I couldn’t remain silent and hurt you
gentlemen any longer. I believe that about sums it up.

G. HINCKLEY PORTER

    

Y

ers §

HOME aAppRESS: 5 Fairfax Ave., Tauxemont, Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE appress: Information Service, Bureau of Old-Age and Survivors In-
surance, Social Security Administration, Dept. of Health, Education and
Welfare, Washington, D.C. (Room 4524). —

BORN: July 12, 1912, Fairfield, Maine. parents: David Richard Porter, Alice
Louise Hinckley.

PREPARED AT: Montclair High School, Montclair, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934, 1936-1937. DEGREE: A.B., Cum laude, 1934(37)+

MarRiED: Phyllis Eileen Foster, June 21, 1941, Lisbon Falls, Maine. CHILDREN:
David Hinckley, Feb. 6, 1943; Brian Foster, April 26, 1949, Wendy Eileen,
Sept. 25, 1953.

OccuPATION: Information specialist in charge of operations group, Information
Service, Bureau of Old-Age and Survivors Insurance, Social Security Ad-
ministration, Department of Health, Education and Welfare.

 

[ 1100 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

TWO of the growing influences of our times have been brought
together in my career: public relations and social security. While
both are now generally accepted as desirable and even essential, I
continue to be fascinated by the continuing challenges which
should keep me busy and interested for many more years. In the
administration of social security, public information activitics have
had a crucial role for the public needed to know what to do to gain
protection and to collect benefits. More basically, we have had to
explain how an understanding of social security can help reduce
feelings of insecurity about the future. In w orking toward these
goals, I have been deep in all the developments in mass communica-
tions and in public administration. ,

That public relations and social security are world-wide develop-
ments has been underlined by my most recent assignment. For
thirty days I guided around our country a group of five social
security officials from the Soviet Union. The Soviet Union, ditferent
as it is from our coutnry, is concerned with the same human prob-
lems of the aged, the disabled, and the women and children who
have lost the family breadwinner. And it is the hope of the pro-
gram for exchange of official and unofficial missions that under-
standing of each other will reduce tensions.

When the Seabees got me in the draft in World War IL, thev
were puzzled for a while as to what to do with a Harvard graduate
who had never built anything. My eventual assignment made some
sense: I was assistant to the chaplain of the 21st Naval Construction
Battalion. I was soon pretty independent and free-wheeling because
of the by-projects: running a thrice-weekly new Spaper; man aving
and playing i in a band; operating a library; organizing educational
activities; and playing an organ for church services. I ended up as
editor and manager of an illustrated history of the battalion’s war
record.

With my family at home come my greatest satisfactions, My
three children, spaced more widely in years than many faimilics,
offer a wide variety of interests. This year, as their activities grew,
we added a family room to our home and made other improvements
to make our suburban life a bit easier. Both my wife and TP find
ourselves each year involved in several community projects —~ and
we've held positions too numerous to mention, Most of our vaca-
tions have been spent in Afaine where relatives and cool weather
abound. ‘Two years ago we joined the station-wayon, tent-camping
set to beat the cost of these trips. The education, in the broadest

[ r101 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

>
cern right now. The stubborn and unintelligent opposition by offi-

cial Vi irginia to school integration is a present threat to our hopes.
Looking further ahead, the costs of college education seem stagger-
ing. W “th this latter problem in mind, I did my small part in helping
solicit for the Program for Harvard College. This effort, along with

o
many others, should solve this problem for our children.

sense, of our two boys and one girl is probably our greatest con-

RICHARD JANVIER PORTER

 

HOME apprEss: 2103 Giddis Ave., Ann Arbor, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: School of Public Health, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor,
Mich,

BoRN: Oct. 22, 1913, Swampscott, Mass. parents: Charles Irving Porter, Ethel
Janvier.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932. DEGREES: a.B. (Univ. of Virginia), 1935; a.M.
(ibid.), 1936.
OccUPATION: Assistant professor of parasitology.

NO questionnaire returned.

[ 1102 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM KELLUM PORTER, H

¢ | se ™ —
* rd

( a

~- ‘

  

HOME ADDRESS: 6028 La Jolla Blvd., La Jolla, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Steel & Shipbuilding Corp., 28th & Harbor Drive.
San Diego, Calif.

_ BoRN: May 12, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Frank R. Porter, Grace Stevens.

PREPARED AT: Rivers Country Day School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1934(35)-

MaRRIED: Elinor Day, March, 1934. CHILDREN: William Kellum, 3d, Dee. 2%
1937; Lindsay Day, June 30, 1941.

occupaTIon: Shipbuilding, manager, manufacturing services, purchasing, trans
portation, material control, etc.

OFFICES HELD: Manager, San Diego Committee, U.S. Senator Thomas Ruchcl,
1956, U.S. Congressman Pat Hillings, 1958; president, San Diego Svercns
and Procedures Association, 1958; co-chairman, public relations cemnut-
tee, United Fund, 1958.

MEMBER OF: La Jolla Beach and Tennis Club; Harvard Club of San Diego, San
Diego Society for Advancement to Management; San Diego Svstenns and
Procedures Association,

MOVED to California in 1942 because of illness in the family. and
have lived in La Jolla since. Worked in airframes during the war
and have been with small shipbuilding since 1952. The company
engaged in building tuna clippers — experimental ships — now (4)
C-3’s. Recreation: tennis. Hobby: growing tuberous, fibrous be-
gonias and sub-tropicals,

[ 1103 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

BERNARD GREENE POST

 

LAST KNOWN appREss: 545 West End Ave., New York, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 23, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: Samuel Post, Fay Greene.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

_ YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.

POST has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since 1957.

HAROLD BERNARD POSTER

HOME ADDRESS: 273 Eastmoor St., Columbus, Ohio.

oFFice appress: General Furniture Corp., Columbus, Ohio. .

BORN: Jan. 16, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: David Poster, Esther Putnam.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

Marrigp: Sarah L. Cristol, June, 1936, Boston, Mass, cHipren: Judith Phyllis,
March 4, 1940; Patricia Ann, April 27, 1943; Terri Lee, Oct. 2, 1952.

occuPaTION; Furniture manufacturing.

.

NO questionnaire returned.

[ 1104 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES AMOS POTTER, HI

 

HOME aApDpREss: Providence, R.L; Quarters 31-4, Naval Air Sration, Pensacola,
Fla. (mailing address).

OFFICE ADDRESS: Staff, CNABATRA, Naval Air Station, Pensacola, Fla.

BORN: June 11, 1913, Providence, R.I. parents: Archibald Clark Potter, Gicr-
trude LeG. Van Wyck.

PREPARED AT: Moses Brown School, Providence, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 193.4; LL.B. 1937 (48).

MarRIED: Harriet E. Child, Oct. 3, 1942, Providence, R.L cittpars: Bhaabeth
Van Wyck, Aug. 16, 1946; Patricia Child, April 26, tgyg-

occupation: Naval officer, lawyer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Rhode Island; Army-Navy Country Cluh,
Washington, D.C.; Rhode Island Commandery, M.O.0.F., Amerncan Bat
Association,

AFTER graduation from Harvard Law School, I was a law clerk
and following admission to the Rhode Island bar I practised law
in Rhode Island for myself and as an associate of the former law
firm of Huddy and Moulton, with offices in the Industrial National
Bank Building, Providence,

In March, 1942, I was commissioned an ensign in the U.S. Naval
Reserve. After two commands and participation in the assault groups
in the invasions at Normandy and Southern France and in one
typhoon at Okinawa, I returned to the United States in October,
1945. Received the Bronze Star with “Combat V" incident ta the
Normandy invasion, Thereafter 1 was commissioned in the U.S.
Navy and have been doing legal work of every conceivable desmp-
tion since then.

In the Jast thirteen years we have lived in Providence, Puerto Rien,
Washington, D.C, and Virginia Beach, and are currently in Pensa:
cola, Florida. Have managed a little time for golf and an ocean fase
in 756 to Bermuda, and I'm looking forward to a lot more.

[ 1105 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

WILLIAM CHARLES POWELL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1610 West St., Ottumwa, Iowa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ottumwa Daily Courier, Ottumwa, Iowa.

BORN: July 7, 1914, Ottumwa, Iowa. PaRENTs: James F. Powell, Mary Gardner.

PREPARED AT: Ottumwa High School, Ottumwa, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1934.

marriep: Allis Kathryn Conger, 1937, Lincoln, Nebr. CHILDREN: James Gard-
ner, 1938; Richard Conger, 1939.

occupation: Reporter and photographer, Ottumwa Daily Courier.

UPON completing college I went to Lincoln, Nebraska, where |
worked as a reporter for the Lincoln Star: They were years of
depression and drought. Newspapers paid reporters enough to room
one week and board the next, but not both the same week.

In 1937 I married Allis Kathryn Conger of Lincoln, James Gard-
ner was born in 1938 and Richard Conger was born in 1939.

In 1941 we moved to Ottumwa, Iowa, where I was employed as
a reporter and photographer for the Ottumwa Daily Courier. We
established our home at 1610 West Street, Ottumwa, Iowa, which
continues to be our address.

I joined the Navy in May, 1942, and was separated from service
in January of 1946. My duty was in the South Pacific, Southwest
Pacific and Western Pacific areas. After separation from service I
returned to Ottumwa and to my newspaper work.

Our son James is a junior in the State University of Iowa College
of Liberal Arts. Our son Richard is completing his plebe year at
the U.S. Naval Academy.

I regret to say I have not seen Harvard since graduation week.

[ 1106 }

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM HENRY POWER, JR.

 

HOME Apvress: 11 Willow Ave., Somerville 44, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Air Force Cambridge Research Center, Bedford, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 19, 1911, Cambridge, Mass. parents: William Henry Power,
Eunice Louise Scott. '

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931. DEGREES: A.B. (Tufts Coll.), 1949; a.m. (ibid),
1951.

-MArRIED: Isabelle M. Rolls, June 20, 1948, Cambridge, Mass. cuitp: Margaret
Anne, Feb. 27, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Training officer, Supervisory Fields, Air Force Cambridge Re-
search Center.

RICHARD KELLOGG PRATT

 

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 175 Temple St., West Newton, Mass.

BORN: May 11, 1911, New York, N.Y. PaRENTs: Russell Kellogg Pratt, Fudna
Pratt.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

PRATT has been carried as a “Jost” man on our records since tyst.

[ 1107 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

THOMAS DENNIE PRATT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 221 Briarwood Crossing, Lawrence, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Queens Boulevard Medical Group, 86-15 Queens Blvd., Elm-
hurst 73, N.Y. ‘

Born: Nov. 19, 1911, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Hersey Pratt, Rosa-
mond Means Thomson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933. DEGREE: M.D. (Yale Univ.), 1937.

Marriep: Elizabeth Kusberer, Dec. 19, 1941, Hartford, Conn, CHILDREN: Virginia
Conant, Dec. 3, 1942; Joseph Hersey, 2d, Jan. 21, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Family physician and partner, Queens Boulevard Medical Group,
partner, All Queens Realty Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, Clinical Medicine, New York University Postgraduate |
Medical School; clinical assistant visiting physician, Fourth Medical
(N.Y.U.) Division, Bellevue Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Rockaway Hunting Club and Cedarhurst Yacht Club, Lawrence,
Long Island; Lawrence Beach Club, Atlantic Beach, Long Island, N.Y.;
Harvard Club of New York; New York Zoological Society; Queens County
Medical Society.

RIGHTFULLY, these memoirs, such as they are, should begin back
n August, 1933, when while preparing for medical school, I com-
leted the last course at Harvard College. This was given by the
summer School, and it was in chemistry on quantitative analysis
regarded then and even now as formidable),

These were depression times, and my father, feeling their effect,
vas anxious for me to get on with my medical studies as soon as
could, and not take the senior year. I agreed to follow this plan,
ook two additional courses, including the one mentioned above, said
ay farewells to college life, and sct off for my choice of medical
chool, Yale, and my initial interview with the dean, Milton C.
Vinternitz. With a bare minimum of credits for admission, and

[ 1108 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

even lacking that sine qua non, the A.B. degree, I somehow survived
that gruelling session to which at that time the final group of ap-
plicants had to submit and was accepted into the first-year class.
This was a major turning point in my life, as it marked the begin-
ning of the hardest four years of studying I have ever done, as well
as the start of a career that I have followed ever since.

From 1933 to 1942, I was involved in what one might roughly
describe as “the apprentice years” of my medical life. Included in
these are the four spent at New Haven, followed in rapid succession
by the ones spent in further postgraduate medical training: Boston
City Hospital (1937-38), Massachusetts General Hospital (1938-
39), Strong Memorial Hospital, Rochester, N.Y. (1939-40), and
Beverly (Mass.) Hospital, 1940-41.

In 1941, four operations on my left forearm for a serious fracture
sustained while skiing the previous winter threatened to interfere
with my medical training; the last two operations by Dr. Clay Ray
Murray at the Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in New York City
were successful and happily enabled me to regain the use of the
arm. In October of that year, in spite of the wearing of a cast on
my arm, I became engaged. Pearl Harbor came while I was con-
valescing in the hospital from the fourth operation. I was married on
December roth and a honeymoon trip to Arizona and California
lasted through January, 1942.

From February, 1942, to the middle of the summer, I was tem-
porarily associated with a medical group in Waterville, Maine; this
pleasant life for my wife and me ended in August, when along with
so many others, I was called into the Army as a medical officer.
After only a few months at Fort Devens, trying to understand the
curious ways of army life, I found myself with other army officers,
nurses and enlisted personnel on a small transport (a converted
AGWI ship) heading out of Boston to join a convoy making up
in New York Harbor; eventual destination, Iceland.

After a harrowing trip of nineteen days, almost all of it through
gale-swept seas and. all alone after the first few days, having lose
contact with her convoy off Nova Scotia, our ship (sunk on her
next voyage) arrived in Reykjavik. After one and a half vears of
routine medical duty here with units of the U.S. Air Force, finally
it came my turn to get off “The Rock,” as Iceland was termed by

some, and be transported by ship to England. Here TP was att. iched
to a unit of the Eighth Air Force, near “Ipsw ich and Colchester on
the east coast, where life was considerably more normal than where

[ 1109 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

we had been near the Arctic Circle. After ten months with
ETOUSA, without secing a sign of the enemy, except for some
terrifying V-I bombs in flight, usually about 200 fcet over the
mess hall about six p.M., I was cager to sce some action near the front,
In March, 1945, somehow I managed to get an assignment to a
U.S. Army Hospital, just established in St. Quentin, France. The
flight over the channel to the French coast in a battered spare B-17
was a memorable one. Spring had arrived and we made excellent
use of the beautiful warm weather, when we could. Several weeks
later, disabling complications developed from a fairly simple opera-
tion performed on me in a U.S. Army Hospital in England, which
eventually resulted in my being transferred back to the States for
further treatment. After several duty assignments at Fort Devens
and Camp Edwards, I was discharged from the Army in February,
1946.

At this time we moved to Andover, Massachusetts, where friends
and relatives helped to influence us to settle. I started a private
practice of my own, at first in surgery in nearby Lawrence, and later, _
in general practice in Andover. Seven years later, and considerably
wiser, I decided to give up my “solo” type of practice, and get into
the field of prepayment group practice, for it was here that I had
come to think lay greater opportunities for the general physician
to carry on a better type of practice, as well as for the patient seek-
ing good medical care at a price one of moderate means could afford.
After investigating several promising situations, and with the advice
and encouragement of several physicians, especially Dr. James
Howard Means of Boston, Dr. Donald M. Clark of Andover, Dr.
George Baehr of New York City and Dr. John J. Hartigan of
Lawrence, I finally joined a medical group on Long Island in 1954,
with which I am still associated. It is one of thiry-three medical
groups, associated with the Health Insurance Plan of Greater New
York, which provide prepaid, comprehensive medical care to over
538,000 insured “subscribers.” I am one of the thirteen family
physicians in our group, who together with specialists in the various
felds of medicine and surgery comprise a team of about forty
doctors, who are responsible for the medical care of over 18,000
“subscribers,” living nearby in Queens County.

In 1957, our group moved further out on the Island, to Elmhurst, to
our newly-built medical center, an attractive, contemporary -sty led,
modern, three-story building, functionally-planned to contain ade-
quate space for our patients, as well as for most of the group's

[i110]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

physicians who will work there. Through arrangements made with
several New York art galleries, we are able to exhibit, on loan, many
paintings, as well as several pieces of sculpture, with the resule that
to some visitors our center has the appearance of a modern art
museum.

My chief hobby is gardening about our house in Lawrence, Long
Island. Since 1946 I have had an increasing interest in growing roses,
At present, I have about eighty-five plants, and more are planned for
the future. I find it a pleasant change from my professional life to
work about the bushes; besides it is nice, I think you'll admit, to
have roses for the house, as well as for our friends, from June to
October. Each year I try to get at least one new varicty of rose, to
test it out and see how it grows in our climate. Where we live, I
have found danger from winter killing is remote, so no special meas.
ures are utilized to keep roses through the cold weather.

Lately, my wife and I have been able to do a bit of traveling: in
1955 and 1957 we went to Jamaica, B.W.1.; last March, we took the
children to Mont Tremblant and Stowe, this January, minus the
children, it will be a Caribbean cruise on the Nieuw Amster dante.

We are looking forward to the Reunion in Cambridge this June,
especially our children: Ginny, sixteen, presently at Abbot Academy,
and Joe, ten (who will just make it).

JOHN THAYER QUINBY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 75 Chestnut St., Boston 8, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 275 Charles St., Boston 14, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 8, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: William Carter Quinby, ‘ya Vee-
guerite Elizabeth Thayer. "

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

[irit]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934; M.D., 1939.

UNMARRIED,

HARVARD BROTHER: William Carter Quinby, Jr. '36.

occuPpaTion: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant in medicine, assistant physician, Massachusetts General
Hospital, since 1944; instructor in medicine, Harvard Medical School
1945, 1945; medical director, New England Division, Socony-Mobil Oil

Company, 1948-52; plant physictan, Ford Motor Company, Somerville
(Mass.), 1953-1954.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
American Federation for Clinical Research; Schussverein Ski Club; Church
of the Advent, Boston (member of corporation); (not currently) Aescu-

lapian Club; Harvard Club of Boston; Union Boat Club; Longwood Cricket
Club.

publications: “A Comparison of the Metabolic Effects of Isocaloric Meals
of Varying Composition, with Special Reference to the Prevention of
Postprandial Hypoglycemic Symptoms,” Ann. Int. Med., June, 1943
(with George W. Thorn, and Marshall Clinton, Jr.); “Use of Monocal-
cium Disodium Ethylene Diamine Tetra-Acetate in Lead Poisoning,”
Journal of the American Medical Association, April, 1954 (with Harriet

L. Hardy, Hervey B. Elkins, Benjamin P. W. Ruotolo, and William H.
Baker).

MY program throughout college was oriented toward medicine and
after one year at the Harvard Business School spent in exploring
an interest in economics which had begun in junior and senior years,
I entered Harvard Medical School in the Class of 1939. Medical
School years, as is traditional, were a period of intensive and sus-
tained application, but absorbing and with close friendships in the
pursuit of a liberal discipline, making this period a particularly
happy and memorable one. Hospital years at the Massachusetts Gen-
eral in Boston constituted an intensification of the life in Medical
School, with — if anything — fewer opportunities for interludes of
strenuous relaxation. On getting out of a “white suit,” I worked in
clinical research over a period of two years and then began the prac-
tice of medicine as my principal activity, while continuing part-time
work in teaching, in research projects, and in the over-all work of a
teaching hospital.

This general pattern of medical work has continued to the present
and has comprised a varied experience. First was a period of par-
ticipation in medical research, which furnishes a valuable first-hand
acquaintance with the scientific point of view and its goals and
methods. Next came the war years, Initially a member of the Fifth
General Hospital (Harvard Unit), I was mustered out of the serv-
ice in May, 1942, spending the remainder of the war as a civilian in

[1112]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

medical practice. One’s contribution on the home frone scenes
little enough; yet one could feel that medical care for civilans was
in short supply and there was much to be done, including helping
with medical work for the Selective Service System.

The varied life of medical practice has also included for me a
brief experience in the field of college health. Participation in the
work of a university health service (Harvard) has been a rewarding
activity in furnishing a continuing association with the univerity
and an always. refreshing reminder of the young person's special
needs and point of view.

Another ancillary field somewhat more fully cultivated has been
that of industrial medicine. Part-time work here over a five- or siv-
year period has left me with a fairly clear idea of the goals and op-
portunities for American industry and American medicine working
‘together. Certainly the field is one of growing importance, hoh ling
a big challenge both for medicine and for business administrator.

Any thoughts I have had on the general subject of medical care
reflect the point of view of one spending the largest part of his tine
in private patient care but in the set-up of a university hospital.
Here service patient responsibilities, teaching, and facilities for pri-
vate patient care, as well as basic research activities, are all coneen-
trated geographically under one roof. In this stimulating and some-
times bewildering atmosphere, the clinician, so-called, 1 trust, res
tains a useful role. Perhaps more than other medical groups with
whom he collaborates, he has the responsibility for patient care
and must apply to it the best he can discern at the moment in the
advancing state of the art and science.

Concerning hobbies, I find that these remain essentially as they
were in college with perhaps one addition. Skiing continues to he
the sport in which I take the most enjoyment, w ith small boat saihays
or cruising under sail a close second. Music, as in college, has been
a never-failing source of delight and refreshment, one is teeter:
dously fortunate to live in a city w hich is the home of one of the
finest orchestras in the world and a busy center of activity, for all
the arts. In the area of music, too, it has been especially ued fun
to have had a somewhat intimate view of the planning and acti ities
of what I feel is an outstanding choral group in America, the Choris
Pro Musica, in Boston.

Finally (the addition), T find that with the passing years Pers
the chances to read again — or for the first time -~ the best pr the
literature of our own language. Not only delightful ay art, the work

[1113]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

of these greats reflects some of the most enlightened thinking of all
times.

Religious interests in any formal sense have come in the years dur-
ing and since World War II, It strikes me that this may have been
true for many of our Class and that twenty-five years ago we had
less interest in and fewer opportunities for discussion of religious
questions than is true for the Harvard undergraduate of today. If
so, both we and they can be glad of the change. My parish affiliation

has been with the Church of the Advent, Boston, more recently as a
member of the corporation.

IRVING WILLIAM RABB

 

HOME appress: 196 Morton St., Newton Center 59, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Stop & Shop, Inc., 393 D St., Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 4, 1913, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Rabinovitz, Lottie R. Wolf.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1934.

MakRIED: Charlotte Frank, June 23, 1938, Longmeadow, Mass. cHiLpREN: Betty
Ann, April 15, 1940, James Mark, Aug. 4, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Sidney R. Rabb, ’20; Norman S. Rabb, ’25.

OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president, Stop & Shop, Inc., a super market chain.

orFices HELD: Director, United Community Services, 1955-56, Super Market
Institute, Boston Better Business Bureau, United Cerebral Palsy of Greater
Boston, 1958; director, 1956, vice-president, 1957-58, National Association
of Food Chains; trustee, Beth Israel Hospital, 1957, Associated Jewish
Philanthropies, since 1956, president, Hillel Foundation of Cambridge,
Inc., 1956-58.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Varsity Club; Belmont Country
Club; Newton Squash and Tennis Club; Shawmut Lodge, A.F. & A.M.

TWENTY-FOUR of these past twenty-five years have been spent
in the retail food business where I have shared the responsibilities

[1114]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of managing a chain of super markets with my father and two older
brothers. Fortunately, the challenge of handling many varied as-
signments in an ever-changing industry has been very stimulating
and exciting. This has been enjoyable and gratifying , though often
I wish it were not so completely time-consuming.

After graduation and a two-month spree in Europe, I Spent a year
at the Business School. I will never understand why I was in such
a hurry to go to work — why I did not finish the course and receive
my M.B.A. degree. I was probably naive enough to believe that |
might take a year off later to go back to school — at this point that
possibility seems more remote than ever.

Shortly after I started to work I was sent to Springfield, Massa-
chusetts, for a few months for added training away from the home
office. There is a serious question as to whether or not [ learned
anything about the business there, but no question about the fact
that I made a superb female discovery — we were married in 1938
and had a wonderful honeymoon vacation in the Canadian Rockies.

Betty was born in 1940 and, after what seemed to have been end-
less years at Beaver, survived the nerve-wracking tensions of the
pre-college year (her parents made it, too). She became the thir-
teenth member of the family to invade Cambridge. (Why wasn’t
Harvard co-ed when we were there? )

The war years were not particularly pleasant. Eight draft re-
classifications, shortages, rationing, “bureaucrats,” no free time — all
these and more made me wish more than once that Uncle Sam would
declare me less “essential to the home front” and “liberate” me te
the Armed Forces. The bright spot of this entire period was Jimmy's
arrival in 1944. The family was now complete. Wich the Ivy League
as his objective (the optimist), Jim is putting up a game struvele ar

Roxbury Latin School — and “struggle” it is.

Since the war, life has been much less complicated. Probably
my biggest problem is that malady common to most of us — shortave
of time. The demands of a growing business, a maturing family, a
social life, and various community projects leave very little epper-
tunity for other personal interests, not to mention simple relaxation
and fun. There were so many things I wanted to dow Were it net
for the encouragement and persistence of an interested and enlight
ened wife, I probably would have given up long ago, but hope iy
still alive and there is a spark of light on the horizon. Better tunes
are coming we hope.

I have managed a little golf and tennis from time to time which

[airs ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

have helped keep the waistline within bounds. For several years I
worked as a sort of amateur silversmith, a hobby which my daughter
explained as “a wonderful way to hammer out my aggressions.” The
hobby which has given me the greatest satisfaction has been the
search for old lustre china and pottery to the point where I can really
call my possessions “a collection.” ,

We like to travel but did very little about it until just a few years
ago. Since then we have returned to Europe several times. In 1957
the four Rabbs made a safari to the Continent where we spent five
delightful weeks together. Just being together for this period was
a wonderful experience, not to mention the excitement of a North
Cape cruise and leisurely touring in England, Denmark, Switzerland
and France. Anxiously awaiting the “jet” era!

We still have our same season tickets in Section 29 at the Stadium
where we have enjoyed our infrequent “ups” and stoically accepted
our more frequent “downs.” Can it be possible that we are entering
anew era? Will there be more like that last Yale game?

In general, there is much to be thankful for in these twenty-five
years —my work, my family and friends, and good health. May
the next twenty-five be as full and fruitful.

Until Reunion. ...

JOHN BARZILLAI RACKLIFFE

 

appress: 44A Joy St., Boston 14, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 3, 1911, Hampton, P.E.L, Canada, parents: John Barzillai Rackliffe,
Annie Smith.

PREPARED aT: Newton Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934,

occupation: Publishing.

NO questionnaire returned,

[ 1116 |

_____.__|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GILBERT RADLO

AppREsS: 18 Schuyler St., Dorchester 21, Mass.

BORN: April 8, 1913, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Louis Radlo, Minme Rubenwite.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; A.M. 1936.

OCCUPATION: Research.

NO questionnaire returned.

PHILANDER SILAS RATZRKOFF

 

HOME ADDRESS: 49 Verndale St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Parker, Coulter, Daley & White, 50 Congress Sc. Boston, Mass.
BORN: Oct. 14, 1912, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Jacob Ratzkorf, Lena Silvertlate,
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. magna cur brude, tot4. 1tm, oun
laude, 1937.

MARRIED: Selma Rae Young, Oct. 23, 1946, Boston, Mass. cuipeary: Rachacd
Francis, Feb. 29, 1948; John Stuart, June 15, 1980.

occuPATION: Lawyer; partner, Parker, Coulter, Daley & White.

OFFICES HELD: Member executive board, Brotherhood Temple Ohaber Shalom,
1957-58, Edward Devotion PTA, 1958.

MEMBER OF: American and Boston Bar Associations; Harvard Law Sched Ae

sociation; Brotherhood Temple Ohabei Shalom; Aberdour Dodge, AF. &
A.M.; Phi Beta Kappa.

PUBLICATIONS: Miscellaneous articles.

THE invitation extended to write the autobiography of my Tite since
graduation has been a sort of sword of Damocles for me, hanuiey
over my head these past weeks by a thread, a sharp reminder of the
lightning passage of time. As I reflect about these vears, P suppese
the sunplest approach is to begin at the beginning.

After departing on schedule from the portals of the Calleye in

[1117]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ing a parliamentary debate on the question of women’s suffrage and
in response to a colleague’s assertion that men and women were
different, shouted jubilantly “Vive la différence,” I am inclined to
think that perhaps our women-folk suffer a little too much for
humanity.

I still dabble in contract bridge and golf without any marked im-
provement in either sphere and my wife and I just enjoy being with
people. On the whole, the simple pleasures of life are sufficient for
us. Actually, like so many others, my chief hobby is my family. My
two sons have a wide variety of interests ranging from athletics to
music and science and I am frequently embarrassed by the extent of
their scientific lore and the dearth of mine. However, it affords me
some mild comfort to know that I can still beat the boys in checkers
and chess. Perhaps, when they attain their majority, they may con-
clude, as other children doubtless have, that their father has learned
a great deal in the intervening years. Despite some obvious wear and
tear I think I can fairly say that most people still recognize me when
they see me. Although a trim rather than a haircut 1s now the order
of the day, the contemporary popularity of Yul Brynner has aided
immeasurably in reconciling me to a physical loss, the inevitability
of which was indicated even during my college years. ~

Since the termination of my military hegira I have done little
traveling except for sporadic jaunts to various sectors of New Eng-
land. However, this past spring and summer my wife and two boys
spent three months in Israel where they had a joyous reunion with
my wife’s family. They returned with glowing reports of the
progress being made in that sturdy oasis of democracy where a
courageous and pioneering people have grown food on land where
nothing had grown for over 2000 years. My wife also returned with
a gift for me, André Maurois’s The Art of Being Happily Married,
a whimsical volume which I assume, perhaps cavalierly, represents
merely a contribution to my library. Be that as it may, despite cer-
tain compensations, my brief interlude as a bachelor convinced me
(not that I needed convincing) that such a status left much to be
desired.

The world I have lived in has been reasonably good to me. I hope
it will be at least as good and better for your children and mine.
Perhaps it is a sign of age, but I am concerned about the kind of
moral climate now being provided in the country for the genera-
tions which some day will be entrusted with the responsibilities of
government. The aberrations from ethical standards both in public

[ 1120 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and private life which we are somewhat cynically prone to excuse
or ignore, the preaching of lawlessness and the destruction of human
rights under the camouflage of “States’ Rights,” the lack of concern
over the ethical questions and moral challenge posed by nuclear
warfare and the absence of a critical conscience as to the use of such
weapons are some of the examples of disturbing deviations from our
moral code. Although I am sufficiently an optimist not to share the
views of the prophets of doom, I do think the time has come when
we adults should practise seriously what we preach to our children.

This is the end of my story and the beginning of what I hope will
be a memorable Twenty-fifth Reunion. My family and I look for-
ward to seeing you and being with you.

JOHN FREDERICK RAY

  

HOME ADDRESS: 304 E. qist St.. New York 17, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sylvania Electric Products, 1000 Huvler St, Teterboro, NJ.

BORN: Dec. 15, 1912, Milford, Mass. parents: William F. Rav, Isabelle W.
Kenney.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Joan Stowell, 1943, New York, N.Y. (divorced raygg). cratpws
James P., Jan. 16, 1944; John H., Oct. 4, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Gordon B. Ray, °32.

occuPaTION: Field representative, Sylvania Electric Products.

BEING the last minute, this of necessity will be brief. My tse fes
years after graduation were involved in trying to settle ‘down an
also solve the intricacies of skis, cold w eather, and payments ona car,
The last three problems were a great deal easier than the tine, Bean
assure you. Life was rather normal and prosaic unnl World War H,
at which time patriotism took over and I was turned down berh

[ 1121 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

by the Marine Corps and the Navy as being of no value to them,
and wound up in the U.S. Coast Guard running a C.G., ship for the

Navy six months later,

For the next four years I saw every darned coast but the U.S.
I still can’t figure out why if I was so useless in the beginning that
at the end of ‘the war I had a tough time getting out, as I was “essen-
tial to the war effort.” Another skirmish took place during this
period inasmuch as I did take a wife, or vice versa.

The post-war period was a bit hectic until I settled in my present
work. | have developed a few likes and dislikes, among which are
alimony and New York taxicab drivers (when I am driving). I do,
however, enjoy my leisurely golf.

On reflections, Bert Loewenberg’s letter refers to “love, or the
pursuit of whatever you are pursuing.” I have one observation to
make. At present, being single, my envious New York classmates
and others in a similar predicament have a real curiosity as to a
middle-aged bachelor’s peregrinations. 1 can assure them that at our
age the pursuit is not as swift as it once was, having become more

mental than physical. Fortunately, for me, the scales have not swung
completely in one direction.

THOMAS McTYEIRE RAYSOR

 

4 ~, . ae

HOME ADDRESS: 3705 Stewart Drive, Chevy Chase, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Raysor & Ortman, 1366 National Press Bldg., Washington 4,
DC.

BORN: March 26, 1913, San Antonio, Texas. parents; Thomas McTyeire Raysor,
Emily Maud Jones.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREES: AB., cur laude, 1934; LL.B., 1937.

Marriep: Einar Mildred Haglund, June 16, 1945, Washington, D.C. CHILDREN:

{ 1122 ]

nnn

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Thomas McTyeire, Jr., April 4, 1947; Josephine Ingrid, Nov. 10, toss,
Steven Carl, May 12, 1953 (died March 5, 1956).

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; partner in firm of Raysor & Ortman.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, 1948-49, 1957-58, vice-president,
1951-52, treasurer, 1954-56, president, 1956-57, D.C. Bar Associaton,
American Bar Association Delegate from D.C. Bar Association, Representa-
tive on National Council of Junior Bar Conference, 1947-48; treasurer,
member of board of trustees, D.C. Legal Aid Bureau, since 1949, member,
Judicial Conference of Judges and Lawyers for the District of Columbia,
former lecturer in law, The American University; member of board of
trustees, Methodist Home for the District of Columbia; president, Citizenv
Association of North Chevy Chase, 1952-53; trustee, North Chevy Chase
Elementary School, 1955-58; Master, Benjamin B. French Lodge No.
AF. & A.M., D.C., 1956; listed in Who’s Who in America, 1958-39.

MEMBER OF: Rotary; National Press Club; Harvard Club of Washington, Har-
vard Law School Association;. The Barristers; The Counsellors, Lewes
Yacht Club (Del.); Gamma Eta Gamma Legal Fraternity (honorary).

PUBLICATIONS: Co-editor, Practice Manual for District of Columbia Courts,
printed first in 1948, now in its third printing.

Have past struggles succeeded? What has succeeded: Your seis?
Your Nation? Nature? Now understand me well — tt is provided in
the essence of things that from any fruition of sticcess, no mattcr
awhat, shall come something to make a greater struggle necessary.—
Wart WHITMAN

FOLLOWING my graduation from Harvard Law School, I fol-
lowed the example of an early ancestor and came to Washington,
D.C. The family had lived here since 1812. Their arrival in the
Nation's Capital coincided with the British burning of the White
House, but I can assure one and all that the events were not other-
wise connected. A strictly chronological recital would have to begin
with my birth in Texas. When I was one vear old my father passed
away and I was taken by my mother to W ashington, D.C. Thy
makes me a native Washingtonian — once remov ed. I grew up in
the Capital.

The inauspicious circumstance of a world-wide economic depres-
sion was my introduction to the practice of law. Having worked
my way through Harvard and Harvard Law School, T was in a
better position to cope with a general depression, Twas now sharin:
my own private depression with the world at large and by some sore
of rationalization in reverse I was able to persu: ade Mivse lf thae Pha
moved forward, not backward.

My first professional connection was with the law firm of Croce
lin & Laws, I tackled the challenges of the day with relish (lac his:
more material weapons at hand). Now, twenty-five vears Liter, 1

[ 1123 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

can truthfully say that I feel no sense of energy loss as I move into
the analysis of new problems, new procedures, new legal guideposts
which a quarter of a century have brought.

I can think of no jurisdiction where there are greater or more
interesting professional opportunities than exist here in the Nation’s
Capital. Practising law before the various Federal departments and
agencies is always intellectually stimulating. The handling of local
matters serves to provide an adequate balance and supply “terminal
facilities.” Our bar consists of about 7500 resourceful and generally
well-informed lawyers supplemented by visiting out-of-town law-
yers. A pleasing by-product is the frequent opportunity to meet and
renew friendships with fellow Harvard alumni.

To preserve good feeling among the professions, I shall not discuss
‘why” but merely state as a fact that the medical men didn’t think
I'd make a valuable addition to Uncle Sam’s fighting forces in World
War II. So, I joined the U.S. Corps of Engineers as a civilian em-
ployee. 1 found myself assigned to legal duties in connection with
construction of the Alcan Highway and the Canal Project. The.

mercury stood stiff at 50 below when I reported to Edmonton,
Alberta, Canada. My conclusion was that the “Ashcan Hi-way”
was a secret weapon of diabolical purpose: to lure the Japs onto the
new road and let them freeze to death! But it wasn’t altogether bad.
There were two seasons: winter and July 4th. The Canadians were
just marvelous to all of us and the friendships we made were worth
the discomfiture of the weather.
In 1944 I was re-assigned. Destination: Oak Ridge, Tennessee.
With thousands of others equally uninformed as to the end product
of our efforts, I labored on legal details of the program being car-
ried out in strictest secrecy. When the job was completed, I re-
ceived a certificate of appreciation for “effective service in participa-
tion in work essential to the production of the atomic bomb.”
One year later an atomic bomb was detonated in my social exist-
ence: ] met and married a graduate of —if you'll pardon the ex-
pression — Yale. She holds a Master’s degree in Public Health,
which may account for my survival. For our eleven-year-old son,

Tommy, Harvard or Yale is the not-so-moot question. But I may
need some reinforcements from my Twenty-fifth Reunion class-
mates to insure that I am not hindered in the prosecution of my
parental duty to insure the boy a “proper education.”

Life’s pages have turned smoothly since the days of the Ashcan

Hi-way and the Atomic Bomb (about which I knew nothing except

[ 1124 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

what I read in the newspapers). Professionally, 1956-57 was a year

of great reward when I was privileged to serve as president of the

Bar Association of the District of Columbia. It was a challenging

and invigorating experience and it produced many wonderful friend-
ships. I worked with more than 1500 lawyers serving on some eighty
committees. We were able to perform important community serv-
ices through our legislative program which saw six laws of major
importance to the District of Columbia enacted, and at least a doven
more sent on their way to eventual adoption by Congress.

In the summer, my wife and children live in our beach house in
historic Lewes, Delaware, at the mouth of Delaware Bay and I
commute weekends. Lewes is known as “The Cradle of the First
State”: founded by the Dutchman DeVries in 1631. The romance
of American history is everywhere in this delightful community.
We enjoy sailing our Sailfish Hard Tack in the Lewes Yacht Club
Races each Sunday — events in which a fleet of about fifty Sailfish
participate. Of late I have been making a slow start in water skiing.
And loving it!

American Bar Association conventions which I attend each August
as a delegate of the Bar Association of the District of Columbia are
events to which we look forward. Last year we combined a three-
week tour of the West Coast with attendance at the A.B.A. meet-
ing in Los Angeles. Our plans for next August include the A.B.A.
Convention in Miami and a cruise of the Caribbean.

But the big event in our immediate future is the Twenty-fitth

Reunion. Gung Ho! Tally Ho!

WARREN JOSEPH REARDON

   

HOME appreEss: 112 Robbins Rd., Watertown, Mass.

[rig ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934
OFFICE abpress: Watertown Federal Savings and Loan Association, 75 Main
St. Watertown, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 24, 1912, Dorchester, Mass. parents: Alfred Arthur Reardon,
Isabel E. Hassan.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MarrieD: Dorothea G. Sullivan, Oct. 5, 1940, Boston, Mass. cHiLp: Paul J,
Oct. 1, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Alfred Reardon, °35.

occupaTion: Banking; treasurer, Watertown Federal Savings and Loan As-
sociation.

OFFICES HELD: President, 1953, currently governor, Boston Chapter, American

Savings & Loan Institute; president, Boston Chapter, Society of Savings
and Loan Controllers, 1957.

MEMBER OF: Society of Savings and Loan Controllers; American Savings and
Loan Institute; Rotary Club of Watertown; Oakley Country Club,

PUBLICATIONS: Technical papers on accounting systems and procedures for
National Society of Savings and Loan Controllers.

THE first year out of school was a bit disorganized while I groped
for a career. Temporary jobs filled in while I studied accounting
nights. Then a year of fill-in jobs in the accounting field. Then
with the help of the Harvard Alumni Office, I ended up a bank
examiner with the Federal Home Loan Bank Board. For six years
I constantly traveled all over New England. It was an interesting
job and an idcal life for a bachelor.

Dorothea Sullivan (Miss Wheelock’s, 1935) made me change my
mind on the carefree life, and we were married late in 1940. Early
in 1942, the Reserve Commission, in the bottom drawer, suddenly
took on a tremendous significance and out of the blue I was given
ten days to get to Camp Edwards, Massachusetts. There followed
four years of travel at the government’s expense. Trained as a Field
Artillery officer at Fort Sill, I, overnight, found myself at Duke
University being trained as a fiscal officer in Military Government.
It was a concentrated four months’ course in international finance
under the direction of the greatest authorities the Army could gather
in one spot.

I was in for another surprise. My orders then arrived for a three
months’ language course at Harvard University. Back home I came
to spend a wonderful three months with my wife and new son.
Little did I think that ten years after graduation, I would be lunch-
ing daily at the Hasty Pudding Club and studying at one of the
exclusive fraternity houses — particularly for an “untouchable.”

1 left shortly thereafter for England, arriving on D-Day. D-Day

[1126]

1

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

plus sixteen I found myself sitting outside Cherbourg, France, wait-

ing for it to fall. For the next two years I toured France, Belgium,

Luxembourg and Germany, managing to keep out of trouble on a

tremendously interesting job in Military Government. The last

six months were spent in that truly wonderful city of Paris. On the
way home they belatedly pinned the major’s leaf on me.

Life has passed quickly since army days. Shortly after my re-
turn, I yumped the fence from bank examiner to assistant treasurer
of the Suffolk First Federal in Boston. Six years later I was enticed
out to the Watertown Cooperative Bank as treasurer and have
never regretted it. I am one of those fortunate people who love their
work. I suffered through conversion of the bank to a Federal
Charter and growth from ten million to twenty-seven million in
assets, through two coronaries, and today played eighteen holes of
golf. .

Socially, my life has been quiet with my family, although Reserve
Army affairs and banking organizations have taken up much of my
time. Boating and golf continue to take up much of my leisure time.
Aly greatest pleasure has been watching my only son grow up. I have
had the undeniable thrill of a father seeing his “Little Leaguer” hit a
home run with the bases loaded, and also receive the trophy for
winning his first golf tournament. Now that he is approaching the
age of sixteen, the family car is assuming enormous importance in
his young life. I must confess that I have to date failed to inoculate
him with the desire to follow in his father’s footsteps at Harvard, but

perhaps in the next two years he will see the light.

I hope I have not been too verbose in this predominantly “I” tome,
but I find it difficult to condense twenty-five years into capsule
form. I wonder if the “B” in Freshman English is indicative.

Seriously, I am looking forward to my Twenty-fifth.

[1127 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ROBERT GUION REED

   

Lede

ADDRESS: 452A Vallejo St., San Francisco, Calif.

BORN: Dec. 20, 1911, Worcester, Mass. parENTs: Chester Turner Reed, Vivien
Brown. ,

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

NO questionnaire returned.

ROBERT RENTOUL REED, JR.

 

HOME appReEss: 301 S. Garner St., State College, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pennsylvania State University, State College, Pa.

BORN: Noy. 16, 1911, New York, N.Y. parents: Robert Rentoul Reed, Christine
Patten.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1030-1932, 1933-1034. DEGREES: A.B. (Pomona Coll.), 19373
AM. (Columbia Univ.), 1946; pH.p. (ibid.), 1950.

MARRIED: Julia Cooper Marshall, Dec. 12, 1942, Long Beach, Calif. CHILDREN:
Rosalind Rentoul, Feb. 6, 1944, Christine Marshall, Feb. 27, 1947.

[ 1128 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OccuPATION: Associate professor of English.

OFFICES HELD: Cub scoutmaster, Pack 304, La Jolla, Calif., late 1930's, member,
several PTA committees, State College; member and/or chairman of many
university committees. ,

MEMBER OF: Shakespeare Association of America; American Association of
University Professors.

PUBLICATIONS: Young April (poems); Bedlam on the Jacobean Stage, poctus
and critical articles published in national and international journals.

SINCE World War II, during which I crossed the equator twenty-
two times on long convoy runs (Hollandia to the Philippines), mv
way of life has become distinguished by nothing so much as its
uneventfulness. Fishing and tennis are my primary avocations.

WILLIAM PIPER REED —

    

aN
HOME apprEss: 38 Hillcrest Rd., Reading, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Travelers Indemnity Co., 147 Milk St. Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 4, 1912, Malden, Mass. Parents: Horace Neilson Reed, Aliwe
Willard Piper.

PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MarRIED: Gertrude H. Irons, April 22, 1939, Melrose, Mass. cripkes: Willan
Piper, Jr., May 24, 1942; Bradley Irons, July 30, 1945.

occuPATION: Chief field underwriter, Fidelity and Surety Department, Boston
office, Travelers Indemnity Company.

THE year 1934 was not one of great promise for those of us who at
last were confronted with the need of earning our keep. Despite the
admonition, voiced by President Lowell at the end of our freshinan
year, that four years of study at a Liberal Arts college Was noc in
tended to equip us to earn a livelihood, T had expected thar a mane
in economics would somehow bridge the gap, Now thie Poway pet

hunting, no one seemed the least bit interested in what my studies

[ 1129 ]

~~

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

had been. Employment was not too difficult to find, however, and
before very long I was getting paid to work.

Since that time I have enjoyed steady progress; sufficient, at
least, to provide a comfortable living for my family. Life has been
good. Happily, no insurmountable obstacles and serious problems
have confronted us. I fondly attribute much of my zest for life to
a laudable lack of ambition and a selfish desire to live in the “now.’

I decided a long time ago that I was not cut out to be a captain of
industry.

That first job was a beginning, at least. Two jobs and three years
later, I joined the Travelers Insurance Company. I have been there
ever since. After twenty-one years with the Travelers (a real fine
company), there is no reason to expect I shall not finish out my
time there. Then I'll sit back and enjoy the fruits of my labors,
especially fishing and more fishing.

In 1939, fortune smiled on me. That was when the prettiest girl
in town said “yes.” This merger has produced two sons who sur-
prise me continually with their grasp of the intricacies of atomic
fission and the mechanics of launching space satellites.

In the field of politics, 1 am a Republican by inheritance. But I
feel strongly, whatever party is in power, that the general public
(those not affiliated with an organized pressure group) takes a ter-
rible beating day after day and year after year. I could cheerfully
join any group dedicated to the damning of all politicians of what-
ever persuasion.

Outdoor activities consist of fishing and camping. For many
summers I have pursued the striped bass along the Massachusetts
coastline. As for camping, it all started several years ago when I
reluctantly fulfilled a promise to take a group of Boy Scouts to
summer camp. For what was intended to be an enjoyable experi-
ence, a more miserable week could not be imagined. However,
something must have rubbed off, for we have been a camping family
ever since. Every summer we vacation out in the open, under the
stars, snug in our tents and sleeping bags. We have taken a couple
of lengthy trips already and hope eventually to “gypsy” our way
all over this wonderful country of ours.

Twenty-five years is a whole generation. Bill, Jr., will soon be
of college age. For him there is only one college — Harvard. I
look forward to the time when we shall be sharing the experiences
that are common to all Harvard men — experiences separated, alas,
by a whole quarter-century.

[ 1130 ]

___

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Recollections of past get-togethers with old classmates are enough
to make me begin preparations well in advance to take in all the
activities of the Twenty-fifth Reunion.

ROBERT LINCOLN COFFIN REIN’L

 

HOME ADDRESS: 444 Burgin St., Baton Rouge, La.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Philosophy Dept., Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge.
La.

BORN: Nov. 29, 1911, New York, N.Y. parents: Oswald Rein'l, Amy Fvadne
McCabe.

PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, Fieldston, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. Cu laude, 1934; A.M. tos, PHD.
1940.

MarRIED: Violett Robbins, June 26, 1934, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1941); Jane
Prescott, Sept. 10, 1946, Brooklyn, N.Y. cuHi~preN: Anne, April 2, rout (mt.
George R. Beck, Nov. 16, 1958); Linda, June 6, 1939; Katherine Prescort,
Sept. 9, 1949; Sarah Jean, Feb. 22, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Associate professor of philosophy.

OFFICES HELD: Member, executive committee, 1951-52, secretary-treasurer, tus: -
54, editor of Newsletter, 1952~—54, vice-president, 1955-$7. president, toss
58, Southwestern Philosophical Society; associate member, Fast-W est
Philosophers’ Conference, 1949.

MEMBER OF: American Philosophical Association; Southwestern Philosophical
Society; Southern Society for Philosophy and Psychology; Phoeniy Club
(L.S.U.).

PUBLICATIONS: Az Introductory Study of the Validating Forms of lufercnuce,
Lucas Bros., 1942; “Comparative Philosophy and Intellectual Voleranes.”
Philosophy East and West, January, 1953; “Naturalism and Supe rrvatur alsa
in East and West,” Philosophy East and Wrest, 1936, “The Lunn of
Utility,” Journal of Philosophy, 1956; “The Problem of Freedom,” Cr-
versity Forum, 1957; “The Value of Words and Terms,” Jadisn [nvestsare
of Culture, 1958.

MY reluctance to comment on the passing years is doubtless a wy thipe

[1130]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

tom of my desire not to recognize them. And this is ridiculous

because if one does not recognize the years, one will be recognized

by them. I wonder what some of my classmates feel as well as think

about time. Do values increase in time? If the present alone exists,

a portion of which is reserved for historians, then today’s values

may be greater than yesterday’s, but they do not include yesterday’s.
If the past also has a mode of existence, then values may mature. I
suppose it is almost instinctive to feel that values mature, that they
form a sort of organism. Instantaneous value as well as instantaneous
existence appears to be a fiction. But the past is not a fiction and in
a certain sense neither is the future. One wonders whether, if pres-
ent existence is nothing apart from a past and a future, present value
is anything in isolation and whether, if individual value — what 1s
found in conscious experience — becomes swallowed up in the course
of nature, it is even permissible to say that it once existed. Reflec-
tions of this sort introduce some people to religion, others to cyni-
cism, still others to the psychiatrist's couch. Some people are so dis-
ciplined that they never indulge in these reflections.

About the war: It was as exciting as a three-year visit to Texas
can be. I much preferred the East-West Philosophers’ Conference
which was held in Honolulu in June and July, 1949. Here extended
discussions brought in some cases genuine sympathy and mutual
understanding, There is to be another conference this year. I hope
that since the ice is broken, the work can be more intensive and pro-
gressive. The situation is ideal, an abundance of time, even for some
relaxation at Waikiki.

We have been mixing up the generations. My wife is sixteen
years older than my eldest daughter who just got married to a man
nearer my age than hers. Our younger daughter is six and hopes
that she will be an aunt by the age of seven.

[1132 ]

_—__|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CLIFFORD HOWARD RICH

 

HOME AppRESS: 14 Innes Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Blue & Rich, 8 W. goth St., New York 18, N.Y.

BORN; May 12, 1914, New York, N.Y. parents: Charles S. Rich, Sadie Levine.
PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., cu77 laude, 1934; LLB. 1937-

MarRIED: Sylvia Randolph, Dec. 23, 1944, Lawrence, N.Y. cumpren: Charles

Randolph, March 24, 1948, Constance Mary, March 23, 1951; Peter
Randolph, March 25, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Stanley Bernard Rich, M.B.a., ’48.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; partner in firm of Blue & Rich.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant U.S. Attorney, Southern District of New York, 1938-
39; lecturer, Institute on Federal Taxation, New York University, 1950-53;

president, 1953-55, trustee, since 1955, Westchester Reform Temple,
Scarsdale, N.Y.

MEMBER OF: Hlarvard Club of New York; Town Club; Association of the Bar

of the City of New York; New York County Lawyers’ Association; Ameri-
can Bar Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles on federal income tax problems published in
Tax Law Review, Prentice-Hall Tax Ideas and Proceedings of New York
University Annual Institute on Federal Taxation.

AFTER graduating from Harvard Law School, I started my legal
career at the top (first as law secretary to a judge of the U.S, Court
of Appeals, then as an Assistant U.S. Attorney ), and quickly worked
my way to the bottom by going into private practice on my own
in the late thirties. As a result of my several years as a government
lawyer, I became more interested in federal tax law than general
practice and soon gave up my own office in order to join a larger law

firm where I could get experience in the tax field. Possibly the regu-

Jar salary was even more of an inducement during this rather lean

period.

Since then I have devoted most of my time to the practice of tas

[ 1133 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

law, which offers a good deal of intellectual stimulation although
no opportunity for courtroom histrionics or “juicy” cases of the
human interest variety. It has also afforded me some purely academic
experiences, such as writing articles for various publications in the
tax field and delivering lectures at several of the New York Bar Asso-
ciations as well as at New York University’s Federal Tax Institute.

At present, I am a partner in a modest-sized law firm which is just
large enough to get me involved in a variety of interesting matters
without the necessity of doing “leg” work, and at the same time
small enough for me to know what is going on in the whole firm.
We have not, however, attained the stage of eminence of some of
the larger New York firms where it is necessary for the partners to
be formally introduced to young “so and so” who has been with the
firm for merely eight or ten years.

In 1944 I was married to Sylvia Randolph, a Canadian girl who
had come to New York. We have three children, born at fairly
wide intervals (the latest in 1955), so that for some years there has
been a young one in the family. This is supposed to keep one youth-
ful; it probably does mentally, but I am not so sure about the physical
aspects. It has also kept us pretty well confined to the home base.

After our first child was born, we joined the great exodus to the
suburbs and moved to Scarsdale, New York. I have maintained a
fairly active interest in local affairs, civic organizations, etc., which
take a substantial amount of what little time is left after work, com-
muting and raising a family. However, I do manage to get in a
bit of golf in the summer and bowling in the winter.

Even with the perspective of twenty-five years, it is somewhat
difficult to evaluate the many benefits which I feel are attributable
to a Harvard education; but if 1 were required to select the one
course which had the most value for me, I would choose lowly
English A, which not only gave me my first contact with the funda-
mentals of coherent organization of ideas, but also a taste for good
literature which has been a continuing source of pleasant recreation
ever since,

[ 1134 ]

J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JONATHAN BARLOW RICHARDS

  

HOME ADDRESS: 1109 Corning St., Red Oak, Iowa.

OFFICE aAbpRESS: Richards & Richards, 214 Coolbaugh St., Red Oak, Iowa.

BORN: Feb. 14, 1913, Red Oak, Iowa. parents: Paul William Richards, Srella
Erie Powell.

PREPARED AT: Red Oak High School, Red Oak, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1934; LL.B 1937.

MARRIED: Flizabeth E. Miller, Oct. 1, 1935, Providence, R.I. cHuprex: Jonathan
Barlow, 2d, July 19, 1936; Kathleen Miller, Aug. 1, 1939; Victoria Powell,
Sept. 18, 1941; Charles Emery, Dec. 11, 1046.

HARVARD SON: Jonathan Barlow Richards, 2d, ’58.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Red Oak Public Library.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Iowa, Southwestern Iowa and Montgomery
County Bar Associations; American Judicature Society; Omaha Athlete
Club; Antique Automobile Club of America; Horseless Carriage Club,
Auburn-Cord-Duesenberg Club.

AFTER graduation from the College, I went on to the Law School,
graduating with the Class of 1937. At the beginning of mv second
year in the Law School, Elizabeth Miller, Radclitfe ’34. and T were
married at Providence, Rhode Island. We have four children who
have been very much the center of our lives.

After Law School, I went down to Washington for a “vear of
experience.” The year turned into nearly a decade. In Seprember,
1941, after four years served in various legal positions with the old
HOLLC, I joined the group working with Leon Henderson on the
beginnings of price control. In early 1942 TI went to Atlanta as
Regional Price Attorney of OPA, in charge of the southern states.
As a damned Yankee with a completely Confederate statf, Espent an
exhausting but most satisfying two years. In March, 1944. when the
inevitable “Greetings” arrived, I turned over my tasks te ay as

[ 1135 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

sistant, repaired to Fort McPherson and on the eve of being sworn
in had my orders revoked along with other over-age destroyers.
Back again to Washington, then for service as Associate General
Counsel with OPA until my resignation in December, 1946. Being
fed up with Washington, I toyed with the idea of teaching ad-
ministrative law but determined that a teacher might have trouble
feeding four children, so came back to Red Oak and the family
law firm. My father, Judge Paul Richards, and I were associated
in practice until his death in 1956. My son, Jack, who graduated
from the College in 1958, and is now getting his military service
out of the way, has some idea of returning as the fourth generation
in the office here established by his great-grandfather Richards in
1867.

Middle age pleases me. The years are gone now in which one
was a phoney liberal and fewer and fewer “causes” seem worth the
effort. The middle years, too, have brought the full pleasure of
knowing one’s children as adults — three of them at least. Kathleen,
my elder daughter, a sophomore at Radcliffe, and Victoria, the
younger daughter, a freshman at Drake University, are still bring-
ing up father. Charles, the last one and still at home, has an easier
time with parents already well brought up.

Being a country lawyer has many compensations. One is close
to the problems and serves as a combination lawyer-psychiatrist
and father-confessor. It has provided a most comfortable way of
life in a small village, with every now and again a feeling that one
has done some good. It leaves time, salvaged from community and
social activities peculiar to the cities, to indulge one’s other inter-
ests. My elder son and I, through the years, have accumulated and
restored a fleet of antique, classic and sports automobiles which
delight us. One of my greater follies is an English MG roadster
that is the light of my life.

Looking back over the twenty-five years, I find they have been
very kind to me. The unpleasant things, and people, have been far
outweighed by the events and individuals bringing satisfaction and
pleasure.

I remain as firmly irreligious as I began. 1 remain a Democrat,
no longer certain that I have an answer for all the problems of a
very mixed-up world but quite certain that Ike and crew are also
quite without answers.

At this quarter-century mark Harvard troubles me. One of the
very satisfying events of this period was to attend my son’s gradu-

[ 1136 ]

ed

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ation this past June. The pleasure was diminished, however, by
the address of President Pusey at Baccalaureate and by the deluge
of Program for Harvard literature. Preoccupation with religion
does not seem to me the way toward answers in our time. Neither
can I agree that a bigger and bigger Harvard is the way. Am [in
the minority in feeling that religion, as such, has no place at Harvard
and that quality and the avoidance of quantity is the heart of
Harvard’s greatness? I cannot in conscience contribute to the ac-
complishment of the present programs. I am truly sorry that this
is true.

ARTHUR LEON BERTRAM RICHARDSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 37 Castle Ridge Rd., Manhasset, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sylvania Electric Products Inc. 17yo Broadway, New York
19, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 2, 1912, Schenectady, N.Y. parents: Arthur Howard Richardson,
Avis Larsen.

PREPARED AT: Schenectady High School, Schenectady, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: S.B, 1934; J.D. (George Wasbirgros
Univ.), 1939.

- MARRIED: Marjorie Helen Bush, May 16, 1931, New York, N.Y. cstiowes

Arthur B. L., April 22, 1935; Marion Katherine, July i, sya.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer, member of the Bars of District of Columbia and Stare
of New York; secretary and general counsel, Sylvania Fleetrie Produets bie

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, 1942-43, president, 1944, Grand Boulevard Asecutine,
Inc., Schenectady, N.Y.; manager, Patent Department, rags se, getter al
attorney, 1950-53, general counsel, since 1993, secretary, toca Nv bs ance
Electric Products Inc; president, Civic Association of Scrathinere
Vanderbilt, Inc., Manhasset, N.Y. 1949-50.

MEMBER OF: Phi Delta Phi; Order of the Coif; American Bar Awan cariee,
Association of the Bar of the City of New York; Amernean Parent tase

[ 1137 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Association; American Society of Corporate Secretaries; Harvard Club
of New York; Strathmore-Vanderbilt Country Club.
WE are enjoying life on Long Island, daily commuting to New
York, and for the past several years I have been working with my
colleagues in building a law department for a rapidly-growing and
diversified company.

After graduation, my wife and I set up housekeeping in Sche-
nectady where I spent one year on engineering test at General
Electric, and our son Arthur was born there in April, 1935. In the
summer of 1935, we moved to Washington, D.C., where I entered
the George Washington University Law School and also started
working in the field of patents. Our daughter Marion was born
there one hot Saturday in July, 1937. After graduation from law
school in 1939, 1 began practising patent law in Schenectady, New
York, and then after a short period in private practice of law in
Chicago, we came to New York in the spring of 1945.

Our son Arthur graduated from Fordham College this year and
he is continuing his studies in history in graduate school, and our
daughter Marion, having spent two years in a girls’ college in
Virginia, is now well on her way in the nurses’ training program
at Columbia University School of Nursing. So, it looks as if we
may wind up with a history professor and a nurse in our family,
which is fine with us.

As I look around me and attempt to look ahead, somehow I see
a distinct similarity between many of the problems which confront
us today and some of those which I well recall discussing in some
of our sessions in history and economics, as well as in bull ses-
sions at Eliot House: how to meet the forces of aggression abroad
and the forces of bigotry here at home. I may be a confirmed
optimist but, as I sit here, I feel that perhaps we are a little bit
further along in solving these problems than we were back in the
early 1930's.

[ 1138 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES PERRY RICHARDSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Cottage St., Brookline, Mass.

BORN: June 3, 1911, Brookline, Mass. parents: Henry Hyslop Richardson, ‘gs.
Elizabeth LeJee Perry.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Hobson Richardson, ’30.

OccUPATION: Retail merchandising.

ALTHOUGH very little of true moment has happened to me in
the course of the intervening years, life has held many rewarding
moments, and in the past months I have taken tremendous strides
toward a very hopeful future.

Off to a delayed start with farming and yearly association with
the Community Fund as my primary occupations, I joined the Na-
tional Guard in 1940, and had a chance to observe how the United
States can react when pressed, as our early training was with World
War I issue. Unfortunately, this head start was nullified by an
injury which would have been aggravated by the atmospheric con-
ditions in a murky fox-hole, and I was relegated to limited service
which resulted in my spending the next four years in the Induction
Service, briefing other men to fill the role originally destined for
myself. New Haven was my Tarawa and Prov idence my Bastogne?

Since 1946, I have spent most of my time in the vicinity of
Greater Boston, except for a year in Florida in 1952. Lam presently
employed at the Veterans Administration Hospital in Bedford, but
expect to have a new assignment by the time this report is pub-
lished.

Needless to say, I am looking forward with great anticipation to
renewing friendships with my Harvard classmates in June.

[1139 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

FRANCIS BOOTT RICHARDSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1302 South St., Needham, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS; 322 Newbury St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: March 15, 1911, Brookline, Mass. parents: Frederic Leopold William
Richardson, ‘99, Anne Blake.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.; Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter,
N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.

MarRiED: Camilla W. Moss, Dec. 5, 1946, New York, N.Y,

HARVARD BROTHERS: Arthur W. Richardson, ’28 (deceased); Francis Leopold
William Richardson, Jr., °31, PH.D. ’41; Joseph P. Richardson, 35, B-ARCH.,
*42; David Richardson, ’40, Julian H. Richardson, 743.

OCCUPATION: Painting and decorative finishes — administrative.

OFFICES HELD: Staff member, Carnegie Institution of Washington, 1935-453 special
employee and assistant legal attaché, Federal Bureau of Investigation, 1940-

45; executive vice-president, New England Chapter of the Arthritis and
Rheumatism Foundation.

PuBLications: “Non-Maya Monumental Sculpture of Central America,” 1940.

AFTER leaving college I spent a year traveling around the world
alone, working my way about half the time. Subsequently, as an
archaeologist for the Carnegie Institution I traveled and worked ex-
tensively in Mexico and Central America.

Before and during the war years, government work kept me ex-
clusively in Central and South America, except for three months
during 1945 when I was a special adviser to the United States dele-
gation at the San Francisco Conference. After the war and before
becoming associated a year ago with the painting firm of Edward
K. Perry, I organized Massachusetts in order to persuade the General
Court into appropriating $100,000,000 for better highways; helped
organize Massachusetts to raise money for the Arthritis and Rheu-
matism Foundation, and lastly again organized the state to persuade

[ 1140 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the Legislature into paying our voluntary or charitable hospitals full
costs or charges for patients for whom the state was responsible.

My current principal hobbies are limited to farming, music, politics
and foreign affairs, while my dislikes are conforming to the concept
of the “organization man,” large parties and crowds, and the Country
Club existence. :

RANDOLPH RICHARDSON

 

ADDRESS: 49 Brastow Ave., Somerville, Mass.

BORN: May 19, 1908, Chelsea, Mass. parENts: George Richardson, Lillian Clark.
PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933.

NO questionnaire returned.

MARVIN PAUL RICHMOND

 

HOME aAppress: 1204 W. zoth Terr., Kansas City, Mo.
OFFICE appREsS: 507 Waltower Bldg., Kansas City, Mo.

[rrgt ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

BORN: Sept. 27, 1913, Kansas City, Kans. PARENTS: Benjamin Richmond, Lena
Shanberg.

PREPARED aT: Westport High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., Cte laude, 1934; LL.B., 1937.

MarrieD: Helen Holt, March 16, 1945, Chicago, Ill. cutLpren: Brett Laroy,
July 27, 1947; Pamela Dee, Oct. 25, 1950. °

occuPATION: Tax and corporation attorney-at-law.

OFFICES HELD: From vice-president to secretary and member of board of
directors of numerous corporations. -

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Kansas City; Harvard Varsity Club, Zeta Beta
Tau; Real Estate Board of Kansas City; Missouri, Kansas City, and American
Bar Associations, Home Builders Association of Kansas City; Federal
Courts and Treasury Department, Board of Immigration Appeals; Tax
Court of the United States; Taxation Committees of Kansas City, State

of Missouri, and American Bar Association; admitted to practice in state
of Missouri.

UPON graduation, I returned to Kansas City, Missouri, and spent
the summer working for my relatives at the Hotel Muehlebach as
cashier in the Rendezvous, which is a cocktail lounge, This was
the beginning of my education as a bartender and connoisseur of
fine wines, liquors, Havana cigars, and other items customarily seen
in such an establishment. In September of 1934, I returned to the
Harvard Law School, where I spent the customary three years and,
in June of 1937, received an LL.B. degree. During the summers that
I was attending law school, I worked in the offices of a law firm in
Kansas City for a minimum of compensation.

On graduation from law school, I passed the Missouri bar exams
and the examination to practise in the Federal courts in Missouri.
Whereupon, my relatives persuaded me to learn the hotel business,
while handling all of the various corporations’ legal and tax matters.
During the course of the next five years, I worked in all of the dif-
ferent departments of some five hotels, and eventually became assist-
ant to the president. During these five years, my education con-
tinued, not only along tax and corporate lines, but also along the
lines referred to when I worked in the Rendezvous. It goes without
saying that I was still a single man. Lo and behold, World War Il
came along, and I was not deemed essential to the defense of the
hotels or any of its personnel. My draft board took charge of me
and, in May of 1942, 1 was Private Richmond, I spent approximately
one year at Ft, Leavenworth, Kansas, and at the Command and
General Staff School, most of which time I lived at home in Kansas
City, Missouri, and commuted to the fort. I did spend four pleasant
months as the social and administrative head of the Army’s orienta-

[ 1142 ]

t
:
E
:
i
{
:
:
j
3

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tion course where I became acquainted with such fine people as
William Patterson, president of United Airlines, P. K. Wrigley,
Wrigley Gum and the Chicago Cubs, Roy Larsen, president of Time
magazine, etc. The commanding general at Ft. Leavenworth didn’t
think much of my war efforts, and so I was urged to make applica-
tion for OCS, I was accepted by the Adjutant General's School,
which I attended at Ft. Washington, Maryland. Upon graduation
there, I was assigned to Tinker Field, Oklahoma, where I was an
assistant military assignment officer. After eight months there and
a promotion, I was picked in the first hundred officers in the Air
Force to engage in the program involving the termination of war
contracts. I then spent the next two years with headquarters in
Chicago, and had the pleasure of traveling throughout the United
States in our own plane and paying several hundred million dollars
in settlements as an Air Force captain and contracting officer.

Upon separation from the service in 1946, I returned to Kansas
City as a married man, where I opened my own law office. After
about two years of that, I was aware of the fact that I had a lot more
courage than intelligence, About that time, my wife and I became
draftsmen and architects and designed and built our own home. As
the years rolled by, I was able to convince a number of people and
business concerns that I knew more about taxes and corporation
law than they or their former representatives did. So, today, at
least I consider myself a success; in any event, I am paving lors of
income taxes and am most content to be my own boss. [ might add
that I have become involved in several business ventures, such as
construction, bowling, real estate, department store, etc. Oh, yes, as
a result of building our aforesaid home, we are now planning an-
other one soon — with the aid of a draftsman and architect. Inci-
dentally, if any of my classmates know of any good business deals,
please communicate at once.

Travels have included the usual vacation resorts and large cities
within the continental United States.

My hobbies are sports and cards; a challenge is hereby issued
to anyone attending the Reunion that my wife and I as a partnership,
or I individually, can defeat any of you at gin rummy. My favorite
drink is Haig & Haig Pinch on the rocks with a twist of lemon: if
you don’t have any Pinch, will take Chevais Regal, full bortles, please.
Our family specializes in patio life, and we prefer to do our cookin
over charcoal and hickory chips : —— and here's another ch: lense from

We have the best charcoal broiled steaks in the United States,

[ 1143 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

no samples: furnished; if anyone thinks he can do better, kindly
invite us.

For those of you who will not be fortunate enough to attend the
Reunion and are still reading this dissertation, I have a head full of
hair, although it is gray. I have not grown any in height, nor have
I grown any in the waistline, same being approximately thirty-one
inches. Weight is approximately 150 pounds, which is the same as
1 weighed twenty-five years ago when I was on the Harvard tennis
team. If any of you have done better than that, please furnish the
statistics.

In view of the fact that my secretary has become weary and bored,
all additional details and data will be furnished in person at the
Reunion by my wife Helen, son Brett, aged twelve, daughter Pamela,
aged nine, and me, the good Lord willing. All questions will be

answered without pleading the Fifth Amendment or any of the other
usual constitutional defenses.

WILLIAM RICKEL

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 522 Grand Ave., Dayton 5, Ohio.

BORN: Feb. 2, 1912, Wallkill, N.Y. parents: George Rickel, Eva Pauline
Stablein,

PREPARED AT: Wilmington High School, Wilmington, Del.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1934; B.D. (Colgate-
Rochester Divinity School), 1945.

Marrigp: Doris Lorimer Mode.

occupation: Psychoanalyst in private practice.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, 1946-47, member of board, 1947-51, Montgomery
County Mental Health Association; president, Dayton Chapter, Fellow-
ship of Reconciliation, 1946-47, member, Commission on the Ministry
to Returning Service Men and Women of the Federal Council of Churches

L144 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
of Christ in America, 1946-47; member of board, Ohio Awsoratnen of
Community Churches, 1946-47, Dayton Chapter, American Cavill bitberties

Union. -
MEMBER OF: American Association of Social Workers; Hlarvard Clubs of New

York and Dayton, Southwest Ohio Association of Congreganonal Chranan
Churches and Ministers, Dayton Chapter, Save the Children Federstion,

War Resisters League.
PUBLICATIONS: Backward River: A Dramatic Poe, 1936, “Success: Que Great -

est Failure,” Christian Advocate, Jan. 8, 1953; “Psychotherapy as a Re-
ligious Process,” Journal of Psychotherapy as a Religious Process, Volos,
January, 1954; “Psychotherapy as Moral Growth,” ibid. editor, forsrnad
of Psychotherapy as a Religious Process.

PERHAPS it was the depression of the early thirties that ever since
graduation has given me the push to want to help people. First it
was social work, beginning with the New York School of Soil
Work. After an interlude, I went on to the Pennsylvania Se heal
of Social Work. This experience propelled me into learming
psychotherapy, fulfilling an underlying desire for my own inns
growth, I am sure. After analysis, 1 moved toward private practice
as a religiously oriented psychotherapist, taking on the way a
Bachelor of Divinity degree at Colgate-Rochester Divinity School
in 1945 and ordination in the Congregational Christian minatry.
Fate sent me to Dayton, “where my wife and I have been in private
practice ever since. This is a sketchy outline of the story, meat
and bones of which is the seeking for a deeper meaning im hive
than education and family had provided.

My interests have been primarily intellectual, such as a cern
tinuing preoccupation with poetry. I published one short volhune
in 1956, Backward River. A- natural timidity has prevented my
mailing out my verse for publication except on one occasen when
it came back! Music, reading and art round out the culcural con-
cerns of my life. Sport has always bored me, except, of course,
the fascinating sport of sailing.

There isn’t much more to tell. T have a profound distrust in
movements and causes; and have decided that to try te chance a
world is like battling the incoming waves. The evil in man a!
too obvious a condition of life; though inthe profoundest sete,

love conquers all.

[ rigs ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

JOHN PENROSE RIESMAN

 

HOME Appress: “Hearthstone,” Boston Post Road, Branford, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 57 Trumbull St., New Haven, Conn.

BORN: June 5, 1912, Elkins Park, Pa. parents: David Riesman, Eleanor Louise
Fleisher.

PREPARED AT: Bedales School, Petersfield, England.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; M.D. (Univ. of Pennsylvania),
1938.

marrieD: Margaret Haynes Cope, Aug. 5, 1942, Orange, Mass. cHitp: Janet
Ann, Feb. 5, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Riesman, ’31, LL.B., 734.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon. |

OFFICES HELD: Assistant attending surgeon, Grace-New Haven Community
Hospital, since 1948; assistant surgeon, Dept. of Student Health, Yale
University, 1948-58.

MEMBER OF; American College of Surgeons; Connecticut Society of American
Board Surgeons; New Haven City Medical Association; Beaumont Medical
Club (Yale); Alpha Omega Medical Society; Alpha Mu Pi Omega Medical
Fraternity (Penn); Branford Yacht Club; New Haven Colony Historical
Society; Harvard Club of New Haven.

STARING at the broad black two-page sheet for the Class Life and
vondering how to begin my story of twenty-five good years, I was
nterrupted in my meditation by my loyal helpful wife Peggy. Said
she, “Why don’t you tell them Our Story of Fives?” So if it won't
stretch the Class credulity, here is an essay on Riesman numerology.

I was born on the 5th of June, which is a good place to start.
was born the son of a physician who was also a teacher and in-
iced a lover of the practice of medicine and this resulted in my
roing to medical school at Pennsylvania, where my Dad ‘was a
srofessor. I spent two summer vacations as an intern with the
Zrenfell Mfedical Mission in Northern Newfoundland and Labra-

[ 1146 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

dor. These were exciting days and I became interested in surgery
and also worked in some sailing and cruising, my old favorite
hobby, aboard various Mission craft. But the most important event
in the Northland was meeting my future wife. Peggy was also a
volunteer, serving at the remote Grenfell post of Flower’s Cove.
We were married in the sth year of a long courtship, on August
sth.

After getting my M.D. degree I spent five years at Old Blockley.
That is the affectionate term used for the Philadelphia General
Hospital. I had two years of internship there and three years of
general surgical residency training with increasing responsibility
on its busy ward service. I spent three years in the Navy, mostly
in the amphibious force. I was the only medical officer on a British
cruiser, HMS Capetown, during the Normandy invasion, caring
for U.S. and U.K. personnel aboard. It was a grandstand seat for
the show, on this crowded headquarters ship anchored off the
beaches. My remaining Navy life was spent at St. Albans Naval
Hospital just outside New York City.

Peggy and I bought an old Friendship sloop and lived aboard her
during ‘the warmer half of the year 1945, at nearby Port Wash-
ington, Long Island, but did not get sea-duty pay for that! It was
fun, and a quieter anchorage than off “Omaha” beach. Then, on
December 15th, we discovered, on an auto tour into Connecticut,
a lovely old farmhouse known as the Edward Frisbye Homestead
(The Hearthstone). It was built in 1685 by the first of that name —
Frisby, Frisbee, or Frisbie— to come to America, The old place
had been vacant for five years.

Our daughter was born on February 5, 1946, at 8:55, weighing
in at 5 lbs. 5 oz. On May 5th we moved into our run-down 260-
year-old split-level and rolled up our sleeves. The Hearthstone has
five fireplaces but the ancient hearthstones were falling into the
cellar due to crumbling supports.

On April 25, 1952, we sold our aging Maine-buile sloop, the
Peggoty, declaring a moratorium on boats in this family. Bue my
wife said I was both grumpy and grouchy around the house without
a boat and soon she promoted Sunday afternoon drives to boatyardys
and brokers. On July sth, we launched our new boat, the Golden
Eye, a handsome modern thirty-four-foot auxiliary sloop, also built
Down East. By this time our passion for the water and for Maine
was such that we wanted a foothold on her rocky shores. We
found just what we wanted on September 15, 1952. Ic Was a tiny

[ 1147 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

five-room cottage. We try to be there, or on our boat, every
August the 5th at five minutes of five in the afternoon, our weddin

anniversary minute. Sometimes, however, we have been holed in
along the coast en route from Connecticut to Maine at that moment.

This has been great fun and good living, but my growing practice
of surgery in New Haven has left less and less time for such pleasant
time-outs. I even had to give up ministering to the injuries of the
Yale freshman football teams because of “busy-ness” and because
of wrenching loyalties pulling me apart at H-Y game time. Now I
can sit on the Harvard side of the Bowl or the Stadium in a genuine
self-paid-for seat. And yell! I] hope to do that this year in Cam-
bridge and hope the score will be Harvard 55, Yale o.

My twelve-vear-old daughter goes to a private academy in
nearby New Haven and I drive her i in every morning in my little
Fiat. Janet has more unassorted information in her bean than I
had as a Gore Hall freshman, in spite of her being about the only
girl in the school with no TV at home. Never have bought one of
those fascinating gadgets. When I do, it will probably have a
twenty-five-inch screen.

I look forward to my Twenty-fifth and my Fiftieth, largely be-

cause I missed my Fifth, Tenth, Fifteenth and other multiples of
Five.

EDWARD HARRISON RIGG

 

HOME appress: 12 Lloyd Ave., Malvern, Pa.
OFFICE appress: Pennsylvania Railroad, 15 N. 32d St., Philadelphia, Pa.

BORN: Sept. 10, 1912, Philadelphia, Pa, parenrs: Horace Abram Rigg, Caroline
Maud Wynkoop.

prepare ar: Radnor High School, Wayne, Pa.
[ 1148 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: 8.B., cum laude, 1944.

mMarRRIED: Mary S. Kenyon, Oct. 3, 1934, Philadelphia, Pa. crntomen Sarah
Elizabeth, June 10, 1935 (a7. Glenn Funkhouser, June 14, tose), CGoardbser
Kenyon, Dec. 18, 1939; David Mayhew, Jan. 8, 1946, John Bellaniw, Npet

II, 1947.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Horace Abram Rigg, Jr. °31, A.Ma “32. Pro. (yt. Rihord

Wynkoop Rigg, 733.
occupation: Methods engineer, computer projects, Pennsylvania Railroad
MEMBER OF: Railway Systems and Procedures Association.
DURING four years at Harvard, concentrating In mathematics,
and working my way by private tutoring, my sole ambition was
to teach in public schools —a new, more interesting and exci:
approach to mathematics. I felt many had been soured an math
merely from the method of its presentation, its lack of stimulaties
and inspiration. Much to my surprise, after graduating, I discovercd
Harvard College was not qualified to have prepared me to teach
in public schools. I had no time, means, or inclination to go te
“normal” state schools in order to get qualified. 1 was alo con.
vinced these were the schools which arranged to dull the sulycct
matter and brighten the ways to get along without thinking. Bein:
a normal person, I have often laughed at the ‘ ‘shortage of Coaches”
cry and the fact that they still don’ t care to have Harvard graduates
in public schools!

Somehow the thought struck that the teaching profession hos
little idea of the real world. I wanted to experience what was Ey the
real world, so I went into business. Specifically, I went into parlsead
operation, becoming a yardmaster and trainmaster during a twenty.
year period. Having been moved over tw enty tines, having werked
seven days a week, on call twenty -four hours a dav, seciny ona real
improvement in the “working ‘conditions of railroad « Oper at,
management” (management has had to take the squcere tn raecen
organized labor and unfair competition), and takin the brunt of
the conflict between college men and non-colleye men, P took as
opportunity to transfer, having figured T had learned enor et tos
hard real world of operation.

For the past three years T have been working on projouts tor an &
puters, along with some responsibility to tram a cmipess pcs

organization. My operating experience, mvomaty bag kore abo
a bent to teach, make me feel qualified. The semblinge eta
hour week and a phone ringing that docs not mem trot «

times seems unreal!
Over the ycars, our family has enjoved bikie and cis |

[ bl49 ]

ena | —

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

the Adirondacks, about fourteen different schools (how different! ),

Boy Scouts, Little League Baseball, farming, city life, politics,

suburban life, fishing, bow and arrow hunting, and the other usual
sports. Our oldest daughter will soon graduate Mary and me to the
grandparent class. Other than the fact that, as witnessed by all the
neighbors, I recently trounced my eleven-year-old in the “hundred-
yard dash” which he brazenly figured I couldn’t do—and my
wife’s anxious observations revealed she must have had the same
idea —I have no athletic achievements, but do enjoy hiking, swim-
ming and tennis.

As I am not a literary soul, I was delighted to have published an
article of mine on the “Length of Freight Trains.” ‘The article
combined some calculus, railroad operating experience, and values
of freight with movement. It caused scarcely a ripple here, but
was reprinted in Europe and noticed in Mexico. To my friends I
boast of being an international author!

During the war I never made a uniform, but did volunteer and
was told to stay on the job here at home. The job was about a
seventy-six-hour week for five years helping freight move along
the eastern seaboard and trying to keep passengers moving on Long
Island with insufficient manpower and equipment. I don’t regret it
but often thought it would have been nice to have had one uniform.

Harvard — the friendships made during those years — the experi-
ences in classes with great minds — and the knowledge acquired —
are lifelong values and memories. How I wish more could experi-
ence such a life.

KENNETH LLOYD RILEY, JR.

  

HOME AppreEss: 34 Beekman PL, New York, N.Y,
[1150]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
OFFICE AppRESS: George Kaufman Associates, 521 Fifth Ave. New York ¢>,

N.Y.
BORN: June 3, 1912, Allentown, Pa. parents: Kenneth Lloyd Riley, ‘o8, Bertha

Mavis Crowther.
PREPARED AT: Ludlow High School, Ludlow, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932, 1934~1936.
MARRIED: Ruth Ann Chapin, Nov. 24, 1938, Cranston, R.I.
Chapin, May 25, 1947.
OCCUPATION: Management consultant; partner, George Kaufman, Associates.
OFFICES HELD: Chief industrial engineer, Cannonsburg Steel & Iron Co. tags,
plant manager, Bohn Aluminum & Brass, 1953, director, management ¢n-
New Haven Railroad, 1955; vice-president and secretary.
Inc., 1958; partner, George Kaufman & Awocutey

aun: Thomas

gineering,
George Elliott Co.,

since 1958.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Rhode Island; Society for the Advancement of

Management; American Arbitration Association — arbitrator.
pusLicaTions: “Time Study Engineering Manual”, “Multiple Regression Analy -

sis for Complex Work Measurement”; ; “Supervi ision and Indirect Incen:

tives”; “Effective Industrial Cost Control”; “Production Control for the

Small Company.”

WHILE my life since college might seem rather uninteresting to
many, I have found a great deal of satisfaction and interest in solv.
ing management problems at all levels. Eventually wound up as a
partner ina management consulting firm where we have all kinds of
situations to deal with in promoting management along profitable
lines. Needless to say, human relations have become intimately cn-
tangled with the management engineering — and the position be-
tween management and the union is never dull — but very rewardims
when handled successfully.

The family life has been a most satisfactory one even though I have
but one son to show for it (that must not be the measure of success
in that area). However, he is all I'd hoped for ina son and T took
for great things in him. The war record was brief but all Uncte
asked for —a short hitch in the Naval Reserve as a classification

specialist.

[rise |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

THEODORE JAMES RIPLEY

 

HOME Appress: 1509 Wellesley Drive, Glendale 5, Calif.
OFFICE appRESs: Vernon Paving Co., 3200 E. Vernon Ave., Los Angeles, Calif.

BoRN: March 6, 1911, Bethel, Vt. parents: James Fullam Ripley, Blanche A.
Lyford.

PREPARED AT: Mount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1930-1933.

MakRIED: Barbara Mossman, May 24, 1933, Dover, N.H. (divorced 1943); Jane
Arrowsmith, November, 1943, Arlington, Va. (divorced 1946); Geraldene
Burr, Sept. 6, 1946, San Diego, Calif. cr nren: Theodore James, 3d, Feb. 9,
1934 (mm. Beverly Slack, Dee. 29, 1957); Lee Ellen, May 5, 1935 (a1. Jerold
Pusch, May, 1956); Pamela Jane, July 9, 1947; Stephen Paul, April 16, 1949
(died April 17, 1949); James Patrick, Dec. 5, 1950; Richard Fullam, July 2,
1952; David Burr, June 8, 1955; Michael Lyford, June 10, 1958. GRAND-
CHILDREN: Debbie Pusch, March, 1957; Brenda Pusch, September, 1958.

CCUPATION; Construction superintendent, Vernon Paving Company.

FFICES HELD: Sceretary-treasurer, 1955-56, president, 1956-57, Glendale (Calif.)
Chapter, Reserve Officers’ Association.

IEMBER OF; Society of American Military Engincers; Reserve Officers Associa~
tion; Post 343, Los Angeles, American Legion; Harvard Club of Los An-

geles.
OBS were hard to get in 1933, but I managed to catch on as a
vil engineer in Worcester, Massachusetts. The ensuing seven
cars of alphabet soup days were spent in the civil engineering
cld. There also seemed to be plenty of time for sports — baseball,
asketball, football, golf —and kids. Then came the prewar con-
ruction boom. This led to travel and work up and down the
stern seaboard and eventually into the Caribbean and South
merica. Having been commissioned overseas as a lieutenant in
e U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, I proceeded to spend the next
ree years plus with an Engineer Combat Battalion, This involved
ty in Puerto Rico, continental United States, Southwest Pacific,

[ 1152 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Philippines and Japan — and eventually command and deactivation
of the battalion.

Upon return to the States, it should have been obvious that there
is nothing a man needs more as a steadying influence than a good
wife and a large family. Work seemed secondary — but noncthe-
less, necessary. And so the last twelve years have been spent in the
general construction field. During this time, the family has in-
creased on schedule, leaving too few hours for outside activities.
What time there is seems to be more than consumed by Army Re-
serve training duties as a lieutenant colonel in the engineering sec-
tion of a Logistical Command.

If there is any truth in the old saying that association with
young people makes one feel young no matter what his age, my
activities with the YAICA Indian Guides, YWCA swimming classes,
etc., should keep me at my hula-hooping best. However, in case |
get too gay, there are always the grandchildren to remind me I'm

gray!

ANDREW ELIOT RITCHIE

 

ee e

  

HOME aporess: High Street, Medfield, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Kendall Co., Walpole, Mass.
BORN: Dec. 6, 1912, Brookline, Mass. parents: Andrew Fhor Ritchie, Helen
Louise Hurd.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Grace Putnam Powel, Feb. 27, 1942, Providence, R.L caine. d.!
ward Samuel, Aug. 7, 1947; Robin, April 8, 1949; Flisabeth, July ag. tase
occupation: Merchandising industrial fabrics, Kendall Company, manutactesc:
of diversified textile products.

[ 1153 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I 934

EDWARD FRANCIS RITGER

 

HOME AppREss: 302 N, 11th St, Newark, N.J.
BorN: Aug. 22, 1912, Newark, N.J. parents: Peter F. Ritger, Mary E. Conroy.

PREPARED AT: Barringer High School, Newark, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., U7 laude, 1934.

UNMARRIED,

HARVARD BROTHER; Frank Joseph Ritger, °35, M.B.A., °37.

OCCUPATION: Retired.

IN my case the years have sped by uneventfully. I have the im-
pression that most of my time has been devoted to hard work in sev-
>ral fields of business. I'served in the Army, 1942-46 (Central Burma
campaign). Nowadays I am usually to be found in California.

OLIVER WOLCOTT ROBBINS

 

DRESS: 1§5 Booth Lane, Haverford, Pa.
RN: May 5, 1911, Ardmore, Pa. parents: George 8. Robbins, Virginia Coley.

zEPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.; Haverford School, Haverford,
Pa.

[ 1156 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.
occupation: Manufacturing.

NO questionnaire returned.

WARREN DELANO ROBBINS

  

HOME apprESs: 61 rue d’Anjou, Paris, France.

OFFICE apprEss: % Morgan & Cie, Inc., 14 Place Vendome, Paris 1, France.

BORN: May 26, 1911, Paris, France. parents: Warren Delano Robbins, ‘o&, Irene
de Bruyn.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Margarita A. Dudley, Nov. 19, 1949, Paris, France. cHiLpREeN: Eliza.
beth Genevieve Irene, Nov. 27, 1953; Warren Delano, 3d, July 17, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Hutchinson Robbins, °35 (deceased).

occUPATION: Banking, assistant secretary, Morgan & Cie., Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer and director, Fondation des Etats-Unis, University of
Paris; treasurer, American Chamber of Commerce in France.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; The Travellers, Paris, France.

NOTHING much to report since our last publication fer the Twen-
ticth Reunion. Since then, however, our son, now aged two and a
half, was born and my wife and I have purchased a tiny place in
the country some forty miles from Paris. This keeps us busy in the
spring and summer, but I leave most of the gardening to my w ile
who ts an expert while I am a hopeless blunderer, We sull try to
ski in the winter but I become more cautious as the years advance.
Needless to say, our Paris flat will always welcome classmates on
their way through this city.

[1157 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ROBERT ROBERTSON, III

 

HOME ADDRESS: 110 Asbury St., South Hamilton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Shawmut Bank, 4o Water St., Boston, Mass.

30RN: May 19, 1911, Beverly, Mass. parents: Robert Robertson, Jr., Merle Ken-
dall Grant.

REPARED AT: Tilton Academy, Tilton, N.H.

“EARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931. DEGREE: A.B. (Colby Coll.), 1934.

"NMARRIED,

CCUPATION: Assistant manager, Credit Department, National Shawmut Bank of
Boston.

HAVE been with the National Shawmut Bank ever since gradu-
tion from college — except World War II service in the Army,
‘om 1942 until December, 1945.

CHARLES SAMUEL LORD ROBINSON

 

AE ADDRESS: Box 54, West Newton 65, Mass.
ICE AppRESS: Shipbuilding Division, Bethlchem Steel Co., Quincy 69, Mass-

[ 1158 ]

| 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
BorN: March g, 1912, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Charles Prosser Robinson, ‘#1,
Margaret Alma Lord.

PREPARED AT: Kiskiminetas Springs School, Saltsburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934, DEGREES: a.B., cu laude, 1934, $M 196.

Marrigp: Margaret Joan Farrar-Hutton, 1941 (divorced 1949). cat: Samuel
Farrar, May 19, 1942.

occupation: Engineering.

MEMBER oF: American Society of Mechanical Engineers; Society of Naval Ar-
chitects and Marine Engineers; American Society of Naval Enginecry,

American Nuclear Society; Harvard Engineering Society.
PUBLICATIONS: Technical papers.

MY engineering employment has been continuous. It has been with
the following corporations:

General Electric Company, July, 1935, to July, 1941, in several
large apparatus engineering departments.

Bethlehem Steel Company, August, 1941, to December, 1984, nn
the central technical group for shipbuilding,

Westinghouse Electric Company, January, 1955, to August, 1957
in the atomic power division.

Bethlehem Steel Company, since September, 1957, in a shipbuilding
nuclear project.

Thus I have become acquainted with technical problems in these
industries: steel, electrical, marine and nuclear.

There are two discourses which I would like to make: On
fringe benefits to stockholders which are dependent upon fair labor
relations, and on the importance to Harvard College of the excellent
graduate schools.

HORACE BROOKES BLACKWELL ROBINSON

 

HOME appress: 1165 Fifth Ave., New York za, N.Y.

[1159]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

York 5, N.Y.

BoRN: July 18, 1912, Pompton Lakes, N.J. Parents: Alfred Brookes Robinson,
Ethyl Brown Blackwell,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

oFFice apprEss: Dewey, Ballantine, Bushby, Palmer & Wood, 40 Wall St, New

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931, 1932-1935. DEGREES: A.B., Cum laude, 1934(35); LLB.
(Fordham Univ.), 1940.

marriep: Henrietta Truesdell, Nov. 1, 1941. CHILDREN; Edward Truesdell, Jan.
28, 1943; Thomas Drew, Sept. 24, 1946, John Howland, May 29, 1951.

oocuPATION: Lawyer; partner in law firm of Dewey, Ballantine, Bushby, Palmer
& Wood.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, since 1955, president, 1958, New York Exeter Alumni
Association; member, 1952-55, president, 1955, board of deacons, elder,

since 1956, Brick Presbyterian Church, vice moderator, Presbytery of the
City of New York, 1958-59.

MEMBER OF; American Association of the Bar of the City of New York, New
York State and New York County Bar Associations, Harvard Club of New

York, Down Town Association, Cold Spring Harbor Beach Club, Lloyd
Harbor Bath Club.

ALTHOUGH officially in the Class of 1934, I did not actually grad-
uate from college until June, 1935, because I was out of college
working in New York for fifteen months between my freshman and
sophomore years,

After graduation in June, 1935, I took the summer off with
my family at Martha's Vineyard. In the fall, I started work
with the National Distillers Products Corporation in the accounting
department. In February, 1936, I changed jobs to work for the City
Bank Farmers Trust Company in the corporate trust department.
During the winter of 1936, | took some evening courses at New
York University in security analysis and accounting.

In the fall of 1936, I began night law school at Fordham in the
Woolworth Building downtown on lower Broadway. We had
classes from six to eight two nights a week, and from six to nine
two nights a week, I was then still living with my family in Mont-
clair, New Jersey, but I found working during the day, going to
night law school and commuting much too exhausting. So, in 1937, |
began to live in New York in apartment setups with school students
and friends. In addition, I wanted to establish a New York residence
in order ultimately to practise law in the city.

After my first year in law school, I was promoted at the bank
from an operating section to the corporate trust administration sec-
tion, in part because I was going to law school and legal training
is so valuable for corporate trust work. Night law school takes four -

[ 1160 ]

251TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

years to complete, if you do not take courses during the summer,
or three years if you go during summers also. Since it is such a
rugged program, I took the summers off from classes for a respite
and change. One summer I lived on a forty-six-foot ketch sailboat
that two other friends and I chartered. We moored the boat at the
American Yacht Club in Rye, and I commuted to work via rowboat,
car, train and subway. We had a wonderful summer of sailing.

I completed law school in June of 1940 and took my New York
bar examinations that month, After receiving word in the fall that
I had passed the examinations, I talked with our classmate Bill
Wemple, who was then working for Cravath, Swaine & Moore.
about the possibility of a legal job with that firm. I had always
wanted to practise Jaw and now had the opportunity. Thus, when
I found they had an opening for me, I left the bank in November
of 1940 and went to that office. Incidentally, I took nearly a one
hundred per cent salary cut at the time.

In November, 1941, I married Henrietta Truesdell, who had been
brought up in New York City. We lived in an apartment in New
York and our first boy, Edward Truesdell Robinson, was born in
January of 1943.

It was not until the spring of 1943 that my turn for war service
appeared to be likely. I applied for a commission in the Navy but
found my nearsightedness made me unavailable for active ‘duty.
When Bill W emple and his associates who were then in the Bureau
of Aeronautics in the Office of General Counsel of the Navy De-
partinent heard of my nearsightedness, they had me commissioned
in ten days in the Navy as a lieutenant (j.g.), in a special category
called “Legal Volunteer Service.” It seems that at that time the
Navy had “this special category for lawyers who were otherwise
physically fic but not qualified for active duty because of near-
sightedness. Thus, I met the specifications and got processed in
record time by the Navy bureaucracy without any need for physical
or other waivers. I spent from May, 1943, to January, 1946, in the

Bureau of Aeronautics in the office of general counsel for the Nav v
doing legal procurement work, including facilities and procurement
contracts for airplane and airplane parts, as well as other general
legal administrative work. Although we worked hard, six ‘days a
week and ten hours a day, we really had a comparativ ely easy and
comfortable war service since we were able to have our famili
with us in Washington and environs and we alw: avs had Sunde WN art

When I returned to New York, I switched from the practiog «af

[ 1161 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

MAURICE ROBINSON

sagen NAP eHG, ea

pee vest agente

  

HOME ADDRESS: 10 Browne St., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Henry M. Robinson & Co., Inc., 537-541 Tremont St., Boston,
Mass.

BORN: June 15, 1910, Roxbury, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Edward Robinson, Rose
Gertrude Silbert.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School and English High School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.
UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Leo Robinson, ’28, M.B.A., °30; Joseph Robinson, 729, LLB.,
’32; Samuel Robinson, 36; Robert Robinson, ’42.
occUPATION: Florist and insurance broker.

CHRONOLOGICALLY speaking, twenty-five years is not a long
time, but it really represents a good third of one’s life. After being
graduated from college, I entered the insurance field and began
working as an agent for the State Mutual Life Assurance Company.
In a short time I became an insurance broker, and later on a title
examiner.

While pursuing assiduously this type of business activity, the
federal government felt it had a greater need for my services, and
like everybody else I was a paid tourist in uniform for a small
stipend — my army career was to take me from the swamps of
Georgia to the hedgerows of Normandy. After two years of guard-
ing the southern littoral section of this country, I was shipped with
18,000 other personnel aboard the Queen Mary (and on Easter Sun-
day, April, 1944!) to Greenock, Scotland, and then to the coastal
part of England, bordering on the Channel. Our anti-aircraft outfit
(the ggist Automatic Weapons Battalion) had the pleasure of com-
bating the “buzz-bomb” in the Battle of England. Then came Nor-
mandy and Germany. History I became real (“Remember, gentle-

[ 1164 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

men, unify”). My collegiate knowledge of French and Gere sr
paid off in repasts (of course, gratis) and gracious frauleins, With
the subjugation of our ardent adversaries, I was relegated to the
military government of Germany, not because I knew German, or
concentrated in history, government and economics, but because |
was the next replacement from an army “Repple-Depple.” “That's

the Army.
On returning to the U.S.A., I went to work for Northeastern

Products, Inc., then a large distributor of chemical products, At
present, I am employed by Henry M. Robinson & Company, Inc.
Boston wholesale floral supply distributors.

Whatever spare time I find, I use in traveling throughout this
country and only a year ago I went back to Europe to find cond.
tions entirely changed, and would never think that only a few vcars
ago a great war was fought there.

Having a quasi-passionate penchant for etymology, T have been
working, on and off, on a word study book, titled “What's Ube
Connection?”

In retrospect, and recalling the last twenty-five yeary (which
passed like the wind), my philosophy has remained about the sane,
in an ever-changing cosmos. However, I feel we have somethin:
deficient in the life of our people — in our long search for truth
and material comforts, our institutions, educational and otherw Ise,
have not touched the common man. Americans don’t scem to have
a “modus vivendi.”

I do enjoy the Class Reunions and hope in June to meet those
classmates who have by circumstances wandered away from us. Per-
haps the next twenty-five years will bear the greatest Fruity.

[ 1165 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934.

THOMAS ANTHONY ROBINSON

 

ME AbpRESS: 76 Beekman St., Plattsburg, N.Y.
Fick abpress: Robinson & Holcombe, 35 Clinton Sr. Plartsburg, N.Y.
April 25, 1912, Saranac Lake, N.Y. parents: Anthony Bernard Robinson,
Mary Ellen Finnegan.

PARED AT; Saranac Lake Eligh School, Saranac Lake, N.Y.

RS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B, ct laude, 1934; LL.B. 1937.

HREM: Alice I. Brennan, May 14, 1938, Saranac Lake, N.Y. CHILDREN: Bar-

bara Fllen, April 4, 1939; Mary Ellen, Oct. 29, 1942; Claire Ellen, Jan. 9,
1952.

ARD BROTHER: Fdward Anthony Robinson, ’32, A.M, 34, PH.D. 50.

"PATION: Lawyer.

ces Heip: Advocate, Plattsburg Council, 1938-42, faithful navigator, Bishop
Williams Assembly, Fourth Degree, 1947-48, Knights of Columbus, presi-
lent, Clinton County Bar Association, 1948-49; council member, Platesburg
tate Teachers College, sinee 1956; trustee, New York Supreme Court Li-
rary, since 1956, member, Committce on Negligence Litigation, 1953-54
committee on Elighway Safety and Related Problems, since 1958, New
‘ork State Bar Association,
ark or; American, New York State and Clinton County Bar Associations;
Tks; Knights of Columbus.
cations: Light verse, The New Yorker magazine.

september, 1934, [ returned to Cambridge, uncertain as to
her to enter the Business School or Law School. My original
n to study law had been somewhat deflected by the sage advice
typical “T hate Roosevelt” tycoon, to the effect that lawyers
a dime a dozen. Also, arrangements had been made for me, as
liocre but persev ering long-distance runner, to earn a goodly
n of my tuition and other expenses by plodding a few hours
yon a ‘treadmill at an adjunct of the Business School, com-
referred to as the “Fatigue Lab.” I looked up the assistant
‘also an ex-trackman) who had made the deal and he led me

[ 1166 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

through labyrinthine depths to meet the professor in charge of
Operation Treadmill.

Peering through the maze of scientific apparatus, my nostrils as-
sailed by the fumes of formaldehyde and of other exotic essences, 1
saw the good man of science extracting a blood specimen from a
nondescript mongrel. In the course of being properly introduced
to the professor and the dog, I discovered (1) that the canine was
to be my running companion, and (2) that the hours of experimenta-
tion were to be doubled without a corresponding increase in re-
muncration (at least, not for me). “Yes, Robinson,” the professor
said, “we're expecting great things from you fellows this year.”
His gaze swept in my four-legged pal with a gleam somewhat
reminiscent of one of Boris Karloff’s better impersonations. At this
juncture, the dog emitted a prescient howl. Mumbling something

©
about my doubts at being able to fill the bill, I fled the premises, my

amateur status unimpaired, and sped to the Law School to register.
In the exhilaration of relief, I subscribed twice to the Crimson, and
signed up for three laundry and pressing services..

In my final year in law school, I was hired by one of the larger
New York City legal firms. I was invited to meet my immediate
superior-to-be, the “trial man.” For fifteen minutes, while he gulped
an assortment of varicolored pills which he described as specific for
nerves, ulcers and other ailments, he discoursed on the glories of
practice in the metropolis. I headed for a small upstate community.

Here I have remained. Here I brought my wife, wondering un-
necesarily if she would like life in the sticks. Here our children
have been born and reared to varying stages of maturity. Here the
small successes and failures have been gained or sustained. All in
all, an idyllic twenty-plus years, interrupted only by the war.

One bleak wintry morning I sat opposite the personnel man, who
must have been a sibling of my old tycoonish friend. “Cripes, an-
other lawyer,” he muttered. “Lawyers and accountants we ain't
got nothing for.” While I considered suggesting that if such were
the unfortunate case, I should be willing to return home until some-
thing in my line turned up, he suddenly announced that my mechan-
ical aptitude score was such (good or bad, I know not) that the
Anti-Aircraft Artillery was the place for me. The AAA was a
wonderful outfit and considered itself the elite of the Army Ground
Forces. This opinion was not shared by higher echelons, “however,
and eventually our unit was transferred to the Infantry and pointed
in the direction of the Bulge. At this pass, mirabile dic fl, an apph-

[ 1167 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

cation which I had made without official encouragement to the Judge
Advocate General's Department was accepted, the War Department
having apparently realized belatedly that you can’t win a major war
without the legal profession, or, if you do, it is indeed a hollow
victory. After several weeks of tutelage in military law, I was
thrown into combat against government contractors’ claims and
came through unscathed, although I cannot say as much for the fed-
eral treasury.

As a constant reminder of the inroads of time, I am now and for
some years last past have been the senior partner in a small law firm.
Ours is necessarily a general practice with emphasis, if any, upon
trial work. This remains for me that most interesting and stimulating
aspect of the practice of law.

Unlike many of my brethren at the bar, I have never sought nor
held public office, probably influenced by the remark of an older
practitioner, to whom I was once indentured, that he never made
any money until he got out of politics. But you can’t get out of
something you have never been in. During my constant battle for

financial solvency, I sometimes wonder if I should not have gone into
politics first, so that I could in turn get out of politics and reap the
monetary rewards of such exodus.

Attempting to be a “pal” to our children, I have partaken with |
ever-lessening degrees of strenuousness of sports activities appro-
priate to our northern climate, and to date, without fractures or
musculo-ligamentous strain. The hours spent in reading newspapers,
magazines and professional publications were better classified as an
addiction than as a hobby.

Although I have no sons to offer on the altar of Harvard’s ever-
increasing tuition, I have done a fair share of proselytizing, and am
hopeful of uncovering a triple-threat egghead in the not too distant
future.

My gratitude endures and shall, I am certain, endure for the Uni-

versity, the prestige of whose degrees entitles one to the respect and
status which his small talents could not otherwise earn.

[ 1168 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM JOHN ROBINSON

 

HOME apprEss: 20 Brent St., Dorchester 24, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: Federal Milk Market Administrator, 230 Congress Ne, Bestar,
Mass.

BORN: Nov. 16, 1912, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Maurice Robuwon Bhvsaleth
Jane Walsh.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933, 1934-1935- DEGREES: A.B. 1934(36); Mma, tae,

MarRiED: Mildred Frances Coakley, July 23, 1937, Manchester, NEE. consnars
Kenneth Joseph, July 12, 1938; Beverly Ann, June 20, toa:.

HARVARD SON: Kenneth Joseph Robinson, *6o.

occupation: “Chief field auditor, Federal Milk Markee Adnurnntrates foe the

Greater Boston, Merrimack Valley, Springficld and Worcestce market g
areas,

OFFICES HELD: Vice-chairman, Dorchester YAMICA.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Business School Club of Boston, US. Departmeot of
Agriculture Club.

AS a result of the spread of federal control over the marketing of
milk in New England, I am now responsible for the audbting of Che
records of milk dealers serving not only the greater Boston area, but
also the Merrimack Valley, Springticld and Worcester areas.

I am still active in “Y” work but only on the executive besa
level and, of course, on our annual membership drive. AIthoush I
am no longer connected with the Boy Scouts, my w few very active
in Girl Scouts. We do manage to enjoy two or three w coke Gare »
ing on Cape Cod each summer, Our children keep ws busy puna y
back and forth to the Hyannis railroad station to pick them ip where
ever they can spare a day or two from their summer cenploy ment

[ 116 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

WILLIAM WESLEY RODGERS |

Row eres

    

HOME ADDRESS: 244 Pearl St., Reading, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Reading Memorial High School, Reading, Mass.
BoRN: May 8, 1912, Camden, Maine. Parents: Wilfred C. Rodgers, May H.

Greeley.

prepareD aT: Mount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., C71 laude, 19343 ED.M., 1937.

MARRIED: Pauline E. Regan, Cambridge, Mass. cuitp: Frank Regan.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Wellington G. Rodgers, ’30; George C. Rodgers, ’32.

OCCUPATION: Principal, Reading Memorial High School.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, Association of Secondary School Principals of the
District of Columbia; vice-president, chairman of scholarship committee,
Harvard Club of Washington, D.C.; past president, Kensington (Md.)
University Civic Association, official in Boy Scouts, Montgomery County,
1945-54; member, standing committee for public schools, New England
Association of Secondary Schools and Colleges; chairman, salary committee,
New Hampshire Secondary School Principals Association, 1956-57.

MEMBER OF: National Education Association; National Association of Secondary
School Principals; Massachusetts Teachers’ Association; Harvard Teachers
Association; Harvard Club of Washington, D.C. (former member).

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles for educational magazines.

WHILE in college, I decided to become a public school teacher.
Now, twenty-five years later, I am still a contented member of that
underpaid proletariat, currently practising my profession in my
native New England.

After securing a two-year Master of Education degree from the
Harvard Graduate School of Education in 1937, I ventured forth
to the hinterland to secure some experience as a high school teacher.
For two years, 1937-39, | was a teacher of social studies at Litch-
field High School in Litchfield, Connecticut, where I inadequately
filled a vacancy left by my capable classmate, Thomas J. Curtin.

In September, 1939, 1 was enticed into moving to Babylon on the

[ 1170 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Potomac, Washington, D.C., where I became a teacher of seial
studies at the Theodore Roosevelt High School. By 1942 good men
were hard to find —hence I was kicked upstairs to the office of
assistant principal, where I served until July, 1955.

In 1940, my wife and I built a home in Kensington, Marvland,
periodically adding a porch, a room, or a garage by the “de-u-
yourself” method. For many years I was very active in the schools
and scholarship work of the Harvard Club of Washington, D.C.
aided and abetted by my energetic and able classmate, Dave Krup-
saw. My association with this work of the Harvard Club gave me
tremendous pleasure and satisfaction.

In my spare time I was active in civic affairs in Montgomery
County, Maryland, and in the Boy Scout movement, With my son
Frank I did the complete circle from Cub Scout to Eagle! Of
course, my wife did most of the really important work behind the
scenes!

In 1955 the irresistible charm of New England became too much
for the native son who. had wandered astray, causing me to accept
an invitation to become the first principal of a new high school
which had just been completed in Exeter, New Hampshire. Selling
our home in Kensington, we moved in July, 1955, for better or for
‘worse, to Exeter. In 1954-55 I had the challenging experience of
helping to transform Roosevelt High School in W ‘ashington, D.C
from a formerly segregated high school to one which was integrated.
In Exeter I continued on the integration trail— our new high was
the first coeducational high school in the town’s history.

Exeter was a lot of work and a lot of fun. There bs no beeter
place in all of New England. In September, 1957, two years and one
coronary later, I came to Reading, where I am currently serving as
high school principal.

My twenty-five years in the controversial arena of pubhe edu-
cation have brought me a few headaches but more than my share af
fun and satisfaction. I have lost my hair but nor, L hope, my sense of
humor! I have little to give to Harvard except my eternal gratitude,
If I could live my life over again, two things w ould Limost certain!

do: marry the same woman and go to the same college! |

My son Frank was recently discharged from the Coast Courard,
where he served on the cutter, Coos Bay, a weather and rescue vi
He is currently a junior at the University of New 1 fampshire, study »
ing forestry.

frur7nl

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

HUGH RODMAN, JR.

 

apprEss: 300 5. Hornewood Ave., Pittsburgh 8, Pa.

porN: April 2, 1912, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Hugh Rodman, Mary Jarnagin.
PREPARED AT: Laft School, Watertown, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

occupation: Engineering.

NO questionnaire returned.

DAVID FREDERICK ROGERS

 

HOME appress: North Great Road, Lincoln, Mass. (Mail Address, Concord,
RFD 1, Mass.)
OFFICE AppREss: Crucible Steel Co. of America, 45 First Ave., Waltham, Mass.

BORN: May 17, 1910, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Edward Hartwell Rogers, 93,
Caroline Elizabeth Heizer.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.
MarrigeD: Harriet Robina Johnson, June 25, 1938, Concord, Mass, ciupREN:

Mary Caroline, May 17, 1941; David Fdward, Aug. 31, 1943; Joseph Hart-
well, June 4, 1946.

[1172 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: Alfred P. Rogers, "29, MBA, ‘34.

occuPATION: Desk salesman for Crucible Steel Comany.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Board of Health, Lincoln (Mas, rogs, bacerridageae,
Monsanto Chemical Company, Sc. Louis, 1991-48, president, Thesere Coaieh
Webster Groves (Mo.), 1945-46, salesman, Sharp & Dohme, Dsun & Grek.
Deknatel Suture Company, 1944-57.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

IT seems incredible that twenty-five years have pawedl. Ie nm ales
frustrating to be unable to account for all these things wha h, at
the moment, seemed so very important. From the penpective of
a quarter of a century, one can sce only the heights and depths and
pass lightly over. But, as my greatest teacher, Dr. Richard CL Cals,
once wrote, “The ability to tell how far we have gone mint abate
with us all the way,” is a fact that is coming to light on thas owe ase

Upon graduating from Harvard, I spent TWO Vears study rr:
medicine. The uncertain future offered by the deprewien years
caused me to turn to commercial bacteriology. Shortly thereafter,
I married my high school sweetheart, Harrict Johnson. We lived on
a farm in Lincoln, Massachusetts, where along with my regular
work, I was able to indulge a latent interest in farming.

The war years I spent in St. Louis, working mainly on german ules
wood and fabric preservatives. My cagerness to return bast cained
me to change from research to sales. As New Pogland represents:
tive of a surgical firm, I found my greatest rewards.

Now, twelve years after our return to Lincoln, with sulssghy rans
closing in on us, we are still holding out en our orchand farntandt
(which was once surveyed by Henry D. Thoreau, a copy of wtih
we possess and prize dearly). Aly daughter Mary and mv two sens,
Dave and Joe, are educating my wife and me in the ways of tees.
agers. My business interests have turned from bactermles fv to
metallurgy, and I have learned to take time out of my work w hedale
to play now and then without too much pain to my New Poetic
conscience. My hobbies, which are shared by the fast . tae haste
skiing, sailing, skating and riding our Palomino, Greater than a”
of these is the satisfaction I derive from turning a neat furtese got

tractor. Mornings, as I ride the horse through the woests ts
Walden Pond, and the stillness is pierced by an carly jet, Pteescuce
the freedom that is mine, to live simply in ‘the mite of a tre ted

world,

f atvwe l

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

EDDY JAMES ROGERS

 

HOME appREss: 600 S. Missouri Ave., Belleville, Ill.
OFFICE AppRESS: Excelsior Foundry Co., Belleville, Il.

BoRN: Aug. 19, 1912, Belleville, Ill. parents: Franklin B. Rogers, Frances L.
Middlecoff.

PREPARED AT: Belleville Township High School, Belleville, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

marrigD: Mildred G. Johnson, May 8, 1937, Belleville, Ill. cumpren: Laurel
Alexander, Aug. 30, 1938 (2. Peter J. Ruch, Sept. 6, 1957); Eddy James, Jr.,
Nov. 29, 1940; Franklin Preston, April 11, 1947; Celia Frances, Aug. 31,
1950.

HARVARD SON: Eddy James Rogers, Jr., "62.

OccuPATION: President and general manager, Excelsior Foundry Company.

OFFICES HELD: Junior warden, 1947-56, chairman, Building Committee, since 1956,
St. George’s Episcopal Church.

MEMBER OF: Gray Iron Founders Society; Elks’ Club; Boys’ Football League of
Belleville; Men’s Fellowship, St. George’s Church. -

EVEN though the publishers of our Twenty-fifth Anniversary
Report guarantee that they will print whatever we submit, I wish
that they had not limited us to an autobiography. I feel much better
qualified to write on such subjects as: adult westerns, problems of
teen-agers, problems of teen-agers’ parents, what to do about present
day early marriages, how to raise or not raise children and, of
course, sex. Since I will omit reference to these subjects in the
story of my life, I shall be available for private consultation at the
Reunion, I hope.

As some of us may recall, there was an economic depression exist-
ing in 1934 which made it rather difficult to get started on our life’s
work, For lack of something better to do, I attended McKendree
College and the University of Illinois to acquire the credits neces-
sary to qualify me to teach in the public schools of Illinois. After

[1174 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I did this, I taught at a private school in Missouri where the credits
were unnecessary.

In 1936, with the depression practically over, | abandoned schoal
teaching to enter a small local gray iron foundry where T have been
ever since. Incidentally, the foundry was family-owned and now,
since I am about the only family remaining, Lam, among a great many
other things, the president and gencral manager. As 1 mentioned.
it is a very small foundry so that selling, personnel work (arguing
with the union), production scheduling and just plain worrying
keep me quite busy. I can honestly say, however, that even though
I have been discouraged, disgusted and frustrated a great portion of
the time, I have never been bored. And, it certainly has kept me
from getting into any sort of mischief.

Soon after graduation I discovered that a girl living nearby, with
whom I had practically shared baby buggies, was most pleaunt tis
be with almost constantly. This fecling, 1 must report, hasn't
changed even a little bit since then. At any rate, after my discovery,
one thing led to another so that we were married on her birthday
in 1937 and have lived very happily since then, thanks in part to the
Kirkland House Library. Before World War Il, Mildred and 1.
after we were married, managed to build a house, acquire a dey,
produce two children and be very happy. This kept us pretty busy
so that there isn’t anything more to report for this period.

Little did I realize that when Jake Turner, the freshman football
line coach, persuaded me to take Military Science and Tactics in-
stead of a double French course, I would become so closely involved
with all the trouble and turmoil that started actively on ‘December
7, 1941. During the next four years I attended various artillery
schools, served with the artillery of the gz:d and g3d Infantry I).
visions, attended military government schools at Battle Creck, Michi-

gan, and at the University of Michigan and, as everyone che way
doing, traveled all over the place w ich my family. In January, 14 4
I was sent to the ETO where I joined the &3d Infantry Divraon as
a military government—civ il affairs officer and there | fought the
war accompanied by an interpreter and a jeep. After the wae emlest
I became entangled with the military government ef Germany for
a short period but I managed to arrive home Christmas Eve, ry ge
I did not win any medals but I did manage to get home safely and
left the armed forces as a major. [ have since severed all CE think}
ties with the Defense Department and figure that we are about ever
on all counts,

[ at7s )

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Having emerged from the war unscathed mentally, morally and
physically, Mildred and IJ built another house, acquired another dog
(the first one had died), produced two more children, the same sexes
as the first two, and continued to be very happy.

Immediately following the war, I joined the Episcopal Church and

have been very active in church affairs ever since. At present I am
serving on the vestry, acting as junior warden, enjoying myself as a
member of the choir and working very hard as chairman of the
building fund drive. I do wish, at times, that life were not quite so
complicated and that there were a little more time to spend on
church work. Perhaps some day there will be.
- The two sets of children have led to a few complications; we have
had teen-age problems and baby problems at the same time, which
becomes more and more wearing as the years pass. As of this mo-
ment (3 p.M., November 9, 1958), Laurel, who is married and at-
tends Colorado College with her husband, is quite a mathematician;
Eddy Junior entered Harvard in September and at present is wonder-
ing how I] ever managed to graduate; Frankie and Celia are still
around the house where we would be completely lost without their
Boy Scout, Brownie, PTA, band and Little League football and
baseball problems.

Through the years, besides my church activities, I have served on —
various committees of Junior Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber
of Commerce, PTA, Boy Scouts and Cub Scouts, United Fund,
Community Concerts, Harvard Club of St. Louis and the Citizens’
Traffic Committee. I also served as a member of the Belleville
Township High School Board. I have never been active in the
various service clubs or veterans organizations.

It seems that many of my present hobbies are usually partially
connected with work of some sort, Fortunately, I enjoy working
in the yard, building houses and repairing toasters, mixmasters,
dishwashers, lawnmowers, bicycles, automobiles large and small and
countless other things. I still enjoy the more relaxing hobbies such
as: watching TV, playing bridge now and then, taking and project-
ing home movies, reading trash and an occasional good book and,
going to bed. I have forsaken such strenuous activities as: golf,
bowling, fishing, poker and burlesque, but seem to survive somehow.
Asa family, we have enjoyed numerous trips all over the country
but, now that we are seven, our traveling plans need extensive re-
vising. Mildred and I have discovered the hard way that leading a
caravan just isn’t for us. We hope to be present en masse at Cam-

[ 1176 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

bridge next June to renew old friendships, talk over old times and
see how old everyone else looks.

As I finished the above documentary, I was informed that TE shall
become a grandfather about the same time as the Reunion so, at this
point, I don’t know just how many of us will be present in Cam-
bridge in June. Certainly not eight.

JOHN EDWARD ROGERSON

 

HOME ADpRESs: 114 Canton Ave., Milton 87, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hutchins & Wheeler, 294 Washington St. Boston &, Mass.

Born: March 17, 1912, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Milton Rogerson, ‘oa
Helen Spence Campbell.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., C172 laude, 1934; LL.B. 1937.

MARRIED: Jean Richardson Porter, July 7, 1937, Cambridge, Mass. cniipars:
Henry Porter, June 25, 1939, Helen Campbell, Oct. 4, rog1; Witham Greet.
leaf, Nov. 11, 1943; Edward Spence, March 5, 1947.

HARVARD SON: Henry Porter Rogerson, '6r.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alexander Greenleaf Rogerson, ’45, 1.D., "47-

occuPATION: Lawyer; partner in firm, Hutchins & Wheeler.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, since 1939, treasurer, Corporation Fundy since tyye,
Walter E. Fernald State School; trustee, Suffolk-Franklin Savings Bask,
since 1945; member, 194852, chairman, 1950-52, Warrant Comnittee, bows
of Milton; member, Massachusetts Special Commisston on “Vasation, sine
1948; president, Milton Hospital and Convalescent Home, since tuci. tice:
president, Boston Council, Boy Scouts of America, since tus. drew noe,
Boston Safe Deposit and Trust Company, since tess, United Comununins
Service of Boston, 1958.

MEMBER OF: Town Club of Milton.

LARGELY, I suspect, because of my father’s cxunple, Powenr te
law school and, somewhat to my surprise, found ie fascinatine [be

[1177 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

law, or perhaps, to be honest, I should say certain parts of it, has
been fascinating me ever since. Until 1942, I was with the office of
Warner, Stackpole, Stetson & Bradlee in Boston. Then I joined my
father’s firm and in 1945, after my father’s death, moved to Hutchins
& Wheeler.

Due to sub-par eyesight, the armed forces showed little interest,
and my closest connection with military service was membership
in the Coast Guard Auxiliary and then in the Coast Guard Tem-
porary Reserve, that orphan of the regular services which invariably
inspired the most derisive adjectives, some of which I’m afraid were
deserved. /

My wife has patiently put up with my repeated promises to fix it
next weekend, and usually I have eventually done the job and enjoyed
the doing. I have acquired enough woodworking tools to make a
nice mess in the cellar, and occasionally a useful addition to the
house or its furnishings. For the last few years, we have gone to
northern Vermont in July, where the fishing is always said to be
good and often is. That, plus small-boat sailing in Hingham and
duck-shooting in the fall, has been my principal recreation.

Looking back, I don’t see where all the time has gone. I have
been busy and have had my share of “fun and games.” Yet I know
that in 1934 the next twenty-five years appeared to be a limitless
period with plenty of time for almost anything which could be
thought of. Now they have gone and as I think of them my only
wish is that they might have gone a little slower in some places and
much faster in others so that many events could have been more
truly savored and others more rapidly forgotten, Of one thing I am
sure, and that is in the next twenty-five years there will really be
enough time to do all the things I haven’t yet got around to doing!

[1178 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SYDNEY CHESTER ROME

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1300 Monument St., Pacific Palisades, Calif.

OFFICE apbREss: System Development Corp., Santa Monica, Calif.

BORN: Feb. 15, 1914, Union City, N.J. parents: David Rome, Rosamund Suw-
man.

PREPARED AT: Milford High School, Milford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; A.M., 1937; PH.D., 1941.

MARRIED: Beatrice J. Kaufman, Oct. 21, 1934, Boston, Mass. cup: Dina Sara
March 22, 1944.

occuPATION: Research and development; social scientist; member, technieal statf,
System Development Corporation and Rand Corporation,

OFFICES HELD: Research associate, Harvard University, toyt; head, Technical tn-
formation, Polaroid Corporation, Cambridge, Mass. 1942-44. awntant te
president, Sonotone Corporation, Elmsford, N.Y., 1944-46; lecturer, Gradue
ate Faculty, New School, 1944; associate professor, William and Mary Col
lege, 1946-55; secretary, Metaphysical Society of America, toss-%, swsal
scientist, Rand Corporation and System Dev elopment Corporati, since
19§5; secretary, vice-president and president, Virginia Philosoptical A qe-
ciation; secretary and president, William and Mary Chapter, Amera an
Association of University Professors.

PUBLICATIONS: Variety of classified reports and monographs, technical articles en
Thomas Reid, Berkeley; some formulae for aesthetic analysis, articles and
reports on the structure of social groups and behavioral systems theory,
presentations at meetings of technical socicties,

THE most significant event in my life since being graduated Te
curred almost immediately after Commencement; Tinee andl married
Beatrice Kaufman. The sequel has been an extraordinarily fortunate
unfolding of the consequences of our first strange and fatal interview
We shared years at the Graduate Sc hool, privileged to stucly with
Prall, Wolfson, Sheffer, Whitchead, Perry, Demos, Lewin, Walt
Williams, Quine and other notable fieures. There was a sear af
study in Paris, where Mrs. Rome went at the invitation of Caulson,

[1179]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

and a thesis for the doctorate on a figure formerly accepted as great,
Thomas Reid. From 1941 to 1946, there were various research and
management assignments at the Psycho-Acoustic Laboratories at
Harvard, the Polaroid Corporation and the Sonotone Corporation,
and a brief period with the graduate faculty of the New School.
Our daughter was born in 1944; while a “consequence” literally,
intellectually and spiritually of our marriage, she has already become
an accomplished and unusually attractive person of considerable
moral development in her own right, |

The years from 1946 to 1955 were spent at the College of William
and Mary, where, with James Wilkinson Miller, we constituted the
Department of Philosophy and where with the Millers and others of
the college community, we became close friends. Under Mr. John
Pomfret, the college provided an unusually good environment for
achieving some proficiency in the arts of teaching, of friendship and,
because there was no false pressure, of scholarship and of professional
growth. When, after Mr. Pomfret left, these conditions seemed no
longer to exist, I found myself in disagreement with the administra-
tion of the college on a matter of moral principle. Although deeply
grateful to the college for the years in which it enabled Mrs. Rome
and myself to establish professional relationships of unusual warmth
with a large number of students and to formulate a somewhat new

basic position in philosophy and in the social sciences, I accepted an
" invitation to join the Rand Corporation.

For several years I directed the work of the large Data Analysis
and Control Group of the System Development Division. Shortly
after the latter division of Rand became a separate corporate entity,
my responsibilities were altered. Since last March, Mrs, Rome and
I have been using every opportunity to develop a new technique in
the behavioral sciences for investigating dynamic changes in large
social groups that exhibit extensive instantaneous hierarchical or-
ganization. We have found a way to make the actual operations of
a very large digital computer simulate the coordinated social actions
of several thousand agents organized in depth in a single society, in
competing social groups, and in loose organizations, and are prepar-
ing a book about this model. While the technique has direct and
practical applications for industrial and other tightly organized social
structures, it has interesting consequences for the various branches
of the behavioral sciences, complementing in various ways decision,
communication, game and cybernetic formulations. What seems
more important to us as theoreticians are its uses in the general analy-

[ 1180 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sis of the structures of symbols and of symbol-using groups and its
genuinely philosophical implications.

E. HOWARD ROORBACH

 

HOME appREsS: § Heather Lane, Wilton, Conn.

OFFICE appREss: Norden Laboratories, United Aircraft Corp, White Plains
N.Y.

BORN: May 15, 1913, Syracuse, N.Y. parents: George Byron Roorbach, Ann
Elizabeth Hubble.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1934 (35); M-B.A4 1937-

MARRIED: Mary Katharine Elam, Dec. 31, 1938, Indianapolis, Ind. cau pers:

John Andrew, Oct. 13, 1947; Katharine Howard, March 24 1949.
HARVARD BROTHER: George Brett Roorbach, ’49.

occupation: Director of administration, Norden Laboratories, United Aiecraft
Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Harvard Business School Club of Washington, rage,
co-chairman, White Plains Community Chest, 1958.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and New Canaan, Univerity Club
of Washington; Patterson Club; Congressional Country Club, Amerwan
Society for Statistical Quality Control, Society for the Advancement of
Management; American Management Association, Air Force Awocsatient,
National Security Industrial Association.

I BELIEVE I can lay claim to more memberships in Elarvard Clubs
than any other graduate. I have been, or still am, a member of the
Harvard Clubs of New York, Boston, Rhode Island, Washington,
Chicago, Indiana, Indianapolis, New Canaan, China, and a short-lived
but historic Harvard Club of Burma. This simply proves that (a) I
have moved about a great deal, and (b) that I enjoy the companys

of other Harvard men.

Having spent a number of years as a consultant to a wie cane

[ 1181 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

of industrial and engineering firms, I have settled down to adminis.

ter the activities of a group of research engineers and scientists.

Naturally today this is directed primarily toward military work.

] am with the Norden Laboratories of United Aircraft Corporation.

We're the same outfit which developed the Norden bombsight of

World War II fame. I wasn’t around then, but we have done some

quite outstanding things in recent years, too.

I find that running the business end of a research laboratory is
more of an art than a profession. The ability to get along with the
research engineer and to channel his efforts demands a schizophrenia
type: one has to command his respect as a professional, but simul-
taneously one must weather his scorn for being an outcast — an
inferior being —a non-engineer. It is, however, a fascinating busi-
ness and a career I would not trade. What makes it engrossing is
the basic belief that this is the real battleground — not only for the
shorter run military strategy, but for our future way of living.

Three times I have fallen victim to the virulent disease of Potomac
fever. During 1941 and 1942, I was loaned to the War Production
Board to assist in the setting up of our wartime emergency meas-
ures. After helping in the miracle of our synthetic rubber program,
I volunteered for the OSS and spent almost two years in India, Burma
and China in Intelligence. When the Korean unpleasantness broke

out, I was asked to consult with the industry members of the Wage
Stabilization Board for two days. Eighteen months Jater I emerged
from one of the longest consultations on record.

Mary and I have two delightful children, one all male and one all
female. The pleasure of bringing up children lasts all too short a
time, and we are attempting to give ours as happy a childhood as we
can while spoiling them as little as possible. However, I’m afraid
the happiness takes precedence, and the spoiling just takes place.
Some of my best friends and classmates were very spoiled children
and they have made excellent friends and solid citizens.

On the lighter side, I have played squash, golf and bridge with
moderate seriousness. Squash has yielded to age, bridge has yielded
to life’s increasing tempo, but golf will not yield. I console myself
with the thought that while it is certainly not an old man’s game,
the wisdom and craftiness of age can more than make up for the lost
yardage off the tee. I play to a three or four handicap, depending
on the temporary financial fortune of the handicap chairman.

The local affairs of our town of Wilton which is
rapidly absorb the balance of my time and will take

[ 1182 J

growing very
much more in

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the future. Our problems of schools, utilities and our very form of
government will be intriguing and I have started in a small way to
help answer them.

REUBEN ROSEN

 

HOME ApDpRESS: 21 Shafter St., Dorchester 21, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Technical High School, Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 2, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: Bernard Rosen, Sophie Dame-
shek.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. ¢272 Jatide, 1934; EDM. (Boston
Teachers Coll.), 1936.

MarrieD: Cecilia S. Green, Oct. 23, 1938, Boston, Mass. cHitpren: Steven L.
April 30, 1942; Alan M., Sept. 2, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Teacher of mathematics.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant director, Camp Chebacco, 1943-45; director, Hecht
House Youth Canteen, 1943-46, Camp Kingswood, 1946; head counselor,
Camp Tevya, 1948-58.

MEMBER OF: Boston Teachers’ Association.

AFTER graduation, I decided that I wanted to enter the teaching
profession. To this end, I first obtained my Ed.ML. in 1936. Then,
after serving my apprenticeship years, I was appointed to the Boston
Public School System in 1939.

There is nothing glamorous or exciting about teaching, there is,
however, a constant challenge confronting you. Financially, the
teaching profession is not rewarding and the main satisfaction 1
get is that perhaps I have made some contribution to the neve ren.
eration.

Alternating teaching in the winter with camp work in the summer
keeps me hopping; add to this the fact that I also teach during the

[ 1183 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

regular school year on Saturdays and Sundays in the Temple Israel
Religious School of Boston. Thus, I am busy with youngsters
practically every day of the year. .

My good wife, Cele, and my two sons, Steven and Alan, keep
things humming at home. Steve is in his senior year at the Boston
Latin School and hopes to enter Harvard in 1959. Interestingly
enough I have just been awarded a National Foundation of Science
fellowship to attend Harvard as a fellow in the Academic Year
Institute. Appropriately, my return to Harvard coincides with our
Twenty-fifth Reunion.

For hobbies I have my Hi-Fi collection and my photography,
I also putter around with electronic gadgets, which tend to clutter
up the house.

Well, that about does it! We are all looking forward to our get-
together,

ISADORE ROSENBLATT

   

HOME abpress: 1139 Chantilly Rd., Los Angeles 24, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Paramount Pictures Corp., 5451 Marathon St., Hollywood 38,
Calif.

BorN: April 24, 1911, Kiev, Russia. parents: Simon Rosenblatt, Esther Rogachev-
sky.

‘PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREES: A.B. cu laude, 19343 LL.B. 1937.

marriep: Helen Louise Adess, Aug. 7, 1942, Watertown, Mass. curio: Judith
Myra, Sept. 30, 1943.

occupation: Lawyer, Legal Department, Paramount Pictures Corporation.
MEMBER OF: Los Angeles Copyright Society.

IN these years of the great American population shift, I, too, have
done my fair share of moving about. The first four years after

[ 1184 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

being graduated from the Law School were spent in Boston prac-
tising with the Boston Legal Aid Society, with a private office, and
at times, in company with other of our classmates, al fresco.

Farly in 1941 I migrated to Los Angeles where I stayed long
enough to be admitted to the California bar and to meet the girl
who became my wife (also a transplanted Bostonian, Radclitfe *39).
The fact is that while East may be East and West West, Radclitfe
and Harvard will tend to meet (and having met, mate).

We were married in August of 1942 and spent the next five years
in Washington, D.C., where I was successively employed in the
Department of Labor, OPA and the Federal Security Agency. In
September of 1943, our daughter Judy was born in Boston, as a result
of a planned trip to avoid the occurrence of this event in an over-
crowded wartime Washington hospital. In 1947 we returned to
Los Angeles where I have been associated with the legal department
of the Columbia Broadcasting System and am presently with the
legal department of Paramount Pictures Corporation.

Some things remain consistent in twenty-five years; others alter.
In my case, among the constants, I remain a Democrat (genus Frank-
lin Roosevelt) and a chess player (fairly dub-class). Among the
changes are those in my musical and literary tastes — from the likes
of Grieg, Chopin and Tschaikowsky to Bach, Mozart and Brahms,
and from the Dos Passoses, John O’Haras, etc., to the Jane Austens
and Dickenses, and among the moderns, writers such as Ford Maddox
Ford and C. P. Snow, The statics, I would, of course, maintain to
be indicative of firmness of purpose, the changes I would as strongly
argue, needless to say, imply maturation of taste.

Despite an occasional nostalgic glance over shoulders Boston-way
(or is it instead toward our youth?), my wife and I are by this
time quite confirmed Angelenos, the omnipresent smog, the trathic
and even the Los Angeles Times to the contrary notwithstanding,
and apparently likely to remain so. " :

[ 1185 ] .

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

CLIFFORD BYRON ROSS

  

appress: 5501 Mohican Rd., Glen Echo Heights, Md.

porN: July 21, 1911, Kenton, Ohio. parents: Harry Aaron Ross, Louise Wil-
liams.

PREPARED AT: Howe School.

NEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1031.

ICCUPATION: Research.

NO questionnaire returned.

CHARLES ASTON ROSSITER

 

OME ADDRESS: 375 Porter St., Melrose 76, Mass.

FFICE ADDRESS: Malden High School, Salem Street, Malden, Mass.

aRN: Dec. 8, 1911, Malden, Mass. parents: David Patrick Rossiter, Martha
_ Elizabeth Aston,

ZEPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934; ED.M., 1941.

[ARRIED: Mary Julia Madden, Dec. 27, 1941, Malden, Mass. cHitpRen: Mar-

garet W. and Charles Aston, Jr. (twins), July 8, 1944.

’ [ 1186 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Education; teacher of history, Malden High School, director of

Adult Civic Education, Malden Schools.
OFFICES HELD: President, Massachusetts Association of VTeachers of Adulea

1954-56, University Club of Malden, 1955-56; vice-president and executive
secretary, Malden ‘Teachers Association, 1957-58, military aide to Gov.
ernor Furcolo, since 1958; lieutenant colonel, CAMG-—-USAR, jscth Cavil

Affairs, Military Government Area Hq., meeting in Shannon Barracks
(ROTC), Harvard University; bail commissioner, Malden, Melrose and

Wakefield.
MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Schoolmasters’ Club; Massachusetts Teachers’ Av-

sociation; National Education Association; American Legion, Miltary
‘ Government Association; Massachusetts Association of Teachers of Adults.

AFTER graduating in 1934, with a teaching contract in my pocket,
I find myself still in education, in fact in the same city, Malden.
This is not to say that I never left home. I did just that when the
Army (via Harvard ROTC) called me in December, 1940, for a

year, but kept me for seven.
In December, 1941, I married a high school classmate, Mary J.

Madden, Radcliffe ’ 345 and we climbed the Army ladder together,

welcoming the twins in 1944. We returned to Malden in 1947 and
I resumed my teaching of history at Malden High School. In 1930
I added the position of director of Adult Civic Education.

We built our version of the perfect home in a former Melrose
orchard ten years ago. We are now approaching the peint where
the twins will make their choices of colleges and careers, As my w ife

is chairman of the Radcliffe twenty- -fifth reunion, this June will be

a busy month.

THEODORE ROUSSEAU, JR.

PURINE NE I yengpe om : . 4

   
 

MT TONY IG TE CON Bent ent ese

 

HOME AppREss: 4 E. 78th St. New York 21, N.Y.
[ 1187 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue & 82d St,
New York 28, N.Y.

BorN: Oct. 8, 1912, Freeport, Long Island, N.Y. PaReENTs: Theodore Duncan
Rousseau, Marta Fremery.

PREPARED AT: Lycée Henri IV, Paris; Durnford Preparatory School, Dorset;
Eton College, Windsor, England,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932, 1933-1935. DEGREES: A.B. cu laude, 1934(35);
A.M, 1940.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Curator of paintings, The Metropolitan Museum of Art.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, member of executive committee, France-America
Society; director, The Spanish Institute, Inc.; secretary, American Friends
of Versailles, Inc. -

MEMBER OF: The Century Association; Racquet and Tennis Club, Grolier Club,
Metropolitan, Washington; Travellers, Paris.

PuBLicaTions: Paul Cezanne, Harry N. Abrams, Inc., 1953; Titian, Harry N.
Abrams, Inc., 1955; The Metropolitan, New York, Harry N. Abrams, Inc.,
1957

INSTRUCTOR of history of art: Harvard, Radcliffe, New Eng-
land Conservatory of Music, School of Boston Museum of Fine
Arts, 1937-38; Harvard Travelling Fellowship — preparation of
thesis on manuscript illumination in England and France, around the
year 1000 A.D., 1938-39; speaker on French programs — Christian
Science Monitor Broadcasting Station, Boston, 1939-40; assistant
curator of paintings, National Gallery of Art, Washington, D.C,
1940-41; lieutenant commander, U.S. Navy — service in Portugal,
Spain, France, England, Germany, Austria and Japan, 1941-46;
operations officer of Office of Strategic Services, Art Loot Investi-
gation Unit—in charge of arresting and interrogating looters of
works of art in occupied countries during the war — the informa-
tion gathered being used in recovering works of art and as evidence
in war crime trials in Nuremberg, 1945; associate curator of paintings,
Metropolitan Museum of Art, 1947; curator of paintings, Metro-
politan Museum of Art, since July 1, 1948.

As a bachelor, I have spent my life in a wide variety of places and
in very varied situations. Everywhere I have been helped by a deep
sense of freedom and confidence, for which I have always felt grate-
ful to Harvard. For I believe that Harvard is unique among American
universities in the mature and cosmopolitan atmosphere with which
it surrounds a young man lucky enough to study there. Nowhere
else will he find such freedom and sympathy for the individual and
surely nowhere so unlimited a variety of interests with which he
may satisfy his curiosity and enrich his mind and personality.

[ 1188 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

-PAUL D. ROWAN

 

HOME ApprEss: Tower Hill, Draper Road, Wayland, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Thread Co., Newton, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 5, 1912, Wayland, Mass. parents: John J. Rowan, Elizabeth V.
Donovan.

PREPARED AT: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.; Philips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MarRIED: Elizabeth W. Richards, June 28, 1941, Chappaquoit Island, West Fal-
mouth, Mass. CHILDREN: Peter H., July 4, 1942; Christopher Wy Oct. 6,
1947; Lorin R., March 19, 1952.

occuPATION: Sales manager, Northeastern Division, American Thread Company,
manufacturing and sales of domestic cotton, synthetic threads and wool and
synthetic yarns.

MEMBER: Longwood Cricket Club. .

SINCE college I have spent the past twenty-five years try ing to
learn the textile business in many capacities; it has been rew arding
and very enjoyable.

My hobbies are mainly bringing up three very lively boys, with
some time out for gardening and tennis, J follow the Harvard foot-
ball and hockey games and feel that by and large the teams and the

/ games are not too much different from twenty-five years ayo. The
formation of the Ivy League should do much in keeping the teams
and the games on an even level. I hope to enjoy as much the neve
twenty-five years and here’s looking forward to the Fifticth.

[ 1189 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

JOSEPH RICHARD ROWEN

 

HOME ADpDRESS: 1100 Park Ave., New York 28, N.Y.

OFFIcE ADDRESS: W. T. Grant Co., 1441 Broadway, New York 18, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 9, 1913, El Paso, Texas. parents: Harry D. Rosenberg, Anna Fisher.

PREPARED AT: EF] Paso High School, Fl Paso, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., cu71 laude, 1934.

marrieD: Jane M. Herzfeld, Jan. 22, 1946, New York, N.Y. cuitp: Thomas
Bradford, Jan. 22, 1954.

occupation: Director of national advertising, W. T. Grant Company, retail
chain stores — general merchandise.

pusLicaTions: Profitable Retail Advertising, Ronald Press Co., 1951; various
articles in trade publications.

GRADUATION behind me, I soon learned that I would be lucky

to earn per month what my Dad had once given me as pocket

money. Law school would have to be postponed. For some fast
bucks I worked with Tom Larkin in organizing a “Students’ Dis-
count Society” to buck the Coop; this didn’t get too far because of
the N.R.A,, etc. Then I teamed with Jason Lewis in publishing
The Harvard Man's Guidebook, good for considerable publicity
because of our description of neighboring colleges for the fairer
sex. Following a brief stint with Filene’s, I returned to Texas where
I became an advertising copywriter.

_ After getting my feet wet in advertising, my mind was set. The
law as a career was lightly forgotten as much of my spare time was
spent in new spaper composing rooms, printing and engraving
plants and in reading all that I could on advertising. A few bachelor
diversions, vacation trips and Junior Chamber of Commerce ac-
tivity tempered my work interest somewhat, For a year I wrote
and MC’d a radio program as an added duty.

When Uncle Sam mailed his “greetings” in 1942, my title of de-

: [ 1190 ]

‘\

‘

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

partment store advertising manager was exchanged for that of
private. My wartime career took me to Army Air Force on at
Miami Beach, where Clark Gable and Jerry Shapiro * “braced”

as a lower classman and where Jimmy Alexander also represented
the Class of 34. During my next assignment as a licutenant in
Wilmington, Delaware, I made frequent trips to New York where {
met my future bride. Just when the idea of marriage seemed at-
tractive, the Air Transport Command gave me a free plane ride to
the China-Burma-India Theatre. Two years overseas were com-
pleted at the war’s end. I enjoyed my job as “organization and
procedures officer” in ATC headquarters in Calcutta and brought
back a wobbly stomach and a major’s leaf as souvenirs. After sce-
ing much of India and some of China, Burma and Africa, my grati-
tude for American citizenship is beyond measure.

Jane and I were married when I donned civies again. New York
promised more opportunity for an advertising and promotion man,
so we settled in the world’s biggest brick pile. After some free-
lance work and a short stretch doing sales promotion for a group
of department stores, I joined the W. T. Grant Company, my
employer for the past dozen years. Surprisingly, my army experi-
ence provided useful background in dealing with the administration
problems of a general merchandise chain of over 750 stores,

In 1945, while awaiting a ship to remove me from India, [| began
work on a book on retail advertising which was published in tryst.
Since the birth of our one and only son in 1954, he has been my
primary avocation and hobby. When time permits, I write an
article or give a talk in my field. Politically, I like to beheve Pam
an independent, although I tend to vote against Democratic candh-

dates. I definitely believe in “the right to work” and legislanon to
keep unions honest and democratic.
Born less than a mile from the Rio Grande River and wild caces
this former Texan will probably never become completely ail.
justed to cliff dwelling in the Manhattan manner. Riding a Fifth
-, Avenue bus to the office, however, beats commuting — if you have

economic ties to the big city. Between business trips and vacations
I have traveled over an extensive portion of the U.S.A. My herece
half issues consistent propaganda for another trip to Purope, woth
a casual regard for time and funds,

Through the years, the prestige and mild awe Inspired by one’s
admission of attendance at Harvard have been indeed fascinatary
Like so many others, I find that I tend to reply to a query about

Taro]

a | —

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

the name of my alma mater with feigned modesty and indifference
Certainly the great privilege of having attended Harvard is well
recognized by millions who have not had that good fortune, as wel
as by our college’s appreciative alumni.

It is my hope that some day my little son will attend Harvard, Not
merely to gratify his aging father’s sentiments, but so that he, too,

may be exposed to the unexcelled educational opportunities afforded
in Cambridge.

ASSORTED MEMORIES OF HARVARD DAYS
FRESHMAN YEAR ... The characters in Gore Hall .. . Ripley
throwing logs at the doors in D entrance . . . Hayes and Hender-
son’s all night poker games . . . being nabbed by a proctor while
about to release a paper bag of water on a victim . . . Butter-
worth, the nose-holding diver, challenging me to a duel with foils
_.. the shambles of Butterworth’s room after exams, a tribute to
Gore's premier practical jokester . . . Professor Merriman’s
pointer and showmanship. o
SOPHOMORE YEAR ... Living dangerously with Jerry Sha-
piro, fresh from Michigan . . . trying to explain to my parents soon
after making Dean’s List why I was on probation for cutting too
many classes . . . getting soaked to the bone in the Yale Bow] and
then sharing a hotel room at the Garde with about seven other damp
refugees from Harvard Square . . . intrigued with Professor Fl-
liott’s likening the organic states of Fascist Italy and the Soviet
Union —a most “tweedy” presentation.

JUNIOR YEAR . . . Becoming aware of the depression . . . dis-

covering that organized thought was more appreciated by exam

graders than the quantity of blue books submitted . . . sharing the

Statler’s blonde hat-chick with Housen and others . . . a shoulder

separation in the house basketball championship with Yale, the

beginning of a sub-luxation for the balance of my days...
wondering if Professor H. was right when he stated that “the Rus-
sians lack the capacity for sustained energy” . . . regretting that
I couldn’t transform “mental” to physical prowess in handling
playful roommates Rabb and Housen.

SENIOR YEAR... Selling laundry and pressing contracts to
raise some needed quick cash .. . coming out of a game with the
Boston Lacrosse Club with lumps like tennis balls after attempting
to play defense against Nelly Cochrane, 733 All American...
being certain that my honors thesis in government had settled the

[ 1192 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

world sugar problem sae feeling very sophisticated as I sat in the
audience with a Radcliffe grad of the late ’20s as my class performed
in graduation exercises in the Yard.

MALCOLM IRVING RUDDOCK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 411 Stewart Ave., Garden City, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft, 14 Wall St, New York 5, N.Y.

Born: Oct. 10, 1912, Lynn, Mass. ‘paRENTS: Ralph Eugene Ruddock, Marion A.
Blake.

PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., C7772 Lattde, 1934; LL-B., 1937-

MaRRIED: Ruth Goodwin Brown, June 25, 1938, Marblehead, Mass. cHitprrs:
David Blake, May 5, 1941; Malcolm Irving, Jr., Sept. 2, 1942; Martha Lourse,
May 5, 1944.

occupaTion: Lawyer; partner, Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft, specializing in
corporate, financial and antitrust law.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of trustees, School District 16, Long Island, N.Y.
1946-47; chairman, board of governors, New York Young Republican Club,
1947-48; commander, Stewart Manor Post, American Legion, 1947-48, di-
rector of Civil Defense, Garden City, N.Y. 1952-57; trustee, Garden City
Public Library, 1955-57; president, Eastern Property Owners’ Associanen,
Garden City, since 1957; chairman, Committee of Trade Associations, See-
tion of Antitrust Law, American Bar Association, 1936, 1937, tgs8, faculty
member, Summer Course, Institute of Organization Management, Yale Un-
versity, 1958.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Down Town Association, New Vork
City; Cherry Valley Club, Garden City, N.V.; Nassau Commandery,
Knight Templars; Association of the Bar of the City of New York, Amer:
can Bar Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Legal articles in Proceedings of Section of Antitrust fans, Amen:
can Bar Association, Journal of the Association of Trade Association BF tec w-
tives, Current Business Studies, New York University Graduate School of

[ 1193 ]

ad

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Business Administration; “Antenna Location— The Bi

g Decision Facing
‘ Telecasters,” Broadcasting-Telecasting for May 26, 1952.

LOOKING back over the past twenty-five years, I realize my life
since leaving Harvard College in 1934 divides itself into three dis-
tinct parts.

First, the period from 1934 to 1943 was the getting started period.
During those years, [ acquired my law degree at Harvard in 1937,
being fortunate cnough to be on the winning law club in the Ames
Competition in my third year, Then I struggled with both the
Massachusetts and New York bar examinations and in due course
was admitted to the bar in both states. In September, 1937, I started
work as a fledgling lawyer at Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft,
where I was destined to practise law to this day, having become
a partner in January, 1949. In June, 1938, | was married to Ruth
Goodwin Brown in St. Michael's Episcopal Church in Marblehead,
Massachusetts, and in the years that followed, our family was started;
David arriving in 1941, Malcolm, Jr., in 1942 and Martha in 1944.

During this first period I wrestled with law in the familiar pat-
tern of a novice lawyer in a large W all Street law firm and dipped
my tocs in the political life of the Republican party in New York
City, exercising my lungs mightily as a street corner soap box orator,

a door bell pusher and as a militant Young Republican generally.
Although | did not realize it at the time, Pearl Harbor sounded the
bell for the end of this first round of my adult life, but it was not
until 1943 that the effect was felt.

In 1943 1 was commissioned a lieutenant (j.g.) in the U.S. Naval
Reserve and was off to Quonset for indoctrination. From there I
was sent to Air Combat Intelligence School and soon found myself
the A.C.L. officer of a Torpedo Bomber Squadron. After a pleasant
period of final training on Maui in the Hawaiian Islands, I found
myself on the USS San Jacinto, the fast carrier famous for flying
the flag of Texas into battle. As a part of the Fast Carrier Task
Force led by Admirals Halsey and Spruance, we were right in the
middle of all the unpleasantness at Lingayen Gulf, Iwo Jima, Indo-
China, Okinawa and Japan. The atom bombing of Hiroshima found
me a full lieutenant back at Quonset preparing to head out on an-
other tour of combat. War ended abruptly and November, 1945,
found me back at Cadwalader’s with a lot of memories, a Com-
mendation Ribbon, five battle stars and the San Jacinto’s Presidential
Unit Citation to show for the Navy period of my life.

[1194 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
The third period has been the most fruitful. The period of legal

indoctrination now being behind me, the cases became more im-
portant and the clients more numerous. As a partner for the past
ten years in Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft, I have had the ex-
citing experience of participating in the renewed expansion and
growth of an old and famous law firm. On the extra-curricular
side, my yen for community activities has found plenty of outlets
as a school board trustee, library trustee, Civil Defense director
and, more recently, as president of a civic association which is
one of the mechanisms of the unique form of village government
found in Garden City. For recreation, I have developed a weakness
for, and a weakness at, golf.

Finding ourselves at our twentieth wedding anniversary in June,
1958, with three reasonably intelligent and personable offspring to
show for our efforts, Ruth and I decided to celebrate by touring
Europe with the children, So on our anniversary, June 2 sth, we
sipped a champagne cocktail as we sailed down the Hudson River
on the Queen Elizabeth, just as we had at the Copley Plaza in Bos-
ton, twenty years before on the evening of our marriage day.

WILLIAM LACY RUMSEY, JR.

 

HOME AND OFFICE appress: 1336 North Ave., Elizabeth, N.J.

BoRN: July 8, 1911, White Plains, N.Y. PARENTS: William Lacy Rumsey, ‘g>,
Maud Almy.

PREPARED AT: Bronxville High School, Bronxville, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; M.D., 1938.

MARRIED: Elizabeth M. Kolb, Aug. 29, 1942, Freehold, N.J. curnpres: Peter
Lockwood, Sept. 19, 1945; Elizabeth Lacy, April 11, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Almy Rumsey, ’39, M.B.A,, "41.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

[1195]

— L—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

OFFICES HELD: Attending pediatrician, Elizabeth General Hospital and St
Elizabeth Hospital, consulting pediatrician, Alexian Brothers Hospital, "
MEMBER OF: American Academy of Pediatrics, Academy of Medicine of
Northern New Jersey; Union County Medical Society; State of New
Jersey Medical Society; American Medical Association; Elizabeth Pediatric

Society; Harvard Club of New York City, Harvard Medical Society of
New York City.

puBLicaTions: “Agnogenic Myeloid Metaplasia of the Spleen,” C. Reich and W,
L. Rumsey, J.4.M.A., April 4, 1942, Vol. 118, 1200-1204; “Acute Neonatal
Myeloblastic Leukemia,” A. R. Casilli, W. L. Rumsey, and E. M. Satulsky,
Am. J. Dis. Children, June, 1952, Vol. 83, pp. 788-793.

THE fall of 1934 found me across the river at the Harvard Medical
School where I spent four happy, industrious, and sometimes worri-
some years. One summer especially stands out. In 1936 I worked
for the New York State Conservation Department, Bureau of Bio-
logical Survey. Each summer the Survey examined most of the
streams, rivers, lakes, and ponds in one of New York’s water sheds
to determine the best fish, if any, to stock in these waters. This was
a challenging job; it raised more questions than it answered,

After graduation from medical school in 1938, I spent the next
five years in hospital training — Lenox Hill Hospital, New York;
the Children’s Hospital, Boston; and Bellevue. This prepared me for
the specialty of pediatrics. At the beginning of my last year of resi-
dency at Bellevue, 1 married Elizabeth Kolb of Freehold, New Jer-
sey, a graduate of Mount Holyoke College, Class of 1936. That year
went very fast and then I found myself looking for a place to work.
At the moment, there were only three pediatricians in Elizabeth,
New Jersey. I became the associate of one of them, Dr. Du Busc,
and after two years I was appointed medical director of the Rheu-
matic Fever Program of the State Health Department. Headquarters
for this was at St. Michael’s Hospital in Newark, New Jersey. Ad-
ministrative medicine and public health were not for me. Soon this
job became part-time and finally I resigned to devote myself to the
full-time practice of pediatrics.

The family, complete with wife, two children, dog, four cats,
and a hamster keep me busy in the time off from practice. Son
Peter, aged thirteen, shows no signs of going into medicine, but he
is interested in natural history and animals. Daughter Lacy, aged
ten, shows a certain amount of inborn financial acumen which makes
me wonder what business schools are best for girls! Spare time has
been occupied with birdwatching, gardening (with emphasis on
roses), plus the never-ending round to keep up-to-date with the

[1196]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

medical journals. Civic activities have been limited to the Council
of Social Agencies of the Community Chest and now its successor,
the Social Planning Committee of the Community Welfare Council,
plus service on the Medical Advisory Committees of the Visiting
Nurse Asociation, Cerebral Palsy Center, and the Union County
Mental Hygiene Board.

Vacations have been spent in Maine and recently on Ocracoke
Island, North Carolina, a quiet fishing village on the Outer Banks.
full of birds, and some fish. My wife and I have visited several of
the Caribbean Islands in the middle of winter — this is a delighrful
kind of vacation. I would not change my work for anything. If I
have contributed anything, it has perhaps been to make one out
of four or five interns who go through my hospital service a better
doctor with children, whatever his specialty ultimately may be.

ROBERT RUSCH

  

HOME ADDRESS: 7 Gracie Sq., New York, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rusch & Co., 1441 Broadway, New York, N.Y.

BORN: Aug. 17, 1912, Oyster Bay, N.Y. parents: Henry Arthur Rusch, ‘gs,
Florence Dolliver.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. C10 laude, 1934; ULB, 1y37.

MARRIED: Lis Lunning, Aug. 17, 1935, New York, N.Y. cumpkes: John By Jan
7, 1938; Frederick L., Dec. 20, 1939; Robert 1), April 3, 1943, Jean, April
16, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Arthur Rusch, Jr., ‘28

occupaTion: Factor, partner in Rusch & Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; New York County Eawver Aso
ciation; National Lawyers’ Guild.

[ 1197 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

JOSEPH BALLISTER RUSSELL

 

4OME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Cumberland Foreside, Portland, Maine.

oRN: April 5, 1911, Boston, Mass. PaRENTs: Charles Theodore Russell, ’o2,
Louise Rust,

zEPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

FARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1934, DEGREE: A.B. 1934.

arniep: Margaret Taft, June 18, 1937, Uxbridge, Mass. cumpren: Cicely
Penney, 1939; Brenda Rust, 1941; Natalie Rachel, 1947; Christine Hall,

1953.
RVARD BROTHERS: Charles Theodore Russell, Jr., °30; Henry Drummond Rus-

scll, ’32.
SUPATION: Investments.
“MBER OF: Cumberland Club; Portland Country Club, Portland Players.

‘TER spending the summer of 734 bicycling in England and
otland, with J. Madden and T. Knowles, I joined the Whitin
chine Works, Whitinsville, Massachusetts, in the fall. Here, in
arge textile machinery plant, employing some six thousand, |
oy “ed casting iron in the foundry and running automatic screw
chines, Eventually being promoted to assistant r purchasing agent,
nund it was not just w hat I wanted and left in 1947.

\fter a winter in Sarasota, Florida, straightening out the health
qumber one girl, we all retired to Portland, Maine, a move never
retted, Here, I went in business for myself as the wholesale
ributor for the Admiral Corporation in Maine and Northern
Hampshire. At first, with the advent of television, this was
’ successful, but eventually becoming unprofitable I closed it out
955+
Ve live in a rambling, comfortable, old house on the shore of
co Bay, with an acre or two of wood lot behind for double
mth. Gunning, skiing and badminton seem to take up most of

[ 1198 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the fall and winter. In the summer, tennis, gardening and boating.
Have just sold my lobster boat and want to get back into sail as
soon as possible. For intellectual pursuits, a good deal of reading,
and a little amateur writing.

Outside of four handsome daughters aged five to nineteen, 1
can’t say my life has been too productive — a little help on United
Fund, Red Cross, church, etc., and doing things with and for “les
enfants.” But it has been interesting, and has been led as decently
perhaps as is compatible with a modicum of enjoyment. So now,
with 1959 about to burst upon us (I hope I speak figuratively only),
for better or for worse, a toast to the next twenty-five.

JOSEPH NAJEEB SABBAGH

 

HOME appreEss: 15 Albion St., Methuen, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 281 Haverhill St., Lawrence, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 20, 1912, Lebanon. PARENTS: Najeeb Joseph Sabbagh, Naify Ma-
loof.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1935. DEGREES: AB. 1934(35); M.D. (Boston Univ.),
1939.

MarrieD: Margaret Shaheen, 1936, Lawrence, Mass. cHiLpREN: Cynthia, June 3,
1940; John, Feb. 20, 1948.

OccUPATION: Physician.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; Staff of Lawrence General Hlispi-
tal, Bon Secours Hospital, Clover Hill Hospital.

GRADUATED from Boston University School of Medicine in
1939. Interned six months at Chelsea Memorial Hospital and one
and one-half years at Quincy City Hospital,

I entered in general practice in 1941. Entered the U.S. Army
in 1945 and was assigned to a tuberculosis unit of the Veterans

[ 1199 ]

—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Administration until 1947. Assigned at Oteen, North Carolina, and
Sunmount, New York. Left the Army with the rank of captain.
Returned to general practice in 1947, and have been practising ever

since. My daughter Cynthia has entered Framingham State
Teachers College and plans to major in dietetics.

 

HOME AbpRESS: 3648 Overbrook Lane, Houston 27, Texas.
OFFICE ADDRESS: St. John’s School, 2401 Claremont Lane, Houston 19, ‘Texas.

BORN: Oct. 6, 1911, Stonington, Maine. parents: Marshall Elwood Salls, Alice
Beverage Kimball.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.
MarrieD: Catherine Neyland Morgan, March 21, 1942, Paris, ‘Texas. CHILDREN:

Elwood Kimball, Jr. Feb. 12, 1943; Carroll Morgan, March 4, 1948; Elissa
Robinson, Nov. 30, 1952; Randall Leadbetter, June 25, 1954.

occupation: Assistant headmaster, chairman, Department of Foreign Languages,
instructor in German and Latin, St. John’s School.

LIFE has been kind to me. My wife, three sons and one daughter
are perfect in my eyes. I am devoted to teaching and look forward
to daily activity in the classroom.

Scarcely a month after graduation, I was on the way to Europe,
with a fellowship at the University of Munich from the Institute of
International Education. It is fitting to put into print here, I feel,
that Professor James B. Munn of the Department of English at
Harvard was just about 99% responsible for this privilege and I
have been ever grateful to him for his efforts. Fourteen months in
Europe were most fruitful, both at the university and in travel which
covered just about all of Western Europe, the Balkans and the Medi-
terranean. Classmates C. C. Arensberg, R. C. Creel, C. L. Harris

[| 1200 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and P. M. Tucker can well recall, in part, the bicycle trek to F ng-
land from southern Germany, the Greek freighter from Brindisi
into a Greek revolution and a reception by G. H. Damon in Athens,
skiing in Kitzbuehel, “Putzi’ Hanfstaengl’s reception and constant
views of Nazi bigwigs in Munich.

The next six years were spent at Brooks School in North An-
dover, aS an instructor in German and French. The German De-
partment was very much in the embryo stage and Frank 1. Ash-
burn, a truly great headmaster, gave me a free hand, good counsel
and an opportunity to learn from the mistakes which many young
schoolimasters invariably make. Summers over this period were spent
in Europe, studying, traveling, relaxing. There remains one hich
point, the first meeting, in a 1937 Budapest, of Catherine Morg; an
whom I was to marry five years later. A 1941-42 sabbatical from
Brooks would under normal circumstances have been spent in Fu-
rope, but events there brought something quite different.

Nearly four years were taken by the U.S. Navy, following a
year at Roosevelt Aviation School, and my marriage in Paris, Texas,
at which R. V. Scudder kindly consented to lend support. The
Navy kept me in New York for eighteen months as a schoolteacher,
but I finally had my wishes granted for some European service. Here
I worked with the Admiralty and SHAEF on matters pertaining to
Germany, in London, Versailles and Frankfurt-am-Main; home in
November of 1945, and then seven months of final duty with ONI
in Washington. Promotions came according to plan, and with goed
fortune on my part to end up with two and one-half stri

Houston came next, and 1946 began the last phase. The reason:
St. John’s School, independent, non-sectarian, college preparatory,
from kindergarten through the twelfth. I was on the ground tloor

in the beginning of this school, with its then 300 students and a dedi-
cated headmaster, We now have just under 7oo students, a sub-
stantial waiting list at all levels, a fairly respectable record for eur
graduates. (Fortunately, they have done well at Harvard, and I
hope this will be taken into consideration when My sons, even
though via Exeter, submit their applications. ) Aly ma jor at Harvard
was German, and I have taught it at St. John’s for all these Years
three courses of German and one of Latin have been the pattern
and I recommend the combination.

Somewhat parenthetically, and with reference to my cacher
statement re being devoted to teaching, I am frequently, burt not

too seriously, upset that the man of the street assumes that all

f 1201 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

teachers wish to be administrators and headmasters. That is certainly
not the case with hundreds of us.. We are underpaid, but we have
good long vacations and every now and then can afford a trip;
many students these days are not admitted to the colleges of their
choice, but we hope and are confident that dozens of “second- or
third- or fourth-choice colleges are doing a good job. Enough of
this defense of the schoolmaster, except to ask: What other pro-
fession or career can grant as frequently a thrill, a satisfaction or a
reward, as having known that you have had some little bit of in-
fluence on the thinking or actions of secondary-school students?

JOHN ROGERS SANDERSON

 

HOME ApbpREsS: 5 Sunset Drive, Whitinsville, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Whitin Machine Works, Whitinsville, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 7, 1912, Avon, Mass. parents: Clement Benjamin Sanderson, Eliza-
beth Frances Rogers.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934; ED.M. (Bridgewater State
Teachers Coll.), 1940.

MarRIED: Helen Elizabeth Saunders, June 13, 1936, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:

L—

Marcia, Dec. 24, 1937 (2. John Hanson); Linda Jean, Oct. 12, 1947. GRAND- |

cHiLp: Hugh S. Hanson, Sept. 28, 1957.

occuPaTion: Assistant advertising manager, Whitin Machine Works; write and
edit, Whitin Review.

OFFICES HELD: Publicity director, Northbridge Agencies, Inc., since 1955; activi-
ties manager, Blackstone Valley Radio Club, 1958.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Worcester, Mass.; Blackstone Valley Radio Club;

Massachusetts Industrial Editors Association; International Council of In-
dustrial Editors.

publications: Articles on textile technology, theory and operation of textile
preparatory machinery, Whitin Review.

[ 1202 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EMERGENCE into the depression world in 1934 brought its share
of troubles, as it did to many classmates, but in general, the educa-
tion and knowledge garnered at Harvard helped immensely. Un-
able to get into teaching then, I sold insurance in Brockton and
casualty insurance in Newark, New Jersey, securities in New York

and books in Boston.
Somewhere along the line I picked up enough wisdom to marry a

irl who has been a wonderful wife, understanding, cheerful and
gay, a loyal supporter in the low spots and a happy companion in
the highs. Our elder daughter was born in 1937. In 1939, I went
to Bridgewater State Teachers College and acquired an FAM.
degree. As an item of curiosity, I am the only holder of this
combination of degrees from two schools so closely related geo-
graphically.

My first teaching position was in Plainville, Massachusetts. From
there I came to Northbridge (where I still live) and taught English
in the Junior-Senior High School and became head of the English
Department. In 1947, I “became principal of Major Edwards High
School in West Boylston, Massachusetts. From 1948 to 1951, |
had a fascinating experience as principal of a large Elementary-
Junior High School in Ashland, Massachusetts,

The economics of teaching finally forced me out of that happy
profession and I took my present one. This writing and editing with
side interests in advertising and publicity is also stimulating and
enjoyable. Visits to textile mills take me to Canada and all over
the South several times a year.

The war years found me teaching and working after school in
industry. I marched up to the armed forces like millions of others,
and marched back home promptly when my eves were found less
than the doctors felt they should be.

For too many years I read too much and too long, ensconced in
a comfortable chair. I rose only to go fishing for trout and te play
a little chess. Lately I have become quite interested in ham ratio,
got a license and have become’ quite active in pursuit of that faser-
nating hobby. I lead the usual life —some community activity, 4
little puttering around our new house. Vacations are usually spent
on Cape Cod. Last year we tried a motor trip to New Brunswick.

The combination of age (forty-six), the troubled stare of the
world and a realization of the pinnacles that will be forever un.
climbed, glories untasted and honors beyond reach, have neverthe:

I 1202 ]

__————_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

less produced a steady philosophy succinctly stated and too little
understood as — “carpe diem.”

The future requires faith and optimism: faith in the continued
existence of the world and society, unravaged by the holocaust of
an atomic war, and the optimism that somehow men of good sense,
and perhaps good will, can find ways to preserve it. In the mean-
while, I am, like the rest, ready to do what I can, where I am, to
contribute my share as I may be asked or can see the need, so that
my grandson, Hugh, and the grandsons of all our Class can be happily
preparing to enter Harvard in 1976 or so, as we were in 1930.

SAMUEL STEVENS SANDS

 

HOME abpress: “Little Orwell,” Easton, Md.
BORN: Oct. 19, 1911, New York, N.Y. PARENTS
Gertrude Sheldon.

PREPARED aT: Groton School, Groton, Mass., Deerfield Academy, Deerfield,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

: Samuel Stevens Sands, 07;

MarRiED: Elizabeth Lee Dame, March 11, 1939, Baltimore, Md. CHILDREN:

Elizabeth Lee, May 27, 1942; Samuel Stevens, Jr., March 30, 1944.
occupation: Agriculture.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Purcellville (Va.) National Bank, 1943-45.
MEMBER OF: Racquet and Tennis Club, New York; Tred Avon Yacht Club;
Chesapeake Bay Yacht Club (rear commodore, 1955, vice-commodore,

1956).
AFTER leaving college, 1 worked for a newspaper for a short while
before moving to Virginia in 1936, when I became interested in
feeding cattle. I married a southern girl, begot two children and
continued feeding cattle. I moved to the eastern shore of Mary-

[ 1204 ]

__1

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

land fourteen years ago and am still feeding cattle. I'm told it’s a
disease.

KENT SANGER

 

HOME ADDRESS: Farm Street, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Business Week, 350 Park Square Bldg., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 8, 1911, Fitchburg, Mass. parents: W. Prentice Sanger, ‘os, Edith
Crocker.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MarrRiED: Adéle R. Wilson, Jan. 25, 1936, Rye, N.Y. cui_pren: Joan Rolston,
June 16, 1939; Kathleen Prentice, Sept. 14, 1942; Aileen Kent, July 28, 1948.

occupation: District sales manager, Business W eek.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; University Club of Hartford, Dedham
Country & Polo Club.

~LOOKING back to my first job after graduation makes me realize
how far labor has come in the last twenty-five years in its fight for a
place in the sun. A job, any job, was vitally important to me then
and through friendship I landed a “trainee” position with a large
meat packer. We worked in a beef “cooler.” The hours were five
A.M, to three p.m. Monday through Friday and from five a.Mt. to
twelve noon on Saturday. A half hour was granted for lunch. We
were paid for forty-eight hours’ work and docked if we were late
or sick. We gave six and a half hours a week free to our employer
for the privilege of having a job. Vacations were out, No one
could afford the time off without pay.

The job I hated. The men I grew fond of quickly. U learned to
admire their courage, high personal standards and hard common
sense. It is the two years spent with these completely uneducated,
mostly first generation citizens which gave me, I think, the abiding

[ 1205 ]

a | ——

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

faith I have today in the soundness of the American people as q
whole; and the belief that they are often sadly underestimated by
their leaders.

From meat-packing I went to work as a salesman for the Homa-
sote Company of Trenton, New Jersey, first living in Woodstock,
Vermont, then back to the home office, and finally to New York
City and Long Island. Our products were wallboards and a fasci-
nating system of prefabricated construction which was, unfortu-
nately, ahead of its time. It amazes me now to think that in 1937
we were selling small, beautifully-built, five-room houses with

garage on a 60’ x 100’ lot for $3750.00. What inflation has done to
the dollar! While with Homasote, I became more and more inter-

ested in advertising and finally left in 1940 to join the advertising

agency which handled its advertising account. Here | stayed until
I entered the Navy in April, 1942.

My naval career would undoubtedly be classified as uneventful
by anyone but myself. I love the sea even though it scares hell
out of me. Five weeks after being sworn in as lieutenant (j.g.), |
was at sea as an armed guard officer on an old rust bucket loaded
with ammunition destined for Calcutta, I still don’t believe that
trip. Never was a naval detail so abysmally ignorant of its duties,
and I am sure few have ever been so scared. Through some foul-up,
our convoy attempted the Caribbean without escort of any kind.
We met up with two German submarines which did such a devas-
tating job that when the three surviving ships finally left Port of
Spain, Trinidad, bound for Capetown, South Africa, one of our two
MTB escorts signaled to us as she turned for home, “Good luck on
your intended voyage.”

After a year and a half in this service, which took us ’round the
world once and to India twice, I spent a year or so in a destroyer
escort in the Pacific and then went to the heavy cruiser, Canberra,
as air defense officer. In order that I should leave the Navy just as
confused as the day I entered service, I was appointed navigator of
the Canberra shortly after the war ended. With me in this position
of authority, we wandered around the east coast of the United
States as a sort of special menace to navigation until I was relieved
and returned to civilian life in November, 1945. Rank? Lieutenant
commander along with practically everyone else who wasn’t seaman
first class.

From the Navy I went directly to the McGraw-Hill Publishing
Company and in April, 1947, came to my present job. It combines

[ 1206 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

working with advertising and the freedom, independence and stimu-
lation of sales work. Put this combination in the New England I
love and for me it is a way of life hard to beat.

With one daughter at Smith, one at boarding school and one at
a wonderfully good little private school here, there is little money
for the hobbies I think I would most enjoy. I do play some golf,
and I spend much thought on how to introduce Russian roulette as
a major sport among my creditors. .

Politically, I am shamefully inactive, but this I believe:

1. A sound currency is more important to the nation as a whole
than continuous full employment.

2. Some way must be found to insure that the rank and file of
Jabor can really contro] the choice of the men who are to lead them.

3- It is imperative that we soon revise our tax laws so that in-
dustry — particularly the smaller firms—can afford more of the
modernization programs many of them so desperately need. This
nation’s basic strength, its ability to compete militarily and eco-
nomically with Russia and its allies, lies fundamentally in the
growth of its productivity. We impede this at our deadly peril.

In closing, one word more. Writing this little gem has brought
to mind one of my growing convictions. I believe that my children
and their friends are far finer people than I ever remember being
at their ages. They are even better than many of you as I remember
you back then. If we can somehow manage to keep this world
alive and intact until our kids are ready to take over, I think they

will do a whale of a job.

MICHAEL ALBERT SANTOLIQUIDO

 

HOME appreEss: 115 Main St., Arlington, Mass,

[ 1207 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Division of Employment Security, 88: Com-
monwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

BorN: April 28, 1912, Somerville, Mass. parents: Arcangelo Raffaele Santoli-
quido, Fedele Lombardi.

PREPARED aT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass. -

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., cu72 laude, 1934.

MarRiED: Leola Bertrand, Sept. 5, 1942, Denver, Colo. cuiLp: Patricia, April
4, 1944. .

HARVARD BROTHER: Guido Santoliquido, °42.

occupation: Supervisor of methods, Massachusetts Division of Employment
Security.

MEMBER OF: Reserve Officers Association; Quartermaster Association.

FOLLOWING graduation [ tried my hand at selling telephone
service house to house to non-users, but without much success. My
next job was that of insurance underwriter working for one of
the casualty companies in Boston. After two years in the insurance
business I decided to cast my lot with the unemployment compensa-
tion program which was then in its infancy in Massachusetts, and
on February 5, 1959, will have completed twenty years in the
service of the Massachusetts Division of Employment Security.

From February 5, 1942, until February 13, 1946, I was in the
service and during most of this time fought the battle of Arkansas
with the Quartermaster Corps.

‘Outside of my job, my time is now taken up mostly by Army
Reserve activities, my hi-fi hobby and various do-it-yourself projects
necessary to the maintenance of a home.

JOHN THOMAS SAPIENZA

 

HOME Appress: 5018 Loughboro Rd. N.W., Washington 16, D.C.
[ 1208 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADbRESS: Covington & Burling, 7o1 Union Trust Bldg. Washington 5,

DC.
BorN: Feb. 26, 1913, South Orange, N.J. PARENTS: James Casimiro Sapienza,

Rosalie Giaimo.
PREPARED AT: Irvington High School, Irvington, N.J.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 1934; 11.8. magna

cum laude, 1937.

MARRIED: Phyllis Elizabeth Kershaw, June 27, 1939, Pawling, N.Y. cHiperes:
John Thomas, Jr., Oct. 17, 1942; James K., March 26, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Maurice Sapienza, ’37, LL.B., ’40.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer, partner, Covington & Burling.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Subcommittee on Mutual Savings Banks and Domestic
Building and Loan Associations, Section of Taxation, American Bar Asso-
ciation; member, Tax Advisory Group, American Law Institute.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Harvard Club of Washington; Metropolitan Club.
Burning Tree Club; Congressional Country Club; Confrerie des Chevaliers
du Tastevin.

FROM college I went to the Harvard Law School with numerous
members of our Class. My first two years after Law School were
spent as law clerk, first to Judge Augustus N. Hand of the Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit and then to Justice Stanley F.
Reed of the Supreme Court of the United States. These were en-
citing years. I worked closely with the two judges, studying briefs,
doing vast amounts of research, checking opinions, discussing all
of the cases in which the judges participated and had any questions.
In addition, I had a daily course in general education. Both judges
liked to talk about history, literature, politics and the most fascinating
subject of all — people.

After spending two years in a fairly exalted position, I took my
place at the bottom of the totem pole in a large New York firm.
There I spent most of eighteen months in the library. All lawyers
worked evenings, and I was no exception. On at least two occasions,
I worked through the night and watched the dawn break over Wall
Street. The second time I had this great experience, I learned that
the emergency which had required me to work through the night
had failed to emerge, and my memorandum was duly buried in the
files.

After eighteen months of working and living in New York (¢ WN,
I came to the conclusion that there must be both an easier w ay to
earn a living and a more pleasant place to live. Remembering, mv
year in Washington, I came to Washington in January, 1y4t, for
the purpose of seeking a job in the Department of Justice. While
at a cocktail party I learned that my present firm had several opens

[ 1209 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

than it was twenty-five years ago. But it certainly is better for me

and my family, and I would just as soon see it change slowly so that
we may continue to enjoy it.

EDWARD RICKER SARGENT

 

HOME ADDRESS: §745 Tanglewood St., Lakewood, Calif.
OFFICE AppRESS: Northrop Aircraft, Inc., Hawthorne, Calif.

BoRN: Feb. 5, 1911, Wolfeboro, N.H. parents: Herbert Eugene Sargent, Marion
Jane Ricker.

PREPARED AT: Brewster Academy, Wolfeboro, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.

Marrigp: Florence Elizabeth Frost, June 22, 1935, Arlington Heights, Mass.

CHILDREN: David Frost, June 24, 1937; Peter Winslow, July 16, 1940; Eliza-
beth Ricker, Sept. 4, 1941.

occupation: Service engineer, Northrop Aircraft, Inc.
MEMBER OF: Aircraft Electrical Society; Lakewood Community Church.

THIS is a most difficult task, especially when I compare my modest
exploits with those of some of my illustrious fellow-classmates! Be-
cause of an inherently restless nature, my life has been somewhat
topsy-turvy. This is perhaps best characterized by a line I well re-
member from Hugo's Hernani (was it in French 2?) — “Le sort de
folie en naissant me coiffa.” Y have never been able to narrow down
my interests to a single field. I am interested in too many different
things. This has led to many different types of work, from manual
labor (in times of recession) to teaching, tutoring, writing and air-
craft engineering.

I grew up with Western Union and served in New England, as a
messenger boy, clerk, operator (Morse and teletype) and finally as
manager of a summer office. This led me into radio communications

[ 1212 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and I became a ham in 1925 and have since taken great delight in
this fine hobby. 1 am now licensed as K6HSQ.

I spent about four years in the government service in W ashington,
D.C., after my marriage in 1935. I then worked for United Aircraft
in East Hartford and Southington, Connecticut, as inspector, field
service engineer, production engineer and foreman of the Heat
Treating Division.

In 1946, I served as teacher of physics, chemistry, French and
mathematics at Brewster Academy, Wolfeboro, New Hampshire,
where my father had served so faithfully for over fifty years. I left
in 1948, to return to United because of the rising cost of living and
the teacher’s meager wage. I must confess, however, that I thor-
oughly enjoyed teaching — probably the most satisfying work that
I have ever done. oo

Leaving United Aircraft in 1953, we sold our home in Connect-
icut and struck out for the West, where we landed in Amarillo,
Texas, with three fine children, a fine dog, but no job. I soon found
work with Procter & Gamble (Pantex Ordnance Plant, AFC), but
this was terminated some six months later due to contract cancella-
tions. California was the next logical choice and we started over
again in Long Beach, where I went to work as an engincer for
Douglas Aircraft (Electrical Equipment Division).

In May, 1956, I left Douglas Aircraft to join Northrop, as an engi-
neering writer. I have had various assignments: (1) technical
writer, publications; (2) specifications engineer, assigned to the
Hawk Missile Program, and (3) engineering technical writer, Flec-
trical Support Equipment Group.

Our wanderings have apparently ceased — our traveling is now
done vicariously through the media of Cinerama, many good beoks
and good friends and particularly through the trav cls of my two
fine boys who have hitchhiked the length and breadth of this great
country, to Alaska and to Cuba. Dav id, the elder, spent the last vear
of his Marine service in Japan and traveled extensively while there.
He learned much of the language and grew very fond of the country,
He is now a sophomore at USC and is majoring in international rel, a
tions and foreign trade. Peter is studying electronics and radar with
the U.S. Air Force at Keesler AFB, Biloxi, Mississippi, Elizabeth is a
senior at Lakewood High.

I taught mathematics for three years at Compton Jr. Colleye
Evening School and have done some translations of scientitic French,
My good wife has worked for about ten years of our marricd lite,

[ 1213 ]

‘HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

assisting very materially in keeping the good ship afloat. She is now
ward secretary at the Veterans Hospital, Long Beach, getting back
into the medical field which she enjoyed so much at Harvard, in the
medical adviser’s office on Holyoke Street.

I regret to say I have been back to Harvard only once in all these
years — a stroll through the beloved Yard, a glance at the new con-

struction, and musings in the fine library adjunct to Widener. What
memories!

I had no military service due to a serious bout with osteomyelitis
in the left arm while in high school. I sometimes regret this military
lack, other times I am very glad I missed it!

WINTHROP SARGENT, Ill

 

HOME AbpREss: Juniper Street, Beverly Farms, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Pennsylvania Railroad, 150 Causeway St., Boston 14, Mass.

. %
BORN: July 12, 1911, Ardmore, Pa, parents: Winthrop Sargent, Jr., A.M. 0%
Frances Rotan,

PREPARED AT: Haverford School, Haverford, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931,

Marriep: Gertrude T. Guernsey, Aug. 4, 1933, Manchester, Mass. CHILDREN:
Winthrop, 4th, Jan. 12, 1935 (72. Sally Ann Jones, June 10, 1956); Samuel
Worcester, Dec. 10, 1935; Raimund Guernsey, Feb. 14, 1937; Judith W,
Oct. 22, 1941; David Thoreau, Jan. 25, 1945; Frances Rotan, June 21, 1946.

GRANDCHILDREN: Winthrop Sargent, sth, April 10, 1957; Bradford McCall
Sargent, Dec. 8, 1958.

HARVARD SON: Winthrop Sargent, 4th, ’58.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Rotan Sargent, °36.

OCCUPATION: Supervisor, coal sales for New England, Pennsylvania Railroad.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of alumni directors, Haverford School, 1935-37.

MEMBER OF: Colonial Society of Pennsylvania; Colonial Wars Society (Mass.);
War of 1812; Welcome Society; Sons of the Revolution; St. Andrew’s So.

[1214]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ciety of Philadelphia; Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Traffic Club of New

England; Harvard Club of North Shore.
MY life has been spent largely in the service of the Pennsylvania
Railroad. This has involved moving my home fairly frequently.
However, my sons and daughters have been able to grow up in New
England and attend school here without serious disruptions. We have
been in various places such as Philadelphia, Scranton, New Haven
and Boston, and both of us agree that we have enjoyed Boston more

than the rest.
My job during my career with the Pennsylvania Railroad has al-

ways entailed the furtherance of the railroad’s traffic position, and
I have enjoyed it.
I believe I am correct when I say that my hobby i is my family and

the number of my progeny and my progeny” S progeny should bear
me out. I have been a hi-fi “‘nut” for six or seven years —a secondary

hobb

One of my very dearest recollections is of watching my two sons,
Winthrop and Sam, playing in the opposing backfields i in Milton-
Governor Dummer games of 1951 and 1952. Politically, I like to
think that I am independent.

In addition to my oldest son, Harvard ’58, my second son, Sam, is
at Trinity, ’59, and my third son is in Japan in the Army. My daugh-
ter Judith attends Dave Bailey’s Woodstock Country School in
Vermont, and the two youngsters, David and Frances, are at the
Shore School! in North Beverly.

On rereading the above, I find one serious omission. I have barely
mentioned my wife Gertrude specifically, but I do protest that the
record speaks for itself, and at risk of repetition wish to point out
that our second grandson arrived two days prior to this writing.

[1215 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

GEORGE AUGUSTUS SAVAGE

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Asticou, Northeast Harbor, Maine.
BORN: Sept. 16, 1911, Northeast Harbor, Maine. parents: George Augustus

Savage, Mabelle Strout. .
PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., C1711 laude, 1934; M.ARCH., 1939.

UNMARRIED.
occuPaTion: Architect; private practice, since 1937; partner, George A. Savage

& Sons, since 1931.
OFFICES HELD: President, Maine Chapter, American Institute of Architects, 1956-

57+
MEMBER OF: Boston Society of Architects.

THERE isn’t much [ can add to my report for the Twentieth Re-
union. Same profession, same business, same life in general, poorer

health.

MAXWELL SAVAGE, JR.

Age EL RT I APTLY

   

HOME abpreEss: 28 Black Horse Lane, Cohasset, Mass.
orFice appress: Bethlehem Steel Co., Quincy, Mass.

[ 1216 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Oct. 28, 1911, Louisville, Ky. parents: Maxwell Savage, ‘gg, Marguerite

Downing.
PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.
marriED: Adele Gibbons, Aug. 29, 1938, Boston, Mass. cHitpren: Maxwell, 3d,

May 22, 1942; Nicholas D., March 17, 1944.
OCCUPATION: Coordinator, nuclear power ship construction — naval vessels.
OFFICES HELD: Member, Foreign Trade Committee of Florida, chairman, Forty

Plus Club of South Florida.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Miami and New York; Youngstown (N.Y.)

Yacht Club; Prouts Neck (Maine) Yacht Club.

ALTHOUGH it is an indisputable fact that twenty-five | years have
elapsed since 1934, I know that I am not alone in wondering how
these years could have slipped by so unobtrusively and now stand in
front of me demanding to be summarized in a few short sentences,

However, in my own case this is not too difficult, since my busi-
ness life has been mainly centered around the shipbuilding division
of Bethlehem Steel Company, where I am now located in a most
interesting position, attributable to the intricacies of nuclear con-
struction. Interruptions to this career consisted of two years in the
South Pacific as a lieutenant (desk officer) aboard an AKA and
three years in Florida as a yacht broker which, except for the
financial returns, was a happy combination of business and pleasure.

Now there seems to be little or no time for hobbies or outside
activities, but life in Cohasset is pleasant and consists of the usual
activities, topped off with homework sessions designed to bring
this next generation a step above our own.

ALFRED WORCESTER SAWYER

 

abe ort
& *

4 : ?
\ gota,

-
}

 

HOME apprEss: Beechcrest, Cognewaugh Road, Cos Cob, Conn,

[1217]

— L—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hazen & Sawyer, 122 E. 42d St., New York 17, N.Y.

Born; March 18, 1911, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: Robert William Sawyer
’o2z, Louise Cushing Dunn. ,

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1935. DEGREES: S.B. IN CIVIL ENG. 1934(35); sS.M. IN
SANITARY ENG., 1935.

MaRRIED: Elinore Mooney, Sept. 6, 1936, Ashland, Maine. cHitpren: John
Cushing, July 14, 1944; Valerie Kay, April 29, 1953.
HARVARD BROTHER: Robert William Sawyer, 3d, ’30, s.M., 31.

occupaTiIoN: Consulting engineer; sanitary engineering; partner, Hazen &
Sawyer, :

OFFicEs HELD: Member board of governors, Harvard Engineering Society,
1955; member, Standards Council, American Standards Association, 1959.

MEMBER OF: ASCE; AWWA; American Academy of Sanitary Engineers; Har-
vard Engineering Society; Westchester Water Works Conference; Long
Island Water Works Conference; National Water Conservation Conference;

American Concrete Institute; Engineers’ Club, New York; Shenarock
Shore Club.

WHEN you stop to take a reading, time has certainly flown. Six-
teen years as an assistant and then associate engineer with Malcolm
Pirnie and Malcolm Pirnie, Engineers, and eight as a partner in
Hazen and Sawyer. Two jobs in twenty-four years, but not two
locations, Sanitary engineering was the field chosen while in the
Engineering School, and it has been more of the same ever since with
no regrets. .

The work has been about equally divided between field and office,
on studies, reports, designs, appraisals, field surveys and supervision
of construction on water works and sewage works, waste treatment,
drainage and related hydraulic structures.

Many jobs have been along the east coast from Maine to Florida,
but others have ranged as far as Boise, Idaho, and Monroe, Louisiana.
During two and one-half years in Florida on the water supplies for
Miami Beach, Palm Beach, Hobe Sound and St. Petersburg, there
was a chance to get in some fishing, and another two and one-half
years in the hills of Puerto Rico on dams, pipelines and tunnels for
the San Juan water supply provided lots of practice in hill-climbing
and jeep-driving. The broken Spanish picked up in Puerto Rico
came in handy in Venezuela when working on test wells on the east
shore of Lake Maracaibo and on surveys between the Orinoco
River and Cerro Bolivar in the early days of development of the
iron deposits. ,

Several round trip Atlantic crossings were required for the design
and supervision of construction of a complete water and sewer sys- |

[1218 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tem for Monrovia, Liberia, and the latest foreign work entailed a
trip to Bermuda for the Navy. Most recent domestic travel has
been to Michigan for the design of a 200-million-gallons-per-day
addition to Detroit’s Springwells filtration plant and for the func-
tional design of a new 150-mgd plant for Wayne County.

After living for nine years from suitcases and having our son
born in Puerto Rico, we bought our first house and unpacked the
wedding presents. Three years ago we bought a piece of woods in
Cos Cob and built a home where there is plenty of opportunity for
hobbies of fishing, woodworking and landscaping. Elinore’s hobbies
of horticulture, flower arranging, art and interior decoration help to
make the house a home for ourselves, John and Valerie.

AVERY SAWYER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 21 Cumberland Ave., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Rockland-Atlas National Bank of Boston, 30 Congress St.
Boston, Mass.

Born: Nov. 24, 1909, Brookline, Mass. parents: Henry B, Sawyer, Georgia
W. Pope.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

MarriED: Harriet Blackburn, Feb, 23, 1941. cHitp: Avery, Jr, July 29, 1944.

_ HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Buckland Sawyer, Jr. '29.

OccuPATION: Banking, assistant vice-president, in business development depart-
-ment, Rockland-Atlas National Bank of Boston.

OFFICES HELD: Senior warden, St. Paul’s Church, Brookline; corporation men-
ber, Brookline Savings Bank, Provident Institution for Savings in the
Town of Boston; member executive committee, St. Luke's Home for
Convalescents; member board of managers, Home for Aged Women.

ON leaving college I took a job with Burr Gannett & Company,

[ 1219 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

working at first in the bond department and then in the statistical
department. After five years I left there to work in the treasurer’s
office of the Suffolk Savings Bank, where for two years I was im-
mersed in mortgages, foreclosures and bookkeeping.

The wanderlust hit me in 1939, and so I got a job in the sales
department of American Airlines and over the period of the next
three years was stationed in Boston, Chicago, Buffalo and Detroit.
In October of 1940, while stationed in Buffalo, I found HER. After
thirty-one years of monastic life ] would not take no for an answer.
February of 1941 found us married. Life took on a new purpose
and meaning, enchanced in July of 1946, when our son was born.

In 1941, I left American Airlines to take the job of assistant
passenger traffic manager of the New England Transportation Com-
pany, which I held until 1950, an interesting job with many problems
including four tough unions and many rate hearings. During this
period, I served a two-and-one-half-year hitch in the Tank Corps,

eventually ending up in G-4 Transportation of Patton’s Third
Army Headquarters, and being mustered out with the exalted rank
of a T-s.

In 1950 I became associated with the Rockland-Atlas National
Bank of Boston and am an assistant vice-president in the business
development department. |

Tam trying to share the happiness I have been privileged to enjoy
with others by serving the community in a small way as warden of
my church and as a member of the boards of some local charitable
organizations. My hobbies are sailing, skiing and tennis.

A full life composed of a happy home, an interesting job and
service to the community makes life well worth living.

[ 1220 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ HAROLD SOL SAXE

 

BORN: March 13, 1913, Omaha, Nebr. Parents: Abraham Saxe, Sara Rosen.
PREPARED AT: Central High School, Omaha, Nebr.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: AB., cum laude, 1934; LLB. 1939.
MaRRIED: Lillian Saxe, Feb. 7, 1947, Washington, D.C. (divorced).

piep: Oct. 18, 1956, Washington, D.C.

HAROLD SOL SAXE spent four years at Harvard with our Class.
He was a resident of Adams House, editor of the Harvard Critic,
and member of the Senior Nominating Committee, the Harvard
Liberal Club and the Debating Council, After graduation he served

as research assistant in the US. Employment Service and in the
Office of the Secretary of Labor and as supervisor of one of the
field offices of the Bureau of Labor Statistics. He resigned from the
last position to return to the Law School. After receiving his LL.B.
degree, he spent a short time as research associate with Feonomy
Stores Corporation in South Boston, Massachusetts, before going to
Washington where he was engaged in a private law practice. During
World War II, he served in the Army Transportation Corps. Since
1950 he had been an attorney for the Labor Department.

[ 1221 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

GILBERT SAYWARD

 

HOME aporéss: Starlight Landing, Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Gil Sayward Associates, Advertising, 25 W. Broward Blvd,
Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

BORN: Sept. 17, 1909, Brookline, Mass. parents: E. Tucker Sayward, Ruth
Talbot.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

marrieD: Charlice Olmsted, March 17, 1932, Munich, Germany (divorced);
Elaine Pearson, Jan. 31, 1949, Fort Lauderdale, Fla. curpren: Michael
Talbot, April 25, 1933; Jil Ruth, July 13, 1943.

occupaTIoN: Co-owner (with my wife) of Gil Sayward Associates, an advertis-
ing agency.

OFFICES HELD: President, Advertising Club of Fort Lauderdale; fleet captain,
Pier 66 Yacht Club; public relations director, United Funds; governor,
Southern District, National Federation of Advertising “Agencies.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Miami.

HAVING been born in Brookline, in the environs of Boston, I very
early was made aware of my great good fortune. I, however, ob-
tained a medical leave of absence from Harvard during my sopho-
more year, and through the mature foresight of my uncle and
guardian I set forth to Europe on board the Lafayette in the com-
pany of a Chevrolet convertible and a modest Letter of Credit. I
lived briefly in Paris where I soon learned that the world was not
bounded by the Charles River and that Bostonians were a minority,
though an elite minority.

In Munich I married a junior from Smith College in a ceremony
where I nodded and said “Ya” each time the best man elbowed me.
We honeymooned in Nice where my new wife promptly came
down with appendicitis, After several months of happy touring
through a Europe where the exchange was most favorable for

[ 1222 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Americans with modest Letters of Credit, we sailed to the States «
the France toegther with S. J. Perelman, whom we adinired free
afar without meeting. Buying a home in Weston, Massachusetts,
founded, if such an impressive word can be given to such an ir
significant event, a weekly newspaper, the Weston News Reviert
Shortly thereafter the local bank, together with a good many othe
financial institutions, closed its front door and the money wit

which | had planned to pay the press, paper, and equipment notes -
not to mention my two employes — vanished.

A close friend to whom I shall be everlastingly grateful suggeste
one evening that an excellent depression dodge would be to se
home and business and move on board a sailboat bag and baggage
wife, and two-year-old son, Michael. I followed this sage advice
disposing of everything except an ancient Buick touring car whic!
so far as 1 know is still in the parking lot of the Savin Hill Yacht Clu
in Boston where I left it after moving the last of our belonging
aboard a forty-two-foot ketch, the Starlight. Armed with more
luck than knowledge (I had never been on a yacht before), we
cruised happily though precariously to Maine. Cold weather drove
us south and, accompanied by Wilford Johnson, a ’34 Harvarc
classmate who knew even less about navigation than I, we sailed in
search of the sun to Florida.

For four delightful years we cruised in Starlight; as far west as
Galveston, Texas, and to Cuba in the south. I made a connection
with Motor Boating Magazine which resulted in my becoming a
regular contributor with stories in about every month. In 1938 we
settled in Fort Lauderdale, building a home primarily as headquarters
for further cruising.

The war put an abrupt halt to this idyllic existence. In 1931 I
went to work as purchasing agent for a local shipyard and two vears
later joined the Army Transport Service as a first officer, stationed
in Charleston. We lived aboard Starlight — my wife, son, and six-
month-old daughter, Jil— while I crewed aboard a seagoing tug
which never left the confines of Charleston harber, Unable to
wrangle sea duty, a commission in the Navy, or even a gob's berth
because of faulty vision and assorted other handicaps, I sailed

Starlight back to Fort Lauderdale and took a job as reporter with

the local daily paper. Newsman’s wages and sipping whiskey tastes

resulted in 1946 in my decision to go into business for myself. A

small public relations firm, the Fort Lauderdale Publicity Bureau,
resulted. Three years later I remarried, shifted the emphasis of my

[ 1223]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

business from public relations to general advertising, and changed
the name to Gil Sayward Associates.

While my seagoing proclivities have been somewhat hampered
by the exigencies of business and the problems of bringing up a
beautiful daughter, I have managed to keep one type or other of
vessel tied up at the dock of our New River home, Starlight Landing.
The current incumbent is a thirty-foot Egg Harbor, just big enough
to make the ocean voyage to Nassau without scaring an amateur
crew to the point of mutiny and desertion at the first sight of land.
I have also been able to keep close contact with yachting from the
vantage point of my office desk through the kindness of Charles
Eaton, Harvardman and publisher of the Inland Waterway Guide,
who gave me the post of managing editor of this fine publication
seven years ago. Finally, with our agency staff capable of running
the shop with a minimum of attention from either myself or my
wife, who is an active partner in the business, I have again started
to write for various yachting publications.

If I may editorialize a moment, I feel that we aging businessmen
should never miss an opportunity to express ourselves creatively.
Talented or no, those who can or who simply feel the urge should

write, paint, sculpt, or compose. Where are the hobbies of yester-
year?

ARTHUR LINCOLN SCHADE

 

HOME ADDRESS: §220 42d St., Washington 15, D.C.

OFFICE apprEss: National Institute for Allergy and Infectious Diseases, Bethesda,
Md.

BoRN: Feb. 12, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: Charles Henry Schade, Emma
Amelia Schumacher.

[ 1224 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Englewood High School, Englewood, N.).

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREFS: A.B, mrugna cium laude, tay4. ave, tars,
PH.D., 1939.

MARRIED: Jean MacDougall Sinclair, June 11, 1938, Bloosnfichd, NJ. cenpars
Jean Whitelaw, Jan. 17, 19413 David Sinclair, June 13, tog2, Peter Arthur,
Feb. 4, 1944.

OccUPATION: Senior scientist, microbiological biochemist, National Inwerute foe
Allergy and Infectious Diseases.

MY literary ambitions remain at low ebb.

RICHARD BULGER SCHLATTER

 

HOME ApDpREsS: Maple Avenue, Neshanic Station, N.Y.

OFFICE AppREss: History Dept., Rutgers University, New Brunswick, SJ.

BoRN: March 3, 1912, Fostoria, Ohio. parexts: Daniel David Schlatter, Bowe
Bulger.

PREPARED AT: Fostoria High School, Fostoria, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B, margna cum Lande, vaya, Bt, ECan,
of Oxford), 1937; DR.PHIL. (ibid.), 1938.

MARRIED: Suzanne Wynmalen, Dec. 21, gga, Cambridge, Maw ctittpars
Daniel David, Nov. 4, 1942; Heidi Suzanne, Ovr. 7, 19gg.

OCCUPATION: Professor of history, Rutgers University,

OFFICES HELD: Rhodes Scholar, 1934-37; instructor and ayntant profesor, yy *
45, senior tutor, Adams Hlouse, 19g2-45, Harvard Univerury, pruteens,
since 1945, chairman, History Department, since rogs, Rutgers Univerary,
Fulbright professor, E.ngland, togo-so; secretary, New Jersey Rhodes
Scholarship Committee, 1954-57; fellow, Ford Foundation, tact ¢*. truare,
Solebury School, New Hope, Pa., SINCE 1947.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa, American Historical A wociatien,

PUBLICATIONS: Social Ideas of Religions Leaders, 1660 §¥, Orford, agg, Pl sceuers
of the Kingdom of Basaruah, Warvard, 1944, Prroate Property, Rarygeny aot
Allen and Unwin, 1950; Puritzn Politics, Rurgersy toss,

AFTER graduation from Harvard, P spent three year ar Oufoed

: [1235]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

getting a doctorate in history. In 1937 I returned to Harvard as a

tutor, ‘and ev entually assistant professor 1 in history and literature and
remained there until 1945. In 1940 I married Suzanne Wynmalen,

the sister of the wife of my classmate and friend, Richard Good-
win. We moved into the married tutor’s suite, A-13 Adams House,
where we lived for the next three years and where my son Dan was
born — perhaps the first child born to residents of a Harvard House.
My daughter Heidi came along while we were living in the Uni-
versity houses on Memorial Drive.

In 1945 I came to Rutgers as a professor and have been here, teach-
ing and writing, happily, ever since. We have a big, old house in the
country with dogs, cats, two horses, river swimming, fishing, and
most of the pleasures of country life, all within sixty minutes’ drive
of the city.

We have spent a good many vacations traveling — the summer of
1947 in Europe, lecturing part of the time at the Salzburg Seminar
along with my greatly lamented friend, Professor F. O. Matthiessen,
the year 1949-50, lecturing and studying in England on a Fulbright,
in the spring and summer of 1956, driving with my family on a four-
month tour swinging from Gibraltar to Southampton; and the sum-
mer of 1957, reading in London and Cambridge libraries. Next

summer we plan a trip to the west coast.

At the moment, my two children are at the Solebury School in
New Hope, Pennsylvania, and are so awed by the tales of the diffi-
culty in getting into Harvard and Radcliffe that they scarcely know
whether to apply or not.

A. BENEDICT SCHNEIDER, JR.

  

HOME ADbRESS: 2194 Ambleside Drive, Cleveland 6, Ohio,

[ 1226 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: 10515 Carnegie Ave., Cleveland 6, Ohio.

BoRN: Dec. 23, 1913, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Adolph Benedict Schneulee,
Ila Belle Roberts. .

PREPARED AT: Hawken School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. cum dande, 1914. MD. 191%

UNMARRIED,

OCCUPATION: Physician, specializing in internal medicine with particular un.
terest in cardiology; senior clinical instructor in medicine, Westcen Re-
serve University School of Medicine; assistant physician, University Hos:
pitals and St. Luke’s Hospital.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Cleveland Memorial Society, since 1954. Diabetes Av
sociation of Greater Cleveland, 1959; member executive commuttec. since
1954, president, 1956-57, Hawken School Alumni Association; trustee, since
1955, president, Scientific Council, 1958-59, Cleveland Areca Hleart So.
clety; treasurer, since 1957, trustee, Musart Society of the Cleveland Ma-
seum of Art.

MEMBER oF: American College of Physicians; American Federation for Clinwal
Research, American Heart Association; Aero Medical Association, Amer-
ican Society of Internal Medicine; American Association for the Elatory
of Medicine; International Society of Internal Medicine, Internanonal Ss»
ciety of the History of Medicine, American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science; Harvard Club of Cleveland, Rowfant Club; Society of
Architectural Historians.

WHAT Iam doing these days, vocation and avocations alike, scents
to be very much in the channels established twenty-five years ayo
at Cambridge. I went on at Harvard Medical School to receive my
M.D. in June, 1938, and then, never doubting from the beginning
that my interests were concentrated in internal medicine, rather than
in surgery or any other branch of the field, began in October of that
year a “straight” service of twenty months as a medical howe of-
ficer at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston. During the
three months between graduation and the beginning of this intern-
ship (the only completely untrammeled time which it hay been my
privilege to enjoy either before or since), I got to Furope for the
first time, saw some medicine in Scotland and England, and, as a
true Baedeker tourist in third class, soaked up a great deal of
pleasant leisure, especially in Italy, After the Brigham [ recurned to
Cleveland, my native city, for two years as an assistant resident an
medicine at the University Hospitals.

Less than a week from the end of this service, in July. sugs. tl
went into the Air Force at Patterson Field, Ohio. 2 attended che
School of Aviation Medicine at Randolph Picld, Veauy became a
flight surgeon, and then was returned to Randolph Field as aimensher
of the teaching staff of the school. Just after the end of Nostiites

[1227]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

in the Pacific I went to the Strategic Bombing Survey in Guan, in
time to visit Nagasaki and Hiroshima with a Public Health Service
team and see what our atomic bombs had done, before regeneration,
either physiological or architectural, had begun. Most of my time
in the Pacific was spent compiling statistical and historical reports
in a headquarters office, first in Manila, and later for several inter-
esting months in Tokyo, with a few especially pleasant interludes
such as the military sometimes can offer: technical adviser to a
motion picture unit in Kyoto, investigator of the status of smallpox
vaccination in Air Force personnel at Shanghai, and the like.

Not long after I saw our classmate, Dr. Jack Maier, return from
Manila to civilian status in the United States, entitled to air trans-
portation as the privileged courier of an experimental collection of
medically infected living snails, | was on my way back ‘to Randolph
Field, I spent a short time as head of the Department of Medicine
at the School of Aviation Medicine, and then, with nearly five
years of military service behind me, was released early in 1947.

By reason of my professional assignments, I had had the good
fortune to be able to qualify in 1945, while still in the Air Force,
for certification as a specialist by the American Board of Internal
Medicine. T spent most of 1947 aS a graduate student at the Uni-
versity of Michigan, chiefly in the electrocardiographic laboratory
of Dr. Frank N. Wilson. Since then I have been practising medicine
in Cleveland, and doing some clinical teaching in the School of
Medicine of Western Reserve University. During the past five or
six years, my function as a “preceptor” in a new curriculum which
is focused largely on helping the medical student from the very
beginning of his course to deal vtith patients, and to think of them
as human beings, has been particularly rewarding.

There has been much more than this to keep me interested and
occupied — such things as a literary “pilgrimage” to England with
the Rowfant Club (a book club of Cleveland), and medical con-
gresses in South America and Furope.

It's very evident that the interests which attract me most, out-
side of my profession, had their origin, or at least their germina-
tion, in Cambridge. For example, the privilege of ten years of spotty
activity in the Harvard Glee Club, during college, medical school
and internship, has led to regular participation in the same kind of
choral singing during all my years in Cleveland; and exposure as an
auditor tw wenty-five years ago to the lectures of Professor Edgell
and Professor Kenneth Conant has bred a continuing and i increasing

[ 1228 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

interest in architectural history. This sort of Harvard inheritance
comes so inevitably that it is very easy to take it for granted, but
it is something very much to be cherished,

ATREUS von SCHRADER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3247 R St., N.W., Washington, D.C.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 2430 E St., N.W., Washington, D.C.

BORN: Jan. 24, 1912, St. Louis, Mo. PARENTS: Atreus von Schrader, *og, Mary
Ann Leffingwell.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Caroline Comstock King, June 27, 1936, Cazenovia, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Kathleen, June 3, 1941; Julie, March 8, 1943; Caroline, June 1o, 1945.

OccUPATION: Admunistrator, U.S. Government.

OFFicEs HELD: AM{ember, Membership Committee, Health & Welfare Council,
Washington, D.C.

MEMBER OF: Metropolitan Club, Washington, D.C.; Harvard Club of New York.

TWO days after graduation I was happily ensconced behind the
blanket counter of R. H. Macy & Company, ready to be trained as
a merchant prince. I was shortly joined by roommate Roger Weed
and we lived high and wide on salaries of twenty-five dollars a week.
Finally settled into the personnel and labor relations part of the
business till 1941, when I left to be director of personnel for Saks
Fifth Avenue. Along with a lot of good training at Macy’s, I found
Classmate Chester King’s sister and we were married in 1936.
The Saks experience was short as I joined the Air Force in 1943.
Mine was a Pentagon war with Washington traffic the only risk.
Four years of staff work culminated in a hand in the dev clopment
of the “points” method of demobilizing the Army. Left happily in

[ 1229 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

late 1945, aS a lieutenant colonel and with a Legion of Merit for
work on the system that got me out!

No more New York City we decided (three children now), so
we settled in Hartford, Connecticut, to lead a rural yet civilized
life. Joined a smallish company making shaving soaps chiefly. Had
a very pleasant existence indeed until a bout with polio in 1948
changed matters somewhat. I was lucky and in the course of a year
of getting my legs back I worked into the business management
of the Hartford Art School, of whose board of trustees I had been
a member. This very pleasant association saw me back to useful
liveliness.

A call at this time, 1951, to come back to Washington to help in
the build-up of the then young Central Intelligence Agency fitted
my mood perfectly. This was the time of the Korean War and very
unsettled world conditions. One couldn’t help but have a feeling
that, if possible, service to the government, especially in the field of
international affairs, was the most rewarding effort one could make.

A planned short stint has lengthened into eight years and a most
satisfying career.

WILLIAM SCAMMELL SCHUYLER

 

HOME AppRESS: 25 Marcela Ave., San Francisco, Calif.

OFFICE appreEss: San Francisco State College, 1600 Holloway, San Francisco 27,
Calif.

BoRN: July 5, 1912, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Ralph L. Thompson, M.D., ’oo (step-
father), Elizabeth Scammell.
PREPARED AT: John Burroughs Country Day School, Clayton, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932. DEGREES: A.B. (Washington Univ.), 1935; A.M
(Stanford Univ.), 1953.

[ 1230 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marriep: Dorothy Church, July 9, 1938, Rolla, Mo. camores: Barbara, Apel &
1939; Thompson Church, Jan. 19, 1945.

occupation: Administrative assistant to Dean of Instrucuon, San Francisco Seare
College.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, Department of English, California State Polytcchnig
College, 1952-57; administrative assistant to Dean of Instruction, San Fran-
cisco State College, since 1957.

MEMBER OF: College Teachers of English, National Collegiate Dramatic Socieey,
Sigma Chi.

PUBLICATIONS: One hundred westerns and six other short stones (one of these is
included in Stanford Short Stories —1ig53 and The Pacific Spectator —
Winter 1953, and listed on the honor roll of Foley's Best Short Srovics ~~

1954).

THOUGH Im not really a member of the Class of 1934 (I trans-
ferred after my sophomore year), I’ve been getting twenty times
more mail (conservative estimate) from Harvard than from any
of my other schools, and I want to go on “belonging.” I feel ake
a real obligation to the many class secretaries who've followed us
with their remarkable antennae all over the country, and an obliza-
tion to any college which contributes so much to the too scanty
records of the products of higher education. So, if vou will, include
me to resolve my obligations, to amuse former roommates and tu
fill out the record. .

My A.B. was achieved at another Grade-A school, Washington
University in St. Louis. As majors in English sometimes did in the
thirties, I sold life insurance and real estate, worked in radio adver-
tising and production and wrote some advertising copy. In rg38 1
found a girl to marry, Dorothy Church, also of St. Louis.

Later, she and I and our new daughter, Barbara (now a junior at
Pomona College), left St, Louis to “build a dude ranch and write
western stories near Santa Fe, New Mexico. This was in tygeo, |
remember registering for the draft the day after we arrived. We
built a large adobe structure and conformed to the local Anylo
usage by giving it a Spanish name, ““Arenales” (The Sandy Plic c!).
A friend called it “Fort Schuyler” and that name stuck, nor a very
effective guest-gatherer. We had guests, however, and would prob.
ably still be duding except for the fact that we completed the place
three days before Pearl Harbor. OPA and other wartime restrictive
agents made it hard to stay in luxury businesses,

I joined the Navy in 1942 and spent two vears ashore. Ta the bist

ear of the war we sold the ranch and returned the family to Se
Louis while I went off to the Pacific, Ispent a vear there wathes bat

[1231 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

points, so I was one of the early ones coming home. Our son, Tom,
was born during that year; he’s now in a California preparatory
school.

After the war we stayed in St. Louis working in the construction
business in the daytime and writing westerns at night. Then I
majored in westerns entirely for two years in Ephraim, Wisconsin.
Then came long-haired stories, a Master’s degree at Stanford in cre-
ative writing, and a job as a teacher of English in California State
Polytechnic College. The academic thing took hold completely and
I am now practically a Stanford doctor of education and am in the
administration of the State College in San Francisco. My disserta-
tion is on the concept of the humanities in American higher educa-
tion and I find I seldom read anything in my field that doesn’t some-
how allude to Harvard. With full sentimental longing I wait to read
the stories of roommates Baumgarten, Capron, Geisler, Conley and
Caley.

Political postcript: By inheritance, economics, emotion, geog-
raphy and training (and, of course, by objective reasoning), I am
a Democrat. I vote for an occasional — very occasional — Repub-
lican,

EDWARD HERMAN SCHWAB, JR.

 

apprEss: Blind Brook Road, Westport, Conn.

BoRN: Nov, 18, 1911, Chicago, Ill, parents: Edward Herman Schwab, Edith
McGorray.

PREPARED AT: Morristown School, Morristown, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933,

NO questionnaire returned,

[ 1232 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HANNS CARL SCHWYZER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1588 Delaware Ave., West St. Paul 18, Minn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 530 Lowry Medical Arts Bldg., St. Paul 2, Minn.

BORN: Aug. 17, 1912, St. Paul, Minn. parents: Arnold Schwyzer, Marguerite
Mueller.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul Academy, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; S.B. (Univ. of Minnesota), 19:8,
M.B. (ibid.), 1938; M.D. (ibid.), 1939.

MARRIED: Margaret O. Nelsen, Oct. 18, 1941, Minneapolis, Minn. ciupres:
Arnold Taft, May 13, 1943; Janet Margaret (Heidi), Jan. 4, t94y7; Carla
Elizabeth, April 26, 1950; Robert Norman, Sept. 22, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Arnold Gustav Schwyzer, "33.

OCCUPATION: General surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: President, Phi Rho Sigma Medical Fraternity, June, 1937-January,
1938.

MEMBER OF: Minnesota State and Ramsey County Medical Societies; Amenean
Medical Association; American College of Surgeons (fellow), American
Board of Surgery (diplomate); St. Paul Surgical Society; Minnesota Surg
cal Society; St. Paul Clinical Club; St. Paul Medical Assembly; Awocianon
of Military Surgeons; Phi Rho Sigma Medical Fraternity; Somenet Country
Club; Swiss Benevolent Society; American Tree Farm System, Saint Paubtes
Inc.

HAVE twenty-five years gone by already? Well, concerning my
vocation, I entered the University of Minnesota Medical School in
the fall of 1934, a move that required little etfort of decision on my
part, since it had been a foregone conclusion between me and my
father for at least a decade that I would study medicine. ‘The four
years in medical school were a most pleasant extension of under-
graduate life at a time when my classmates reported that the money

markets were not plagued w ith a bumper crop of anything but jobs
seekers. “The change from Harvard was quite profound and net
altogether displeasing. In fact, the co-educational nature of my new

[ 1233 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

GEORGE CRANCH SCOTT, JR.

 

HOME Appress: Mill Road, Ipswich, Mass.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Watts Regulator Co., Lawrence, Mass.

BorN: Aug 25, 1911, Boston, Mass. parENTs: George C. Scott, ’96, Mary Kennard.

prepareD AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1934. DEGREES: S.B., 19345 S.M., 1936.

MakrrieD: Emily P. Rice, Sept. 18, 1943, Wenham, Mass. cHILDREN: Emma, Oct.
19, 1945; Henry Bruce, Oct. 23, 1946, Mary Adams, Sept. 3, 1948, George
Gordon, Jan. 27, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Oliver K. Scott, ’37, M.D., “41.

occupation: Coordinating engineer (manufacture of safety devices for heat-
ing systems).

DFFICES HELD: Member, governing board, New England Chapter, Society of
Automotive Engineers,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of the North Shore; Union Boat Club, Boston,

Myopia Hunt Club, South Hamilton (Mass.); Harvard Varsity Club,

AFTER a wonderful summer in Honolulu with Bill Hartwell, I

eturned to Harvard Engineering School in the fall of 1934 and re-

eived my S.M. degree in 1936. After trying to get interested in

rechanical drawing and machine design at the Research Division

f United Shoe Machinery Corporation in Beverly, Massachusetts,

gave up and motorcycled through the western states and Canada

uring the summer of 1938. Upon my return east, I sold Singer
ewing Machines while sets myself up as a consulting engineer.

i the spring of 1939, I joined Commercial Filters Corporation,

nuth Boston, where my engineering duties kept me deferred for
me time after the start of World War II.

Finally I applied for and received a commission as lieutenant (j.g.)
the Naval Reserve, having taken the four-year NROTC course
r college credit only, due to imperfect eyes, and reported for
doctrination at Dartmouth in February, 1943. I was stationed at

[ 1236 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Edo Aircraft Corporation, College Point, Long Island, and ac
Westinghouse Aircraft Gas Turbine Division in South Philadelphia
with titles of inspector of naval aircraft and bureau of acronautics
representative before being returned to inactive duty in the spring
of 1946. My present rank is lieutenant commander, USNR (Re-
tired), and I am definitely in the retired status as far as the Navy is
concerned. ~

While on Long Island I queried my C.O. about my chances of
being transferred to sea duty. On being advised there wasn’t a chance
even if I put in an official request ‘(this was at the height of a
campaign to put landlubbers to sea), I then set about getting married
to the most wonderful girl in the world on September 18, 1943, and
we now have four fine children along with all the other appurte-
nances of country living.

After my naval service; I returned to my former civilian work but
either they or I had changed so much that [ soon lefc and went to
work for Gulf Oil Corporation, first as a lubrication engineer and
later as superintendent of operations, Beverly, Massachusetts. Last
year Gulf patted me on the back and told me they wanted to re-
locate me but wouldn’t say where. They just wanted to know —
would I go wherever they asked me to go! Since, along with four
children, my wife and I had a ninety-acre farm with a colonial
house, barns and small cottage, four horses, several dogs, a cat, etc.,
and the necessary equipment to operate a non-profit farm, we
couldn’t make much sense out of the Gulf request. We are still
living on the farm and I am now working for Watts Regulator
Company in Lawrence, Massachusetts, where I am doing sales engi-
neering as well as coordinating the efforts of the engineering depart-
ment. I thoroughly enjoy my present association and living on the
farm.

Since I am a bit tardy in getting this report in, I can add that we
have just had a fine Christmas and New Year season with a lot of
good skating and shinney on our pond with the whole family home
from schools and everybody healthy.

[ 1237]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

WILLIAM CHARLES SCOTT

 

HOME ApprEss: 4870 N, Lake Drive, Milwaukee 17, Wis.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Outboard Marine Corp., 4143 N. 27th St., Milwaukee 16, Wis.
BoRN: May 20, 1912, Berlin, Wis. PARENTS: Burt Edward Scott, Nina Willis.
PREPARED AT: Berlin High School, Berlin, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1934.

marrigD: Charlotte Louise Durham, July 8, 1938 (died Sept. 6, 1946); Pauline
Berg, May 17, 1947. cuiLp: Candace, Sept. 6, 1946.

OCCUPATION: President and general manager, Outboard Marine Corporation,

manufacturers of outboard motors, motor scooters, chain saws and lawn
care equipment,

OFFICES HELD: Director, member Executive Committee, chairman Wage Policy
Committee, Outboard Marine Corporation, vice-president and director,
Outboard Marine Corporation of Canada, Ltd., Pioneer Saws, Ltd., Cush-
man Motor Works, Inc., Midland Company; director, National Association
of Engine and Boat Manufacturers, since 1953, Better Business Bureau, since
1955, Sport Fishing Institute, since 1955; member, Advisory Committee, past
president and director, Outboard Boating Club; member, Milwaukee School

of Engineering, Milwaukee Chamber of Commerce, International Chamber
of Commerce.

MEMBER OF: Milwaukee Yacht Club; Harvard Club; University Club of Mil-
waukee; Milwaukee Athletic Club.

MY education in the art of making a living began in earnest shortly
after Commencement Day in June of 1934. The education was
worth-while, I think. Certainly it was varied, ranging from running
down delinquent installment payments for a finance company to
selling office forms to reluctant office managers, to wrestling brass
and copper in a warehouse and later, credit, office and warehouse
managing assignments in the same organization. :

The financial rewards were something else, not unusual in those
days perhaps, but not outstanding, By 1938, the marriage I had
planned for 1934, or certainly 1935, was financially feasible. There

[ 1238 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

followed eight happy years which led us, in 1942, from Milwaukee
to Waukegan, Illinois, where I joined the Johnson Motors Division
of Outboard Marine Corporation as purchasing agente. Keeping our
lines of war products going during those frantic years was a six-day,
ten hours a day job. Those years immediately follow ing otfcred
little relief.

The first great tragedy in my life came in 1946, when Charlotte
died after giving birth to our first child. Candace and I were lucky
the following year when I met and married Pauline, who has made
a wonderful mother and wife for us.

Then came new assignments as corporation director of purchas-
ing, vice-president and manager of the Evinrude Division in Mil-
waukee, vice-president in charge of merchandising for the corpora-
tion, director, member of the executive committee and, in tgss. my
present job as executive vice-president and general manager. There
have been very few dull moments in these years with Outboard

Marine, but the opportunity to grow up in a business which in itsclf
has multiplied sixfold since 1942 has been most absorbing and in-
teresting.

It came naturally, of course, in the marine business to take to
boating as a hobby. We have cruised most of our inland waters in
two different outboard cruisers, and are now enjoying our second
houseboat. This “summer cottage” claims our weekends from June
till late October. In between we try to find time to enjoy our view

of Lake Michigan at home and do a bit of lawn work to keep cur-
rent with our waistlines and, incidentally, our lawn care equipment.

CHARLES EGBERT SCRIBNER

 

~ wome apprEss: 7 Elighland Ave. Lexington 73, Mass,

[ 1239]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

OFFICE ADDRESS: 412 Beacon St., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 4, 1912, North Adams, Mass. parents: Charles Edwin Thompson
Scribner, Elizabeth May Mitchell.

PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933. DEGREE: D.M.D., 1937.

marrigeD: Irene Martha Zacharias, June 17, 1938, Somerville, Mass. CHILDREN:
Carla, Feb. 16, 1941; Charles Edwin, Aug. 20, 1942; Marc James, July 19,
194§; Duncan John, April 9, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edwin Mitchell Scribner, D.M.D., '27.

OCCUPATION: Dentist.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in Operative Dentistry, 1938-44; instructor, Forsyth
Dental Infirmary, 1941-44; Dental Examiner, Armed Forces Induction Cen-
ter, Boston, April, 1941, to June, 1944; assistant dental officer, USNR, June,
1944, to January, 1945; secretary, 1947-51, member executive committee,
1957-59, Harvard Dental Alumni Association, corporator, since 1950, trus-
tee, since 1957, Lexington (Mass.), Savings Bank; Representative Town
Meeting Member, Lexington, since 1948.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; American Dental Association; Harvard

Dental Alumni Association; Metropolitan District Dental Society; Harvard
Odontological Society; American Academy of Dental Science, Wildlife
Conservation, Inc.; Delta Sigma Delta Dental Fraternity; Lexington His-
torical Society; Simon W. Robinson Lodge, AF. & A.M.

ROGERS VAUGHN SCUDDER

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Brooks School, North Andover, Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 16, 1912, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Rogers Vaughn Scudder, Margaret
Elizabeth Price.

PREPARED AT: Los Alamos School, Los Alamos, N.Mex.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: AB. magna cum laude, 1934; DIPL. IN
CLASSICAL ARCHAEOLOGY (Univ. of Oxford), 1955; A.M. (Univ. of Wisconsin),
1958.

UNMARRIED.

OccUPATION: Teacher of Classics, Brooks School.

oFFices HELD: Editor, Digest of the Vergilian Society of America.

[ 1240 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Archaeological Institute of America; American Philological Aw
ciation; Classical Association of New England, American Numismatic Son
ciety; Vergilian Society of America; Classical Teachers of New England.

IN 1934, just before graduation, I became aware of the stern fact

that instead of pursuing my studies further, as I had hoped to do, |

had to get a job. The Roxbury Latin School bravely took me on
as an apprentice teacher at a minuscule salary. The experience Was
invaluable and convinced me that I should like to continue teaching.

I spent the next year at the Los Alamos School, substituting for the
Latin master, who was on sabbatical leave, and, in 1936, I came to
the Brooks School, where I have been ever since, except for the war
and leaves of absence.

During the war, I joined the American Field Service, as an am-
bulance driver, after having been turned down by the Navy because
of bad eyesight. The eye examiner went so far as to suggest the
advantages of my obtaining a Seeing-Eye dog. Here he grossly ev-
aggerated. I served with the British Eighth Army for two vears in
North Africa and Italy.

Since the war, I have pursued my interest in classical studies in a
desultory manner, particularly in the fields of archaeology and his-
tory. I have spent several summers in Greece and Italy, ‘and during
1953-54 lived in New College, Oxford, and read classical archacol-
ogy, using the long Oxford vacations to work on the continent,
much of the time in Rome. The Brooks School is very generous
about granting time off, and during 1957-58, I continued my studies
at the University of Wisconsin, where I was also an instructor in the
Classics Department under the headship of my Harvard roommate,
Herbert Howe.

Not having married, I fear I have missed much of the excitement
of seeing children of my own develop, but, as a schoolmaster, T have
seen those of other people grow up and become men. My life has
been interesting and pleasant.

[ r241 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

THEODORE TOWNSEND SCUDDER, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 33 Crescent Rd., P.O. Box 44, Port Washington, Long Island,
N.Y.

OFFICE ADpRESS: McCall Corp., 230 Park Ave., New York 17, N.Y.

BORN: June 4, 1912, Brookline, Mass. parents: Theodore Townsend Scudder, ’11,
Carolyn Sturgis.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.; Chicago Latin School, Chicago,
Til.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1935, 1937-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1934(38).

MARRIED: Joan Kerr, Jan. 15, 1938, Covington, Ky. (divorced 1952); Alice Em-
merick DePue, Aug. 21, 1952, Manhasset, Long Island, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Theodore Townsend, 3d, June 26, 1939; Mary Russell Innes, July 5, 1942;
Joan Sturgis, July 21, 1946, George DePue, March 8, 1940 (stepchild);
Carol Ann DePue, April 5, 1945 (stepchild).

HARVARD SON: [Theodore Townsend Scudder, 3d, ’61.

occupation: Director, Employee Relations, McCall Corporation, which employs
approximately 4800 in the magazine publishing and printing field.

OFFICES HELD: President, 1949-50, director, 1953-56, Scudder Association; chair-
man, Membership Committee, 1954-56, director, Y.M.C.A., Dover, Del.;
member, Rotary International, Dover, Del., 1954-56; district commissioner,
Boy Scouts of America, Dover, 1955-56; director, Dover Chapter, National
Conference of Christians and Jews, 1955-56.

MEMBER OF: American Society for Personnel Administration; Committee for
Development of Ethics and Standards; Union Club of New York City;
Harvard Club of New York.

MY intent while in college was to enter medicine. However, after
spending an extra half-year in college in an attempt to make up for
the half-year lost due to illness in my freshman year, I left without
graduating to try my hand in the business world, spending two years
in investment counsel work with an associate of my father’s firm,
Scudder, Stevens & Clark.

An article in Fortune magazine on the budding new field of per-

[1242 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sonnel and industrial relations work gave me an inspiration. Upon
the advice of Mr. Hicks of Standard Oil and Cy Ching, then of US
Rubber, both pioneers in this field, I returned to college to take
some psychology and, incidentally, complete the credits neccesary
for my degree. During the mid-year reading period, I married a
girl whom I had been courting for several years. Following a sum-
mer wedding trip to France, England and Norway, I landed a job as
a shipping and receiving clerk in Cincinnati, Ohio, with Sears Roc:
buck & Company, hoping eventually to get into personnel with them,
Less than a year later, I was promoted into the Chicago headquar-
ters to be trained in personnel work and have remained in this ficld
ever since.

Having been in NROTC, I was called to active duty carly i
1941, with many of our classmates. My first assignment was to the
commander-in-chief headquarters in Washington, where prior to
Pearl Harbor I was responsible for keeping track of Japanese ship-
ping. I remember making a wager with a regular Navy commander
that we would be at war with Japan by Christmas of ’ qt. In the
excitement of Pearl Harbor and what follow ed, I never got around
to collecting and I am sure that he has long since forgotten this
wager.

Louie Dunton was in Washington w ith the Nav v at this time, toa,
and I remember how impressed Joan and I were with the facility
with which he and Mary seemed to handle their tw ins while we
struggled with our one child.

After a year in Washington, I chose minesw eeping and spent
most of the rest of the war either in school or in command of a
minesweeper and later a minesw eep mother-ship serving both in
the North Atlantic and in the Mediterranean.

Upon my return to Sears, I continued in personnel work as per-
sonnel manager of their New York City office, and subscquently
as personnel. director of Allstate Insurance C ompany, a wholly.
owned subsidiary. They say that “life begins at forty.” With me
it really began again at that time, for w ithin a vear | lose my father
due to cancer, my job because of my having to leave to care for

the children, and my wife whose severe emotional illness proved
incurable and led ultimately to divorce. However, starting of once
again with nothing left but three young children, a dog, anda sta.
tion wagon, I managed to find another job while some very nie
cousins made a point of introducing me to Alice, who subredue rithy
became my wife.

[ 1243]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Although I was an Episcopalian, Alice and I were married in her
church which is Congregational and which we have been attending
regularly ever since. I find that I like the freedom of the Congrega-
tional Church, but the ritual of the Episcopal Church. Thus, while
I was assistant director of industrial relations at International Latex
Corporation and we were living in Dover, Delaware, I attended
eight o’clock Communion in the Episcopal Church Sunday morning,
after which I taught Sunday School and attended the eleven o’clock
service in the Congregational Church. Alice often wondered how I
could do this with a clear conscience. I, in turn, wonder why there
are so many Protestant denominations. .

Although I enjoy photography, using my Polaroid given me sev-
eral Christmases ago by. Teddy, who earned the money from his
newspaper route, and also enjoy fixing up things around the house
and making minor repairs, I guess my only real hobby is maintaining
and raising tropical fish. One wall of my study is occupied by ten
tanks holding collectively approximately 150 gallons of water and
fish of various sizes and description. .

Teddy, incidentally, is the fourth generation in succession to
attend Harvard College. His great-grandfather was Class of ’71 and
Teddy is Class of 61. We have a picture on my study wall of
Teddy’s great-grandfather’s room in Holworthy showing a picture
of the same Morris chair which Teddy today has in his room in
Wigglesworth. This chair has been in college with each successive
generation. |

Second only to my family is my intense interest in personnel and
industrial relations work, Several times I have been invited to go
into other areas of business, such as merchandising or plant manage-
ment, which I am told would be far more remunerative. But I feel
there is a great deal more pioneering to be done in the field of
“people in business and industry.” We have made great strides in
the area of mechanics and engineering with operations becoming
more and more automatic. But we still have a tremendous amount
to learn about what motivates the worker, the supervisor, the mem-
bers of management and the top brass. | am convinced that industrial
strife, picketing, slowdowns and strikes do no one any good. The
worker loses his pay and business loses its.production and the stock-
holder loses his dividends. More often than not, there is eventual
settlement and I am sure that there is some way of reaching settle-
ment without going through the strife which precedes it. In all mod-
" esty, I can’t help but have a sense of satisfaction from the knowledge

[ 1244 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

that in four specific instances I was able to bring management an.l

the worker close enough so that the decision on the part of the

workers to unionize was dropped, On the other hand, while dealing

with twelve different unions in one company, I never experienced
any slowdowns or strikes. Our great country was built upen the
individual as such and upon recognition of his rights, T hope that
as time goes on, those of us who are committed to personnel and
industrial relations as our life’s work will be able to devise means
by which management and worker can develop a better understand-
ing of each other and work in ever closer harmony. Much research
is now being done in this area and so much is being written on it that
I find it very difficult to keep up on my reading.

I am also very much interested in an allied field and often spend
six or eight evening hours a week counseling men, both young and
old, who feel dissatisfied with their work, with their companies, or
with their status. Employment in business and industry is still han-
dled on somewhat of a haphazard basis and it always gives me con-
siderable satisfaction either to help a man find an area of work for
which he is better suited or to discover that after all he ty in the
right niche and should devote all of his energy to doing a goo
job instead of wasting some of it on unnecessary worry.

CHARLES SEDGWICK

 

HOME ApDpDREsS: Route 1, M{cLean, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of State, Washington 25, 1.C,

BORN: June 26, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: Theodore Sedgwick, a. Vbis.
Aspinwall Bend.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Excter Academy, Exeter, NL.

[ 1245 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932, 1933-1934. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1934; a.m
M.,
19473 PH.D, 1950.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Theodore Sedgwick, Jr. °26; Harold Bend Sedgwick, ’30.
occupaTIon: Government service, Department of State.

MEMBER OF: Signet Society; Harvard Clubs of Washington (D.C.) and Con-
necticut.

RUMMAGING in the attic of one’s past entails a certain element of
self-appraisal, which is a bittersweet endeavor. One is led to reflect
not only on what one has done or left undone, but why one did it
or omitted it. In my own case, the taste for acting that I gained in
college while playing with the Dramatic Club in Brattle Hall or
with the Hasty Pudding led me from Harvard to summer stock, to
Broadway and Hollywood, There were a couple of seasons’ per-
formances around Times Square; there were a few films, as well as
uncounted shorter engagements. But in the end, a hard fact became
apparent: that there were simply not enough parts to go round in
this harshly competitive art, and that, if I were to earn my daily
bread, I had best look elsewhere. I cut my ties with the theatre,
though not irrevocably, it seems, for even now a friend occasionally
tells me that he has just seen me dying on the television screen, which
gives me a shock until I realize that he is speaking of the revival of
an old movie. I can’t judge for myself because I’ve never admitted
television into my house.

Earlier concentration in Romance languages at Harvard led logi-
cally to the succeeding step, that of teaching French at Hotchkiss,
where for four years I tried to impart to schoolboys the rudiments
of syntax and a code of sound behavior.

Pearl Harbor made the next decision for me, but the transition
from civilian dress to Navy blue was simple enough, for my first
assignment was that of teaching French to midshipmen at Annapolis.
Language also played a part when I was later sent to act as liaison
officer for the French Naval Mission in Washington. There fol-
lowed a brief tour of duty in the Pacific and then a longer stay in
the Canal Zone, where I served as flag lieutenant to the commandant.

The war ended, I used my terminal leave for a two months’ tour
of South America and then returned to Harvard to get a Ph.D, in
Romance languages and literatures, taking up lodgings for two
years as tutor in Kirkland House. Thereafter I entered the State
Department, where I have been ever since, first in Germany and
more recently in Washington, secking to brush a few obstacles from

[ 1246 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the path of international understanding and to interpret Amerna
to visiting foreigners. My work has drawn me incessantly to the
remotest corners of the country and has sometimes occasioned visity
abroad: to the Caribbean, to Spain and Tunisia.

A vast deal of travel has enabled me to cultivate my principal
hobby, which is motion picture photography. Latterly, however,
I have been cultivating something else as well, the soil ‘of my little
place in Virginia. There is hard work and disappointment bur alse

astonishing reward in making the brown field green.

FRANK JOSEPH SEDLATSCHER

 

ADDRESS: 129 N. Seventh St., Paterson, N.J.
BORN: May 30, 1912, Paterson, N.J. parents: Frank Sedlatschek, Anna Schor.

PREPARED AT: Eastside High School, Paterson, N.J.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.
OCCUPATION: Education.

NO questionnaire returned.

[ 1247 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ALBERT OTTO SEELER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 170 Nehoiden Rd., Waban 68, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: Medical Dept., Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 77
Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge 39, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 25, 1915, Derry, N.H. Parents: Karl Felix Seeler, Clara Baylies |
Cornell.

PREPARED AT: Pinkerton Academy, Derry, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1034. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; M.D. 1938.

MARRIED: Edwina DeWitt Dusenbery, Nov. 29, 1941, Hanover, N.J. CHILDREN:
Alan Thayer, Oct. 4, 1942; Joan DeWitt, July 11, 1944; Marcia Drake,
Oct. 8, 1947; Karl Albert and John Henry (twins), Nov. 23, 1953.

occuPATION: Physician; specialist in internal medicine, member of staff, Medical

Department, Massachusetts Institute of Technology; clinical associate in
medicine, Harvard Medical School.

MEMBER OF; Massachusetts Medical Society; American Medical Association;
American College of Physicians.

PuBLications: About twenty-five publications concemed with pharmacology,
infectious disease and occupational disease.

I WENT on to Harvard Medical School, graduating in 1938, and
then interned at the Memorial Hospital in Worcester. Wanting to
do some research work, yet needing to earn a living, I found an op-
portunity to do both at the Merck Institute for Therapeutic Research
in Rahway, New Jersey. My work there was largely in the area of
chemotherapy of parasitic, bacterial and viral disease. In 1944 I was
appointed assistant director of the Merck Institute, thus moving into
the field of research administration though I continued with the
direct responsibility for a few projects.

During the war years the local shortage of physicians was so
acute that I found myself carrying a large practice of medicine in
addition to my research activities. At the end of the war, I decided
that I was more interested in clinical medicine than in experimental

[ 1248 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pharmacology and was fortunate in obtaining an appointinent to
the Harvard Medical Services at the Boston City Hospital, for train-
ing for the specialty of internal medicine. In 1947, I received a fcl-
lowship permitting me to spend a year with Dr. Maxwell Finland in
the Thorndike Memorial Laboratories, doing clinical investigation
of infectious disease. In 1948, I was appointed assistant profesor of
industrial medicine at the Harvard School of Public Health. In
1950, I gave up full time academic work to enter the private prac-
tice of internal medicine, though I continued to do some teaching
at Harvard Medical School and Harvard School of Public Health.
In 1956, I joined the Medical Department of the Massachusetts In-
stitute of Technology, giving up private practice except for some
consulting work in occupational and infectious disease.

In 1941, I married Edwina D. Dusenbery (Barnard '39). We
lived in Rahway, New Jersey, until 1945, when we came back to
Boston. In 1948, we moved into a spacious Victorian house in
Waban which has proved to be ideal for our large family. While
we can claim only five children, there are usually many more in the
house together with dogs, cats and a miscellaneous collection of less.
appealing pets. We find suburban life very pleasant and we man-
age to get to Boston for the theatre or other entertainment fairly
often.

Since so much of my energy has been devoted to the practice and
teaching of medicine, I have not developed any real interests be-
yond my family and my profession. I have served on numerous
hospital and medical society conunittees and was a member of the

governing board of the Hospital Council of Metropolitan Boston
for three years.

[ 1249 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ABRAM SEGAL

 

ME ADDRESS: 17 Thea Lane, Huntington, N.Y.

ICE appress: American Silk Mills, 1400 Broadway, New York, N.Y.

x: March 15, 1913, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Louis Segal, Esther Kraus.
*ARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

25 IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; M.B.A., 1939.
kiED: Frances S. Slobins, Sept. 23, 1938, Boston, Mass.
Harriet, Aug. 4, 1943; Cynthia Lee, Nov. 1, 1947.

PATION: Business economist, textile, weaver of synthetic and silk fabrics.
3ER OF: American Marketing; American Statistical, Harvard Business

chool Club of New York.

CHILDREN: Linda

ER graduation I worked as a civil engineer for two years, then
to Harvard Graduate School of Business to take an M.B.A.
e. A day after the hurricane of 1938, I was married to Frances.
spent two years in private industry and a year with Professor
ief of the economic division of Harvard College, working on
stile section of the Input-Output Study of the U.S. Economy.
s time the war dictated the course of events and I spent the
period in Washington as an economist, first in the allocating
materials, and then in the pricing policies of textiles.
r the war I joined my present company and also remained for
as a consultant to the government agency with which I was
sly associated. As an economist, which was a new position
-ompany, it was necessary to develop practical uses for the
ic data available. An article in the current Harvard Busi-
view on the “Growing Role of the Company Economist”
the functions of my position in my company and the dif-
that had to be overcome in order to gain proper recognition
nomist in a medium-sized company.

nly am I currently occupied with the operating problems

[ 1250 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of the company, but I am in constant contact with other economusts
and statisticians both in and out of government. Also I have to read
all the current business literature both as to business conditions
and new techniques of business operations. Tam constantly study -
ing and recently went back to Harvard Business School for re-
fresher courses.

Though occupied with the many facets of the company, T am
still a father of two growing daughters, particularly one who ts a
teen-ager. Just recently I moved to a new home in Eluntington,
which is the bailiwick of our classmate John Lockwood. As ‘buss
as I am keeping abreast with my work and trying to decorate my
new home, [ still take my pen in hand to jot down this short
autobiography, since John Lockwood has been calling me and call-
ing down the wrath of the Gods if I don’t send in this epistle. So, in
self-defense I write this and look forward to reading the more inter-
esting autobiographies of my classmates.

ARNOLD MAX SELIGMAN

 

HOME Appress: Park Heights Avenue, Owings Mills, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sinai Hospital of Baltimore, Inc., Baltimore 5, Ma.

_BorN: March 30, 1912, St. Johnsbury, Vt. parents: Maurice Jack Seligman,
Sylvia Fanny Crestin.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. maga crm Laude, 1943, M.D. Mid cd
cum laude, 1939.

MarRIED: Blume Appel, March 3, 1940, Lynn, Mass. cttowss: Myron Dee,
May 2, 1941; Dale Berna, Jan. 19, 1944; Garry Alan, March & toa,
Stanley Fred, Nov. 28, 1951.

occuPATION: Surgeon-in-chief, Sinai Hospital of Baltinore, Ine. ase rare
professor of surgery, Johns Hopkins University School of Medeime.

[ 1250 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

OFFICES HELD: Assistant professor of surgery and tutor in surgery, Harvard
Medical School, 1948-54; member, Chemotherapy Study Section, 1953-57;
president, Histochemical Society, 1954; member, Clinical Panel on Chemo-
therapy, National Cancer Institute, Chemotherapy Service Center, 1955~57,
Advisory Committee on Cancer Research, American Cancer Society,
1958-61; member board of directors, American Association for Cancer
Research, 1958-61; associate editor, Journal of Histochemistry & Cyto-
chemistry, Journal of Biopbysical & Biochemical Cytology.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Surgery; American College of Surgeons,
American Surgical Association, Surgical Biology Club, American Academy
of Arts and Sciences; New York Academy of Arts and Sciences; American
Association for Cancer Research; New England Cancer Society; American
Association for the Advancement of Science; Histochemical Society; As-
sociation of Harvard Chemists; local medical and surgical societies.

puBLicaTions: Over 150 papers in Journal of American Chemical Society,
Clinical Investigations, American Journal of Physiology, Journal of Histo-
chemistry & Cytochemistry, Journal of Biophysical & Biochemical Cytol-
ogy, Science, Annals of Surgery, New England Journal of Medicine, etc,
the latest of which are: “Cytochemical Demonstration of Succinic De-
hydrogenase by the Use of a New p-Nitropheny] Substituted Ditetrazole,”
N. M. Nachlas, K. C. Tsou, E. DeSouza, C. S. Cheng, A. M. Seligman,
Journal of Histochemistry & Cytochemistry, 5:420, 1957; “Maintenance of
Patency of Carotid Arteries Implanted into the Myocardium,” N. M.
Nachlas, M. J. Myers, R. D. Solomon, A. B. Kelly, A. M. Seligman,

Journal of Thoracic Surgery, 35:706, 1958.

DURING my undergraduate days, I came under the spell of Pro-
fessor Louis Fieser, He made it possible for me to do a piece of
research with him during my fourth year at school, on the addition
of dienes to quinones, and I spent the following year as his private
research assistant. It was during this year that we synthesized
methylcholanthrene, the most potent carcinogenic agent then known.
The following four years were spent at Harvard Medical School
and the summers were devoted to research in Professor Fieser’s
laboratory. At medical school I developed the urge to see if I could
produce brain tumors in mice with the agent we had synthesized.
With Dr. Murray Shear, of the U.S. Public Health Service, who
was then located at Harvard, I undertook these experiments and
was successful in obtaining true malignant brain tumors during my
fourth year. It was necessary for me to take a special course in
neuropathology, in order to work up this exciting collection of
experimentally-produced brain gliomas. This bit of luck prompted
the faculty to graduate me with Special Honors in Neuropathology.
However, my interests were in other directions. I entered upon a
surgical training program at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston. As an

[ 1252 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

intern I had the unusual experience of testing in jaundiced paticnts
the first batch of Vitamin K which Professor Fieser had synthesized
the year of my graduation from medical school.

During my internship, I courted and married a nurse, who my
sister had decided four years earlier was the girl for me. I had
stubbornly refused to date her during these years, but later suc-
cumbed when I met her at the hospital on my own.

When war came, I was doing research in traumatic shock under
an O.S.R.D. contract, with Dr. Jacob Fine, the chief of surgery at
the Beth Israel Hospital. I found myself frozen in this research pro-
gram for the duration. My children find it difficult to understand
why my application for a commission was shelved, although I was
physically fit for service in the Medical Corps. It has been ditficult
to explain to them why there are no war trophies around the house
and only a stack of old reprints to show for the war years. It was
during this period that we developed a successful method for treat-
ing kidney failure with peritoneal irrigation, a method that has been
since superseded by the artificial kidney.

Following the war, my surgical training was completed; my role
as an independent investigator with support from the U.S. Public
Health Service began, and I became a teacher with the appointment
as assistant professor of surgery and tutor in surgery at the Harvard
Medical School. My research interests were definitely colored by
my earlier training in organic chemistry and so extended in two
main channels: the development of methodology in the new field
of histochemistry and the exploration of approaches to the develop-
ment of possible chemotherapeutic agents for cancer. As you would
imagine, my research output in these areas has made me an enigina to
my “surgical colleagues across the country. Several of the young
men who were associated with me during that period are now inde-
pendent investigators and hold faculty positions in various univer-
sities in departments of chemistry, anatomy, pathology and surgery.

In 1954 I was invited to become the surgeon-in-chief of the
Sinai Hospital of Baltimore, as its first full-time chief in a new asso-
ciation with the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. I
considered it a real challenge to help create at Sinai Elospiral and
Hopkins as fine an association between hospital and medical schossl
as I had witnessed during my youth at Beth Israel Hospital and Elir-
vard. Never having been out of Boston, we found the move a
big one. In the four years here there have been no regrets. Late and
work in Baltimore have been good. At about the time of our

[ 1253 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Twenty-fifth Reunion, we shall be moving into a brand new hos-
pital which has been going up during the past few years, about seven
miles from the present location.

Although the move to Baltimore has put us seven hundred miles
away from our favorite fishing camp in Maine, we have managed to
spend a month each summer there, trying to lower the population
of landlocked salmon and trout. We have also discovered some fine
trout streams in Maryland and the Chesapeake Bay fishing for rock,
or striped bass, as they are called in New England, is very fine indeed.

’ My favorite hobby has taken a research turn here as well. With the

Inland Fish and Game Commission of Maryland, I am studying the
possibility of raising rock (striped bass) in a couple of one-acre
ponds on my property. The Commission is very anxious to learn
whether this salt water species, which can survive in fresh water,
is able to grow and reproduce to a significant degree in ordinary
farm ponds. I hope to help them obtain the answer.

My eldest son, Myron, will apply this fall for admission to college.
He is seriously thinking of Hopkins as well as Harvard. What can
I do? He has a strong scientific bent. The other day he informed
us all at dinner that he had just learned that there are two kinds of
people in the world: those who can curl up the sides of their tongues
to form a trough and those who cannot. I immediately discovered
that I could not and my wife, Blume, demonstrated that she cer-
tainly could. Now this opened the way for an interesting experi-
ment in genetics. My eldest showed that he could; my daughter,
Dale, could too; and youngest, Stanley, could quite easily, to every-
one’s delight. However, number three, Garry, had a tongue like his -
daddy’s, no matter how hard he tried. Now there is a chip off the old
block and I advise you to keep an eye on Garry. Maybe you'll see
him in June.

[ 1254 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MAURICE BARRY SERKIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 535 Ward St., Newton Center, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 25, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Barnet Serkin, Sera Drucker.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.

MARRIED: Freda Blume, June 7, 1936, Boston, Mass. cumprenx: Bennet Joseph,
March 29, 1939; Marjorie Dina, Oct. 25, 1942; Emily Jane, Oct. 27, tog8.

occuPATION: Manufacturers’ representative, selling men’s apparel in New Fng-
land.

oFFICEs HELD: Member of Democratic Ward and City Committee, 1957-58, vice-
president and member of board of directors, Men's Apparel Club of New
England, 1956-58; member board of governors, Newton Squash and Ten-
nis Club, 1950-56.

MEMBER OF: Men’s Apparel Club of New England; Newton Squash and Ten-
nis Club; Tennis Umpires Association of U.S.L.T.A.

FOR the past twenty-five years I have led an exemplary life,

JEROME SHAPIRO

 

Appress: Muriel Avenue, Beach Haven Park, N.J.

[1255]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

BorN: Oct. 1, 1911, Elizabeth, N.J. parents: Morris Louis Shapiro, Jennie
Block.

TRANSFERRED FROM: University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933. DEGREES: $.B.. 1934; LL.B., 1936.

NO questionnaire returned.

WILLIAM A. SHARP
(formerly William Shapiro)

    

HOME apprEss: 94 Westbourne Terr., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE abpREss: General Products, 4525 N. Lincoln Ave., Chicago 25, Ill., Brem-
~ son Photo Industries, Broadway & 42d Street, Kansas City 11, Mo.

BORN: Oct. 18, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Morris Shapiro, Ida Gitman.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932, 1933-1935. DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude,
1934(35)3 A.M, 1937; DIPL. (Sorbonne), 1939.

MarrieD: Dorothy Robert, Dec. 19, 1937, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Norman
Robert, March 25, 1941; Irene Lois, May 3, 1945.

occupation: Factory representative and regional consultant, professional photo-
graphic supplies and services.

I SUPPOSE that some of my classmates may remember the famous,
or perhaps I should say “infamous,” tutoring schools that once lined
Harvard Square. Well, after twenty-five years, I shall now openly
confess that I was closely associated with them. 1 began working
for one of them in my sophomore year, tutoring in courses I had
just completed. I also engaged in such nefarious practices as writing
outlines and translations for a well-known “publishing firm” in the
Square. No doubt, this was a form of educational prostitution, but
my conscience did not even bother me. In those depression days,
work of any kind was darned hard to find, and with no money, my
college career would have ended abruptly. As it was, I did find it

[ 1256 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

necessary to stay out for a year to earn enough to come back and
finish.

There was one extra dividend in all this for me. According to an
old saying, “the best way to learn something is to teach it,” and
there is no doubt in my mind that the tutoring work I did was
largely responsible for the @BK key and the “summa” I received
at graduation.

For the next two years, while working for my A.M. at the School
of Education, I continued to earn most of my expenses in the same
way. By this time, I had established a bit of a reputation as a Suc
cessful tutor, and students were coming to me in larger numbers.
At any rate, I decided to go into the business on a full-time basis,
and so I acquired a half interest in one of the leading schools, and
went at it with a bang. I began to tutor in many subjects I had
never studied — psychology and philosophy, Fine Arts and the
Bible, etc. The fact is that I now acquired a far better liberal educa-
tion than I ever had in college, where the bulk of my courses were
in languages. I liked-the work. It was far more stimulating than
public school teaching, and it also paid much better. In fact, I did
so well that by 1939 my wife and I were able to take a trip to
Europe on a sort of delayed honeymoon, two years after we were
married.

Now fate, in the form of an ambitious Crimson editor, played a
dirty trick on us. He started a one-man crusade against the evils of
the tutoring schools, and to make a long story short, he was success-
ful. Forced out of business, I had no alternative but to return to my
original vocation, public school teaching.

The going was rough for the next four years. To qualify fora
permanent position in the Boston schools, two years of teaching ex-
perience were necessary. My tutoring experience didn’t count, The
only answer was temporary or substitute teaching, which paid the
munificent sum of seven dollars per day — with no pay for vacations
and holidays. To supplement this meager income, I worked about
forty hours a week after school as an expediter in a defense plant.
This, plus the fact that I was what they called a “pre-Pearl Harbor
father,” kept me out of the service.

By the time I finally acquired a certificate to teach in the Boston
schools and found they were not making any permanent appoint.
ments, I was thoroughly fed up with both ‘teaching and defense
work. After one more year of full-time work in a shipy ard, I gave
up, and decided to become a photographer, turning my hobby init

[1257]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

a profession, My draft board didn’t like that, and as I expected,
immediately classified me 1-A. It turned out, however, that the
Army didn’t want me because of something they called “plantar
warts,” or nothing more serious than calluses on the soles of my
feet. The war ended a couple of months later.

For the next five years I worked for a large chain of portrait
studios, starting as camera man, and progressing through various
stages to general manager. The title was high-sounding and carried
a lot of prestige, but not a great deal of money. It was during this
period, however, that I really learned my way around the business
world, and that I discovered my true metier — selling. That is
what I’ve been doing since 1950, and I thoroughly enjoy it. My
product is photographic supplies (professional only), and so I have
managed to capitalize on my previous experience in the field.

My work entails a good deal of travel, and that is part of the
fun. Still there is plenty of time at home in which to enjoy my
hobbies, which are many and varied. I keep adding new ones all the
time, So far, besides photography, they include stamp collecting,
raising tropical fish, reading, listening to music (through a home-
built hi-fi system, and also “live” at the Boston Symphony), play-
ing pinochle and chess and, for more strenuous amusement, a little
fishing and golf.

Politically, I still incline somewhat to the left, but much closer
to the center than in my idealistic youth, when I rang doorbells
in behalf of Henry Wallace and the Progressive Party. Incidentally,
now that McCarthyism is dead, it’s nice to be able to admit this past
foolishness without fear of being hauled before a Congressional In-
vestigating Committee. Let me say, in passing, that I was never so
proud of Harvard as during those hectic days when McCarthy was
riding roughshod over everybody except the liberals of Harvard.

In filling out this form, I felt a little foolish at being compelled
to write “none” under the heading of “Offices Held” and “Member
of.” Tam really not anti-social. I simply do not believe in joining
for the sake of joining, and my work, with its frequent out-of-
town jaunts, precludes an active role in any clubs or community or-
ganizations. I leave all that to my wife. She carries the ball for
both of us. In fact, she is so completely wrapped up in various
charitable organizations that her friends jokingly call her “Saint
Dorothy.”

As for my children, they are practically all grown-up. Son
Norman is a freshman at the University of Massachusetts and al-

[ 1258 ]

4

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ready has himself a “steady” girl friend. Daughter Irene. very

mature for her thirteen years, will be entering high school in the
fall, After what she has heard about past Reunions from some of
our older Harvard friends, I think she is looking forward to this
one with even more eagerness than the rest of us.

GEORGE RUSSELL SHAW, Il

 

HOME appreEss: Garfield Road, Concord, Mass. .
OFFICE ADDRESS: Contract, 24 Sudbury Rd., Concord, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 10, 1911, Concord, Mass. PARENTS: Thomas More Shaw, ‘oo, Caro-
line Quinan.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934.

MaRRIED: Lester Parker, Jan. 15, 1942, Brookline, Mass. cuipren: Annette,
Dec. 20, 1942; Thomas Mott, 2d, Oct. 9, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Contract Interior Decorator, president of Contract, prevdent of
Contemporary, Inc. (Garfield Road, Concord), fabric jobbers.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Martin Banknote Co.; interior coordinator,
Allied Stores; owner, Concord Music Shop; M/Sgc, U

S. Army.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York.

AFTER looking over some of the Twenty-fifth Report, | gat
fairly tired of all the falling hair, poor evesight, dogs w agin their
tails at their master’s feet, unusual hobbies, long “lists. OF archival
achievements, while each author smokes his pipe and sits in com:
placency and contentment sipping his bourbon and ginger ale,
They all seem to do it, so I'll take care of each item fast:
FALLING HAIR: It’s all fallen.

POOR EYESIGHT: I’m getting Cataracts, have acute Mvepia,
and am partially blind in one eye.
DOGS: I have two unclipped poodles Who seare the netibars’

[1259 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

children and drag leaves, brambles, and dead birds into the
house.

HOBBIES: Women and huntin’, but mostly I like to hunt women,

LITERARY ACHIEVEMENTS: A weekly column on music in
a paper that has since been absorbed.

PIPE SMOKING: I don’t smoke a pipe.

BOURBON AND GINGER ALF: I don’t drink any more and
anyway I wouldn’t mix a drink with ginger ale.

Well, there go the twenty-five years, and I’m certainly looking

forward to reading some of your own experiences and talking it
all over with each one of you in June. .

JOHN COOK SHAW, Ill

 

HOME ADDRESS: 248 Rowayton Ave., Rowayton, Conn.

oFFice AppREss: Esso Touring Service, 15 W. sist St., New York, N.Y.

BORN: June 11, 1912, New Bedford, Mass. parents: John Cook Shaw, Jr. its
Clara Thomas Bourne.

PREPARED AT: Tabor Academy, Marion, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.

MarRieD: Norah Alliston Taft, Sept. 14, 1934, Uxbridge, Mass. CHILDREN?
George Taft, Nov. 16, 1940; Susan Barstow, Sept. 9, 1948.

occupation: Auto travel counselor; assistant to manager, New York Office,
Esso Touring Service.

I WONDER how many of us, looking back over these past twenty-

five years, would, if such an opportunity could be granted, steer a
different course than the one chosen so long ago. One thing I’m

certain of, that if faced again with the choice of continuing my
college education even in the face of summer school as a condition
of becoming a sophomore, or of starting my business career, the

[ 1260 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

choice would be overwhelmingly in favor of continued education,
I realize now, too late, the magnitude of the opportunities and
rewards, both physical and mental, denied me as a result of my de-
cision in June of 1931, and am determined that my own son, now
a freshman at Trinity College, will not make the same error, so long
as it is in my power to prevent it.

The economic conditions of mid-1931, as some of you will remem-
ber, made job-hunting pretty tough, but I started as an apprentice
weaver in what I hoped would lead to a career in textile manufac-
turing — barely started as it turned out, as one week larer, too of
us were fired and the mill closed. Then followed four years of em-
ployment in a soft-drink manufacturing plant, doing ‘all kinds of
work, from firing boilers to truck driving to superintendent of
manufacturing; three years of sail-making; and five years of banking.
For the past twelve years, I’ve been employed by General Drafting
Company, Inc., map-makers, as marine consultant, travel counselor
and assistant to the manager of the New York office of Esso Touring
Service.

My military service consisted of four years in the Massachuserts
State Guard — private to first lieutenant and battalion adjutant, and
two years as WOJG “sailjer” in the Army Air Forces, assigned as
CO of an eighty-five-foot aircraft rescue boat. For me, this was a
very stimulating experience, entailing as it did a tremendous amount
of boating and considerable travel along the Atlantic coasts of North,
Central and South America; and, it led pretty directly to my present
employment.

P.T.A., Boy Scouts, local civic affairs and amateur theatrics have
occupied some of my spare time, but in recent years, the twelve-
hour commuter’s day has slowed my extra-curricular activities to a
walk, and do-it-yourself home maintenance projects keep me busy
much of the time. Boating is still my favorite pastime and though
unable to have my own craft, I’ve been fortunate enough to saben
OPB’s pretty consistently over the years.

Lest an impression of bitterness or frustration be gained from my
opening comments, let me add as my parting remark, thae if the
next twenty-five years are as happy and rewarding to me as the
past twenty-five years have been, I shall be completely content,

[ 1261 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

PAUL AGASSIZ SHAW

 

LAST KNOWN apprEss: 600 Beacon St., Newton Center, Mass.

BorN: Aug. 28, 1912, Newton Center, Mass. parents: Robert Gould Shaw,
and, Mary Harrington.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

SHAW has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since 1958.

HORACE BLANCHARD SHEPARD, Il

 

AppreEss: Drum Hill Road, Wilton, Conn.

BORN: March 16, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: Otis Norton Shepard, Gladys
Peck,

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.
OCCUPATION: Transportation.

NO questionnaire returned.

[ 1262 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALLAN WILBERT SHFRVIAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 60 Buttonwood Lane, Darien, Conn.

OFFicE apprEss: New York Association for the Blind (The Lighthouse}, ref.
59th St., New York, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 3, 1910, Winchester, Mass. parents: Alfred T. Sherman, Wana
FE. Philbrick.

PREPARED AT: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; A.M. 1940.

MaRRIED: Mary Draper, June 15, 1936, Watertown, Mass cratpars John
Brooks, Jan. 30, 1940; Stephen Allan, April 30, 19433.

OCCUPATION: Executive director, New York Association for the Bind ¢ Ube
Lighthouse).

OFFICES HELD: Member, chairman two years, School Committee, Watertown,
Mass., 1944-47; board member, Massachusetts Association for Adult Bhasd,
member, executive committee, American Association of Initnatun of
the Blind; member, numerous committees, American Awocuted of
Workers for the Blind; member, numerous committees, Cleveland Well are
Federation, 1949-58, director, Cleveland Glaucoma Survey, tueg. chat:
man, Ohio Governor’s Advisory Committee for Services to Pre Na heed
Blind Children; secretary, Ohio Rehabilitation Awocianon, 19¢¢ ¢8, ecbitet,
Obio Rehabilitation Bulletin, 1954-58; trustee of special furs, Bangiok
(Thailand) School for the Blind, 1945-58.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Cleveland, 19s0~58.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in New Outlook for tbe Blind; “NX Saudy od
Work: for the Blind in Cuyahoga County,” 1gs0, “The Cleveland Cela
coma Survey,” with Dr. Benjamin Wolpaw, Sight Save Retirw roca
“Study of Salaries of Rehabilitation Counselors in. Ohio,” for the Salere
Study Commission in Ohio, Ohio Rehabilitation Awsogunon, 14%.

IT is a constant source of wonderment to me how well we busses
are able to adjust to the various “deals” that life EVES Co use Cor
that we make for ourselves). Perhaps my work wath bhi prepa.
which has absorbed the last sixteen years of my life, has celered ns
point of view and has given mec many examples of the “adsustsss

[ 1263 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

POLYCARP SHERWOOD

     

2. dN

ME appress: St. Meinrad Archabbey, St. Meinrad, Ind.

aN: Nov. 3, 1912, Montclair, N.J. Parents: Robert Hartley Sherwood,
Marjorie Brown.
PARED AT: South Kent School, South Kent, Conn.

ARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; A.M. IN PHIL. (Catholic Univ.
of America), 1945; s.1.p. (Gregorian Univ. Rome), 1954.
»{ARRIED.

VARD BROTHER: Samucl Ferguson Sherwood, °41.

-paTion: Teaching, philosophy, theology. |

cES HELD: Professor of patrology, 1946-58, registrar, 1952-58, International
Benedictine Institute of St. Anselm, Rome.

[BER OF: American Benedictine Academy.

ications: An Annotated Date-List of the Works of Maximus the Con-
essor, Rome, 1952; St. Maximus the Confessor: The Ascetic Life; The
“our Centuries on Charity, Westminster and London, 1955 (Ancient
christian Writers 21); The Earlier Ambigua of St. Maximus the Confessor
ad His Refutation of Origenism, Rome, 1955; various articles in the
eld of Byzantine and Syriac patristics.

“externally placid life of a student and teacher in the institu-
of his community make little matter for a class life. Experience,
ver, in a number of educational institutions, both here and
id, contact with the Semitic Christian east for over a year,
ation with a variety of scholars: all this leaves one little in-
1 to settle down to a parochialism of any sort. Add to this the
ant exigence of one’s field of work to understand things, men
stitutions, and the result is a growing sense of zest and dedica-
To understand, an initial understanding, is a necessary condi-
‘ather a foundation for collaboration in a pluralistic society.
-ollaboration, to be sure, will be on diverse levels; yet there
also to be an understanding of the relations of these levels

[ 1266 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

one with another. In our domestic (American) pluralism there are
elements that are almost mutually ignorant one of the other, far
more so in the pluralistic society in the world, that is strugziine
to take shape. And so the effort at understanding has need nor
only of single human instruments, but also institutional instruments,
and multiplied opportunities of contact between members of the
estranged fragments of our society. Amongst some of these fra.-
ments there is an irreconcilable divergence. For there are seme
who positively include the whole destiny of man within this
mundane history; while others afhrm that neither man, ner his
destiny, nor the interstellar spaces make sense unless there be
recognized their radical dependence upon Him whom we know te
be but whose what lies ever beyond the reach of our understandins.
There are also those, some in absolute theory, some only ina short
sighted practice, who reckon the measure of all know ledge to be
science and scientific method. There are signs of a more ge neral
recognition of the fundamental inadequacy “of such a curtailinent
of the human dimension. (Time, December 29, 1958: Psvchiatry and
Being.) Some divergencies are irreconcilable; others are extremely
profound. Myself I pertain to that group of fragments in our
domestic and world pluralism who maintain that unless man recog -
nizes an opening to and a dependence on the divine he renders his
own life, as a properly human thing, quite moribund, further |
belong to that group which believes in the one true God, who sent
His son, one true God, to be man — perfect man, perfect God, born
of the Virgin— who, when He returned to His Father, sent Els
Spirit, true God, to animate and lead that fellowship or church
which He had founded on a rock. Now as a member of that GrOUp,
I, for my part, say that we stand to profit much by more and more
continued contact with members of other fragments of our society,
We have in many ways (whatever be their cause and reason) he-
come isolated and withdrawn within ourselves. We need mere
thoroughly to understand the world and the society within wha h
we live; and that can only be if there be the opportunity for constant
intercourse with members of other fragments on the level of the
things that each counts most dear. The work is arduous, bue chat
which sustains the effort to understand and to understand with
sympathy is LOVE.

What sort of a class life is this? IT know — bute our class meeents
have asked for it: “The Class wants to know vour history... asd
social, political, religious convictions.” And besides, excepe by boo

[ 1267 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

articulate, I have no other way of showing appreciation. For how
can a teacher who receives no personal salary and, as a member of
a monastic community has no funds at his disposal, how can he send
in his check to the Class Fund? I have said it once, I have said it
twice, and what I say three times is true. Yet the reminders and duns

keep coming in. Tant pis pour eux. Auf wiederschauen, which,
for the Italians, is cio (chow).

SAMUEL SHLIFER

 

HOME AppREss: 11 Walcott Rd., Watertown, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Milton Wayner Insurance Agency, 148 State St., Boston, Mass.
BORN: Sept, 7, 1913, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Julius Shlifer, Bessie Smoller.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; ED.M. (Boston Teachers Coll.),
1936.

marriep: Diana C. Horwitz, July 27, 1940, Wolfeboro, N.H. cuipren: Robert
Joel, Feb. 14, 1946; Gerald Mark, June 9, 1950.

occuPATION: Insurance broker, account representative and insurance engineer,
Milton Wayner Insurance Agency.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Jewish Family & Children’s Serv-

ice of Greater Boston, 1954-57; Town Meeting Member, Watertown,
Mass., 1957-58-59; chairman, School Committee and member executive
board, Beth El Temple-Center, Belmont, Mass. since 1957; commanding
officer, Reserve Naval Security Group, Division 1-1, Boston.

MEMBER OF: Belmont (Mass.) Chapter, B’nai B'rith.

1 THOUGHT I was fortunate that I did not have to take English A.

Now comes retribution, and I fear that what follows will not be a
model of unity, coherence and emphasis.

I have the dubious distinction of being possibly the only alumnus
who has received an A.B. in chemistry from Harvard, without

[ 1268 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

taking quantitative analysis. With that qualification, no wonder 1
couldn’t find a job in chemistry after graduation. As a matter of
fact, I have forgotten exactly what I did during the depression year,
1934-35; I recall only a series of odd jobs while waiting for some-
thing to turn up. The something turned out to be a “decision te
spend the academic year, 1935-36, at the Boston Teachers College.
earning a Master of Education degree. There being no shortaye
of teachers during the Depression, it took three years of substituting
in the Boston School System before I finally received a permanent
appointment in a junior high school to teach mathematics at the
munificent starting salary of $1344 (per year). Summers I spent as
a counselor at Camp Alton in Wolfeboro, New Hampshire, where
the associations I made turned out to be most valuable and long-
lasting, particularly the influence of the director, Phil Marson,

teacher and scholar.

Thus endowed with a permanent teaching position, supplemented
by teaching at night schools and summer camp counseling, I em-
barked upon marriage. My wife was a high school teacher earniny
almost twice my salary, but had to resign, because in those days
married women were not permitted to teach i in Boston. Things are
quite different now. Not only may married women hold permanent
positions in many school systems, but most systems have established
equal pay scales for men and women teachers. If I may express a
view on public school education, which is supposed to be onc of
our most pressing problems, it is that equal pay for men and women
teachers is probably the main cause of low teaching standards, as
well as the shortage of teachers. It has resulted in paying more than
is needed in order to obtain good women, and far less than necessary
to attract competent men. With mandatory equal pay and the neces-
sity of keeping municipal budgets down, it can never be otherwine,
and the worst part is that it is the pupils who suffer.

Came the war and a chance to get an ensign’s commission in the
Navy. They seemed particularly anxious to obtain othcers to teach
mathematics at the time, and since I felt qualified, I applied for this
duty, with the result that I was immediately sent to Chicaro for
fifty-eight days’ wonder training in seamanship, ordnance and navi-
gation, after which I found myself a deck officer on the USS Pelurs,
a refrigerated store ship, traveling hither and yon, 4 Ia Mr. Roberts,
to deliver groceries to our forces wherever they might be. and te
our allies, including the Army. There were several trips te Poel,
then to the Caribbean, next to the Mediterranean and. finally, to the

[ 1269 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

to get by, I have developed a personal insurance practice of gratify-
ing proportions in addition to my agency duties.

Extra-curricular activities leave little time for the contemplative
life or for creativity. It is too easy to conform and to fall into
patterns which society makes available, if you want a feeling of
belonging. I have remained active in the Naval Reserve, with the
result that I now hold the rank of commander and am skipper of a
Reserve Division at the Naval Training Center in Boston. My wife
and I have both been very active in the affairs of the Beth El
Temple-Center of Belmont and Watertown, and for the past two
years, we have been co-chairmen of the Religious School Committee,
overseeing the activities of a superintendent, thirteen teachers and
some four hundred pupils. I have also become involved in town
government, having run for Town Meeting Member in Watertown,
on a reform ticket, and having, alas, been elected. Add the obliga-
tions of a fairly active social life, and we hope that the remaining
time and energy are sufficient to guide the incredibly numerous
activities of two bumptious and very wonderful boys.

SYDNEY JULIAN SHUTZER

 

HOME appress: 35 Oldham Rd., West Newton, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: William Barry, Inc., 250 Canal St., Lawrence, Mass.
Born: April 18, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: Arthur Adolph Shutzer, Sarah
Stone.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., Cun laude, 1934.
MaraiEp: Audrey R, Wolff, Jan. 23, 1944, New York, N.Y, cumoren; William
Allen, March 27, 1947; Robert Stephen, Feb. 1, 1951.
HARVARD BROTHER: Alvin W. Shutzer, ’40.

[1272]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Treasurer, William Barry, Inc., manufacturers of sports outerw eae

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Universal Coat Company, since 14h, treasurer,
Shutzer Manufacturing Company, William Barry, Inc, and Saleo, Ine,
member, board of directors, National Outerwear and Sportswear Awa ts:
tion.

MEMBER OF: Temple Lodge, A.F. & A.M.,; Pinebrook Country Club.

ONE month after graduation in the summer of 1934. my Dad gave
me a couple of suitcases, filled them up with leather jackets and sent
me off to Chicago and points west. My mission was to sell the de-
partment and retail store trade. I was on my own and life was a
little different from those four happy carefree years just terminated,
As I “sweated out” the next few months, I realized college wavs a
wonderful, happy, sheltered place, but here was a real challe nrc
where no one asked me whether I had gone to college or had made
good grades at school.

Somehow I managed to survive that first selling trip, but it had
some very disappointing moments, The next few years until tgyn
I alternated between selling “on the road” and learning the manu.
facturing end of the leather jacket business in the factory at
Gloucester, Massachusetts.

In March, 1940, just a few months after this country started the
draft, I “volunteered” and found myself a forgotten ‘little private
in Uncle Sam’s Army, guarding the approaches to Long Mand
Sound. What was supposed to be a one-year “hitch” turned out te
be a five-year career, when Pearl Harbor was flashed before us.

Once again the scene was just a little different, and now LT realized
that my few years in the “cold” business world were really wonder:
ful, happy times. But now I was really up against it, T hese Army
sergeants were even meaner and tougher than the buvers in the
department stores.

However, I survived those five years in the Army. Audrey, the
girl from Brooklyn, finally said “yes” to me when I] was st. iioned in
New York City. I guess that had something to do with my “sur-
vival.” This happy event took place in January of 1y4gq. [a Decora
of 1945, I received my honorable discharge as a tint beutenint
Audrey and I packed our bags for Boston and once more Poway
starting a new life.

Back to leather jackets I went, only this time it way tuo stita
new business. My two brothers, upon their release from the sere:
joined me a few months thereafter in this venture, Pertica
things have gone well and we now have a company calla Waa:

[1273 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Barry, named after my son William and my brother Alvin’s son
Barry.

As I look back, I think of our company slogan, “For the most
wonderful years of their lives.” We use this slogan to advertise
our products which are designed primarily for boys and it never
fails to bring back to me those fond memories of my four years at
Harvard, those most wonderful years of my life.

But I must confess, I do believe I'm having some more of those

“wonderful years.” Audrey and I have two bov s, Billy aged twelve
and Bobby aged seven. They attend the Newton public schools and
seem to find. them very enjoyable and informative. Audrey and I
have our Pinebrook Country Club which takes care of our social

life very adequately . Right now I’m looking forward to some
wonderful days at our Tw enty- -fifth Reunion,

HAROLD NORMAN SIEGEL

 

HOME appreEss: 17 Chapin Rd., Newton 59, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Lee- Wilson, Inc., 36 Bromfield St., Boston 8, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 13, 1912, Boston, Mass, parents: Eli Siegel, Fanny Sciniger.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B 1934.

MagnieD: Josephine B. Rafferty, June 9, 1940, Brookline, Mass. cumpren: Lee
E., April 15, 1941; Richard A., March 20, 1945.

OCCUPATION: President, Lee-Wilson, Inc., wholesale and retail | jewelry and appli-
ance business.

THERE are some things which men confess with ease, others with
difficulty (Epictetus). The past twenty-five years have not secn
me elected to any important boards: no imposing titles, no alphabet
letters are after my name. Some of the things I might have w ‘ished

[1274]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
for or expected, had I written this paper in 19t4. have poo met

happened. My father having been in the retail chain store fe wee
business, it was very natural for me to put my diploma asate andi ye
right to work, earning the intricacies of the credit jewelry berries
from the ground up. I have been in the jewelry business eve sm 8
and the changes i in the methods of selling have been rey peerts: te ber
some changes in our business; it now consists of a hietle ef event
We still have a retail store, Sterling Jewelers, in Waltharn, Mie
chusetts, we have a gift shop, W olcott Hlouse, at Chestrrut i
Massachusetts, and we have a discount operation, Lce- WV ahaeenn, be, .
in Boston; enough work to keep me out of trouble six lays a wees
My youthful daily visits to the gym have long since stopp a a
now I merely console myself with the thought that neve vicar we Me
the year that I shall have plenty of time or will make pissy et
time to play some golf. This all sounds evnical and vet tee ret
twenty-five years have been good ones. Blessings there have bes
in abundance: good health, good appeute, plenty Of hare ter qees?
our families (meaning the older ones) still alive and wath us. Tbs
“Good Book” says, “A wise son maketh a glad father.” DT have tees
twice blessed: my elder son, Lee, is a National Ment shotie ast
I hope a September freshman at Harvard, mv vounyer son, Rac tort
is an honor student at Roxbury Latin School, My Wile pat:
bride after nineteen years, and without her nothing thuch would
mattered and nothing much would have been eee veal Ih
years have been good to me in that I still feel voung enernsty ts plas
ball with my boys, and if it were not that this Repert roids tne
of my age, I could go out now and play seme touch fowrhall wats
them. I hope the next twenty-five vears won't be ANY Were Oh-
casionally a salesperson will still say, “What can Dida for Wie
young man?”; may they keep on sav ing ait, Tfere’s ewokisy + fore ge f

to the Tw enty -fifth and after that, the F iftieth,

em

7

Lt

lave
6

[ 1275 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

FRANCIS FRIEDMAN SILVER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2420 Edgehill Rd., Cleveland Heights 6, Ohio.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 10515 Carnegie Ave., Cleveland 6, Ohio.

BORN: Sept. 28, 1912, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Ralph Sumner Silver, ’or, Ruth
Friedman. ,

PREPARED AT; Hawken School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; M.D. (Western Reserve Univ.),
1938.

marrigeD: Mary Eliza Dunstan, Jan. 22, 1944, Washington, D.C. CHILDREN:
Michael Theodore, July 24, 1946, Deborah, Oct. 10, 1947; Timothy Dunstan,

June 12, 1949.
OCCUPATION: Physician.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Cleveland and New York; Cleveland Academy
of Medicine; Northern Ohio Pediatric Association; American Academy of
Pediatrics (fellow).

PUBLICATIONS: “The Treatment of Scarlet Fever with Human Immune Globu-
lin,” American Journal of Diseases of Children, Sept., 1949; “Studies on the
Chemotherapy of Virus Infections — General Anesthetics and Other Drugs
Ineffective Against Experimental Virus Infections in Mice,” Journal of Im-
munology (with M. Schaeffer and C. C. Pi), Sept., 1949.

MEDICAL School at Western Reserve occupied the first four years
of my post-graduation life and then followed four more years of
hospital training in Cleveland and Akron. The stimulation of those
years, literally living with one’s work, is something I shall never
forget. Internship and residency represented the learning process
in its most concentrated, most intense aspect.

As a house officer I learned from pathologists and clinicians,
but most of all from able young men who were one or two years
ahead of me in the training program. It seemed so much more
possible to acquire the skills and knowledge of those almost my
peers than to attain the proficiency of the experienced teachers

[ 1276 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and practitioners of more mature years; besides, the junior men
were so much closer to the stumbling blocks and difficulties that
beset the greenhorn.

I was attracted to the fields of internal medicine and pediatrics,
and finally chose further training in the latter field because of the
challenging problems presented by acute infectious disease in infants

‘and children.

A long interruption occurred between the third and fourth vears
of my training: from 1941 to 1946, I was an Army doctor. Two
years of this time was spent in Trinidad and Surinam; then came a
year of duty in the States, marriage and, two months later, orders
to go to England with a port battalion. We landed on Omaha
Beach a month after D-Day. Twenty miles away we heard the
thundering destruction of St. L6. Soon we were unloading Liberty
ships at the little town of St. Vast-La Hogue, near Cherbourg.

In November, 1944, I joined a collecting company of the medical
battalion attached to the 28th Infantry Division. They had had a

rough time in the Hurtgen Forest and shortly we were ordered into
the Duchy of Luxembourg for a rest. We ‘didn’t know it, but we
were part of General Omar Bradley’s “calculated miltary risk”,
there followed busy days at Clervaux, Wiltz, Neufcharel and Les
Rosieres during the Bulge.

After the war I returned to Cleveland with my wife who had
been serving with the Red Cross at the Naval Hospital in Ports-
mouth, Virginia. I completed my training, during the course of
which I published a paper on the use of gamma globulin in the treat-
ment of scarlet fever (even while the study was being done, it
became apparent that the new gamma g elobulin treatment had been
rendered obsolete by some remarkable. medicine called penicillin).
I also collaborated on a study of the effect of anesthetic agents
upon the course of poliomyelitis in experimentally infected mice.

In 1947 I entered private practice and ever since then I have
been busy with the countless things, little and big, that constitute
the life of a pediatrician. Our three children appeared in prompe
succession; the development of their several personalities has been
a fascinating thing to watch and to participate in to a small degree.

It has been a crowded and a good quarter-century; T hope the
next one will be just as good and I hope that it will run our at a
more leisurely pace.

[1277]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

BRADFORD SIMMONS

 

OME apprEss: 26 Eucalyptus Rd., Belvedere, Calif.
FFICE ADDRESS: 710 C St., San Rafael, Calif.

orn: Dec. 9, 1911, Baltimore, Md. pareyts: George Bradford Simmons, ’o7,
Georgie Swindell. -

REPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: S.B., 1934; M.D. (Yale Univ.), 1939.

rarRiED: Margaret Yelland, March 31, 1939, New Haven, Conn. CHILDREN:
George Bradford, Feb. 21, 1940; William Graham, March 31, 1943; Judd
Yelland, Sept. 16, 1945.

ARVARD SoN: George Bradford Simmons, ’61.

ARVARD BROTHERS: Edward Ball Simmons, ’37; William Emmet Simmons, ’40;
Julian Simmons, ’42.

“cUPATION: Physician (general surgeon).

FFICES HELD: Assistant clinical professor of surgery, University of California,
since 1951; attending surgeon, Southern Pacific General Hospital, San
Francisco, since 1952; physician and surgeon, California State Department
of Correction, San Quentin, since 1952; commanding officer, Naval Re-
serve Co. 12-2, San Rafael (Calif.), since 1957; president, Marin Surgical
Society, director, Marin County Medical Society.

[EMBER oF: American Medical Association, American College of Surgeons;
American Board of Surgery; Marin County Medical Society; Marin Surgi-
cal Society; Harvard Club of San Francisco; Western Association of Rail-
way Surgeons.

OMEHOW it seems incredible that all these years have passed so
apidly. For me, they have been full and for the most part pleasant.
have been preparing for or doing the work which is of my own
hoosing and which has given me much satisfaction. I have been
ortunate in acquiring as a wife a charming, intelligent, and under-
randing woman. Many of her fine qualitics and some of my faults
re reflected in our three sons, the eldest of whom is a sophomore
t Harvard.

[ 1278 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

During the four years we spent with the Navy in Workd War I,
we discovered San Francisco and moved here a few years later. “The
decision to move west was not easy and we have missed many olf
and dear friends. Now that we have become practically “native
Californians,’ we do not regret our decision. This year marks
Margaret's twenty- -fifth anniversary from Wellesley, so we have
double incentive to return to New England in June.

GEORGE THOMAS SIMON

 

HOME appREss: Overbrook Drive, Stamford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bourée Productions, 640 Fifth Ave. New York rq, N.Y

“BoRN: May 9, 1912, New York, N.Y. Parents: Leo L. Simon, Anna Mayer.

PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, New York, N.Y

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Beverly Alt, Nov. 6, 1947, New York, N.Y
Dec. 20, 1949; Thomas George, Aug. 24, 1951.

OCCUPATION: President, Bourée Productions, phonograph record consultants

and producers, free-lance writer and producer of musical TV shows
“Dean of American Jazz Critics.”

. cHttpars: Jube Ana,

OFFICES HELD: Editor, Metronome Magazine, 1939-55. program director, Jare

tone Society Record Club, 1956, 1957; president, Bource Produetrony fe.

Bourée Enterprises, Ltd., since 1957; member, Advisory Board, New port
Jazz Festivals.

PUBLICATIONS: Don Watson Starts His Band, Dodd, Mead & Company, sue

The Bandleader, 1951; contributor to Esquire, Cosmopolitan, New Dork
Sun, Downbeat, Mademoiselle, College Humor.

AS I recall, 1 was a rather uncertain, quite immature and rather
quiet sort of guy while in college. And vet I probably made mere
noise than anybody in the Class. I used to practise drum, firt in
McKinlock Hall, resulting in roommate Bob ‘Preuhaft’s deep yearn.

ing to return to high school, and for three years more on the top

[ 1279 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

the local Quaker meeting and have even taught Sunday School there
on several occasions — sometimes, I’m afraid, to the bewilderment
of some very nice young Friends.

One of the things I’ve tried to do in my mid-age is get plenty of
sleep so that I'll be bright and cheery when I have breakfast with
Bev and the kids in the morning. Another thing [ve always tried
to do as a writer is meet deadlines. And what a whale of a double-
barrelled reason for quitting this diatribe right now, late at night,
with a pleading note from Bert Loewenberg before me, and letting
you get ahead and read all about one of the Simpsons or else Phil
Singer, who, it seemed, always followed me alphabetically every-
where I went from 1930 through 1934! .

WENDELL KIMBALL SIMPSON

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADpREss: 69 Witch Path, West Springfield, Mass.

BORN: July 17, 1912, Whitman, Mass. parents: Tennyson Wendell Simpson,
’o4, Bertha Kimball.

PREPARED AT: Chelmsford High School, Chelmsford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934.

MarRIED: Edwina Goss, June 1, 1937, New York, N.Y. cuitpren: Kimball T.,
May 11, 1943; Edwina, May 24, 1944; Karen A., June 17, 1946; Ellen L.,
May 1, 19523 Martha L., 1955.

occupation: Professional electrical engineer — self-employed.

[ 1284 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Director at Rendova, warmly welcomed our LST weekly when we
arrived there with supplies. This I mention as an example of the
cordial treatment I received from so many lovely gentlemen of our
distinguished class.

After naval service, I rewarmed my medicine by teaching a post-
graduate course for doctors returning from the Army. This, of
course, required keeping one chapter ahead i in the book and in case
of mistake, I commenced practising at the same time.

In 1952 I became associated with the Medical Associates, a pro-
gressive group trying to break the ice of group practice in Boston.
This is a hazardous thing to do in this city, and if it were not for an
able classmate, Jay W ard, and his brilliant business managing for
the group, I am sure the enterprise would not have succeeded. Since
then I have continued practice and devoted spare time to clinical
research concerning the annoying problem of blood clotting where
it is not supposed to and not clotting where it 1s.

I have also toyed at some tennis, skiing and sailing with some mixed
emotions. I find myself somewhere between my children who hope-
lessly out-class me and my classmates whose various stages or arthrit-
ides hamper their competitive spirits.

Last year, however, great joy was derived from a twentieth Med-
ical School reunion engineered amongst others by Burbank, Hardy,
Gellis and Kopans. I hope our Twenty-fifth can be as thrilling. As
a preview to the Twenty-fifth, it clearly illustrated how a lot of
new and exciting acquaintances can be found in what we had mutu-
ally considered to be a drab bunch of worthless classmates.

ROBERT WILKINSON SKINNER, III

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1929 Millersville Pike, Lancaster, Pa.

[ 1288 |



HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

BERNARD IRA SMALL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 634 Tarento Drive, San Diego 6, Calif.

OFFIcE ApprEss: U.S. Navy Electronics Laboratory (Code 2744d), San Diego
52, Calif,

BoRN: Dec. 5, 1912, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Frank Small, Sarah E. Goldberg.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: S.B. IN E.E., 1934; S.M. IN E.E. 1935.
MarRIED: Mary Virginia Provens, Nov. 15, 1945, Cambridge, Mass.
occuPATION: Electronic scientist, U.S. Navy Electronics Laboratory; developing

microwave antennas and associated components for naval radar applica-
tions.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, NEL Toastmasters Club No. 2539, January—June,
1958; vice-chairman, San Diego Chapter, IRE Professional Groups on

Antennas and Propagation and Microwave Theory and Techniques,
combined, 1958.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Radio Engineers, Harvard Engineering Society,

Harvard Club of San Diego.

pusLications: “Measuring Microwave Antenna Patterns,’ with C. M. Hatcher,
Electronics, Vol. 27, No. 11, page 184, November, 1954.

THE early years after graduation found me continuing where I had
left off. I stayed on to get my S.M. in electrical engineering and
then, with engineering jobs still depressed, and having pretty rigid
ideas as to what I wanted to work at, I continued in the Graduate
School of Engineering for two more years. Having a family home
a few blocks down Oxford Street and assistance from a scholarship
fund, part-time laboratory assistantships and odd jobs in engineering
consultation made it easy. Ours was the last class that was privileged
to have the full undergraduate engineering course, so most of my
time during undergraduate years, as well as practically all of it

during graduate study, was spent at Pierce Hall — after seven years,
it was very much home to me.

[ 1290 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

But I found myself spending more and more time on the odd
jobs, less and less on sticking to the business of graduate research,
so when the job I had set my sights on opened up, I jumped for it.
It was with the Simplex Wire and Cable Company in Cambridge
— still convenient to home and to the University — so for two more
years I continued a part-time status as a graduate student, spending
many an evening in a Pierce Hall basement corner squinting into
an oscilloscope or hunched over a drawing board. But I finally
admitted to myself that I did not have the spark to finish that
doctoral thesis.

After three years in the laboratory at Simplex, I switched to sales
engineering in their Chicago office. I suppose I might have been
there yet, if December 7, 1941, had been otherwise. Two months
later, after exactly one year in Chicago, I returned to Cambridge,
and immediately paid my respects at the Harbor Building in Boston,
where I obtained the stack of papers that was to lead to a commis-
sion in the Naval Reserve. But back at Pierce Hall to obtain the
necessary course transcript I was nabbed by Jim Cobine and hustled
over to Cruft Lab to see Professor Chaffee. I fear they were scrap-
ing the bottom of the barrel at the time, but it was my “good fortune
to. have landed there when they were searching desperately for
instructors to staff the rapidly-expanding war training courses in
electronics. So there I stayed, and gradually made the transition
from electrical engineering to radio science.

With the end of hostilities, the job evaporated and I decided to
return to the laboratory, casting my lot with a newly-organized
Antenna Research Branch which was formed in Cambridge, pri-
marily from a nucleus of MIT Radiation Lab people, then moved in
a body to Naval Research Laboratory in Washington, D.C. I made
the move as a married man of four months, having met my wife
when she joined the Cruft Laboratory office staff as a temporary
employee the previous summer. She was visiting Cambridge from
Columbus, Ohio, and had intended to return to continue at Ohia
State, but I changed her mind.

We had an interesting six years in Washington, but never could
get over the feeling, apparently a common one there, that it was
temporary. When we took advantage of one of the fringe benetits
-of Civil Service employment — the opportunity to accumulate
leave — and, in the summer of 1951, used six weeks to drive across
the country and back and visit all the tourist attractions we could
squeeze in, a visit to a sister navy laboratory in San Dieyo elicited

[1291 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

a suggestion of a transfer. Jinny was ready to drop off right then
and stay by the Pacific shore, but I managed to get her back across
the continent long enough to close our Washington affairs prace-
fully, then trek back west the following spring.

Workwise, there was littl change—I have continued in the
field of research and development on microwave antennas. But the
change in living has been extreme. From a life of east coast cit
cliff dwelling, always concerned about the weather (either too hot
or too cold), never feeling there to stay, we have sunk our roots
in a west coast community of suburban homes. People have many
reasons for settling upon a locale and an occupation. In my case
it appears that comfort and calm are the ruling values, The climatic
advantages of coastal Southern California are well known. In m
particular circumstances [ have the added advantages of living in a
quiet, beautifully landscaped area, just one mile from the gate of the
laboratory reservation situated on top of Point Loma, with un-
surpassed views of ocean, mountains and gleaming San Diego city
across the bay. The academic atmosphere and fine facilities make the
working hours satisfying, and the year-round opportunity to garden,
and to carpenter, paint, pave, plumb and otherwise comport myself
as an extreme do-it-yourselfer, indoors and out, leaves no time to
rush about looking for entertainment. Some activity in technical
societies and in Toastmasters’, and an occasional extension course or
lecture series to keep our hands in, rounds out the picture of daily
living.

I should not give the impression that I spend all of my time on
Point Loma. My work sends me on several trips a year, most of
which include stops in Washington and in Boston, as well as oc-
casional visits to the New York and Chicago areas. Thus the asphalt
and concrete of Independence Avenue, subway platforms and
Harvard Square remain familiar to my feet. Although San Diego
has not attracted many old friends or classmates (one exception:
Dr, David Miller performed some minor surgery on me last spring),
many have drifted to the Los Angeles area, so that visits there are
always busy ones.

On the other hand, my wife has not left Southern California since
our arrival six and a half years ago, Next year we plan again to take
advantage of accumulated leave and make the Reunion an occasion

to cover the East in a grand tour of most of the locales that have
been in our backgrounds,

[1292 ]

 

aq So RT ARN SI TE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ABBOTT PLINY SMITE, U

 

HOME ADDRESS: 31 Beacon St., Natick, Mass.

OFFicE AppRESS: Silas Dean Organization, Inc. 551 Boylston Se. Beaten 64,
Mass.

BORN: July 28, 1912, New Bedford, Mass. parents: Clarence Rand Oro,
Ruth Smith.

PREPARED AT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931. DEGREE: A.B. (Bates Coll.), rozy.

mMarRIED: Elizabeth Cooper Saunders, Dec. 7, 1934. Cambridge, Mass. cat ners:
Carol Ann, Sept. 21, 1936 (a1. Hyle Orten, Mav 31, tgs), Abbott Phas.
3d, June 16, 1938; Susan Chase, Feb. 28, 1943; Janet Loune, Jan. ma tua.
James Arthur, Sept. 19, 1947. GRANDCHILD: Debra Lynn Orten, July it, sues

occupation: New England district manager, Silas Dean Organization, Ine

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, State of Maine USO Campaign, ro4g4. tags, Repatls an
Town Committee, Yarmouth, Maine, 1944. 1945. board of trusecen Var:
mouth Community Chest, five years, War Ration Board, Varmeurh, der.
ing World War I; life insurance supervisor, Connecncut Mutual bite
Insurance Company, 1942-46; president, Maine Lakes & Coast, Realtors
1945-52, Microfilm Corporation of Maine, toyg-¢2; general manages,
Radio Station WMTW), Portland, Maine, 1948-50, awistant to prewk mt,
Denver, Colo., 1954-56, New England distnct manager, snce tyes, Sie
Dean Organization, Inc.; supervisor of sales training and lew porwr |,
Motor Truck Division, International Elarvester Company, tact qo, Bers
Scout leader, choir member; lay preacher.

MEMBER OF: National Sales Executives Club; Boston Club,

PUBLICATIONS: How to Sell Intangthles, Prentice-Hall, tyc8, Flew ta Wade tow
Big Sales, Prentice-Hall, 1959; numerous articles in magaciies or vases
aspects of salesmanship.

A FULL account of my life and thought since tgpge whah x
what you scem to ask for — would leave little room for smnidae
reports from the more important members of our Clas. Phe etal
lenge to sum it all up bricfly is making all of us, Pam sare, efenk
hard about the possible meaning of our lives up te this pear

[ 1293 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

EDGAR LAWRENCE SMITH, JR.

 

appress: 1607 N. Bryan St., Arlington 1, Va.

BORN: Sept. 11, 1912, Brooklyn, N.Y. parents: Edgar Lawrence Smith, Sidney
Lewis.

PREPARED AT: Montclair High School, Montclair, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Divorced 1951.

occuPaTION: Electronics.

NO questionnaire returned.

GEORGE HENRY LOVETT SMITH

 

HOME Appress: 120A Atwood Ave. Newtonville 60, Mass.

BORN: July 31, 1912, Atdeboro, Mass, parents: Charles Frederick Blackburn
Lovett Smith, Mabel Livingston Ackhurst.

PREPARED AT: Winchester High School, Winchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: AB, magna com laude, 1944; A.M., 1935

mMakgivp: Helen Knight, May 29, 1940, Boston, Mass. crito: Candida Lovett,
July 7, 1941.

Wakvann BRoTiER: Charles Victor Lovett Smith, "31, aM, 32, PItD., "39.

[ 1296 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Writer.

OFFICES ‘HELD: Assistant to manager, Boston Symphony Orchestra, tua ae. ot
rector of publicity, associate manager, acting manager, Progra anot ster,
Cleveland Orchestra, 1941-57; trustee, Cleveland Muste School Scerk inert,
1953-57; secretary of trustees, Musical Arts Association, Cleveland. tuce 4?

-_MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York, Rowfane Clube of
Cleveland.

PUBLICATIONS: Sixteen volumes of “Cleveland Orchestra Program Noten” baat
57; many articles in Boston Evening Transcript, Christian Scwnce Menor,
Modern Music, Magazine of Art, Musical Quarterly, Musical Caterer, othct
newspapers and magazines.

MUSIC and books have always delighted me, and I counted ts se
fortunate indeed to be invited to join the stat of the Boston Sy rit
phony Orchestra while I was still in the Graduate School, Viv years
with the orchestra were very happy ones. [ took particular pleasure
in the creation and direction of a series of art exhibitions anv the
First Balcony Gallery, which have become a regular feature of the
concerts at Symphony Hall.

When the opportunity came to carry on my work with the yours
but growing Cleveland Orchestra in 1940, I was only too ple cased,
and drove to Cleveland with my bride (daughter of ‘T heron Kiht.
’03), with high expectations, We found Ohio a world very diferent
from Massachusetts, but with much that was interesting. My efforts
with the orchestra bore fruit, and I was able to watch it mature and
reach an early “‘golden age.” A series of deaths and changes anor
the officers made it impossible for me to Continue with satefactean,
so I resigned in 1957 (after seventeen vears) and returned to Boston
to take up again my writing career w hich had been rather saute
merged by administrative duties,

It j is a great joy to be back in mv native New Poylind with ney
family who love it as much as I do — and this goes for my laches
who is a native of Cleveland. She is working hard ar Newton i.
School and playing in the band which makes the football ines
all the more exciting for us all. College for her ow the newt te
thing, and the problem is being examined from all amles,

For me, the greatest pleasures have been those of tanuly hfe. et
travel, of nature, of reading, and of listening to music, Ves base
about food and drink, too, and take a scholar’s qaterest am ace,
which I have been able to test with experts in the ref Bor toa os
vicinity. Working at full bent for a good Cause tthe yreata t:
tion of life, I should say, The happy relationships ma. Te wie
_met along the way add to the fun.

[1297 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

I have seen much of the United States, eastern Canada, Bermuda
and a good deal of Europe — including Portugal, which appeals to
me particularly. My wife and I spent a very happy two months in
England and Holland in the autumn of 1957, which remains an
entrancing memor

Looking back, one wishes inevitably that one could have ac-
complished so much more, learned to write better, to read more
languages, to speak French better, and have some vocabulary in
German and Italian. But one is healthy, almost as strong, and has
years ahead. One will see more of the world, contribute more to
one’s own small one, try to make more happiness where it is sorely
needed in both the smaller and the larger!

+ HARRISON DOUGLAS SMITH

 

BorRN: June 24, 1912, Brooklyn, N.Y, parents: Alan Douglas Smith, Almeda
Beckman.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N. H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1934. DEGREE! A.B., 1934.

MarRiED: Doris Washburn Gardner, June 19, 1938, Winchester, Mass. cHILD:
Jacqueline.

pbiep: Aug. 22, 1942 Peterborough, N.H.

HARRISON DOUGLAS SMITH was a member of the Adams
House baseball, squash and swimming teams; secretary of the
House Committee and treasurer of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. After a
year at the Graduate School, he entered the field of education and
was an English teacher and principal at the Sippican School in
Marion, Massachusetts, He was survived by his wife and daughter.

[ 1298 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HENRY MARSUTUS SMITH, JR.

LAST KNOWN apprEss: 6345 Eberhart Ave., Chicago, Il.

BORN: Oct. 24, 1911, New York, N.Y. parents: Henry Marsutus Smith, Mary
Wyatt.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1931-1932.

SMITH has been carried as a “ost” man on our records since 1947.

HORACE WEBSTER SMITH

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Locust Avenue, Homer, N.Y.

BORN: Feb. 19, 1911, Short Hills, N.J. parents: Philip Lees Smith, ‘97, Belle
Webster.

PREPARED aT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; M.D. (Johns Hopkins Univ.),
1939.

MaRRIED: Sallie Owings Gorman, July 10, 1943, Baltimore, Md. ctitpres:
Philip Lees, 2d, March 3, 1945; Stephen Gorman, May 28, 1946; Sallie
Dorsey, July 23, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Philip W. Smith, ’25.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

orFices HELD: Instructor in medicine, Harvard University, 1940; Major, MLC.
U.S. Army, 1941-45; instructor in preventive medicine, Johns Hopkins
University, 1947-50; director, Cortland County Laboratory, 1950-56,
vice-president, Central New York Ski Council.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Society (formerly); Society of American
Bacteriologists (formerly); Central New York Ski Council.

PUBLICATIONS: “Investigations of Meningococcal Infections”; “Report on Forty -
three Cases of Meningococcic Meningitis.”

MY first twenty-five years have consisted of medicine, military
service, marriage, a menagerie and a myocardial misfortune. The
next twenty-five years I am going to be a farmer, a free lance, and

[ 1299 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

a skier. You can see why I don’t dare have a picture taken, Point
of view flexible.

NORMAN NOBLE SMITH

 

ME ADDRESS: 29 Burr Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.

“Ice AppREss: A. E. Ogan, Inc., 29 Sleeper 5t., Boston 10, Mass.

N: May 30, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Hyman Smith, Sarah Garber.
PARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

.RS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1933.

RRIED: Edythe Brenner, July 3, 1941, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Kenneth
Brenner, April 3, 1944; Nancy Joan, Aug. 29, 1946.
upation: Salesman and sales promotion manager, A. E. Ogan, Inc. (Bake-

N-Joy Foods), manufacturers of food supplies for the baking industry.

life immediately after Harvard was far removed from my field
languages and literature. The depression enforced its own com-
sions on me. For some time I worked aboard South American
ps and eventually came to reside in Boston.
“or a few years I was associated with Fair Trade activities in
drug and tobacco industries, which channeled my life into the
d of business. There was a special aura of charm to my work be-
ise Of my pretty young secretary — so I married her.
spent the war years with the Federal Government’s Office of
ce Administration in Washington, New York and Boston. For
st of the time since, I have been associated with A. E. Ogan, Inc.,
Boston, a young, dynamic organization engaged in the business
manufacturing food supplies for the baking industry.
Ay wife and I enjoy the same interest in art, literature and
sic. We consider ourselves independent voters, but have voted
nocratic in national elections. Our interest runs strong in

[ 1300 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

political and social matters. My son Kenneth, who will soon be
fifteen, is an all-round athlete. He is a good southpaw pitcher
and is a varsity football and basketball player and track man at
junior high. I am sure that as he watched the H-Y football game
this season, he visualized himself quarterbacking a future Harvard
team. My daughter Nancy is a pre-teen-ager who, at the moment,
just loves life!

In preparing my thoughts for this Report, | realized that the past
twenty- -five years provided little objective biographical material of
real interest or significance to others, It is wonderful, indeed, for
some that a recital of creative accomplishments i in itself can be its
own commentary. But for some, the myriad events of a sizeable
segment of life must have their values in the deeply personal area
of evaluation and synthesis. What ensue are the values by which
one lives and by which one hopes to make a quiet and w orthy
contribution to life. My Harvard years gave to me a rich aware-
ness of the verities in the arts; and this has become the principal
ingredient in my evaluating process.

STEPHEN SMITH

  

HOME ADDRESS: 41 Laconia Rd., Worcester, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Norton Co., Worcester, Mass.

BORN: July 26, 1912, Port Chester, N.Y. Parents: Dean Culver Smith, Na
Louise Stulen.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B. IN E.E., ctim laude, 1934.
MARRIED: Jean Campbell Ruggles, Sept. 26, 1939, Rye, N.Y. cunprrs: Dynan

C., Oct. 13, 1942; Nancy H., Jan. 29, 1946; Barbara FE, Aug. 3a, toga,
David C., May 13, 1952.

[ 1301 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

occupaTION: Manager, sales service, Abrasive Division, Norton Company,
manufacturers of abrasives, abrasive products, grinding machines, refractory
products, coated abrasives and electro-chemicals.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant Secretary, executive committee, Worcester County Re-
publican Club, 1953-55; incorporator, Children’s Friends Society, since
1957-

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Worcester; Players Club.

AS I have been sitting here at my desk thinking back over the past
years since graduation, remembering good friends not seen for too
long, the deep canyons of Manhattan which seemed even deeper
during the depression years when $20 a week was good pay and
college men were lined up fifty deep for page-boy jobs in Radio
City, all a prelude to an amazingly exciting resurgence which has
lasted with only minor interruptions to this day —a period which
has included so many wonderful happenings to me, my family and
my friends — the thoughts and associations and mental images which
now are flowing swiftly back from awakening memories have sud-
denly made me feel all warm inside. Yes, these past years have been
very good!

The past years have been good because whatever accomplishments
I have been able to make I have been able to share with my
wonderful family. My wife and I met at a summer dance at Lake
George in 1938 and were married the next year. Our honeymoon
was storybook. However, toward the end, while at Williamsburg,
my wife picked up a virus rather suddenly. We still laugh about the
two maiden ladies in our group touring the Governor’s Palace.
When they saw me assist Jean to a nearby couch to rest, they
glowered at me and said in a loud whisper, “Look at that horrible
man and what he has done to his lovely bride — he’s already made
her pregnant!” Three years later, however, our first daughter was
born, a never-to-be-forgotten beautiful experience. Two more
daughters and a son followed in an evenly spaced pattern, well
planned, if I do say so. Our life, of course, is bound up with our
children and their increasingly active affairs, boy friends, summer
camps, and all of their joys and sorrows. What better way is there
to stay young?

Making money has been confined primarily to working for various
bosses while cherishing a secret desire for years (like many others,
I’m sure), that of owning and running my own business. I and two
others, incidentally, were involved a number of years back in a
highly interesting and not too unprofitable speculative venture in

[ 1302 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

U.S. commemorative mint stamps. At various times [ have con.
ducted several evening lecture courses at local business or technical
schools, the most recent being a course on industrial marketing,
Undoubtedly, I have been over-paid for these assignments, as Throw
I get more out of the business men attending the lectures than thes
get from me.

Hobbies, for a good New Englander, of course, put skiing near
the top. It is a great family sport and all of us get out on the
slopes together as often as possible. Tennis, squash, swimming, a
little golf and you don’t have much time left for bridge, which we
thoroughly enjoy. We have a summer place w ithin commutinys
distance from business, so we as a family spend a good deal of time
sailing and fishing.

Travels have mainly been for business with, of course, some at
government expense during the war, although I never did get to sce
the “gals in Paree.” ‘The first two years of the war, I was in the
Air Corps Matériel Command as inspector-in-charge, Internal Se-
curity Section, Buffalo District, with a civilian rating of captain.
The Army had a higher priority than the Air Corps, however, so

I ended up as a staff sergeant in a Field Artillery Battalion, where
I had some memorable experiences, but didn’t help the cause much,
in my opinion.

Like so many of us, I have this past year worked long and hard
on the terrifically important Harvard fund-raising campaign. It has
been an experience which has brought me even closer to Harvard
and Harvard men than ever before (football hasn’t helped much,
although things seem to be looking up). It has made me think about
what Harvard has meant to me —the stimulation, an awareness of
potential, helpful guidance in charting a future course, a wav of life
— all these and so much more and better, seen now after twenty-five
years. After fifty years, God willing, I hope to be even more
articulate and am looking forward to our Fiftieth Reunion,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

RICHARD TOWSON SMYTH

 

HOME apprESS: Mountain Road, Norfolk, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New Directions, Norfolk, Conn.

BORN: July 7, 1913, New London, Conn, parents:- Joseph H. Smyth, Mae W.
Towson. .

PREPARED AT; Silver Bay School, Silver Bay, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934. -

MarRRIED; Noel Spofford Morgan, Aug. 1, 1940, Norfolk, Conn. CHILDREN:
Diana Towson, Oct. 31, 1941; Barbara Spofford, June 5, 1946; Deborah
Morgan, Aug. 8, 1947. .

occupation; Co-publisher, New Directions textbooks.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Society of Mayflower Descendants,

Norfolk Country Club. —

A BRIEF clerical stint with the F.B.. in Washington followed
graduation. Then sailed off to Guatemala for almost two years to
learn Spanish and study law and history in preparation for the
oreign service. Returned to Washington and worked for the fed-
ral government until joining the Oxford University Press in New
York. Resigned this work in 1941 to enter the Foreign Service
Auxiliary of the State Department, serving variously as Cultural
Relations Attaché in El Salvador, liaison officer at the United Na-
ions Conference at San Francisco, Chile desk officer and, finally,
olitical officer in the Division of Brazilian Affairs. In 1948 I
ntered into partnership with James Laughlin at New Directions to
ublish college textbooks.

The last twenty years seem to have been a constant process of —
novement; we have lived in Connecticut, New York, Washington,
).C., Guatemala, El Salvador, Switzerland, Italy and Santa Barbara,
valifornia, where we still have a house and some avocado trees. We
ope to settle soon in one place.

[ 1304 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

As for reflections on life, I hesitate to write any down, The taped
changes of the last twenty-five years — changes in the social, moral
and economic attitudes and manners — leave me rather bewildered.
The era of planned obsolescence in mechanical gadyets and in
education confuses me. However, so far in my trip through those
years, I have been mindful of the experience and atnwsphere of
Harvard and humbly grateful to have been exposed to her pursuit

of wisdom and virtue.

SAMUEL SONENFIELD

 

ADDRESS: 27748 Center Ridge Rd., Westlake Village, Ohio.
BORN: July 7, 1912, Mt. Clemens, Mich. parents: Fmanucl Sonentichd, Aline

Mulholland,
PREPARED AT: Lakewood School, Lakewood, Ohio.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B 1934.

OCCUPATION: Law.

NO questionnaire returned.

—____

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

HAROLD MARVIN SONNICHSEN

   

HOME abprEss: 75 Main St, Cranbury, N.J.

OFFICE apprEss: Permacel Tape Corp., New Brunswick, N.J.

porN: April 4, 1912, Hancock, Minn. parents: Henry M. Sonnichsen, Mary
Hults,

PREPARED AT: Wadena High School, Wadena, Minn. |

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932, 1934-1935. DEGREES: A.B, (Texas Western Coll.),
1934; SM. (Harvard Univ.), 1935; pH. (ibid.), 1939.

MarRieD: Thelma Lowenberg, March 11, 1939, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Susan Elizabeth, Feb. 25, 1940, Harold Eric, May 16, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Leland Sonnichsen, A.M., ’27, PH.D. 731.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and research director, Permacel Tape Corpora-
tion, division of Johnson & Johnson; manufacturers of adhesives, adhesive
tape and electric insulation.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Association of Research Directors;
A.A.AS.; American Institute of Chemists; Society of Chemical Industry.

GERALD SAUL SOROKER

    

te il a ee

HOME ADDRESS; 3688 Stoer Rd., Shaker Heights, Ohio.
[ 1306 ]

ae

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
OFFICE ADDRESS: Jewish Community Federation, 1001 Huron Rd., Cleveland,
Ohio.

BORN: Feb. 14, 1913, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Leopold S. Soroker, Clara B.
Rosen.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1934; aM. (Univ. of
Chicago), 1940.

MarriED: Eleanor Perlove, Sept. 22, 1942, Boston, Mass. cup: Robert Alan,
July 8, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Social worker; campaign director, Jewish Community Federation
of Cleveland.

OFFICES HELD: President, Dallas, Texas, Chapter, American Association of
Social Workers, 1953.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Social Workers; National Conference of
Jewish Communal Service.

THE summer of 1934 found me in a quandary. I really did not
know what I wanted to do. This indecision plagued me for the next
several years — five to be exact — during which time my activities
ranged from that of a longshoreman to a writer of historical records,
In between I sold crossword puzzles and worked as a shipping clerk.

In 1938 I tried my hand at voluntary social work and suddenly
decided that that was what I wanted to do. By the fall of 1939, 1
had registered at the Graduate School of Social Service Administra-
tion at the University of Chicago. (Harvard didn’t have such a
school then, nor does it now — it should!!!) School at the age of
twenty-six, after having been out of school for five years, was
unmitigated terror for the first month. (I almost chucked the whole
thing.) After that it was wonderful and richly rewarding. There
is a lot to be said for going to school at a mature age (mavbe I
just developed later). Suffice it to say, I completed eighteen months’
work in fifteen, and emerged clutching a Master of Arts degree in
Social Work and determined to right all the wrongs of mankind.

My first job in Boston was as a caseworker and to this day I re-
gard this phase of my career most fondly. There is something about
helping someone help himself that is immensely rewarding. (Trite?
Maybe, but oh so true.) After a year I became supervisor of a
district office and shortly thereafter met the girl, also a social
worker, who was to become my wife. How w ell I remember our
discussions on how happy we would be on my munificent salary
of forty dollars a week. And happy we were.

The war soon intervened and somehow or orher (I shall never
really know how), I found myself in the Navy as a communicas-
tions officer after a whirlwind training course at Princeton, Fecl-

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ing somehow that I may have been miscast, I faithfully replied to

directive after directive which indicated the alarming Scarcity of

social workers in the service. But to no avail—a communications
officer I remained. During my three years in the service, a light
cruiser became my home. We went from Iwo Jima to Okinawa
to the China Sea, and then finally to Japan. With the help of some
good petty officers I managed to survive. My only mishap was when

I sent the entire ship to General Quarters one morning at 2 aM.

only to discover that the alert [ heard was in the area hundreds of

miles away. .

Upon leaving the service, I next went to work in Chicago in the
field of Jewish Community Organization. After three years we
moved to Dallas, Texas, where I served as a consultant in the field
of Jewish Community Organization throughout the Southwest.
Those were rich years for us, our son Bobby was born in Texas
and brought a new dimension to our lives. The Southwest will
always remain one of my favorite places. .

After five years of Dallas, full of hopping out of one airplane
and into another, we all wearied of my travel and I accepted a
position as executive director of the Jewish Community Federation
of Syracuse, New York. Syracuse is a pretty city, full of hills and
lots of cold and snow. As best we could we changed our habits from
those of the sunny Southwest to others more in keeping with our
new habitat. In a relatively short while we came to enjoy skating
and skiing and even managed to maneuver on icy streets,

Three years later ] moved to Cleveland as campaign director of
the Jewish Community Federation and secretary of its leadership
development program. We are living quietly in Shaker Heights,
with a house that is too big for us but which is excellent for ac-
commodating visiting firemen, We have added a wire-haired terrier
who has helped fill the space. We are pretty well settled now and
not apt to travel elsewhere in the foreseeable future.

The places we have lived — Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Syracuse and
now Cleveland — have all been extremely kind to us. We have
made a lot of friends and have forgotten few. If there is one thing
we have learned in our travels, it is that good friends have no equal
in value and that small-town living has tremendous compensations.
Asa matter of fact, our life in Cleveland is patterned more after
small-town living than big-city living.

I have been in the social work field now about twenty years, and
I am looking forward eagerly to another twenty, My work keeps

[ 1308 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

me busy day and night, mostly with people who consider it their
avocation. |

My own avocations today are listening to my seven-year-old son
read aloud to me these winter evenings and playing tennis, a few
times weekly during the summer and indoors weekly during the
winter.

ROBERT TAYLOR SOUTER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 409 Plumosa Drive, Pasadena, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: World Savings & Loan Association, Lynwood, Calif.

BORN: Feb. 17, 1909, Melrose, Mass. PARENTS: Walter Wilson Souter, Marv
Ferguson Taylor. "

preparED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

MARRIED: Barbara Claybourne, Sept. 7, 1935, Melrose, Mass. cHILprReEN: Score
Claybourne, Sept. 9, 1937; Pamela A., Feb. 6, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Philip Walter Souter, 733.

OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president, World Savings & Loan Association.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant treasurer, Joseph Warren Cooperative Bank, Roxbury,
Mass., 1934-38; treasurer, Braintree Cooperative Bank, Braintree, lass.
1938-42; vice-president — assistant manager, United Srates Savings and
Loan League, Chicago, 1942-47; secretary, American Savings and Loan
Institute, Chicago, 1944-47; vice-president, Coast Federal Savings and Loan
Association, Los Angeles, 1947-55.

UPON leaving College at the end of my sophomore year in 1933.
I spent a short time in the real estate business and then drifted into
a job in a cooperative bank, which is the New England version of
a savings and loan association, and I have been in this ficld of en-
deavor ever since. After learning all I could about rhe business
practices and philosophies of the New England thrift and home
financing institutions, I had the unusual opportunity of working

r yams +

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

for five years as an officer of the nation-wide trade organization
for the savings and loan business, the United States Savings and
Loan League. During this period I traveled extensively throughout
the United States and made many friends in most of the major Cities
in the country. I also spent a substantial amount of time in Wash-
ington and acquired a first-hand insight into the lobbying and
congressional activities and mechanics of our political capital,

Immediately following the war, I brought my family to Los
Angeles and became associated with one of the largest Federal
Savings and Loan Associations in the nation. The great postwar
housing boom was on, especially in California, and the company
with which I was affiliated enjoyed a substantial growth in its
participation in financing the thousands of new homes built in
Southern California. In 1955 I had the opportunity to become the
executive officer in a suburban Los Angeles Savings Association,
and I am still spending my business hours building a bigger and
better savings and loan business.

I have been especially fortunate in my family life. In “good
times” and in “bad times,” my wife a “jewel beyond compare.”
My son Scott, after two years of college, enlisted in the Army,
spent a year at the Army Language School in Monterey, Cali-
fornia, and intends to further his linguistic and scholastic studies
at the end of his enlistment. My daughter Pamela, sixteen, adds to
my pet belief that the younger generation is far superior to ours,
at their age. |

My hobbies have been few. I collected old mechanical coin
banks for a number of years. I have dabbled at oil painting and
have developed some degree of appreciation and taste in art. J
have also dabbled in real estate, but whether this is a hobby or an
avocation I do nat know.

Travel. I have traveled in this country very extensively, and
some in Mexico and Canada. The only place I couldn’t take was
Mexico City, where the high altitude really knocked me out. My
future travels will be confined to low altitude locations.

I take the greatest pleasure from my home life. We have an
outdoor swimming pool in our yard and we all take daily advantage
of it during the summer months. I still read extensively but no
longer believe that I personally have the answers to cure the world’s
ills. I have seen too many of my pet answers devastated by practical
considerations. There are just too many points of view, each one
justified by the particular circumstances of the individual hold-

[1310 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

‘ing it. It just seems to me now that no one of us is qualitied to judge
any one of our fellow-men, to say nothing of thousands of them.
I guess I have become more tolerant with the years.

Some years ago, in trying to find the ANSWER, I made a careful
study of the great religions, and spent considerable time attending
churches of different denominations. I did not find the ANSWER.
I did discover a new appreciation for religious thought, and it
seems to me that the great religions were all trying to sav pretty
much the same thing, but all became handicapped when they became
religious organizations. The study rather led me to my present
conviction that people, as individuals, are rather wonderful, but
when they are organized into a group, whether it be religious, so-
cial, political, or commercial, the group becomes amoral and the
integrity of the individual is lost.

CONSTANT SOUTHWORTH

 

HOME appreEss: 6 Highland St., Ware, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ware Lumber Co., Ware, Mass.

BoRN: April 18, 1913, Ware, Mass. parents: Bernard Willis Southworth,
Marion Davis.

PREPARED AT: Ware High School, Ware, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MarRIED: Agnes R, Mulvany, Sept. 1, 1938 Ware, Mass. critomrs, Nan bho
beth, March 4, 1944; Bernard, April 17, tgso.

OccUPATION: President and treasurer, Ware Lumber Company,

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Town Finance Committee, 1og*-qa. Sv howd Ba dhbog
Committee, 1951-52; chairman, rgs0, member, 19¢2-¢¢, Scheel Casunsutece,
member, Noblé Grand Ware Lodge, LO.O.F, toga.

MEMBER OF: Eden Lodge, A.F. & A.AL; Ware Lodge an, POOR, The
Rosicrucian Order, A.M.O.R.C., Ware Grange, Farle Be Powe Bose,
American Legion; Ware Detachment, Marine Corps League.

[r31t]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

IN 1934 I entered the employ of the Ware Lumber Company, a
family-held corporation engaged in the manufacture of wood box
shooks and in the retail distribution of lumber and building materials,
We sold the box business in 1939 and have continued to the present
as a retail lumber yard.

In August, 1943, I was drafted into the U.S. Marine Corps and
after basic training at Parris Island was sent to the Marine Corps
Institute in Washington, D.C,, as an instructor in mathematics. Here
I was promoted to the rank of master technical sergeant in charge of
the mathematics and science section of the Marine Corps Institute
until discharged in April, 1946.

Returning to civilian life and the lumber business, I took a brief
excursion into local politics, first as chairman of the Town Finance
Committee for three years, 1947 through 1949, then as chairman
of the School Building Committee, 1951 and 1952, and finally as
member of the School Committee for three years, 1952 through
1955. In 1954, 1 founded Ware Real Estate Exchange as co-partner
with Joseph J. Barbiasz of Ware, and we continue active in the field
of real estate brokerage and appraisal.

My principal hobby is golf, a game which I have been playing
two years with a great deal of enjoyment.

HOBART AMES SPALDING

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1408 31st St., N.W., Washington 7, D.C.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1028 Connecticut Ave. N.W., Room 1006, Washington, D.C.

BORN: June 24, 1911, Villanova, Pa. PARENTS: Philip Leffingwell Spalding, ’92,
Katharine Hobart Ames,

preparep AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: AB., 1934(35).
marrige: Alice Evelyn Burr, Needham, Mass. crttpren; Katharine A., Jan. 16

[1312]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1935 (7. Francis deL. Cunningham, Jr. 53); Hlobare Ames, Jr. Now aa,
1936; Joan Evelyn, Aug. 29, 1946. GRANDCHILDREN: Marca F. Cunningham,
Feb. 24, 1956; Katharine H, Cunningham, Nev. 30, 195§7-

HARVARD SON: Hobart Ames Spalding, Jr., ’59.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Philip Spalding, ’25; Oakes Ames Spalding, *:7.

OCCUPATION: Government service.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Latin American Section, Special War Pohcws Une, De-
partment of Justice, Washington, D.C., 1942-43; senior ficld representative,
Office of War Information, American Embassy, London, England, and
Washington, D.C., 1943-45; civil attaché, American Embassy, Lama, Peru,
1947-49; intelligence adviser, Bureau of Interamerican Affairs, Departiene

of State, 1950-53; assigned to National War College, Washington, tos ¢4.
lecturer, Latin American Political Studies, 1953-56, director, Confcrenses
for Corporation Executives, 1955-57, School of Advanced Internatwnal
Studies, Johns Hopkins University, Washington, D.C., vice-preanient and
treasurer, 1955-57, trustee, since 1957, Foreign Service Fducational Foundte-
tion, Washington, D.C.; trustee, Opera Society of Washington.
MEMBER OF: Somerset Club, Boston; Harvard Club of New York.-
PUBLICATIONS: “Factors Influencing Soviet Imperialism in Latin Amerwa” in
The Threat of Soviet Imperialism, C. Grove Haines, Johns Hopkins Prew

1954.
THERE is little to narrate. After eleven years of government serv-
ice in this country and abroad, and three years of educational work
in Washington, we continue to spend most of our winters here, with
more and more time at home in North Easton, Massachuscuts, anal
in travel. I retain an abiding interest in the problems of our forcign
relations and remain a convinced Democrat. We look forward te
our 25th Reunion, which coincides with our son's graduation this
June. :

JOHN FRANKLIN SPENCER

 

HOME ADpDRESS: 121 EF, 211th Ste., Euclid 23, Ohio.

[ 1313 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

oFFice appress: Hickox-Donnelley Div, Clark & Bobertz, Inc., 1900 Euclid
Bldg., Cleveland 15, Ohio.

BorN: Oct. 18, 1912, Carey, Ohio, parents: Charles Guido Spencer, Grace
Cover.

PREPARED AT: Northwestern High School, Detroit, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: a.8. (Western Reserve Univ.),

MarrizD: Cordelia Bankson Curtz, July 8, 1942, Lakewood, Ohio. cHiLpren:
John Franklin, Jr., Sept. 9, 1943; Sarah Howe, Sept. 29, 1949.

occupation: Advertising; vice-president of agency.

MEMBER OF: Cavalry Veterans Association; National Industrial Advertisers

(Cleveland Chapter) ; Harvard Club of Cleveland.

DIFFICULT circumstances produce vivid impressions. I suppose all
of us can remember with great clarity even the minor details of
those first months after June, 1934, and like old soldiers we can
bore each other with our lies about our adventures. I set out to
be a newspaperman. I came tolerably close, even in the depths of
the depression in Detroit and Cleveland and Pittsburgh, picking up
first a commission to do a free-lance article and then a temporary
job as the personal legman for John Love, a Cleveland business
columnist. Unfortunately, the latter job vanished when Love's regu-
lar leeman recovered from an illness (I bad-naturedly imagined him
to be Juetic), and it was plain that the probability of getting a rea-
sonable job on a Cleveland newspaper was in the order of one di-
vided by the distance to Betelgeuse in inches — the papers hired only
to fill vacancies, and their staffmen clung with the tenacity of bar-
nacles to life, their jobs and their coveted places in the cosmic
order. At about this time I had the good fortune to differ with
unintentional rudeness with a man who had many acquaintances in
advertising circles, Sterling Graham. It was at a dinner party and
he was telling a story about his experiences in World War I. I be-
lieve I charged him with being a militarist. A few days later, he
learned of an advertising agency which wanted a writer and with
magnanimity which I hope I can some day equal, he remembered
me and recommended me for the job. So I became an advertising
copywriter.

Advertising agencies follow a common pattern, and there was
little notably different about Fuller & Smith & Ross, except that I
spent the first year in an office marked “13” which I shared with a
gentitlich Cornell 34. Sandy was quiet, but had a sense of humor,
and when I questioned him about my predecessor whose name ap-
peared in my book of production orders, he replied with some truth
and some poetry that the predecessor had likewise occupied Room

[ 1314 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

13, and had departed, with complete finality, via the window which
was eight floors above the pavement of Euclid Avenue.

It was Sandy who made our first Cavalry reconnaissance, possibly
in 1936 or 1937. He scouted the meetings of the fashionable A Trp
of the ro7th Cavalry Regiment and reported that they were simply
beer parties, not suitable for serious young bloods, such as we were.
Early in 1939, however, our attitudes toward weapons of war
changed and when we learned that a troop of Scout Cars was being
formed, as a part of an incipient 22d Cavalry Division (National
Guard), we enlisted, along with a Yale ’34 who had joined our
ranks. The 22d Reconnaissance Squadron later vanished in one of
the endless and meaningless reorganizations of the Army and en
March 3, 1941, we were part of the 107th Cavalry Regiment (horsc-
mechanized) as it was inducted into the Federal Service. We ma-
neuvered in the hills and backwoods of Tennessee, Arkansas, I.ouisi-
ana and the Carolinas and then, after December 7, we patrolled Roure
1 in California, shooting 50-calibre tracers at road signs and any pop
bottle or lobster float visible in the sea which our timorous eves
took to be the periscope of a Japanese submarine.

The following April both Sandy and I were at Fort Knox in the
Armored OCS. This school was the command of Stephen G. (Gus)
Henry, a gentleman who could explain tersely and lucidly that our
chances of avoiding being roasted in a flaming tank were about
equal to the chance of hitting the daily double, but that we could
improve these odds slightly if, in ninety days, we could increase
the girth of our biceps 45 percent, and learn never, absolutely
never, to have a pocket flap unbuttoned. It was at this point that
I gained the conviction, afterward reinforced, that by far the great-
est part of the armed service’s training, operations and other activities
not only had nothing to do with winning any war, but indeed con-
stituted a handicap against winning.

I emerged from OCS a hair over-age in grade and was assizned
to the Armored School at Knox, the fate of the over-age. Phi
condition was rapidly rectified, due to a brilliant method which I
invented for preventing the school examination papers from bein:

stolen and peddled to students before the exams: T made arranye:
ments, at great expense, so that all papers were watched when ner
locked up, and locked up when not watched. The general bhed
that, but even as a first lieutenant I had to serve out my sentene
of a year at Knox.

Here the course of events digresses. To a rational and are

[ 1315 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

THOMAS DICKINSON SPENCER

 

HOME AbprEss: Ramhorne Road, New Canaan, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 527 Lexington Ave., New York 17, N.Y.

BoRN: Aug. 15, 1911, Rochester, N.Y. PaRENts: Thomas Gage Spencer, ’06,
Harriet Hollister.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Katherine Crawford, July 31, 1942, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. cHmLpREN:
Thomas Crawford, Dec. 24, 1946; Nicholas Holmes, June 17, 1948; Sara
Hollister, April 6, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Hollister Spencer, ’38.

occupation: Insurance and investment broker; sole proprietor.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and New Canaan.

THROUGH the good auspices of Captain Jack Gade, ’96, then
naval attaché to the posts of Brussels and Lisbon, I found myself
in the fall of 1934 “Aide to the Naval Attache” (in fact acting naval
attaché) in the American Embassy in Lisbon, Portugal. This piece
of good fortune profoundly affected my career,

An interlude with a New York bank and another studying singing
at the Juilliard School followed, until the Navy called me back to
duty in April of 1941, and sent me as assistant naval attaché to Rio de
Janeiro, Brazil. More important—to me—than the “Battle of
Copacabana Beach” was a long distance telephone call I made to
New York in July, 1942, to ask Kitty to marry me. Opposition from
both State and Navy Departments was miraculously overcome and
We started our joint career in Rio.

That ancient Greek I took in college must have done it. In May,
1944, I found myself naval attaché to the “Greek and Yugoslav
Governments-in-Exile.” Kitty was allowed to follow me in 1945
and we stayed on at the request of the Navy Department until

[ 1318 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

August, 1946. The Greek Government honored me with the “Order

of George I.”

An open audition with the Theatre Guild at the end of 1946 net-
ted me a small part and understudy to “Jud” in the London Com-
pany of the famous musical “Oklahoma!” then forming in New
York. I shall always remember this as a high spot in my varied
career. At one time I was in uniform assisting at the Naval Atrache’s
Conference in London (at that time an annual affair which I had
twice attended as naval attaché to Greece). This often necessitated
my going to the matinee in uniform. The attachés came as a group
to one of our performances. Neither the British Navy nor my friends
in the theatre could make head or tail of it. ?m not sure I could
either.

In early 1948 I joined the New York company of the same show,
then winding up its history-making five-year run, and went on the
road with Kitty and the two boys (two years and three months).
The children, a colored maid and family life just didn’t mix with
two-week, one-week and finally one-night stands, One of our
longer stops was at the National Theatre in Washington. Result:
I changed hats again and we were off to Paris — this time as assistant
naval attaché — though not before I had taken over the coveted part
of “Jud.”

Our Paris experience was fascinating and brought us a much-
hoped-for daughter. We parted with the Navy to go back to Brazil
where I was commercial manager and then general manager for
Ainerican Cable & Radio Corporation.

A long stateside vacation at the end of 1954 convinced us that
our twelve years abroad were enough (for the time being). We
wanted the children to be brought up here and we were ready for
a bit of exurbia ourselves. New Canaan claims us now and my in-
surance and investment brokerage operation keeps me happy and
busy. Despite this, the lure of foreign travel is still with me. 1
have just returned from a tour of South America in the interest of
foreign business in which I specialize.

Hobbies? Too many: golf, woodworking, photography — color
reproduction — and gardening.

[ 1319 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

WILLIS SPENCER

 

HOME AND OFFICE appREss: Gilman School, 5407 Roland Ave., Baltimore 10, Md.

porN: April 5, 1912, Brookline, Mass. parents: Arthur Weightman Spencer,
98, Kate Tilden Willis.

PREPARED AT: Rivers School for Boys, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 19343 A.M.) 1954.

marateD: Susanne Upshur Hooper, Dec. 21, 1949, Ruxton, Md. CHILDREN:
Benjamin Upshur, Jan. 14, 1955; Mary Willis, Jan. 2, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Schoolmaster.

MEMBER OF; Harvard Club of Maryland, Independent Schools Teachers’ As-
sociation (Baltimore area).

\

IT seems that the normal ways of life have come to me later than
to most of my classmates, but the important thing is that they
have eventually occurred. I am referring primarily to my marriage
and raising a family and also my occupation as a schoolmaster.

Following graduation I went to work for a large soap concern
but after ten years, including four long years in military service
during World War II, I realized I wasn’t going to be a tycoon in
the business world. In fact, I discovered I didn’t hike what I was
doing and decided I had a more worth-while mission in life, which
was to teach our youth. Fortunately, I obtained a position with an
excellent institution, the Gilman School in Baltimore, where I have
been ever since. Furthermore, I am glad to note more and more
boys are going to Harvard from this school, to the dismay of that
place in New Jersey, which is called Princeton.

I had been sent to Baltimore by the aforesaid soap company after
spending a year traveling in Missouri, lowa and Nebraska, with
headquarters in Kansas City and Omaha, following my discharge
from the Army. The G.I. Bill presented me the opportunity to return
to Cambridge in the summers to study for a Master’s degree in

[ 1320 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

history. Meanwhile, my bachelorhood days came to an end when
I met my wife-to-be, a girl from Baltimore. But it wasn't until
early in 1955 that we got our first child, a boy who I hope will be
Harvard-bound if he can make the grade and so desires, and now
this fellow has a younger sister, three years his junior! Needless to
say, raising two youngsters at my “ripe old age,” teaching school
and working in the summers at an entirely different job to add to
my meager income leave me little time for anything else.

Aly summer work reminds me of the fact that before doing it and
before the children appeared, my wife and I took a trip to Europe
in 1954. (I had never been there, having been in the Pacific during
the War.) The trip did us a world of good and came soon after I
had recovered from a very serious stomach operation. As for other
matters, I am a strong anti-Roosevelt Democrat, cannot support the
Fisenhower-Nixon-Dulles administration (I think Ike with his plati-
tudes, etc., is too moral to be a satisfactory president), I have a cat
named Harry Truman, I am a member of the Episcopal Church and,
in spite of myself, am a TV addict. Here’s looking forward to the

Reunion.

RICHARD STACKPOLE

  

HOME appress: Wayland, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 8, 1911, Mattapoisett, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Lewis Stackpole, ‘ys.
Katharine Whiteside Brown.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934.

MaRRiED: Katherine Holland Drury, May 2, 1942, Middletown, R.L cratpess:
Joseph Lewis, 2d, Jan. 20, 1943; Alice, July 25, 1945.

OccUPATION: Co-editor, Records of New England Birds.

[1321 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Audubon Society; Nuttall Ornithological Club;
American Ornithologists Union; British Ornithologists Union.

IN July, 1934, I became employed i in the statistical department of
the American Mutual Liability Insurance Company, where I had the
enviable position of being one man out of a half dozen surrounded
by ninety beautiful and not so beautiful ladies. This inequality
lasted until April, 1941, when I, having a commission of ensign in
the U.S. Naval Reserve, volunteered for. active duty, an action which
the above company met with mixed feelings. I add in haste that
two years later it sent me a welcome bonus given to service men
formerly in its employ.

In June, 1941, I was sent to the Naval Operating Base, Newport,
Rhode Island, where I fully expected to receive duty at sea, having
asked for same. But no, I managed to obtain a job unwanted by
any other officer and despite several more requests to go to sea |
remained fighting the Battle of Newport until January, 1945, dur-
ing which period my wife and I were married and had a fine baby
boy.

in March, 1945, after many delays, I set foot on the north coast
of Africa in the city of Oran, Algeria. I shall not dwell on details,
but it is sufficient to say I came down with amoebic dysentery.
During this interim in foreign service, my wife presented me with
a fine baby girl.

After mustering out, we moved to Wayland, Massachusetts, where
we had to take what was available, a house on the Boston Post Road,
which put the trucks practically through our bedroom. This would
not do, so we decided to build and, in May, 1949, we finally moved
into our new and present abode which has the: distinction of being
on the highest ground in the town and presents problems of water
pressure and transportation in winter.

Up to a few years ago I was employed in my father’s patent law
firm of Fish, Richardson & Neave in Boston. I studied law for a
while, worked on various family matters, all without distinction, and
finally decided to devote my time to ornithological pursuits which
I probably should have been doing all the while. I am now in a
semi-retired position at home and kept extremely busy with the
birds of New England which keep piling up in one way or another
to a remarkable degree.

In the summer of 1956, we sailed to Europe and visited Ireland,
Scotland, England, Switzerland, Italy, France and Spain, which itin-

[ 1322 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

erary included a chartered cruise on a schooner from Cannes
along the French and Spanish coasts and across to Palma. Last sum-
mer in June, I attended the Fourteenth International Ornithological
Congress in Finland. Arriving back in Wayland, I was joined by
my family on a trip to Colorado, then to Newport for the Cup Races.
We are now girding ‘ourselves for the forthcoming exigencies of
the Twenty-fifth Reunion.

JULIAN STAG

 

HOME abpress: 805 Coleman St., Corpus Christi, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 312 Katz Bldg., Corpus Christi, Texas.

BORN: Oct. 28, 1913, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Harry Kaplan, Fannie Kagan.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933, 1934-1935. DEGREE: AB., wagna cum laude, 1934(35).
MarRiFp: Ruth Bertha Gaulke, Dec. 19, 1941, New York, N.Y. crivp: John,

Aug. 14, 1943.
occupation: Life underwriter, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.
MEMBER OF: National Association of Life Underwriters.

SINCE graduation I have been —vocationally speaking — (a) a
newspaperman, (b) an advertising and public relations man and
since 1955 (c) an insurance man.

As newspaperman, I was from 1935 to 1941 a reporter on the old
Boston Evening Transcript, then on various writing and editing jobs
in New York; then on the city staff of the Post-Disp patch in St, Louis,

In early 1946, I settled in Dallas and for the next eight years had
my own office there, writing copy and doing advertising and pro-
motional work. I created an advertising campaign for the Dallas
Chamber of Commerce, a series that ran in Business Week magazine,
1950—51, under the head, ““What’s Doing in Dallas.” (A study by the

[ 1323 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Advertising Research Foundation ranked my Dallas ad third in read-

ership of all national ads in the magazine — based on an actual survey
of readers.) |

Some advertising work took me to South Texas in 1954, and I]
lingered there. A chain of circumstances led to an opportunity
with Metropolitan Life, which was just returning to this state after
leaving nearly a half-century before (as was true of most of the
big eastern life companies), Here, with the title of Metropolitan
Insurance Consultant, I prepare programs of life and accident and
sickness insurance, for personal estate, business and company group
purposes.

May I remark that these thirteen years in Texas have been a
big —I repeat, big! — change from my earlier existence as a Boston-
bred Yankee? In Dallas I'll never forget my shock on stumbling
ona weed-grown, sun-drenched bit of ground among the downtown
skyscrapers and finding this neglected soil to be the city’s oldest
cemetery. A most un-Bostonian way to treat one’s ancestors!

In semi-tropical Corpus Christi on the Gulf, where I have lived
now for five years, | am an easy 150-mile drive from the Mexican
border, and often get down that way. Saw a bullfight in Nuevo
Laredo last summer. I have a grapefruit tree in my front yard and
papayas and bananas in back. I pick my own citrus for breakfast
winter mornings. I have been driving north to Minneapolis on sum-
mer vacations, owing to family connections up there.

Say, anybody tell me what all this has to do with the fact that I
spent four years at Harvard concentrating in Germanic languages
and literature and getting a set of Goethe as a going-away present?

And did someone say that was twenty-five years ago?

Auf Wiederseben — pardnet!

[ 1324 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LAWRENCE HALE STANLEY

 

HOME ADpREsS: 1 Ledgemoor Lane, Westport, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Case-Stanley Marketing Consultants, Inc., 21 Bridge Sq.
Westport, Conn.

BoRN: Sept. 4, 1912, Sanford Maine. parents: Luther Whiting Stanley, Rena
A. Saunders.

prepakeD aT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YFARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

Makrrigep: Lenora Partee, Sept. 3, 1944, Miami, Fla.
occupaTIon: Marketing consultant; executive vice-president.
MEMBER OF: [Jarvard Club of New York.

IN my line of business I have to take some kidding from my friends.
Some compare me with the tomcat who was fixed by his owner be-
cause his amorous conquests were keeping the neighborhood awake.
When subsequent nights still resounded with “bacchanals,” it was
discovered he was using his experience to act as a consultant to other
tomcats for miles around. So this is where the years following my
graduation have led me. Banking — market research — sales and sales
planning — business travel to foreign lands — consulting in indus-
trial and consumer fields — these are the ingredients that have gone
into the making of a business career that today finds me executie
vice-president of the firm known as The Case-Stanley Marketing
Consultants.

During early postgraduate days I stayed in the Boston areca -~
hometown for me. There, I put in my basic training days in busi-
ness by working for a bank, a consulting firm and a printing house.
And there I might have stayed, had not World War II disrupted
the even and pleasant tenor of my days. Thus, early in 194% 1
abruptly found myself in the Air Corps —and through various en-

[ 1325 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

listed and officer assignments was charged with budget, fiscal and

civilian personne] audit duties.

The war years brought other changes— one of the pleasantest
was meeting Lenora Partee in Miami, Florida, and persuading her
to share my checkered career. I had to make my marriage vows
sitting down, as I came to my wedding with a broken leg. But she
took hers standing up —just as she has through the many changes
and adventures of my roving assignments — and is still my ideal
of why folks stay happily married, When the world decided to
try settling back to normal, we left the Boston area to settle in New
York, where new business opportunities beckoned and I “rated a
carpet on the floor” in the executive office of a well-known carpet
manufacturer. After ten years or so, however, the urge to help
other “tomeats” led me into joining a small, but well-known indus-
trial market research firm as a senior consultant — and later, into

part ownership of the organization. Meanwhile, Nora and I put
out roots into a new home, a growing circle of friends and com-
munity activities in Westport, Connecticut.

Business and social association with one of the better-known ex-
perts in the marketing field brought about the establishment of The
Case-Stanley Marketing Consultants, Inc., with offices at 21 Bridge
Square, Westport, Connecticut. Specializing in marketing consulting
and research, we have a staff of skilled consultants whose profes-
sional experience covers many fields. Our major clients include a
railroad, an appliance manufacturer, a large chemical company, a
machine-tool manufacturer, an electronics business and several trade
associations. Instead of a daily commute to New York on the New
Haven Railroad (the “joys” of which have been amply expounded
in metropolitan dailies and one of the better-known humor maga-
zines), our commuting trips now take us as far away as Japan and
Korea. The challenge of partaking in such different types of busi-
ness enterprise and the satisfaction of seeing our counseling ma-
terialize into profitable action are for me one of the deep rewards
of being a consultant. I can truly say that life looks mighty interest-
ing through the nine-foot picture window in our Westport office.

I look forward to seeing all of you once again — and expect that

this book will have served its purpose by filling in the intervening
vears.

[ 1326 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MONROE MATHER STEARNS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 311 Riverside Drive, New York 25, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Prentice-Hall, Inc., 70 Fifth Ave., New York 11, N.Y.

BORN; Sept. 28, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: Monroe Edward Stearns,
Minnie Mather Coon.

preparfp ar: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, NJ.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933, 1935-1936. DEGREE: AB. magna cum lanute,

1934(36).

MARRIED: Katrina Hartt, March 28, 1942, New York N.Y. cHirp: Michacl
Hartt, Oct. 8, 1948.

occUPATION: Publishing; editor, Trade Books Division, Prentice-Hall, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, St. Michael’s P. E. Church, New York City; director,
Boys Brotherhood Republic, New York City.

MEMBER OF: The Players.

WHEN my last close relative died, I found among her orts a letter
of my mother’s written when I was two. “He seems,” it said about
me, “to have no purpose other than a good time.” Forty-three vears
later many persons would probably make the same observation.
They'd be almost right.

The purpose has flickered over many marshlands: theatre, art.
teaching, writing, publishing — any other pastime that looked as if
it might be fun and reasonably remunerative, and promised immu-
nity from mortifying routine. I’ve sometimes got my brogues mud-
dy, but I haven’t stumbled into the quicksand vet. This kind of
footpath i is so much your own you don’t get lonely. Superhichw avs
make you pay too much heed to the guy ahead or the one w ho's
trying to pass you; you can ’t even risk a glance at the se enery if you
hope to get home in one piece.

I’ve always liked the supposedly inadvertent illumination of
Yale archway: “He was born with the gift of laughter, and a seme

[ 1327 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

that the world is mad.” It deserves to be kept freer of obscuring
vy than most saws suspended over paths academic.

Writng about your past is playing a Halloween prank on your-
self, there’s such a terrible temptation to skitter into the pluperfect
subjunctive. I guess Vil just trudge on now, hoping to keep the
delusions of Madison Avenue to one side and the illusions of “The

Avenue of the Americas” to the other. Anyone for a stroll along
Fifth:

LAWRENCE IRVING STELLAR

 

HOME ADDRESS: 33 Hamlin Rd., Newton 59, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 314 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 28, 1912, Somerville, Mass. parents: Samuel Stellar, Bella Edith
Marcovitz.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934 DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1934; M.D., cum laude
(Tufts Coll.), 1938. |

MARRIED: Natalie S. Feldman, June 14, 1938, Brockton, Mass. CHILDREN: Carol
Louise and Amy Elizabeth (twins), Dec. 8, 1941; Richard Henry, April
3) 1945-

HARVARD BROTHERS: Stanley Stellar, ’35; Eliot Stellar, ’qr.

occupation: Physician, specializing in internal medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Associate visiting physician, Boston City Hospital, since 1946,
assistant professor of medicine, Tufts University School of Medicine,
since 1951; instructor of medicine, Harvard Medical School, 1958; as-
sociate member in medicine, Beth Isracl Hospital, since 1952; senior
physician, Newton-Wellesley Hospital, since 1957; editor, Newton-
Wellesley Hospital Bulletin, since 1954; member board of directors,
Newton-Wellesley Hospital School of Nursing, since 1955; president,
Massachusetts Bay Lodge, B'nai B'rith, 1956-57, Greater Boston Medical
Society, 1957-58, councillor, Massachusetts Medical Society, since 1957;
trustee, Temple Shalom, Newton, since 1957; impartial examiner in
internal medicine, Industrial Accident Board, since 1958.

[1328 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: American Board of Internal Medicine (diplomater, Nracen an
College of Physicians (fellow), American Medical Awoctaten, Wee,
chusetts Medical Society; American Federation Clinical Rewarch isenne
member); Greater Boston Medical Socicty, Massachusetts Baw Uantye,
B’nai B’rith; Alpha Omega Honor Medical Socicty. .

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in medical journals on varied subjcets, such as dhabwers,
heart, thyroid and liver disease.

TWENTY-FIVE years is a long time to remember, I am gtad that
I haven’t a diary, which would prove cumbersome and bog “dow nin
trivia. I can’t remember when I first wanted to study medicine,
but it must have been all through college, since I slipped inta the
field of biochemistry without a deterrent thought. From there it
was natural progress to medical school — Tufts Univ crNity’ Sec hol
of Medicine. I recall how mad I was at Worth Elale, Assistant Dean
of Admissions at the Harvard Medical School, when I was turned
down there after he had practically assured me admittance, But
Tufts was good to me and there are no regrets, It gave me the
opportunity not only to study medicine, but also to participate in
research and teaching in the Department of Physiology, culminating
in a postgraduate year as Charlton Fellow in physiology.

Physiology is the study of body function and from there it was
easy to move on into the field of diseased body function, or internal
medicine, at the Boston City Hospital, where ‘LT served as intern and
resident for several years. Since I did teaching as a resident, PE was
deferred from service in the Armed Forces. When [ was released
in 1942, I did not know whether I was glad, so that T could: jean
my friends, or concerned since my W ife had recently given burth
to twins. However, my mother-in- ‘law had already anticipated that,
since the Army turned down my offer of services because of a rup-
tured disc I had suffered in a fall down her highly waved stairs as
1938. However, doctors remained subject to the draft and in 1963.
finding I was no worse for wear over the past cleven yearsy | owas
classified 1A. This time I really did not want to go, but | be; wen
to make preparations, which were never necessary, because the
doctor draft was dropped soon thereafter.

In any event, when the Army first turned me down, | turned te
the practice of internal medicine which I have continued these noun
years. It is a most satisfactory type of Practice Co me, vince it prves
me a chance to know the whole patient and to act av a meds al
detective in tracking down the causes of disordered body fur Geers
In the former role, I serve as a personal physician te asdule patents

[ 1329 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

In the latter role, I do consulting work for other doctors in obscure
cases or medical problems.
Besides my practice, I spend an average of twelve hours a week
in clinics, ward rounds and teaching, which are most stimulating
and rewarding experiences. I often reflect that under a system of
socialized medicine I would be paid for these services and probably
work a Jot less hard. In my medical school days, I was somewhat
enamored of socialized medical practice, feeling that it would bring
medicine to people who otherwise would be deprived of it. Sober
thought has made me realize that it would be a horribly expensive
thing for the country and the patient in the long run and that the
brand of medicine would inevitably deteriorate, bogged down by a
huge bureaucracy. That does not mean that further improvement
in medical practice and the health of the nation are not desirable and
necessary. However, these can be done within the framework of
free enterprise by improving collaboration between all groups that
participate in the care of the sick, by improving the distribution of
medical care and perhaps by effecting economies through group
practice,

Hobbies are limited by the pressure of work, participation in
medical and lay organizations (vide supra) and trying to keep up
with three growing children. My twin daughters will be off to
college next year, but somehow this seems to have happened too
soon to a young guy like me. I’m glad my son will be around for
a while yet.

I'm still a three-to-four-times-a-year golfer, manage occasional
boating, swimming and, ‘of course, ice skating in the Watson Rink.
Gardening, unfortunately, is now in the hands of a paid gardener.
I wish I had more time or else could not afford a gardener. Reading
and music continue to be easy to take. Relaxing with friends, many
from college days, still is an important hobby. However, I am
bothered by the general inertia of myself and my friends to start
new things or to do something on the spur of the moment. There
seems to be a great tendency to withdraw into current activities and
the family circle and patiently wait for the Fiftieth Reunion. There-
fore, I propose that a seminar on this subject be incorporated into
our Twenty-fifth Reunion activities. Has this happened to many of
us or is it a passing phase? Perhaps at the time of our return to the
College, we can rejuvenate each other.

[ 1330 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES HODGES STEPHENSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1209 S. Jefferson Ave., Sioux Falls, §.Dak.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Tri State Electric Co., go7 E. Eighth St., Sioux Falls, S.Dak.

BORN: June 7, 1912, Woburn, Mass. parents: William Claude Stephenson, ’os,
Helen Bancroft Cook.

prepare aT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.; Harvard School for Boys,
Chicago, TI.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931. DEGREE: A.B. (Univ. of Minnesota), 1934.

marriep: Berenice L. BeDell, Dec. 6, 1938, Minneapolis, Minn. cunitp: Charles
Burr, Dec. 14, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Bancroft Stephenson, 730.

OUCUPATION: Secretary, treasurer and board member, Tri State Electric Com-
pany, a full line clectrical wholesaler, operating in South and North
Dakota, Minnesota and Iowa.

orrices HELD: Mayor, Village of Morningside, Minnesota, 1947-49; disaster
chairman and member board of directors, American Red Cross (local),
1950-52; treasurer, South Dakotans for Eisenhower, 1951-52; director,
1955-58, Vice-president, 1958, Sioux Falls Traffic Bureau; finance chairman,
Calvary Cathedral (Episcopal), Sioux Falls, 1958.

MEMBER OF: Minnehaha Country Club; Disabled Officers Association, Wash-
ington, D.C.; Izaak Walton League; assorted dog clubs.

THE past twenty-eight years since leaving Harvard have been good
to me. Dad took such a beating during the first years of the depres-
sion that I transferred from Cambridge to the University of Minne-
sota and lived at home for the next three years. Dad, Harvard ‘o:
agreed to the transfer at the time if I would attend Harvard Business
School and thereby end up with at least one Harvard degree. But
the depression had really. hit the farm states by then. My stay at
Minnesota was very unspectacular, but I did enjoy life w ith brother .
Sigma Chis and assorted sororities.

1 worked successively (if not successfully) for a private urility
and a milling concern until December, 1941. As a reserve othicer J

[ 1331]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

was called to active duty the day after Pearl Harbor (will never
know how that letter was delivered so fast!), and lived on the gov-
ernment until July, 1946. Most of my overseas years were spent in
Guadalcanal and -various Philippine Islands. Ended up with every
known (and a few medically baffling) kinds of dysentery which
kept me in hospitals too many months afterwards.

As a war hero (?), Quartermaster “‘line” officer with battered
leaves, I was elected mayor of our suburban village — total take $25
per month, plus leavings, I eked out the rest of my living as execu-
tive secretary of the Electric Appliance Dealers Associations of
Minneapolis and St. Paul (better title than salary). Found the pheas-
ant and enn so fabulous in nearby South Dakota that we
moved to Sioux Falls (pop. 68,000) ten years ago, to become secre-
tary-treasurer of the Tri State Electric Company, the oldest and
largest full line electrical wholesaler in the area.

The only real accomplishment I can clainr is marrying a truly
wonderful ‘girl from Menominee, Michigan, who gave us a really
fine son. He is presently a freshman at Princeton, and proud to be
rowing stroke on the fall crew. You ask, “Why Princeton?” He
wanted a small school, in a small town, and a Master’s degree in

Architecture in six years instead of eight.

My hobbies are few, but fun — gardening, golf and “gollytics.”
(The last one indicates the Democrats took over a state that has been
Republican for over twenty years.) Bernie and I look forward
to the next twenty-eight years with great anticipation. And we

hope to be with you come June.

NOAH STERN

 

LAST KxowN appress: 14 Alharizi St., % Blumstein, Tel-Aviv, Israel

[ 1332 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Jan. 22, 1912, Jonava, Lithuania. parents: Shmerel-Ekel Stern, Baile
Bloomberg.

PREPARED AT: Hebrew Realgymnasium, Kaunas, Lithuania; Ottawa Collegiate
Institute, Ottawa, Ont., Canada.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

STERN has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since 1953.
9§

ARTHUR PELHAM STEVENS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1062 North St. Walpole, Mass.

OFFICE. ADDRESS: Previews, Inc., 20 Kilby St., Boston 9, Mass.

porn: April 7, 1911, New York, N.Y. Parents: Joseph Earle Stevens, '9:.
Marion Whittaker.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. 1934.

MarrieD: Dorothy Stone, Sept. 26, 1936, Wayland, Mass. cuuprex: Dorothy,
Jan. 19, 1938; Marion, April 26, 1941, Elizabeth, Jan. 22, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Joseph Earle Stevens, Jr., 29, Ludlow Whittaker Stevens,
ZI

occuPaTION: Real estate; vice-president and manager, Boston office, Previews,
Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Previews, Inc., since 1947; trustee, Charles
River School, Dover, Mass., 1954-57; chairman, Walpole Industral &
Development Commission, since 1957.

MEMBER OF: Dedham Country & Polo Club; Harvard Club of New York,
National Association of Real Estate Boards; Massachusetts Real Fstate
Exchange; Boston Real Estate Board; Cape Cod, Maine and New Elamp-
shire Association of Real Estate Boards; Boston Chamber of Commerce.

SEVERAL months of Wall Street after college were discouraging
from the point of view of ever becoming a successful stockbroker.
Perhaps it was the wrong decision to have made when one looks at
the stock market today, but at the time real estate had far more

[ 1333 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

appeal. Now that inflation is upon us, [ am more than satisfied with

my original decision.

Trontically, i IN 1935, just as my future bride moved from Boston
to New York, my firm transferred me in the opposite direction.
Needless to say, we eventually got together and except for the war
years have lived outside of Boston ever since. With an expanding
family and the war, it seemed as if we moved to a new location
each year until 1947 when we finally settled down and purchased
our present home.

The war years were hectic, but interesting. At the Naval Air
Station in Pensacola, Florida, we found life almost more comfortable
than being a civilian at home. Sea duty aboard the aircraft carrier
Bon Honme Richard, with a shakedown cruise in the Caribbean, a
month in Hawaii and eventually in Tokyo Bay on V-J Day, was an
experience never to be forgotten. A sunrise entrance through the
Golden Gate with my wife at the pier was a tremendous home-
coming climax.

As to hobbies, to sum it up, I guess I am a “weekend do-it-yourself
farmer.” We live in the country, have too much lawn, too many
flower and vegetable gardens, and an old house that Washington
did not sleep in. There are continual indoor and outdoor projects
which take up most of my time. We play some tennis and go cruis-
ing in the summer when invited, Vacations in the winter seem to
have more appeal than leaving our country home in the summer.
The Caribbean has for some time attracted me and I may become
the proud owner of a part of a palm-studded island.

I look forward to the “Twenty-fifth” and plan on bringing the
entire family.

[ 1334 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT BREWER STEVENS

 

apprEss: 27A August Alley, San Francisco 11, Calif.

porn: March 3, 1913, Richmond, Va. parents: Frederick Riley Stevens, Jane
Jones.

PREPARED AT: Schenectady High School, Schenectady, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932, 1933-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1934(35).
occUPaTION: Business.

NO questionnaire returned.

MALCOLM CHILSON STEWART

 

HOME apprEss: Prides Crossing, Mass.
OFFICE AppREss: Gillette Co., Gillette Park, Boston 6, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 10, 1913, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: Ralph Aldace Stewart, 11.8.
*98, Mary Wallace Guilford.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; LE.B., 1937.
MARRIED: Marian deForest Clark, Dec. 15, 1941, Beverly Farms, Mass.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Guilford Stewart, ’27, Ralph Aldace Stewart, ‘30.
OCCUPATION: Treasurer and director, Gillette Company.

[ 1335]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

orFices HELD: Director, Merchants National Bank of Boston; director and
member executive committee, Boston Municipal Research Bureau; chair-
man, Subcommittee on Taxation of Income from Foreign Sources, Na-
tional Association of Manufacturers Taxation Committee; chairman,
Massachusetts State Committee of Ducks Unlimited, Inc.; vice-president,
St. Mark's School Alumni Association.

MEMBER OF: Myopia Hunt Club; Somerset Club; Racquet Club of Chicago;
Links Club (New York).

MY principal occupation at the present time is general chairman ‘of
our Twenty-fifth Reunion, although I continue in my spare time to
be treasurer of the Gillette Company. I guess that no one was more
surprised that I in finding myself heading up our Twenty-fifth.
About three years ago one of our more illustrious classmates ap-
proached me with what I thought was a request to serve on a com-
mittee to raise some money for our class gift. I learned some six
months later that I had not listened very attentively to this illustrious
soul when it was publicly announced to the Class by our Class Com-
mittee that I had been selected as general chairman of our 'wenty-
fifth, although, as one of the members of the Committee hastened to
point out to me, not unanimously. After I recovered from my initial
shock, I must admit that I have been having the time of my life
serving as your chairman and frankly recognize it as a great privilege
and honor.

After graduation from Harvard Law School in 1937, with the
help of some friendly professors with whom I had frequently played
bridge during my law school years, I became associated with the
Boston law firm of Choate, Hall & Stewart, which was not a particu-
larly outstanding achievement in view of the fact that my father
was one of the founders of the firm. In 1941 I enlisted in the U.S.
Army, approximately two weeks before the draft would have nailed
me. One week after Pearl Harbor, I was married and three weeks
thereafter I found myself on the Army troop transport, SS Argen-
tina, as a corporal headed for the South Pacific. After thirty-nine
months of “visiting” such assorted places as Guadalcanal, Bougain-
ville and the Philippines, I returned as a major to my bride of three
weeks and the Command and General Staff College in Leavenworth
where I was supposed to be trained for Operation Olympic which,
being translated, meant the invasion of Kyushu, Japan, Fortunately,
V-J Day interrupted these well-laid plans of the Army, and I re-
turned to the practice of law in Boston,

In 1949 I received a call from the world of razors and blades and

[ 1336 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

became gencral counsel of the Gillette Company. A couple of years
ago I became a reformed lawyer when elected treasurer of the com-
pany, a position which I now hold, as peinted out above, in my
spare time when it doesn’t interfere with our Twenty-fifth. With-
out shame and despite the current trend otherwise, my political
affiliations continue to be Republican, although TI can have discus-
sions with Democrats without apoplexy resulting. My only political
activity, if it can be called such, was a most interesting time a few
rears back when I was appointed temporarily asa special consultant
to Harold S. Stassen, then Director for Mutual Security, in connee-
tion with an evaluation of the economic and military aid programs
in France.

Duck and upland game shooting, fishing and fooling areund in
an outboard make up my principal hobbies. Asa supplement tomy
duck shooting hobby, I have the lucky strike extra of having a small,
spring-fed pond within a hundred feet of our house w hich, with
the aid of cracked corn and a few home-raised mallards, has become
a veritable sanctuary and Is often frequented by 200 or more wild
duck, particularly of the Black varicty, and other shore birds. Need-
less to say, the posting of my place is comparable to an atomic
energy plant and never a shot is fired in the vicinity. I find observ-
ing wild duck and the like on our pond i is often more gratifving (and
certainly less frustrating) than trying to shoot them.

Although maybe not the most exciting in the world, the
twenty-five years have certainly not been dull and have, in fact,
been very happy ones for me. My admiration and respect for Har-
vard increases as the years go by.

On the remote chance that a few classmates might read this while
they are still on the fence about returning to our Twenty-fitth, |
might put in a plug and urge them to attend. TE know that they will

not regret it. See you all in June.

past

[337 ]

| |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

RICHARD LAWRENCE STITES

    

OME AppREss: 31 Linden PI. Sewickley, Pa.
FFICE ADDRESS: Edwards, George & Co., Inc. 307 Fourth Ave., Pittsburgh
22, Pa.

RN: March 14, 1912, Narberth, Pa. parents: Fletcher Wilbur Stites, Edith
Gillespie Austin.

EPARED AT: Montgomery School, Wynnewood, Pa.

ARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

arriED: Priscilla Bramhall, June 26, 1943, Boston, Mass. cuitp: Sarah Fliza-
beth, March 11, 1947.

SUPATION: Insurance; vice-president and director, Edwards, George & Com-
pany, Inc.

‘ICES HELD: Chairman, Home Service Committee, member of board, Pitts-
burgh Chapter, American Red Cross; member, Aeronautics Committee,
Pittsburgh Chamber of Commerce.

MBER OF: H-Y-P Club of Pittsburgh (president, 1945); Duquesne Club,
Pittsburgh; Edgeworth Club, Sewickley, Pa. (president, 1952-55); Society
of Chartered Property and Casualty Underwriters; Quiet Birdmen.

‘ON completion of a training course with the Insurance Company

North America in 1937, I was transferred from my old home

m of Philadelphia to Pittsburgh, where I have been living hap-

7 ever since. In 1939 I decided that there were greater oppor-
ities in the agency field and joined one of Pittsburgh’s oldest and
rest general insurance agencies, Edwards, George & Company,
. This change required giving up any possibility of returning to
ladelphia, but now twenty years later, as a vice-president and
mer in the firm and a thoroughly confirmed member of this
ving, industrial community, | am convinced that the decision was
Ise one.

ly hobbies are photography and flying one of Bill Piper’s very
sllent products, These provide relaxation and diversion from my
lar routine and are thoroughly enjoyable,

‘ [ 1338 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PHILIP WARREN STOCKER

 

HOME AppRESS: 17 Elmwood Rd., Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New England Trust Co., 135 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 3, 1913, Salem, Mass. parents: William Warren Stocker, Mary
Bessie Noble.

PREPARED AT: Salem High School, Salem, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: AB., cum laude, 1934.

MARRIED: Virginia E. Boggs, Aug. 17, 1940, Marblehead, Mass. crntpren:
Susan Virginia, June 29, 1942; William Warren, 2d, April 13, 1944; Anne

Kathryn, May 26, 1947.
OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president and director, New England Trust Com-

any.
orricrs vex: Chairman, 1949-50, and director, 1949-58, Marblehead Chapter,
American Red Cross; president and trustee, Unitarian Church of Marble-
head, 1955-57; member, board of managers, since 1957, chairman, Public
Relations and Development Committee, New England Home for Little
Wanderers, Boston; chairman, National Banks & Trust Companies Division,
United Fund, Boston, 1956; chairman, Banking Division, Boston Amencan
Red Cross Appeal, 1955; incorporator, Suffolk-Franklin Savings Bank,
Boston, and Salem (Mass.) Five Cents Savings Bank; director, Chandler
& Farquhar Co., Boston; president, 1954-55, and member, executive com-
mittee, Corporate Fiduciaries Association, Boston, president, 1951-53,
and member, executive committee, Boston Life Insurance and Trust Council,
director, Harvard Club of Lynn; member, board of governors, Down
Town Club, Boston; president, 1957, member, Race Committee, Marblehead
Town Class Association,

MEMBER OF: Eastern Yacht Club, Marblehead; Guten Feathers Club, Marble
head; Harvard Club of Lynn; Union Club, Boston; Down Town Club,
Boston; Boston Life Insurance and Trust Council; Robert Morris Associa-
tion; American Institute of Banking; Financial Public Relations Associa-
tion.

THE last twenty-five years have been interesting, rew arding, and
happy though I haven't stray ed far from home. [still feel younger
than my classmates look, yet the passage of time and the ‘changes

( 1339]

ed

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

it brings are ever more evident as the children grow and mature
and parents age. ;

After six years of bachelor living, I married in 1940. During
these years I had become an enthusiastic mountain climber and
skier. I had always been an ardent small boat sailor. My wife was
an even more enthusiastic skier, and though she never really liked
to climb she quickly became an able and eager sailor. Our three
children, through constant exposure, have adopted similar habits
and we all enjoy these sports in season. A little’ badminton and
tennis complete the more strenuous outdoor activities. Living near
the ocean, we have not spent our vacations far from home, though
we do like to vary our salt water diet by spending a part of our
vacation at a favorite spot in the lake country of Maine.

My business life has been spent almost entirely in banking — with
the exception of about a year’s experience after graduation in the
real estate field. Jobs were not plentiful nor remunerative, but I
started as a messenger in the New England Trust Company in April,
1935. For most of the time since, I have worked in various parts of
the trust department, very stimulating work for one interested in
working with people. The last five years I have been trying to
catch up on the commercial end of banking — and I am now execu-
tive vice-president with plenty to do in both fields.

Community activities have kept me more than busy in off-hours,
and I am searching now for the perfect way to relax and the time
to do it. The best solution so far is dabbling in water colors. It
works pretty well. ,

[ 1340 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

*-- PETER KING STOCKTON

 

porn: Nov. 18, 1912, New York, N.Y. parexts: Herbert King Stockton,

Miriam Kimball.
PREPARED AT: Lincoln School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.
DIED: Jan. 18, 1932, Harbor Beach, Mich.

PETER KING STOCKTON died during our sophomore year. He
had been an editor of the Harvard Crimson and chairman of the

Dunster House athletic committee. He was survived by his parents

ALBERT MORDECAI STONE

 

ME AppREsS: 10711 Gatewood Ave. Silver Spring, Ma.
‘ICE AppRESS: Apphed Phy sies Laboratory, Johns Hopkins Univerity, 8450

Georgia Ave, Silver Spring, Md.
N: Dec. 24, 1913, Boston, Mass. panesis: Lous G. Stone, Esther Golds

parED At: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
RS IN COLLEGES 1930-1934. DEGREES: Aw, clo Linde vaigs pine, OMawachu

setts Inst, of Technology), 1g3R,

[ 1341]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ararkiep: Louisa Van Wezel, Aug. 24, 1941, Mamaroneck, N.Y, CHILDREN:

Anthony Van Wezel, April 1, 1947; Katherine, Oct. 21, 1948; Daniel
Jonathan, Nov. 24, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Isaac Rudyard Stone, °45.

occupation: Technical assistant to the Director, Applied Physics Laboratory,
Johns Hopkins University.

orFices HELD: Chairman, Communication Committee, 1951-52, General Com-
mittee, 1952-54, Philosophical Society of Washington; chairman, Meet-

ings Committee, 1956-57, member board of managers, 1957-58, Washington
Academy of Sciences.

MEMBER OF: Cosmos Club; Washington Philosophical Society; American As-
sociation for Advancement of Science; Special Committee of National
Planning Association, American Physical Society; Washington Academy

of Science; Indian Spring Country Club; Harvard Club of Washington,
Sigma Xi.

publications: A number of scientific papers in professional journals and
special reports.

I HAVE turned out to be a scientist. Why? I could have been a
good Latinist, an indifferent but probably wealthy builder, a
schoolteacher, a poor golf pro, or a plodding bum. Why a physicist?

If the last quarter-century has been prologue, then prologues have
their own antecedents. Mine go back to Harvard, and earlier, much
earlier. It would take couch-depth analysis to probe all the cran-
nies, but on the surface it seems that my personal motivation was a
curious mixture of stubbornness and rationality. They still rever-
berate, The rationality suggested to me that what my mind found
difficult but others mastered must be of considerable import, the
streak of stubbornness, which sometimes still trips me up, forced
me to substitute the hard for the easy.

It has been a good choice, however, for whatever conscious or
unconscious reason of selection. To assay what other choices might
have led to, now twenty-five years later, I must, of course, project
my imagination. Having done so, I find it hard to believe that an-
other profession could have provided the zest, the excitement, the
challenge, the hewing to a remorseless logic, the keen associations
that this mistress has provided. We physicists were a handful in 734,
poorly paid, unknown, unable to converse or share our concerns
with the layman — we were scarcely wanted, except in very special-
ized areas. But we knew we all played some part, very small in
my case, in exposing the fascinating riddle of nature, nature that
is kind in her consistency, but ruthless in her obstinacy. Now that
our profession is lauded, swollen with recruits, is daily making over
the face of our globe and soon will be well beyond, delving into the

[ 1342 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

obscurity of the cosmos, an all-too-gencrous share of luck and good
fortune, I feel, has fallen my way.

These meandering observations on the great mystery of why and
what we have become occur at this plateau in life when it is good
to look back to see how the thread has unwound. For me, the choice
of profession and the life I have chosen to live have been good ones.
This alone would almost suffice for an autobiography, but let me
now fill in some of the factual details.

In that bleak year of 1934, M.I.T. offered me a graduate scholar-
ship and Harvard did not; from so simple a crossroad, the irreversible
chain of events began to interlock one with the other.

My graduate-school life at M.I.T. was a happy one. The jump
in maturity from undergraduate days startled me at first, but soon
I learned to enjoy it. What with scholarships, teaching fellowships
and the like, I managed to survive to attain my Ph.D. degree in
physics. That day, marking the real and unequivocal end to my
school days, I shall not soon forget. The sense of achievement and
of fulfillment mingled in my mind with the burden of the great
transition to responsibility. One of life’s milestones had been reached.

The year 1938 was not markedly different for physicists from
1934, and a job in one’s field was not for the mere asking. By good
fortune, Dr. Karl T. Compton had a small fund at his disposal and
I remained at M.I.T. as research associate, with the unusual privilege
of knowing and working with that remarkable man.

In 1940, the old Naval Torpedo Station at Newport, Rhode Island.
invited me to join them in a program sparked by the rumblings of
war in Europe. The move to Newport was doubly rew arding. I
learned very rapidly that “book learning” was only the start in
physics: practical problems required an insight and imagination that
cannot be communicated from teacher to student. Only the respon-
sibility to a job and to one’s self and unfeigned discipline teach us
these things and turn us from fledgling academic scientists inte sci-
entists of judement.

But for the second event in Newport T shall always be etern. ally:
and sincerely grateful to the gods that spin our w eb. Tn nearby
Providence, in Pembroke College, Louisa was a junior, We met.
fell in love, and were married w ‘ithin the vear, (Several vears later,
she returned to obtain her degree.) Our honey moon was unique, Ut
was a western trip culminating in \fontana, where, in the fall of
1941, I became assistant professor of physics at the Stare Colleve,
A remarkable year, that one! Living at alcirude, shiner liberally,

[ 1343 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

MASON HILLS STONE, JR.

 

HOME appress: 19 Hillside Rd., Newton Highlands 61, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Sylvania Electric Products, B Street, Needham Heights, Mass.

BoRN: May 29, 1912, Newton, Mass. parents: Mason Hills Stone, ’o7, Elsie
May Barker,

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934(35); LL.B., 1937.

MARRIED; Esther Leora Common, June 21, 1941, Cambridge, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Valancourt Stone, °38.

occupaTION: Materials requirements analyst on U.S. Government defense con-
tracts, Sylvania Electric Products.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Newton Republican City Committee, 1934-41; treas-
urer, 1949-52, president, since 1957, Hunnewell Club of Newton.
MEMBER OF: English Setter Club of New England.

FAILURE to pass the bar examination diverted my vocational
life from the fields of law and politics to several others in which my
legal training has been of great value — casualty insurance claims,
personnel work, contract administration, purchasing and production
control work in the electronics field. Life to date has had too many
downs (not first ones), not many ups, progress has been slow and
success, if measured solely by financial wealth, is still around the far
corner,

Many of us probably wish that we could go back to our senior
year in college and, armed with the knowledge and experience we
Now possess, could have a chance to steer our course over again.
Many have kept steadfastly to the course they chose, while others
including myself have wandered from the course — though some of
the wanderings have been dictated by circumstances somewhat be-
yond my control, However, life has not been too uneventful, and
since my recovery from an accident in 1947 that hospitalized me

[ 1346 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

for a year and nearly took my life, I have found that just the ability

to be alive can be very sweet in itself, that living for today has

considerable merit, and that tomorrow can be a better and different
day.

Esther’s profession of medical technology has been a life pre-
server that has floated us through the rough waters but, with both
of us working, little time is left for the relaxations and joys of life..

My hobbies and activities are so diversified that they sometimes

seem to make little forward progress. My chief hobby seems to be
the acquisition of or connection with things of doubtful value or in
disreputable condition and the restoring of their inherent qualities
to a state of usefulness by the expenditure of a maximum of physical
effort and a minimum of financial investment. This has led to con-
siderable remodeling of our home in Newton Highlands and the pur-
chase and rehabilitation of a tumbledown colonial farmhouse on Red
Hill in Moultonboro, New Hampshire, together with the projected
development of 350 acres of land surrounding it. It has also led to
an attempt to rejuvenate the membership, activities and physical
assets of the Hunnewell Club of Newton, a social club which had
been in a state of gradual decline and of which I am now the presi-
dent. Carpentry, restoring antiques, bowling, bridge, dogs and gen-
eral outdoor activities fill in the odd moments.

To our intense regret our lives have not been complicated by the
presence of children | but my four canines (three generations of Eng-
lish Setters) lend their part to the general turmoil. We hope that
some time before reaching the rocking-chair stage of life we can
concentrate all of our activities at our future home at Red Hill
Acres, where I can combine some of my hobbies and interests into
the art of earning an income and we can experience the joys of
living in the country. Other than achieving this goal my main am-
bition is to find time to read some of the mountainous accumulation
of newspapers, books and magazines that is beginning to surround
me and also to plan for some time for relaxation at the fast-approach-

ing Twenty-fifth Reunion.

[ 1347 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

RICHARD NOYES STONE

    

HOME ADDRESS: 1992 Shippan Ave., Stamford, Conn.

OFFICE AppRESS: Massachusetts Mohair Plush Co., Inc., 16 E. 34th St., New
York, N.Y,

BORN: Feb. 7, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Robert Bowditch Stone, ’98, Alice
Balch.

PREPARED AT: Rivers School for Boys, Brookline, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N.H.

NEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; M.B.A. 1936.

MARRIED: Louise Magill, June 20, 1936, Winchester, Mass. CHILDREN: Patricia
Louise, Oct. 12, 1937 (77. William E. Burns, Jr., June 28, 1958); Robert
Bowditch, 2d, Oct. 2, 1940; Jonathan Arthur, March 16, 1949.

XCUPATION: Vice-president in charge of finance, textiles and general business,
Massachusetts Mohair Plush Company.

FFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Wamsutta Mills, 1948-54, Massa-
chusetts Mohair Plush Company; chairman, Finance Committee, Town
of Mattapoisett, Mass. 1951-54; chairman, Red Cross Disaster Committee,
1945-46, member, Finance Committee, Marblehead, Mass.; currently,
president and treasurer, Boott Mills, Lowell, Mass., Neisler Mills, Inc.,

North Carolina; president, Stamford Industries, Inc., Connecticut, vice-
president, Monument Mills, and Talbott Mills, Mass. Dana Warp Mills,
Inc, Maine, The Gorfund Company, N.Y., Northern Textiles of Lowell,
Mass.; director, Proprietors of the Locks and Canals of the Merrimac
River, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Stamford Yacht Club.

AFTER graduating from college, with a degree resulting from ma-
oring in English history and literature, I naturally gravitated to the
3usiness School, I say “naturally,” because I still hadn’t the slight-
st idea of what I really wanted to do in life, and hoped that |
night find the answer there. A process of elimination, rather, be-
cause all I was sure of was that the sciences and professions were
not for me—a perhaps adolescent decision, which I have never
regretted, despite some momentary qualms.

[ 1348 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

At the Business School, I worked for two years trying to find
which line best suited my talents. The answer seemed to be factory
management — to which I duly applied myself. On graduation day
— in 1936 (and a few following months) —I found that the w orld
was not beating a path to my doorstep. Thus, the logical solution
was to get a job in public accounting — for which I had received
~ good ground work at the Business School, toward making me an
executive. However, in June of 1936, I married Louise Magill — an
event I have never regretted, but we both had to eat! At that point,
I went to work for a firm of public accountants and attended night
school for three years, to attain my rating of certified public account-
ant, " .

Twelve years, three children and much happiness later, I finally
left the quiet purlieus of the public accounting profession and struck
out into the harsh realities of private industry and finance — an area
in which I have remained with a modicum of personal profit and a
good bit of satisfaction ever since.

Presently, I am in charge of finance and accounting for a complex
and diversified industrial organization known — very misleadingly —
as the Massachusetts Mohair Plush Company. Misleading, since our
main office is in New York, we use no mohair, and do not make
plush! We do own and operate a number of interests which once
included that company.

Over the years, we have collected several gross of cats — always
a fluctuating figure — two dogs, from a maximum of ten, two para-
keets, one boat that floats and one that does sometimes. Our prize
possessions are our children — Patricia Louise, who was married
on June 28th to William Edward Burns, Jr.; Robert Bowditch,

a senior at King School, here in Stamford; and Jonathan Arthur, an
honor fourth-grader, also at King.

As I look back on the past twenty-five years, I find that my life
has had few dramatic milestones, and I doubt that my autobiography
will prove of social import. It has been a happy life, and one that
has marked me less than it has some of my contemporaries. At
least, I felt that way at our Twentieth, w hen it seemed as though
many of our classmates had sent their elderly relatives to represe nt
them! I, of course, have not aged at all!

[ 1349 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

FRANCIS EVERETT STORER, JR.

 

appress; 551 Elmwood Ave., Lynchburg, Va.
BorN: Feb, 3, 1910, West Roxbury, Mass. parents: Francis Everett Storer,

Florence Hodges.
preparen at: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.
marrigp: Helen G. Murray, June 7, 1941, Falmouth, Mass. cuitp: Francis

Fverett, 3d, Dec. 31, 1945.
OCCUPATION: Manufacturing,

NO questionnaire returned.

EDWARD ESTY STOWELL

 

HOME appress: R.D. 1, Bailey’s Mill Road, Basking Ridge, N.J.
OFFICE AppREss: Ogilvy, Benson & Mather, Inc., 589 Fifth Ave., New York,

NY.
BoRN: May 29, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: Edward Esty Stowell, Alice
Fellowes.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Concord, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1934.

[ 1350]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Helen D’Olier, April 17, 1937, Morristown, NJ. chitpren: Edward
Esty, Jr., March 11, 1940; Alice Fellowes, July 12, 194 Jenepher, March
3, 1947; Franklin D’Olier, Aug. 6, 1948.

HARVARD SON: Edward Esty Stowell, Jr., ’62.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lonsdale Fellowes Stowell, ’q1.

OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president, Ogilvy, Benson & Mather, Inc. ad-
vertising agency.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Community Chest of Morris County, 1948-56; trustee,
1950-56, president, 1954-56, Peck School, Morristown, N.J.; trustee and
member board of managers, Morristown Memorial Hospital, since 1954,

trustee, St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H., 1955-59.
MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York; Morristown Field Club; Somerset

Hulls Country Club.

TIME which I manage poorly, retrospection to which I am not in-
clined and procrastination which has already brought upon me three
red-lettered reminders, all combine to strain this personal account-
ing through a fine-meshed sieve.

Professionally, the story is simply told. Two jobs in the adver-
tising agency business. The first with Benton & Bowles, Inc., which
I joined the fall of my senior year and left in 1956, some twenty-
one years later, as executive vice-president and director. The second
with Ogilvy, Benson & Mather, Inc., which took me in two years
ago in the same capacity. This is a young enterprise. It is rela-
tively small and in its work-clothes or pre-adipose period, with a
remarkable record and a lively future in prospect. A hand in shap-
ing these prospects is what I look forward to for the rest of my pro-
fessional days.

‘The military chapter comprised three years in the Marine Corps,
beginning as a slightly superannuated first lieutenant and retiring
to the inactive reserve with present rank of lieutenant colonel. I was
trained in Air Combat Intelligence and ultimately assigned to the
First Marine Unit charged with the control of aircraft in support
of landing operations. “An absorbing job which was. begun from
scratch and ended in a front-row seat for such engagements as
Pelelieu, Iwo Jima and Okinawa. Was given a Bronze Star for good
behavior during the latter two.

Like most of us, I suppose, I count my blessings altogether too
infrequently. When I do, however, I begin with a family life which
has been totally happy and unmarred to date by crisis of any conse-
quence. The hub of our family presides with skill and serenity over
a husband who requires much presiding, and four children w ho fill
her days and mine with problems, rewards and endless stimulation.

[1351 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

] have done my share of pondering in the “if I had it to do all over
again” vein. But not for some time. The target of my dissatisfac-
tions has always been myself. Aside from myself, I don’t know how
I could have done better.

All of us are looking forward immensely to fielding a full team
for the June festivities.

GORDON CHASE STREETER

    

HOME AppRESS: 30 Outlook Ave. West Hartford, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 151 Farmington Ave., Hartford, Conn.

BorN: Dec. 1, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Edward Clark Streeter, Alice
Martha Chase.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1934.
MarRiep: Thora Anne Bird, June 6, 1938, West Hartford, Conn. (divorced

1951). CHILDREN: Sabin Chase, July 24, 1941; Anita Parker, May 8, 19435
Alice Starkweather, Dec. 5, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Clark Streeter, Jr., 736.

OccUPATION: Assistant actuary, Group Department, Aetna Life Affiliated Com-
panies,

MEMBER OF: Wadawanuck Club, Stonington, Conn.; Harvard Club of Con-
necticut; Hartford Tennis Club; Hampstead Hill Club.

IN the spring of my senior year I made some half-hearted attempts
to find a job. One of my interviews resulted in a hurried notation
of my name on the corner of a scratch pad. This was the unlikely
start of a very happy association with the Aetna Life Affiliated Com-
panies of Hartford, Connecticut, I named my own terms to the
extent that I asked that my work start in the middle of July. In
the intervening period I had a pleasant series of visits with various
college friends. My office work has been extremely varied, and

[ 1352 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

although I am considered on paper a qualified actuary, many phases

of my work have dealt with such obscure problems as advi ising

our company cafeteria on suitable methods of auditing the day's S

receipts. At other periods I was the company expert on Canadian

foreign exchange, In the 1930’s I became interested in the use of

punch card and other mechanical equipment and have spent a num-
ber of years in that area. Surprisingly enough for a company of our
size, I was the only one in the entire organization interested in that
area prior to approximately 1948. Since the war I have been pri-
marily connected with the Group Department and am currently
engaged in a losing battle between lawyers who set down their
ideas in complete detail and utter obscurity and the sales personnel
who feel that unintelligibility is not the prime requisite in sales litera-
ture. It is difficult to describe my work but it has consisted of a
series of projects relating basically to the administration of insur-
ance and the control of all its costs.

During the summer of 1934, my elder brother John (graduate of
a second-rate college founded by some man named Eli ‘something-
or-other) who was living in Hartford introduced me to Thora Bird.
We were married in 1938 and lived as active a social life as could
be expected considering I was then studying for actuarial examina-
tions. Thora was a semi-pro pianist and one of the strongest women
tennis players in Hartford. We lived an apartment life until I was
drafted in April, 1944. After the war we moved into a fair-sized
house in Bloomfield, Connecticut, which is only seven miles from
downtown Hartford. We have had the advantages there of country
living, including cows in the neighboring field, ‘tame dogs and w ild
rabbits, without the disadvantages of close neighbors w hich would
have forced us to maintain a close-cropped lawn and other signs of
the usual suburban living. In recent years we have acquired a horse
and the two girls are agile enough to gallop her bareback all through
the surrounding country side. The boy, unfortunately, has been a
baseball enthusiast ever since he could lisp the words “Red Sox.” It
has become a rather consuming interest with him and as a pitcher
he has had a fair record (lifetime — forty wins, ten losses).

The children ‘have been in various private schools: the two girls
are now in West Hartford day schools, Sabin is a senior at Deertield
Academy. He rather expects to go to Dartmouth, which T take as an
indication of independence, though some dichards might feel it indi-

cates a lack of parental control, in that he didn’t ‘pick Harvard.
Unfortunately, Thora and I found that our interests had gone in verv

[ 1353]

———

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

t

divergent directions and for the sake of all, including the children, a
divorce has turned out to be the only possible solution.

I have slowed down a bit in the last year since I had a moderate
coronary from which I seem to have recovered completely physi-

cally but which has left me much as I previously was, mentally in a
happy but disorganized daze,

JOHN VAN RENSSELAER STRONG

 

HOME apprEss: 21 W. Lawrence St., Milltown, N_J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Strong & Strong, National Bank Bldg., New Brunswick, N. J.

porn: April 30, 1912, New Brunswick, N.J. parents: Theodore Strong, Cornelia
Livingston Van Rensselaer.

PREPARED AT: Rutgers Preparatory School, New Brunswick, NJ.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

marrieD: Katharine Bayard Bonsall, April 18, 1942, Morristown, N.J. CHILDREN:
Katharine Bayard Bonsall, April 15, 1945; John Van Rensselaer, Jr.,
April 3, 1948; Robert Livingston, Dec. 7, 1949; Sarah Halsey, Oct. 23,
1955.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Theodore Strong, ’22; Stephen Van Rensselaer Strong, ’27;

Woodbridge Strong, °32; Robert Livingston Strong, ’36; Philip Livingston
Strong, ’4o.

occupation: Lawyer; partner, Strong & Strong.
OFFICES HELD: Borough councilman, Highland Park, N.J., 1952; treasurer, former
president, Middlesex County Chapter, New Jersey Division, American

Cancer Society; director, Middlesex County Mental Health Association,
Middlesex County Tuberculosis and Health League. '

MEMBER OF: Order of Colonial Lords of Manors, Speakers Club; National

Association of Railroad Trial Counsel, New Jersey and Middlesex County
Bar Associations.

ADMITTED to the bar of New Jersey as attorney in October,
1936, and as counsellor in October, 1939, 1 joined two brothers in

L 1354]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

practice. Now we are five partners and two associates. It is still a
family firm in existence 106 years as a Strong enterprise.

I have been a Republican living i in Middlesex County, New Jersey .
and have held one political office as a member of the Council of
Highland Park, New Jersey, where I was then living.

In April, 1943, I was drafted as a private in the Army, served in
the Air Corps and was discharged as a first lieutenant in December,

1945.

ARTHUR BLAND SULLIVAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 177 Sedgwick Rd., West Hartford, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1005 E, Farmington Avenue Plaza, West Hartford, Conn.
BORN: Dec. 2, 1911, Hartford, Conn. parents: Robert John Sullivan, Mary

Bresnahan.
PREPARED AT: William H. Hall High School, West Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; M.D. (Yale Univ.), 1938.

MaRRIED: E, Patricia Deming, Sept. 27, 1941, West Hartford, Conn. CHILDREN:
Brian Deming, July 22, 1946; Janice Deming, Aug. 24, 1947; Craig Deming,
April 21, 1949; Elizabeth Deming, April 22, 1950; Gerald Bland, June 25,
19513 Arthur Bland, Jr., Feb. 28, 1954; Evelyn Deming, May 2, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Physician.
MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Hartford County Medical Society;

active staff of Hartford Hospital, St. Thomas the Apostle Men's Club:
Holy Name Society.

AFTER a short stint in general practice and five years in the Army,
three and one-half years overseas, I finally got home to my wife
and the line of medicine I enjoy — family “doctor, Both have done
well by me. My club memberships are not listed above because
they consist mainly of the Sullivan Home and Toy Repair Club, and
the Sullivan Amateur Swim, Bike, Skate, Boy Scout, Girl Scout,

[1355]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Brownie, Little League, Bop, Basketball, Altar Boy, Piano, Trumpet,
Ballroom Dancing and Ballet. Needless to say, these also cut down
on Pat's outside club memberships. My wife and I are also busy
with courses in Adult Education, and, as many of you have probably
already found, good elementary and junior high schools today are
an education to those of us, vintage circa 1934!

Life is full, happy and most interesting. The future enthralls —

and appalls, Meantime, Twenty-fifth Reunion calls—and that I
look forward to.

CHARLES MERYL SULLIVAN

 

HOME apprEss: Hotel St. George, Suite 501, 51 Clark St, Brooklyn 1, N.Y.
(temporary).

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Wholesale Dry Goods Association, qo Worth St,
New York 13, N.Y,

BORN: June 12, 1912, Harrisburg, Pa. parents: Charles Michael Sullivan, Cath-
erine Agnes Mahoney.

PREPARED AT: Harrisburg Academy, Harrisburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934; 5M. (Georgetown Univ.),
1947.

marrieD: Lea Kathryn Engel, July 2, 1958, Queens Village, N.Y.

occupaTION: Executive vice-president, national trade association.
OFFICES HELD: Past presiden

t, Washington (D.C.) Chapter, American Marketing

Association.
MEMBER OF: Kenwood Golf and Country Club, Washington, D.C.; Arkwright
. Club of the City of New York; Sales Executives Club of New York;
American Marketing Association; American Economic Association; Ameri-

can Statistical Association, Harvard Clubs of Washington and Philadelphia.
pustications: Miscellaneous articles for the trade press,

TIME has been spent in various phases of organizational manage-
ment. The first seven years were with the Pennsylvania public

[ 1356]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

assistance programs — at county and state levels, ending as district
supervisor. Shortly before World War II, I joined the administra-
tive staff at National Headquarters of the American Red Cross in
Washington, D.C. During the war I spent twenty-eight months
overseas on Red Cross assignments, first as director of supplies and
transportation in Oran and in Casablanca, North Africa, later as
supervisor of civilian war relief teams, attached to Military Gov-
ernment Units of the U.S. Army in Sicily, Italy, France, Belgium,
Holland, Luxemburg and Germany. Returned to A.R.C. Head-
quarters shortly after V-E Day and served as chief of Reports and
Training Unit for over a year. Resigned to accept an assignment
as administrative analyst for the U.S. Office of Vocational Rehabilita-
tion (now part of the Department of Health, Education and Wel-
fare). Left there to become the first director of death benefits (an
insurance-like program) for the United Mine Workers Welfare and
Retirement Fund. Next was assistant director for the National Asso-
ciation of Broadcasters, then became director of labeling research
for the National Canners Association. Assumed present duties as
executive vice-president of the National Wholesale Dry Goods Asso-
ciation in May, 1958. My position is the top staff job, as the presi-
dent is elected from the members to serve a one-year term without —
pay, and consequently appears only for board meetings and certain
formal events.
And so ends an extremely dull account!

THOMAS DESMOND SULLIVAN

ee a,” a ee

  

HOME ADpDREss: 66 Forest Ave., Caldwell, N.J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Newark News, 215-221 Market St., Newark 1, N_J.

[ 1357]

|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

porN: Feb. 28, 1913, Brooklyn, N.Y. parents: J. A. Sullivan, Catherine
O'Flaherty.

PREPARED AT: Kingsley School, Essex Fells, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933.

MarRIED: Jeanne Lawrence, Sept. 14, 1940, South Orange, N.J.
Frances, aged sixteen; Catherine, aged thirteen.
OCCUPATION: Sports writer, Newark News.

CHILDREN:

AFTER leaving Harvard in February, 1933, I went to the now-de-
funct Bronx Home News, as file clerk in the morgue, then to re-
writeman, to police reporter in Harlem, Washington Heights and
Bronx magistrates’ courts, to New York County Criminal Courts
Building where District Attorney Thomas Dewey was a prime tar-
get. In 1942 1 went to the Newark Evening News as a reporter,

and since 1946 have been a sports writer for the Newark News
sports department.

I have been president of the Golf Writers’ Association of America
twice and twice qualified for the National Amateur Golf Champion-
ship, beaten first round both times (1948 and 1949). Hot shot around
New Jersey — low amateur 1950 State Open, won state pro-amateur
championship 1950 with pro Danny Williams of The Knoll.

CYRUS LEO SULZBERGER

 

HOME ADpRESS: 2 ter, Ave. de Segur, Paris, France.
OFFICE appRESS: New York Times, 229 W. 43d St., New York, N.Y.

BORN: Oct. 26, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: Leo Sulzberger, Beatrice
Josephi.

PREPARED aT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., magna cum laude, 1934.
MarRigp: Marina Tatiana Lada, Jan. 21, 1942, Beirut, Lebanon. CHILDREN:
Marina Beatrice, Sept. 11, 1944; David Alexis, July 26, 1946.

[ 1358 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
OccUPATION: Newspaper columnist, New York Times.
' MEMBER OF: The Travellers, St. Cloud Golf Club; Morfontaine Golf Club

(all of Paris).
PUBLICATIONS: Sit Down With John L. Lewts, 1938, The Big Thaw, 1956.

NEWSPAPERMAN since September, 1934 (with Pittsburgh Press,
United Press, London Evening Standard, North American News-
paper Alliance, New York Times). Since graduation, I have resided
in Pittsburgh, Washington, London, Belgrade, Bucharest, Cairo,

Moscow, Athens, Paris. Travel — constant.

JOHN TIBBS SUMMERS

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 27 Cushing Ave., Hingham, Mfass.
BORN: March 10, 1911, Brookline, Mass. parents: Robert Lee Summers, Willilu

Tibbs.
PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.
mMarriED: Lola Loretta Lewis, Sept. 14, 1947, Lincoln, Nebr. cHttp: John Tibbs,

Jr., Sept. 28, 1950.
HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Lee Summers, Jr., ’29.

OCCUPATION: Real estate broker.
OFFICES HELD: Past Master, 1947-48, secretary, since 1958, Winslow Lewis
Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; junior grand deacon, Grand Lodge of Massachusetts,

1949-50. ;
MEMBER OF; Spee Club of Harvard; Marshfield Country Club; Winslow Lewis

Lodge, A.F. & A.M.

BEFORE the money changers could be driven from the Temple I
found myself with a front row seat to the stock market erash and
to the depths of a Hoover depression, The net result was a
minus quantity of “wherewithal” to pay the overseers for the furure
broadening of my education, So, in the fall of 1932, it seemed ad-

[ 1359 ]

_ |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

visable to enter the arena of the Bulls and the Bears, perhaps with
an eye to the future, but mainly because it was a job — not a good
one, but a job, nevertheless.

After four years, it became quite apparent that the words of an

illustrious Harvard alumnus, Richard Whitney, president of the New
York Stock Exchange, were true—namely, “There is no one who
can predict the future movements of the stock market up or down!”
Through trial and error and watching customers come and go, I
had realized such thoughts, but seeing it in black and white and
coming right from the “horse’s mouth” was a shock — if the presi-
dent doesn’t know, how can anyone else presume such knowledge?
I had been living under a delusion that there was a fast, yet almost
effortless, way to land on “easy street.” This awakening caused
my departure from the world of finance without undue shock to
Wall Street, I know.

About this time, I ran into Gerry Cassedy ’33, who was import-
ing Royal Munich Hofbrau beer. From the summer of 1937-we
proceeded to flood New England with German suds amid the rau-
cous choruses of “Ja, das ist ein Schnitzelbank.” Unfortunately,
Adolf Hitler made his beer-hall “putsch,” and when World War II

started, our business stopped.

Suddenly the fat “C’s” in Naval Science came to mind, and down
to Church Street for approval. Sixty days of patient waiting and the
letter arrived with many thanks for my offer of service, but lack
of education was the declining answer. However, still carried away
with the spirit of patriotism and thoughts of defending our shores,
I spent four years in the Hingham shipyard, building LCI’s, LST’s
and DE’s.

With peace at hand and thoughts of Horace Greeley in mind, I
took off for the Middle West. I eventually landed in Lincoln,
Nebraska, where I met and married my ever-loving wife, It was
not long, though, before the peace and quiet of New England brought
us back, and here we have been ever since.

[ 1360 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WINFIELD WEBSTER SUNDERLAND

 

ADDRESS: 314 Townsend St., Midland, Mich.

BORN: Nov. 29, 1911, Swanton, Vt. Parents: Hollis J. Sunderland, Mabel
Knight.

PREPARED AT: Midland Central High School, Midland, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934. ”

MarRIED: Anna Pauline Heisman, May 18, 1935, New Haven, Ind. cHILDREN:
Hollis Robert, June 5, 1939; Mary Ellyn, June 12, 1942; Lisa Dianne, May
31, 1947.

occuPpaTion: Manufacturing.

NO questionnaire returned.

WILLIAM JAMES SUTCLIFFE

    

HOME ADDRESS: 3 Lorraine Terr., Allston 34, Alass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Pilgrim Laundry Co., Allerton Sereet, Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 10, 1908, Fall River, Mass. PARENTS: James Sutclitfe, Annie Jones.
PREPARED AT: B. M. C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1934. DEGREE: A.B, 1934. :

MarkikD: Gertrude Ethel Burwell, June 8, iggt, New Haven, Conn,

[ 1360 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

occupation: Laundry route salesman.
MEMBER OF: Associate of the Society of St. John the Evangelist.

1 HAD transferred to Harvard in 1932, from St. Stephen’s College
of Columbia University, with the thought of graduate work in teach-
ing. Economic conditions at graduation, however, necessitated a
change to the business world.

The events at Pearl Harbor, a year after our Sexennial Report,
converted my activities from outside sales work to the Purchasin
Department of Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, and later in the Production
Control Division of the Boston Ordnance District.

My hitch in the Navy was curiously affected when the Classifica-
tion “experts” saw that I had listed piano and organ as hobbies, and
forthwith made me a chaplain’s assistant. After a training period at
the College of William and Mary, 1 was assigned as an assistant in
Welfare-Recreation at a Midshipman Training School. At the con-
clusion of the war, I worked as a supervisor with Blue Cross-Blue
Shield and then, once more, to the great outdoors in sales activities.

WILLIAM ROBERT SUTCLIFFE

 

HOME appress: 26 Stowell Rd., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 259 ‘Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: June 28, 1910, Newton, Mass, parents: Jeremiah Sutcliffe, Margaret
Durgan.

PREPARED AT: Bridgton Academy, Bridgton, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: 8.B., 1934.

MaRRiED: Dorothea I. Doyle, Oct. 3, 1936, Malden, Mass
Oct. 16, 1937.

occuPATION: President, Rusco Products of Massachusetts, Inc.

orricks HELD: President of Gaylan, Inc., and Sutcliffe Storage & Warehouse
Co., Inc.

. cHinp: Gail Ann,

[ 1362 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IT was a rather dismal economic world upon which to launch the
Class of 1934 and the intervening years certainly called for skillful
navigation. Personally, [ve been economically wrecked twice —
once by the war and once by politics.

‘From June of 1934 to 1938.1 owned and operated my own com-
pany — unloading, warehousing and distributing new automobiles
as a sub-contractor for several New England distributors. By 1941
we had become the largest automobile warehouses in northeastern
United States, unloading and warehousing 100 to 150 carloads a day.
Then came Pearl Harbor. All production of automobiles stopped.
The U.S. Navy, on Monday morning, December 8th, gave me
forty-eight hours to vacate my warehouses, instituted condemnations
proceedings, and eleven years of hard work became an annex to the
Boston Navy Yard.

After the war I was in New York and used the Carey Limousine
Service to LaGuardia and decided to start the same service at Logan
Airport. Accordingly, I secured a license from the City of Boston.
a certificate of Public Necessity from the State Department of Public
Utilities — it wasn’t easy — bought three Cadillac limousines and
I was in business. Operating twenty-four hours a day, seven davs
a week, with the growing media of air transportation, we soon ex-
panded to thirteen Cadillac limousines —then “the political roof
fell in.” Day after day I read on the front pages of the newspapers
about my “exclusive monopoly.” It alerted me that somewhere there
must be a big bag of gold in a limousine franchise that apparently
I was not bright enough to comprehend. But I did note that the
two men busily digging my economic grave were both, by an odd
coincidence, bitter competitors in the business of leasing automobiles
and one was a staunch supporter of the administration then in power.

Then I realized that the cause of my trouble was that my hmou-
sines were bringing 400 to 800 trav elers a day to the various hotels
in downtown Boston. It did not exactly call for genius material
to carry this to the conclusion that he who controls ‘the transporta-
tion desk at the various hotels is going to rent a lot of cars together
with showing visiting firemen the historical sights of our great and
glorious city, However, by our democratic processes my franchise
was revoked, and T had a postgraduate course in government far
superior to any given in my undergraduate days. Since that time |
have benefited by the building boom and have a deep appreciation of
what makes this government of ours tick,

[ 1363 ]

Basiniy 1608 AALS EON OLESEN DLAI ic asteliamnnth

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ROBERT ARNOLD SUTERMEISTER

 

HOME ApprEss: 5831 N.E. 182d St, Seattle 55, Wash.
OFFICE ADDRESS: University of Washington, Seattle 5, Wash.

BORN: Aug. 25, 1913, Kansas City, Mo. parents: Charles Oscar Sutermeister,
Julia Louise Morey.

PREPARED AT: Westport High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934. DEGREES: A.B., ct laude, 1934; AM. (Univ. of
Washington), 1942.

MARRIED: Miriam Currans, Feb. 20, 1953, Seattle, Wash, cHmLpREN: Susan Carol,
Feb. 17, 1954; Jan Lori, Aug. 27, 1955; Jack Robert, July 18, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHER: Oscar Sutermeister, 32; M.R.P., 41.

occuPaTiON: Professor of personnel management, University of Washington;
industrial consultant and labor-management arbitrator.

OFFICES HELD: President, Seattle Personnel Association, 1943, Faculty Men’s
Club, Univ. of Washington, 1957-58; president, 1944, trustee, 1945-47,
Pacific Northwest Personnel Management Association; member board of
trustees, Washington State Mental Hygiene Society, 1942-45.

MEMBER OF: (formerly) Harvard Club of Seattle, B.P.OE., Tacoma, University.
Club, Tacoma, Seattle Personnel Association, Pacific Northwest Personnel

Management Association; (currently) Industrial Relations Research As-
sociation, Sigma Nu Fraternity.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles on personnel subjects published in Personnel
Journal, Personnel, Journal for Personnel Administration, Pacific North-
west Industry, Safety Maintenance and Production, etc. .

JOB opportunities around Boston in 1934 being what they were, I
returned to my home in Kansas City, Missouri, and worked in my
father’s construction business for several months. Then I obtained
a job in the personnel office of the Ford Motor Company in Kansas
City, as assistant to the employment manager. In 1936 I returned
to Harvard for the commencement exercises and, being on the east
coast, decided that would be my best opportunity to see Europe.
I spent the summer traveling through the main countries of Europe

[ 1354 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

via train, boat, bus and bicycle, and have always been glad that I
made the trip before World War II. Upon returning to Kansas
City, I was restored to my job at Ford Motor and soon thereafter
was promoted to the sales department.

The hot weather in Kansas City was extremely bothersome to
me and I decided, family business or not, to settle somewhere else.
The Pacific Northwest had always appealed to me, though I had
never seen it. So I quit my job with Ford in 1937 and traveled out
to Seattle; then to Coquille, Oregon, where I worked in a lumber
mill for four months. My next job was in Seattle as a trainee for
Sears Roebuck. After a year of that, I was offered a job at the Uni-
versity of Washington teaching economics. My summers were spent
on Mt, Rainier, one as a summit guide, another as a summit ranger
for the National Park Service. Needless to say, leading climbers
up a 14,420-foot mountain, eternally covered with snow and ice,
was a real thrill for a boy from the plains of the Middle West. Add
to that the thrills of the ocean, the endless waterways of Puget
Sound, the thousands of islands, lakes and mountains, and one can
understand why I have never wanted to return to Kansas City.

In 1942 I became personnel director of Pacific Huts, Inc., in
Seattle, a war plant just starting up which was to grow to a size
requiring 800 employees. In 1944 I was commissioned a lieutenant
(j-g.) in the Navy and assigned to the Naval Supply Depot, Seattle,
as industrial relations officer for 2500 civilians. At the end of the
war I became a partner in a firm of industrial and public relations
consultants in Tacoma. In 1949 I returned to the University of
Washington to teach human relations and personnel management,
and in 1952 became a full professor. In addition to teaching, I have
numerous consulting contacts with business and industry and i in the
past year have served as arbitrator in several labor-management
disputes.

Though late in getting married, I have since made up for lost time
and have two daughters and a son, Before marriage my principal
hobbies were mountain climbing and swimming. Since my marriage,
the mountain climbing has been replaced by gardening and keeping
up the lawn and house.

My trips to the East have been all too few since 1934, but my
wife and I definitely plan to be back for the Twenty-fifth.

[ 1365 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ALEXANDER ROBERT DANIEL SUTTON

 

HOME appress: 58 Curtis St., Egypt, Mass.

orFicE appress: U.S. Civil Service Commission, Federal Bldg. Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 5, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Daniel Francis Sutton, Maude
Elizabeth Rogerson.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934, DEGREES: A.B., cu laude, 1934; A.M. 19353 LL.B.
(Boston Coll.), 1947.

MaRkIED: Helen McShane Kelly, Aug. 10, 1946, Boston, Mass. cHiLpreN: Daniel
Francis, Nov. 18, 1948; David Rogerson, Feb, 26, 1951; Peter Alexander,
Sept. 12, 1953; Mary Anne McShane, July 28, 1955; John Anthony, Nov.
24, 1958.

OccUPATION: Government service; investigation.

OFFICES HELD; Treasurer, Holy Name Society; director and judge advocate,
Veterans of Foreign Wars, tgs0-55§; committeeman, Cub Scouts, 1957-58
(all above in Scituate, Mass.); vice-president, AFGE Lodge, U.S. Civil
Service Commission, Boston.

MEMBER oF: Holy Name Society; Knights of Columbus, Veterans of Foreign
Wars; American Legion; South Shore Harvard Club.

AFTER graduation I spent a couple of years in graduate work at
Harvard. Began working for the Federal Government in 1938 and
have been in the federal service continuously since then. My pres-
ent job with the Civil Service Commission represents the longest
time T have been with one agency and goes back to late 1951. In
retrospect, this is the most satisfying and enjoyable from the stand-
point of the work itself as well as the working relationships. All
of my work has been in the Boston area, which I have been reluctant
to leave, although mobility would have brought greater financial
return.

In 1939, | commenced night law school and completed the course
eight years later in 1947 and passed the Massachusetts bar examina-

[ 1366 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tion first try. This fortunate result is attributable to a good bar re-
view in the main, but partly to a severe headache which hit me at
the start of the afternoon session. I do not recommend this latter
factor for everyone, but it certainly did well by me. The length
of the course was due to military service interrupting.

While a civilian with the War Department, I enlisted in the Army
in June, 1942, having shrewdly waited until the pay of a private
was raised from $21 to $50 a month. After being subjected to the
usual battery of tests, I was sent to Radio Operators School and
became an operator, I remained such throughout the war, serving
with the Army Airways Communication System in the U.S. and
Brazil, rising to the rank of staff sergeant. Was discharged in No-
vember, 1945. Among my priceless souvenirs is a letter of recom-
mendation from my last C.O. at LaGuardia Field, a Yale man. In
the letter, with a fine disregard for fact, he commended me to any-
one who might require the services of a first class radio operator.
For the good of all, this letter has never been used, but it has often
reassured and consoled me when things were rough.

After discharge, I returned briefly to the War Department and
then transferred to the Veterans Administration, resuming law school
at the same time. On August 10, 1946, I married and began a new
and very happy life. We left Boston within a short time after the
birth of our first son and moved to our present home in Egypt. We
have been blessed with four boys and one girl and our family life
has been a tremendous success, credit for this being due to my wife.
Life in a small town has proved pleasant and we have never regretted
leaving the city. The major criticism that I have of the pattern of
life in a small town is that there are far too many organizations.
The unwary citizen, to whose lips “yes” is easier than “no,” may
find himself so hopelessly involved with committees and meetings
that his family life becomes a thing of the past and, he hopes, the
future. Possibly, centuries ahead, historians may treat of this civili-
zation as one which organized itself into oblivion.

Returning to chronology, I stayed with the VA until 1951 in the
fall. After passing the bar, I had transferred from the Rehabilitation
Division to the Insurance Division as an attorney in claims. When
the office was consolidated with some others in Philadelphia, I balked
at leaving Boston and was through with the VA. Worked very
briefly with OPS and then transferred to my present spor.

As to social and political convictions, T suppose the two go hand
in hand. I am a lifelong Democrat — possibly a cradle Democrat.

[ 1367 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

My political activities are restricted to local non-partisan affairs be-
cause of the Hatch Act. During the past couple of decades, it has
become necessary to add qualifying phrases to the party nomencla-
ture to give any idea of where a particular party member is in rela-
tion to national or international affairs. Thus we have conservative
Democrats and liberal Republicans. Into what category I fall is con-
fusing. It will be something less than lucid to say that I am more
conservative than the more liberal Democrats and more liberal than
most liberal Republicans. However, to explain your position in these
times more exactly would require too many words for this Report.

There is no such problem in stating my religious convictions. |
am a Roman Catholic, My convictions and my practice of my re-
ligion were nominal before my marriage. The example of my wife’s
devotion and the example of our friends led me to consider and study
the religion into which I was born and to which I had given too
little thought for too long a time. It is shocking to reflect today on
my apathetic attitude toward the most important function of man —
his relationship to God. Perhaps the long period of neglect had its
value in making my awareness the more keen, once I had awakened.
I feel that a positive and active religious life is a necessity and the
only vital counterforce against the evils of communism and secular-
ism.

+ JOHN SWARTS

 

BORN: May 6, 1912, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Solomon Lewis Swarts, °88,
Florence Eiseman.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.

DIED: Sept. 20, 1931, Boston, Mass.

[ 1368 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN SWARTS died after our freshman year, He was a member
of the freshman baseball team, the Instrumental Club, and the Red
Book Business Board. He was survived by his parents.

STEPHEN SWIFT TAFT, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3616 Thorndale Rd., Pasadena 10, Calif.

BORN: Dec. 19, 1912, Springfield, Mass. parents: Stephen Swift Taft, ’98,
Alma Shepard.

PREPARED AT: Westminster School, Simsbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Jane Annis Cochran, Sept. 4, 1937, Ludington, Mich. cHu DREN:
Marianne Cochran, March 4, 1941; Stephen Swift, 3d, March 18, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Manager, nursery; landscape gardening.

CHARLES JOSEPH TANENBAUM

 

HOME Appress: 7o Malvern Rab, Scarsdale, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: §2¢ Fifth Ave, New York 17, N.Y,

[ 136y ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

BORN: Oct. 20, 1914, New York, N.Y. parents: Jerome Tanenbaum, ’o7, Helen
Shoninger.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1934; LL.B. (Yale
Univ.), 1937.

MARRIED: Mary E. Mayer, Aug. 6, 1938, San Francisco, Calif. cuHitp: Ann,
May 10, 1944.

occuPaTIoN: Attorney,

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, since 1949, treasurer, since 1957, Educational Foundation
for Jewish Girls; vice-president, Scarsdale Art Association, since 1958.

meMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Sunningdale Country Club; Asso-
ciation of the Bar of the City of New York; Real Estate Board of New
York.

LOOKING backwards, I am left with curiosity about a might-have-
been, and wonder at my luck in some have-beens. Since a certain
laziness and a tendency to take the easy path seem to be my natural
habit, I am no longer surprised to find that most of my good for-
tune has stemmed from decisions that were rather thrust upon me.
My selection of the law as a profession was, in retrospect, largely
the result of encouragement by my father who had always wanted
to be a lawyer. My selection of a wife, who has proven a most de-
lightful companion of more than twenty years’ standing, was — I
am convinced — more the result of her optimism than my foresight.
Even the military draft ended up by furnishing me with diversified
experience in military intelligence that Jed later to government serv-
ice, The might-have-been was the failure to follow up my deep
interest in my college major, mathematics, which just didn’t seem
to have much future back in 1934.

Having chosen the law, I made the then heretical decision of study-
ing it at Yale, where I was an editor of the Yale Law Journal. After
graduation in 1937, I joined a small Wall Street law office, where my
practical education began. Fortunately for me, my firm did not
believe in specialization, and for the next five years I worked on a
wide variety of problems for an assortment of clients — from the
Sheraton Corporation, then in its formative years, to Sidney Hill-
man’s Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America, and from the
estate of Edward A. Filene to the painter Kuniyoshi. Thus I quali-
fied as that jack-of-all-trades, the general practitioner.

In 1943, I was drafted into the Army, where my mathematical
background led to my assignment to Army Ordnance as an instructor
in anti-aircraft fire control directors. Our base was located on the
lovely grounds of the Santa Anita race track and my wife and I

[ 1370 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

lived happily in neighboring Pasadena, where our daughter was
born, When this paradise broke up in 1944, I was transferred to
Army G-2 headquarters at the Pentagon, where I was initiated into
the mysteries of strategic military intelligence in the economic field
and assigned to evaluate the Japanese food position and its vulner-
ability to attack and blockade. As the war against Japan came to an
end, our focus turned to the civil war in China, and I vividly recall
working on the economic portions of the intelligence dossier which
General Marshall carried on his unsuccessful mission to China. My
work left me with a graphic picture of the corruption of the Chinese
Nationalist government, a great desire to visit Japan, and a hearty
respect for rice as a food for peasant and gourmet.

Upon my release from active duty at the end of 1945, I returned
to New York City and opened a small law office by myself. In
apparent anticipation of this event, my family had managed to ac-
cumulate an assortment of legal matters that kept me busy from the
start, including a stockholders suit against Consolidated Edison Com-
pany. Being on my own, I soon realized that the law was vast and my
ignorance appalling, yet I also learned that experience is often a
substitute for knowledge. I have never since been afraid to tackle
whatever opportunity has offered, although I have come to prefer
people to corporations. In 1947, my father’s prolonged illness and
death gave me the added responsibility of managing family real
estate holdings and has provided me with a wide and often amusing
range of problems, seen from the worm’s-eye view of a landlord.
During this period I moved my family to Scarsdale to our present
house and was just beginning to acquire a sense of complacency
when Korea hit the front pages.

Never had I suspected that Mfilitary Intelligence officers would
be in critical demand, but there it was — a notice to report for active
duty. I shall never forget the shock of being recalled, the frantic
rush to put my affairs in order, or the irony of reporting to Carlisle
Barracks, Pennsylvania, in February, 1951, and being assigned to
prepare income tax returns for the post personnel. Fortunately I
was soon transferred to Washington and by an amazing stroke of
luck assigned to a liaison job with the Joint Chicfs of Statf at the
Pentagon. Miraculously we were able to rent a ciny house in
Georgetown and found ourselves in the midst of the excitement of
Washington life. Meanwhile, I was finding the upper ec helons of
the military establishment so interesting thae the end of my tour of
military duty came all too soon, and 1 was delighted to receive an

[1371]

__

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

invitation to move upstairs from the offices of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff on the second floor to those of the Secretary of Defense on
the third floor. In June, 1952, I was appointed counsel for scientific
and technical matters under Charles A. Coolidge, who was then
Assistant Secretary of Defense for legal and legislative matters. Most
of my work was involved in serving as counsel for the Research
and Development Board and the Military Liaison Committee to the
Atomic Energy Commission. I gained a fascinating insight into sci-
entific developments in a variety of fields from guided missiles to
weather control, and particularly enjoyed a trip to Sandia Base in
New Mexico for a week’s indoctrination in atomic weapons and
a trip to the University of Minnesota for a conference on problems
under government research contracts with educational institutions.

During this period I was able to visit New York intermittently,
and with the aid of a loyal secretary I managed to keep my office
open, but my practice suffered progressively. Faced with the choice,
I reluctantly returned to New York in 1953. My practice revived
gradually and I have recently moved uptown near Grand Central
Station, where I share a suite of offices with some old friends from
Yale — but have my lunches at the Harvard Club.

My hobbies include golf and Polaroid photography; and my
interests include the theatre, particularly off-Broadway, art and the
Orient. My communal activities include being treasurer of the Edu-
cational Foundation for Jewish Girls, whose scholarship grants cur-
rently help finance over ioo girls at various undergraduate and
graduate schools, and being vice-president of the Scarsdale Art Asso-
ciation, which is in the process of spearheading a drive to establish
an art center in Scarsdale.

My wife and I both enjoy traveling in this country and abroad.
Our trips have included Mexico in 1952, Japan, Hong Kong and
Bangkok in 1953; Haiti, Trinidad and Venezuela in 1955; France and
Italy in 1957; and an off-beat voyage to the first landfall of Columbus,
the island of San Salvador in the Bahamas, in 1958.

Our family is small, one wife and one daughter, but we have a
good time together and will attend the Reunion in full force.

[ 1372 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DEAN STANLEY TARBELL

 

‘HOME ADDRESS: 157 Weldon St., Rochester 11, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Chemistry, University of Rochester, Rochester 20, N.Y.

BORN; Oct. 19, 1913, Hancock, N.H. parents: Sanford McClellan Tarbell,
Louise Millikan.

PREPARED AT: Thayer High School, Winchester, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1934; A.M. 1935; PHD,

»  1937-

MARRIED: Ann Hoar Tracy, Aug. 15, 1942, Concord, Mass. cuttpres: William
Sanford, Oct. 21, 1945; Linda Tracy, July 7, 1948; Theodore Dean, Nov.
II, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Professor of organic chemistry.

OFFICES HELD: Official Investigator, ! ‘ational Defense Research Committee and
Committee on Medical Research, 1942-45; fellow, Guggenheim Founda-
tion, 1946-47; chairman, Rochester Section, American Chemical Society,
1950-51; member, advisory committee, Office of Ordnance Research, 1952,
1955, Fellowship Panel, National Science Foundation, 1953-55, Chemistry
Panel, National Cancer Chemotherapy Committee, 1955-58.

‘MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Chemical Society of Londen,
Rochester Canoe Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Some 125 scientific papers, including part of several books.
Papers published in Journal of the American Chemical Society, Journal

of Organic Chemistry, Chemical Review.

MY professional career as a teacher and research worker in the field
of organic chemistry was strongly influenced at the beginning by
three great Harvard chemists: Louis F, Fieser, the late FE. P. Kohler
and Paul D. Bartlett. Fieser’s fascinating and colorful lectures first
directed my interest to organic chemistry, and this was strengthened
by Kohler’s masterly advanced course.

Through a fortunate series of events, I was able to stay at Elar-
vard in 1934 and do graduate work with Paul Bartlett, who had just
joined the department to replace J. BL Conant, when the later be-

[ 1373 ]

__

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

HUGH TATLOCK

    

OME ADDRESS: 16 Ward Ave., Northampton, Mass.

*FFICE ADDRESS: 264 Elm St., Northampton, Mass.

orn: May 2, 1912, Ann Arbor, Mich. parents: John Strong Perry Tatlock,

‘96, Marjorie Fenton.

REPARED AT; Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; M.D., 1938.

yarriep: Anne Fisher, June 5, 1937, New York, N.Y. cuivpren: Marjorie,
Oct. 7, 1938; Richard, Sept. 22, 1940; David, Oct. 2, 1944; John, June 20,
1948. | .

“cUPATION: Physician, private practice of internal medicine.

‘FICES HELD: President, Hampshire District Medical Society, 1956-58, Pocumtuk
Valley Harvard Club, 1958-59.

EMBER OF; American College of Physicians (Fellow); American Federation
for Clinical Research; American Academy of Allergy; American Medical
Association, American Board of Internal Medicine (Diplomate) ; North-
ampton Literary and Social Club. |

BLIcATIONS: Various articles on virus diseases in the 1940's.

HERE are so many variations in the possibilities of concentration
the field of medicine that what one ends up as may bear little rela-
mn to one’s initial training. I do not think that I would have ma-
ed in biochemistry had I known the life of a practising physician
I now know it. The endless hours in the college laboratories
nuld have been spent better in the humanities. Biochemistry oozed
t of our ears by the second year at Harvard Medical School. In
earby college, I see the premeds still going right down the line
science, taking much more than they need for preparation and
ng strongly advised to do so by their full-time academic advisers.
s fair to say that since the war and the establishment of a practice
internal medicine, my leisure preoccupation has been to acquire
n-scientific knowledge. This comes slowly since the really ex-

[ 1376 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

traordinary advances in medicine require constant, diligent study to
keep up. Medical education is a very interesting subject since it
does not stop at medical school graduation but must become a way
of life for the rest of the doctor’s stay on this planet. I feel sure this
is much more of a problem in medicine than in the other professions.
I doubt if my brethren living in cities with medical school connec-
tions ever think about this. The Massachusetts Turnpike has made
living in delightful western Massachusetts easier on one’s scientific
medical conscience as do the restricted channel TV, radio and the
tape recordings.

This is an exciting time of family life with two of the four chil-
dren in college. The younger boys bask in the reflected light. The
phenomenon of a rapidly growing-up set of children never ceases
to amaze me, and to see it first-hand is ample reward for the
problems.

My wife and I have a considerable interest in animals in general
and feed, ride and shovel for two Morgan horses in the backyard —
this makes it a major problem to get away over night. In our next
reincarnation, when we can travel extensively, the Spanish Riding
School in Vienna will be our first stop. My wife’s sculpture and
painting have been such a stimulus that the basement dark-room at
times interferes considerably with the practice of medicine, or vice

.versa perhaps for the record. Black and white photography is an
increasing interest.

I am not particularly active in town affairs, or in medical organ-
ization, disliking administrative matters, but work behind the scenes
when stimulated. Life in a medium-sized town of 30,000 seems
about right, and particularly here in a four-college area with beau-
tiful countryside. One can get up early on a spring morning and
ride horseback along the Connecticut River before breakfast, be at
the hospital in good season and walk home to lunch (if there’s time).
Why anyone would be content to run the city traffic lanes to work
is more than I can understand.

[ 1377]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ELLIOTT HAMMOND TAYLOR

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1601 E. Loma Alta Drive, Altadena, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pacific Finance Corp., 621 S. Hope St., Los Angeles 17, Calif.

BorN: Aug. 8, 1912, Chicago, Ill. parents: George Edgar Taylor, Ada Ham-
mond.

PREPARED AT: Senn High School, Chicago, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: AB., cum laude, 1934.

MarkIED: Josephine Daniel, April 20, 1936, Albany, N.Y. cup: John Elliott,
2d, April 24, 1938.

occupaTion: Financing; insurance; vice-president, Pacific Finance Corporation;
member, Policy Committee, vice-president and director, Pacific Fidelity
Insurance Company; director, Olympic Insurance Company, Marathon
Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director and member executive committee, American Finance
Conference; director, Consumer Credit Insurance Association.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California (president, 1956-57);
Harvard Club of New York; California Club; Altadena Town & Country
Club; Annandale Golf Club; Wine and Food Society of Southern Cali-
fornia; Public Relations Society of America.

puBLications: Articles and speeches on the automobile industry, financing,
selling, sales promotion, public relations, advertising, “How to Hold
Better Business Meetings” (also conducted a three-day seminar on this at
the University of Southern California for roo Southern California business
leaders).

| 1378 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES LOGAN TAYLOR

 

AbbREss: 106 Linden St., Holyoke, Mass.
BorN: March 4, 1913, Worcester, Mass. parents: James Gibson Taylor, Ruth

Logan.
PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932, 1933-1935.
OCCUPATION: Manufacturing.

NO questionnaire returned.

JOHN HOBSON TAYLOR

 

HOME aApprEss: 34 Chatham Circle, Wellesley Hills 81, Mass.

OFFICE AbpRESS: Fiduciary Trust Co,, 10 Post Office Sq., Boston 5, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 25, 1911, Portsmouth, N.H. parents: Harvey Clinton Taylor, ‘yz
Mary Agnes Hobson.

PREPARED AT: Alilton Academy, Alilton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1933.
MARRIED: Emma Hewes Brown, Oct. 9, 1943, Boston, Mass. cittpres: Seort

Hewes, Sept. 6, 1949; Elise Hobson, June 23, 1y4o.
HARVARD BROTHER: Harvey Clinton Taylor, Jr. "43.

[ 1379 ]

seg nen nasa Si At OOS "

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

occuPATION: Trust officer, trust operations officer and vice-president, Fiduciary
Trust Company.

AFTER leaving college in the spring of 1933, I spent the next eight-
een months learning the essentials of bookkeeping and accountin
and then did municipal auditing until I went to work for a savings
bank in Portsmouth, New Hampshire, in the spring of 1936. Having
joined a Naval Reserve unit in 1939, I was called to active duty in
April, 1940, and spent most of the next two years worrying about
keeping the Hingham Ammunition Depot in one piece. Then after
some intensive schooling I was reassigned to the First Naval District
and for the next couple of years served as district operational intel-
ligence officer. This was good duty, particularly because I met and
married a charming Wave from the port director’s office in 1943.
After the war we decided we wanted to stay in Boston and a most
satisfying job with Fiduciary Trust Company has made this possible.
Since babies and suburbia seem to be synonymous, we moved to
Wellesley in 1947, but now that the children are well beyond the

“mud pie” stage we look forward to moving back in town in the
summer of 1959.

COLEMAN WALLACE THACHER

 

HOME apprEss: 2369 N. Vernon St., Arlington 7, Va.

OFFICE appRESS: Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff, Dept. of the Army,
Pentagon, Washington, D.C.

BorN: Aug. 8, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Joseph Franklin Thacher, Eliza-
beth Eleanor Hilliker.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

Maxrizp: Dorothy Jean Dixon, Aug. 29, 1942, Hempstead, Long Island, N.Y.
CHILDREN: Peter Dixon, Sept. 28, 1943; Jonathan Cooper, March 23, 1947:

[ 1380 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Franklin Thacher, Jr., M.B.A.,°25 (deceased).

occupation: Colonel, Artillery, U.S. Army, currently assigned on the Gencral
Staff, Department of Army, Pentagon, Washington, D.C., as chief, Scientific
Branch, Technical Division, Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff for
Intelligence.

MEMBER OF: Hancock Lodge, A.F. & A.M., Fort Leavenworth, Kansas; Harvard
Club of Boston.

PUBLICATIONS: Military articles.

THE major part of my life since 1934 has been spent in the Army.
Several years building an electronics equipment business in Boston
followed graduation, then I entered on active duty in 1940 as a
lieutenant of Field Artillery with the 26th Infantry Division. (Ini-
tially commissioned from Harvard ROTC.) The next four years
were characterized by a considerable amount of moving about the
United States with the Division, an assignment to the Artillery
School at Fort Sill, Oklahoma, and then overseas to Europe.

In 1942 I married the daughter of an army colonel and my living
requirements rapidly outgrew the foot-locker stage. However, the
problems of changing stations and moving were “naturally” trans-
ferred to my wife. The family packed and moved so many times
over the years that they would now probably become restless if
we did not change station every few years.

A year in combat in Europe, 1944-45, terminated in Czechoslo-
vakia and finally back to Boston and my business. This mundane
activity was cut short in 1949 when I was recalled to active duty and
sent to the Command and General Staff College as a student; then
another assignment and, after a year, back to the War College fol-
lowed by four years on the faculty at CKGSC. The years at Fort
Leavenworth are recalled by the entire family as some of the most
memorable and pleasant of our lives.

We went to Turkey in 1955 and spent two years on a training
mission. “The family has traveled over most of history-filled Turkey
from Istanbul to Iskenderun and has also scen most of Europe. Liv-
ing in various parts of the United States and overseas has contributed
greatly to counteract the educational disadvantages resulting from
changing schools. However, my sons have a far deeper unde ‘estand-
ing of how the rest of the wor ld looks, thinks and lives than I ever
did at their ages. Now back in the United States in the Washington
area, we are settling down to a life very similar to thar of our civilian
neighbors. Here, as at previous stations, we are renewing old friend-
ships and enjoying life in the big city,

[1381 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Outside interests have turned to golf, electronics, Boy Scouts and
a continuous effort to keep ahead of two growing boys — the degree
of success in the latter field varies constantly.

I believe my Harvard background has been used to a full degree
in the Army and I have encountered over the years many other Har-
vard men on the same road. We are planning to attend the Reunion
and look forward to renewing old friendships.

HENRY CHARLES THACHER

   

HOME Appress: Turner Street, Auburn, Maine.
OFFICE AppREss: 117 Goff St. Auburn, Maine.

Born: April 6, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Louis Bartlett Thacher, ’93, Delia
Tudor.

prepakeD AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

Marriep; Isabel Firuski, Aug. 3, 1942, Buffalo, N.Y. cumpren: Sarah Ann,
June 9, 1953; Mary Ellen, Sept. 23, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Louis Bartlett Thacher, Jr., ’34.

OCCUPATION: Pediatrician.

OFFICES HELD: Pediatrician-in-chief, Central Maine General Hospital, since
1948; president, Community Council, Lewiston and Maine, 1957-58;
member of council, New England Pediatric Society, 1957-60; member
board of directors, Androscoggin Valley Association of Mental Health.

MEMBER OF: New England Pediatric Society; Mt. Desert, Harra Deeket and
Taylor Pond Yacht Clubs; Harvard Club of Boston,

SINCE leaving Cambridge I have had regrettably little contact with
the Class so that the advent of my Twenty-fifth was something of a
shock. The practice of medicine in Maine has kept me very much
occupied; I think I enjoy it more each year, I have ended up in the
field of pediatrics after toying with the idea of general practice and
of internal medicine. For the most part, | am a general practitioner

| 1382 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in an age group but do no surgery. My regret is that I do not get
to know my families better. I am convinced that the practice of
medicine should pivot around the family unit, The medical prob-
lems encountered here in a semi-rural, semi-urban area have been
stimulating; while there are frustrating moments it has been reward-
ing.

To go back a little, I entered McGill in 1935 and the years in
Montreal were indeed happy ones. The academic fare agreed with
me better than had my struggle with English literature at college;
perhaps to some extent this was due to personal maturation. Canada
I loved and still feel at home there. Intern years were also busy
and happy ones for me. I was in Hartford for two years and then
at the Massachusetts General until June, 1942, when I departed for
Fort Devens and thence to Battle Creek. :

While I was in Boston, I became interested in one of the directors
of nurses’ aides and married her in Buffalo in August, 1942. We
toured the country then very enjoyably until sent overseas with
the Fiftieth Station Hospital in 1943. This outfit was a satellite in
the orbit of the Sixth General Unit in Casablanca and this enabled
me to keep up contact with a few friends in the latter unit. Casa-
blanca, I shall recommend to anybody, but I cannot say the same
for San Antonio or at least not in August. The school of aviation
medicine, however, was interesting and we later learned to like
Texas.

Living in Maine has offered a number of challenges; some of them
I was prepared to meet and I have taken more time to come to terms
with others. For example: there is March and April; then there is
a disposition among the natives to recall, although originally a part
of Massachusetts, they really never had much use for these “south-
erners.”

As to the new interests, I have become quite an avid sailor and
have badgered my wife into assuming the duties of a first mate.
She does it with good grace but w ishes I would stop talking and
really learn something about the weather, Two little girls add tre-
mendously to our enjoyment of life. I still ski in the w infer, my
skiing having truthfully improved since I was in college, and am
awaiting eagerly the time the children are old enough to “take along.
Although girl-shy in my youth, this affliction ts disa appearing so thar
I think I can cope with a house full of them, We are established in
Somesville on Mr. Desert in the summer and welcome all classmates

who wander that far.

[ 1383 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

+ LOUIS BARTLETT THACHER, JR.

 

!

BORN: Nov. 23, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Louis Bartlett Thacher, ’03, Delia
Tudor.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Margot Campbell (divorced); Mrs. Hortense Clark Tiffany (died
February, 1959). CHILDREN: Douglas C,; Langdon T.; Claire H.
prep: March 24, 1958, Dedham, Mass.

LOUIS BARTLETT THACHER, JR., was a member of the Eliot
House squash and football teams and the freshman hockey team.
After graduation he spent a short time as a research assistant with
H. C. Thacher & Company in Boston. He then entered the stock
brokerage firm of Abbott, Proctor & Paine in New York City. Later
he maintained offices in Boston as a trustee and property manager.
During World War II he served with the Army Transport Service.

Thacher was an active ornithologist, and had banded more than
1100 birds during the year before his death. He was survived by his
wife, who has since died, and three children.

| 1384 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE ABBOT THAYER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 809 Tweed Ave., Cincinnati 26, Ohio.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Gustav May & Co., 2311 Carew Tower, Cincinnau 2, Ohio.
BORN: Aug. 5, 1911, Berlin, Germany. parents: Abbot A. Thayer, ‘o4, Mary

VanZandt Miller.
PREPARED AT: Walnut Hills High School, Cincinnati, Ohio, University School,

Cleveland, Ohio.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. 1934
MARRIED: Barbara Thornton, Oct. 18, 1941, Cincinnati, Ohio. cHtLpREN: Michael

T., Sept. 4, 1943; Gordon A., Aug. 14, 1948,
HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Miller Thayer, ’37.
occupation: Insurance broker and counselor; vice-president, Gustav May &

Company.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Committee of Management, Y.M.C.A.; member board
of governors, University Club of Cincinnati; past secretary, Cincinnan
Harvard Club, Cincinnatus Association, Ohio Society of Colonial Wars,

past president, Buckeye Club.

MEMBER OF: Cincinnati University Club; Cincinnati Country Club; Society
of Colonial Wars; Cincinnati Harvard Club; Buckeye Club, Cincinnatus
Association; National and Ohio Associations of Insurance Agents;

Y¥.M.C.A.

FOLLOWING graduation in June of 1934, 1 took a boat for Eng-
Jand, under the assumption that [ would return home by September
and start to capitalize on my Harvard education, What with one
suggestion or temptation after another, I did not return home until
May of 1935, via Japan and Hawaii, having in the interim knocked
around the world in rather aimless fashion. Upon my return to
Cincinnati, I entered the employ of one of the local banks. My hfe
pursued an uneventful course until late rg9gt. In October of that
year, I became married — and, in December, Pearl Harbor further
changed my plans. Thus, carly in rgg2, TP became just another Army
serial number. After a period of training at the Ordnance Center

[ 1385 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

at Aberdeen, Maryland, I was transferred to the China~-Burma-India
Theatre and soon assigned to the Chinese Army for purposes of
training Chinese troops. This experience gave me an affection and
respect for the Chinese people — if not for their leaders. In Decem-
ber of 1945, the Army decided I had had enough and evicted me from
my comfortable apartment in Shanghai and sent me home to the un-
certain hardships of civilian status.

After a month or so of becoming reacquainted with my wife and
newly-acquainted with a son born in 1943, I then entered into the
general insurance business, where I have remained happily and gain-
fully employed ever since, In 1948, my second son was born. Two
boy s has seemed adequate and my family has remained constant since.

Thinking back over a quarter of a century — an ominous phrase —
I find it impossible to pinpoint highlights that might be of interest
to others. As a husband and father, I’ve had my moments of exulta-
tion, as well as of despair. I’ve tried to be a good citizen and have
tasted the rewards as well as the disappointments. But then, isn’t
that part of living life as well as one can? For that, one cannot
afford regrets,

You ask about convictions, We all, of course, have them; but,
by and large, those of the other fellow are usually boring in their
recital, So I shall quickly — and perhaps flippantly — state mine.
Politically I am one of the lost legion of “Taft Republicans.” Re-
ligiously — I am a non- protesting Protestant, Socially — well, that
depends on the viewpoint. Perhaps I can clumsily sum it up this
way: I consider myself a fairly average citizen possessing the advan-
tage of a Harvard education, who, therefore, will never be able to
subscribe to the cult of “the common man.” I like to feel that we
Harvard men are rather uncommon men.

Hobbies: this question has always intrigued me. I, at times, have
felt ashamed that I could not in honesty state that in the few spare
hours permitted me, I spent my time chasing butterflies or other
worthwhile objects (girls apparently do not count). If you must
know, I play golf, poker, raise hell with the family and invariably
find myself involved in various projects of my boys and wife. I
try to find time to read and what is euphemistically called time “‘to
relax.” Thus I am always baffled when someone wishes to know
what my hobby is. “Trying to collect dollars” is as good an answer
as any.

Well, that’s the story of my past twenty-five years. Undramatic
in the telling, but it has been a full and generally happy experience

[ 1386 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in the living of it. However, Ill be at the Twenty-fifth Reunion,
eager to fill in any unsuspecting classmate on the more harrowing

details. .

WILLIAM GORDON THEISINGER

eos,

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4009 Piping Rock Lane, Houston 27, Texas.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 2518 Drexel Drive, Houston 27, Texas.
BoRN: April 19, 1904. PARENTS: William Henry Theisinger, Sarah Souder.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Harrisburg, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1935. DEGREES: S.B. IN ENG., cum laude, 1934; S.D., 1935.

MarRIED: Minnie Isabel Taylor, Sept. 24, 1932, Cambridge, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Owner, Theger Company, sales and metallurgical engineering.

MEMBER OF; American Society for Metals, Newcomen Society; Harvard Clubs
of Boston and Houston; Brae Burn Country Club.

UPON graduation I went with the Lukens Steel Company, Coates-
ville, Pennsylvania, and was there until 1950. Came to Houston as
their regional sales manager. Served a term in 1952 with the NPA
in Washington. Started my own business in 1953, as consultant and
sales representative. Enjoy it immensely and wonder why I didn’t

do it sooner,

[ 1387 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ALLEN THOMPSON

 

Appress: 82 Hillside Ave., Somerset, Mass.

BORN: June 30, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: George Ellsworth Th
Electa Allen.

prepareD AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1935. DEGREE: AB 1934(35).
occupaTioNn: Law,

NO questionnaire returned.

HOWARD HOPKINS THOMPSON

 

HOME AppRESS: 2211 Black Oak Drive, Minneapolis, Minn

BORN: Jan. 1, 1912, Boston, Mass, parents: Charles Edwin Thompsor
Sears.

prepareD aT: Milford Academy.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 19343 M.B.A. 1937 (38).
occupation: Manufacturing.

NO questionnaire returned,

[ 1388 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ ROBERT STRACHAN THOMSON

 

BORN: Aug. 3, 1912, Broughty Ferry, Scotland. Parents: Robert Matthew
‘Thomson, Minnie Strachan.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; M.D., 1938.

MarRiED: Jane B. Wilson, Sept. 2, 1941, Clarksburg, W.Va. CHILDREN: Anne
Matthew, Aug. 28, 1942; Sally Wilson, Nov. 3, 1945; Jane Strachan, June
20, 1948; another child.

pieD: Nov. 12, 1951, Evanston, Wyo.
/ wipow: Mrs. Robert S. Thomson, 26 Upland St, Fitchburg, Mass.

AFTER graduation from the Medical School, Thomson interned at
the Long Island College Hospital in New York and at Boston City
Hospital. He practised at the Pondville Hospital, Walpole, Massa-
chusetts, and then went to Fitchburg, Massachusetts, where he be-
came staff doctor at Burbank Hospital. During the war he served
eighteen months with the Army Medical Corps as chief of the Sur-
gical Section at a Veterans’ Hospital. He was discharged from the
Army in 1946 and returned to Burbank Hospital as a member of the
surgical staff. He was a member of the American Board of Surgery
and the New England Cancer Society. Thomson was killed and his
wife seriously injured in a train wreck. They had four children.

[ 138) ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

JOSEPH JACOBS THORNDIKE, JR.

    

HOME apprEss: Owenoke, Westport, Conn.

orFice appress: American Heritage Publishing Co., 551 Fifth Ave., New York,
N.Y.

BORN: July 29, 1913, Peabody, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Jacobs Thorndike, Susan
Fllison Farnham.

PREPARED aT: Peabody High School, Peabody, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. crim laude, 1934.

Marnigp: Virginia Lemont, Sept. 7, 1940, New York, N.Y. cHipren: John,
Nov. 6, 1942; Alan, March 14, 1946.

occupation: Editorial director, American Heritage magazine; editor, Horizon
magazine.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

AS I look back on my college years, it seems to me that I spent about
half my working time on my courses and the other half on the
Crimson. In view of my subsequent career this was probably a
pretty good division of time. My profession is editing magazines or
rather, 1 sometimes think, making up dummies for new magazines,
a few of which may see the light of publication. From Harvard I
went to Time, Inc., where I worked as a writer on Time for a year
or so and then had the good fortune to be in on the start of Life.
1 worked in the New York office for fifteen years, with occasional
trips and a short stretch as a war correspondent during 1943-44.
In 1946, I became managing editor of Life, a fascinating job which
1 left in 1949 with much regret, but with the feeling that if I didn’t
get out of that plush-lined corporate rut pretty soon I never would.

My wife and I seized this opportunity to take the family to Europe
for a six-month “sabbatical,” which was great fun. Then, in partner-

ship with Oliver Jensen (Yale 736), I tried various projects in the
publishing field, none of which got very far off the ground, After

[ 1390 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

stumbling around in this fashion for three years, we joined forces
with Jim Parton and things began looking up. In 1954 we took over
American Heritage magazine, of which Jim is publisher and I am
editorial director. In 1958, we started another bi-monthly magazine,
Horizon.

During these recent years all the other members of my family
have been in school. After our boys began to grow up my wife
decided to become a doctor, went through medical school, and is
now an anesthesiologist. Our elder boy, John, is at Deerfield and
the younger, Alan, is at junior high in Westport. Living on the
water, we all enjoy boating in the summer; in the winter we usually
manage a week or two of skiing.

Among my convictions are the following: that Harvard is the
best place to go to get an education, largely because it maintains
that rare asset, an intellectual atmosphere; that a liberal arts educa-
tion should not end with college but should continue through life,
by means of reading, thought and even, if possible, actual periods of

‘residence at a university (great idea, those Nieman fellowships);
that no one should work more than nine months a year at a single,

regular job; that retirement from work should be periodic but never
complete. I can’t say that I have yet been able to arrange my life
in accord with all these notions but perhaps that’s for the next

twenty-five.

BARTLETT KIRKWOOD THOROGOOD

 

HOME ADpRESS: 219 Parker St., Newton Center, Afass.

OFFICE appREss: Kendall Co., Walpole, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 28, rgt1, Newton, Mass. parents: Brackert: Kirkwood Thorogood,
Lilian Whittier Barrlert.

[1391 ]

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newtonville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B, 1934.
UNMARRIED.

occupation: Industrial engineer; textile manufacturing; head of the industrial

engineering and methods department, Kendall Mills, Division of Kendall
Company.

MEMBER OF: American Materials Handling Society; American Ordnance Asso-
ciation; U.S. Naval Institute; commander, U.S. Naval Reserve.

HAVING no family to write about (except my good parents with
whom I have been living), and not being on the board of directors
of anything, nor a leading light in community uplift, I spent con-
siderable time deciding whether to leave this space blank or to
cooperate pleasantly, to a degree at least.

After leaving college without the slightest inward indication of
what I wanted to do, nor any connections, I grasped an opening in
the Civilian Conservation Corps Administration where as a Naval
Reserve ensign under the Army I was located in several camps, my
chief duty being i in charge of feeding 250 men three meals a day.”
This was good experience as it taught me a lot about organization,
how to make use of a small amount of food money, and I have be-
come highly critical of any restaurants I have eaten in since.

Next [ worked in the Liberty Mutual Insurance Company in
Boston as an assistant to the office manager, taking office manage-
ment courses nights at Boston University. Although I was there two
years, I did not w holly take to the job, nor did my boss take to me,
and I ended up out, in time to take a couple of months’ refresher
cruise to the West Coast in a new destroyer.

On my return I enrolled in Northeastern School of Law and made
good progress for’several years until halted by being called up for
active duty in the Navy as a lieutenant (j.¢.). My Navy days ex-
tended from six months before Pearl Harbor to more than a year
after the Japanese surrender —nearly all of it in heavy cruisers.
Starting out in the old Vincennes as a watch and division officer (gun
turret), I saw duty in the undeclared war in the Atlantic when we
took part in such un-neutral acts as blockading Denmark Strait
against the German pocket battleships and convoying a division of
British troops to South Africa. After Pearl Harbor my travels were
mostly in the Pacific and included such events as the take-off of
the Doolittle raid on Tokyo, the battle of Midway, the invasion of
Guadalcanal, and the disastrous battle of Savo Island where 332 on

our ship were killed and 258 wounded out of a crew of 1060, and

[ 1392 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

our ship sunk. Here I was pulled out of the water after six hours
and sent “Stateside” for a new cruiser — the Baltimore — and be-
came her main battery officer for the next two years — first as a
lieutenant, later as a lieutenant commander. We took part in a num-
ber of amphibious invasions, carrier air strikes, and the battle of the
Philippine Sea, directly after which the ship was called back to Mare
Island at high speed to have an elevator installed. After embarking
the President with a wiseman, a ghost writer, two doctors, his mili-
tary aides, several Secret Service agents, and Fala, we proceeded to
Pearl Harbor for a conference, thence to the Aleutians and Alaska
for fishing. Although I doubt enough fish were caught to be a
justification i in itself, the entire crew were assembled on deck while
the President personally awarded our captain the Silver Star medal.
In late 1944, after serving three months as assistant gunnery officer
on the staff of Commander Fleet Operational Training Command,
Atlantic Fleet, I was assigned to the heavy cruiser, Columbus, then
building, as assistant gunnery officer. Most of the time prior to the
war’s end was spent fitting out, crew training, and shaking down,
so we missed the final actions in the Pacific — however, 1 became
gunnery officer of this ship, was promoted to commander, and went
with her and her wartime complement of 1700 to Japan and China
on occupation duty until well into 1946.

In September, 1946, I was released from active duty and started a
career all over again (at little more than a beginner’s salary).
had decided to get into the manufacturing (production) field while
in the Navy. This was initiated by enrolling in night school at
Boston and Northeastern Universities where I pursued a rather heavy
program for the next five years in the field of industrial engineer-
ing to complement my daytime work, My first post-war job was
- with a small cutting tool manufacturing company, and the job blew
up after a year due to cancellation of government contracts on which
the company had been built. I got this job by sending out a hundred
form letters and seizing upon the first favorable reply.

The next time I tried this, in 1947, I waited for a larger number
of replies and selected a job in the Kendall Mills Division of the
Kendall Company where I have been for nearly twelve years. This
is a sizeable company manufacturing hundreds of diversified prod-
ucts with a textile base in some seventeen plants. The Rendall Mills
Division has three plants with headquarters at Walpole, Massachu-
setts. I have had various industrial engineering assigninents in this
division, starting out in the methods departnnent, then at various

[ 1393 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

plants independently, and for the past four years as head of the
industrial engineering and methods department. For those who may
wonder, industrial engineering is organized cost reduction through
study and application of a few basic principles and common sense.
In my case, the job includes plant layout, materials handling, manu-
facturing methods (except chemical processes), warehousing layout,

packaging design and methods, production data for costing and esti-

mating, work simplification, time study, incentive rates, workload

studies, supply specifications, product specifications and standards,

interpretation of government specifications, wage job evaluation,

and salary job evaluation.

As for my outside interests, they are (in theory) hiking ( especially
in the mountains), sailing, skiing, and getting a tan on the beach.
In the past few years, much of this has become largely theory —
and I never have owned a boat. The only humanitarian effort I can
claim credit for is collecting for the United Fund drives in recent
years. The call of the sea still beckons and I am completing twenty-
five years in the Naval Reserve. I attend bi-weekly meetings of
Ordance Company 1-1, and pursue Naval War College and Bu Pers
correspondence courses.

As for my political views, 1 am opposed to the philosophy of
feather-bedding, more and more for less and less, and “give me some-
thing and I'll vote for you” that started during our college days and
now seems to be the creed of a majority even in good times. I vote
accordingly.

My feelings about Harvard (after twenty-five years of casual ob-
servation): Harvard has tremendous prestige, Harvard men have
anywhere from a lot to none. Harvard taught me to question any
and all “authority,” and this, I think, has helped, I feel considerable
pride in being a Harvard graduate even when asked to name my
college in the presence of a Yale or Princeton man, although I can’t

quite pinpoint the reason. It probably has something to do with Har-
vard’s prestige; definitely not mine,

[ 1394]

. 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LEGRAND LOCKWOOD THURBER

 

HOME ADDRESS: Hawkwood Lane, Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: IBM Corp., 545 Madison Ave. New York, N.Y.
BORN: June 16, 1912, Paris, France. parents: Francis Beattie Thurber, Louise

Bissell Lockwood.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

marRIED: Charlotte Elizabeth Keidel, Oct. 17, 1942, Ruxton, Md. cutcpren:
Charlotte Elizabeth, Nov. 7, 1943; Peter Lockwood, April 11, 1947;
Timothy Pickering, Dec. 27, 1952; Gordon LeGrand, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Beattie Thurber, ’30.

occuPATION: Manager, Industry Marketing Department, Electric Typewriter
Division, International Business Machines Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Member of board, Institute for International Order,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

AFTER several years of teaching and work with a downtown New
York bank, I came to International Business Machines Corporation
in the fall of 1939. I have had various jobs with IBM, mostly in
electric typewriter sales in Philadelphia, Wilmington, Delaware,
Detroit and New York City.

During the war I was in the Anti-Submarine Navy along with
many other members of our Class. I studied under Professor Bud
Ritchie at Miami and crossed paths frequently at odd places w ith
Dickie Lawrence, Dick Stackpole, Art Chace, John Lockwood, Dick
Baxter and Tom Nazro, At one time I found myself sandwiched
between two Harvardites as executive officer of an APD in the
Pacific. Dick Benson, ’33, was skipper and George Aldrich, "39s first
lieutenant.

After many business moves with IBM, I have apparently settled
down with a wonderful wife and family in Greenwich, Connecticut.
Present objective — to grow old gracefully » Te has been fun picking

[ 1395 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

up the threads of college friends since we came back from the Mid-
west.

DAVID DEXTER TIFFANY

 

HOME ADDRESS: Syosset, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Robert Winthrop & Co., 20 Exchange Pl., New York, N.Y.

BorN: Aug. 9, 1912, Dark Harbor, Maine. parents: George Shepley Tiffany,
’99, Marie Therese Scanlan.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHERS: George Shepley Tiffany, ’29 (deceased); Phillip Jarrot
Tiffany, ’30; Nicholas Jarrot Tiffany, ’32 (deceased).

occupaTion: Partner, Robert Winthrop & Company.

OLIVER FREDERIC TISDALL

     

LN i fos

HOME appress; “Bend-in-Road,” Kay Boulevard, Newport, R.L
OFFICE avprEss: 86 Spring St., Newport, R.1.

[ 1396 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BorN: May 18, 1913, Newport, R.I. parents: Charles Henry Tisdall, Caroline
Marie Hummell.

PREPARED AT: Rogers High School, Newport, R.L.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932. DEGREE: D.M.D., 1936.

MARRIED: Nancy Weaver Thompson, June 11, 1938, Newport, RI. cup:
Nancy Lynn, April 4, 1944.

OccUPATION: Dentist.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, member, board of directors, ¥MICA, 1948-59; trustee,
First Presbyterian Church, Rhode Island Dental Society; past president,
Newport Dental Society, 1956-57.

MEMBER OF: Newport, American, Rhode Island, and North Eastern Dental
Societies; Rhode Island Odontological Society; Newport Yacht Club;
Newport Discussion Club; Psi Omega Dental Fraternity, Civic Music.

AFTER attending the past Harvard-Yale game and meeting many
of the old gang, I regret more than ever that I left the College after
only two years to enter the Harvard Dental School. Since graduat-
ing in 1936 I have been practising general dentistry in Newport.

Nancy Weaver Thompson finally said “yes” in 1938 after many
years of courting. We have been blessed with a daughter, Nancy
Lynn, aged fourteen, who at this writing is attending her first formal.
Such excitement! Served with the Navy Dental Corps during
World War II, but didn’t leave the United States. Since then we
have made two trips to Europe and several in this hemisphere.

Travel and sailing are my hobbies. We all had a grand summer
with the Bermuda Race, the trial races, and the America’s Cup Race
here in Newport this year, meeting some of the most interesting
people. Just hope we can keep this old world at peace so that we
may all be able to enjoy our Fiftieth.

MALCOLM FRANK TOPALIAN

 

HOME AppREss: 147 Sherwood Ave. Teaneck, N.J.

[ 1397 ]

: |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

OFFICE ADDRESS: 276 Fifth Ave. New York 1, N.Y.

Bor: Aug. 8 1912, Istanbul, Turkey. PpareNts: Hagop Melkon ‘Topalian,
Yakout Dadian.

PREPARED AT: Davis High School, Mount Vernon, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

marriep: Anita Rosine Norian, May 10, 1952, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Suzanne Louise, Sept. 17, 1953; Elyse, March 1, 1956.

oocupaTion: Owner and operator, Topalian Trading Company, oriental rug
wholesaler.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Armenian Diocesan Cultural Affairs, 1947, 1948;
member, Parish Council, Armenian Church of Bergen County, 1957, 1958.

MEMBER OF: West Side YMCA, New York City.

A LOT has happened in the last twenty-five years and all of us, in
spite of the post-depression and war years, must have had some
“darn nice moments.” A “darn nice moment” could have been mak-
ing money, having a good time, a happy marriage, watching your
children grow, or anything else life has to offer. Usually it’s at a
time like the present, when we look back, that these highlights are
appreciated even more than at the time of occurrence.

After two years at Harvard, I started to work to help support the
family and continued my education by taking evening business
courses at Columbia. Three years of this satisfied my needs. I
started my own oriental rug wholesale business in 1933, and worked
hard at it for the next ten years. This business which was the liveli-
hood for both my father and grandfather had been my choice from
early childhood. It holds even greater fascination for me now.

In February, 1943, the U.S. Army sent me back to school, first
for Intelligence Language Interpretation (Turkish) and second for
Intelligence Aerial Photographic Interpretation, which became my
field. After two more months of school in England, I had the good
fortune of being a member of one of the two teams selected for
Fisenhower’s Headquarters (SHAEF), where I served as master
sergeant, first in London, then Paris and finally Berlin. Two and a
half years overseas, although it had some very nice moments, left
me very homesick, Upon my return ~a first sergeant now — sight
of the New York skyline was a “darn nice moment.”

It wasn’t until 1951 that I finally met the girl of my dreams,
Anita Norian. We were married in May, 1952. Our two young
daughters, Suzy and Elyse, make us a very happy family.

I have been active in charitable affairs. Right now I am very active
as a parish council member of the Armenian Church of Bergen
County. We have purchased seven acres of choice property in

[ 1398 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Tenafly, New Jersey, and will soon start building. Some of my
hobbies are antiques, music, collecting old books on rugs; I like
horseback riding, golf and tennis.

One of the most beautiful things in life is that there is always
something to which to look forward. Raising children brings on
new interests and a basis for comparison. Are we doing for our
children what our parents did for us? Time will tell.

JOHN MASON TOWLE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1301 Park Ridge Pl., Cincinnati 8, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Coney Island, Inc., 205 E. Sixth St., Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

BORN: Jan. 24, 1912, Joliet, Ill. parents: Mason Towle, Mary Loretta Donahoe.
PREPARED AT: Joliet High School, Joliet, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932, 1933-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MarRRiED: Alice Stroppel Armstrong, Oct. 22, 1949, Cincinnati, Ohio.
OccUPATION: Purchasing agent, Coney Island, Inc., amusement park.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Coney Island, Inc., 1939-58.
MEMBER OF: University Club of Cincinnati; Cincinnati Association; Harvard

Club of Cincinnati.

FOR me and for others, I’m sure, 1934 was a year of contrast; a
year when the daze of graduation quickly dissipated before the
somber realities of the depression. It was October before I landed a
job, and had it not been for the Blue Eagle, I doubt if pay would
have been part of the bargain. It was, nonetheless, a start, and I
retain fond memories of the man who took me over.

In 1937 I joined forces with Coney Island, a large and very fine
(if you don’t believe me, come see for yourself) amusement park,
located on the Ohio River, ten miles above Cincinnati, There have
I been ever since, with time out for military service, which I entered

[ 1399 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

in 1942, a8 a private in the Medical Department, and left in 1946 as
a second lieutenant. During those years I was on duty for thirteen
months in various hospitals in England.

In 1948 I met Alice and a year later our honeymoon gave us the
opportunity to do Mexico quite thoroughly.

Since then tine has rolled by in its tantalizing way. There have
been winter vacations in southern climes and pleasant weekends here
and there, but a genuine summer holiday we've never known. A
seasonal business can be a very exacting one, indeed.

Occasionally, I still play golf, but the demands of work and the
yard have not conspired to improve the educated hook with which
I once toured Belmont Springs and Brae Burn. My squash game has
given way to contract bridge which seems to be more in keeping
with my wind and waistline, and my last racquet lies warping in the
attic.

My convictions, social, political and religious, seem to be but little
different from my days at Harvard. I'ma Catholic, an Independent
Republican and a staunch believer in the middle class. And so this
brings me up-to-date. May the future be as pleasant!

ROBERT JESSE TOWNE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 164 Main St., Yarmouth, Maine.

OFFICE appREss: Bowles, Andrews & Towne, Inc., 465 Congress St., Portland,
Maine.

BORN: May 25, 1913, Omaha, Nebr. parents: Harry Cornell Towne, Ava Ware.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1934.

Makkiep: Ruth Imogene Reisinger, April 25, 1937, Winchester, Va, CHILDREN:
Harry St. John, Feb. 20, 1938; Margery Ware, Oct. 31, 1941; Abigail
Harper, Feb. 12, 1946; Ava Cornell; Paula Runyon,

[ 1400 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD SON: Harry St. John Towne, ’61.

OccUPATION: President, Bowles, Andrews & Towne, Inc., consulting actuaries.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Society of Actuaries, International Congress of
Actuaries; Portland Country Club; Cumberland Club.

AFTER graduation I started on my career as an actuary in the actu-
arial department of the Aetna Life Insurance Company i in Hartford,
Connecticut. This began a period of six years of work in the daytime
and study at night in order to complete the examinations of the
Society of Actuaries. In 1941 I finished all the examinations and be-
came a fellow in the Society of Actuaries. In 1936 I left Hartford
to go with the Union Central Insurance Company in Cincinnati,
Ohio, and stayed there until i941. After my sojourn in Cincinnati,
I joined the Life Insurance Company of Virginia in Richmond, Vir-
ginia, and arrived in Richmond on Pearl Harbor Day.

While in Cincinnati I met my wife and we were married there.
‘The first two of our children were born in Cincinnati, the second
one a month before we left for Richmond.

At the Life Insurance Company of Virginia I became, successively,
assistant actuary, associate actuary and actuary of the company.
Work was interesting, though demanding, with considerable re-
sponsibilities and, fortunately, also considerable freedom of action.
Corporate life did not seem to hold forth the real job satisfaction
that I wanted, so, in 1948, I started the consulting actuarial firm of
Bowles, Andrews & Towne, with Thomas P. Bowles, Jr., and T.
Coleman Andrews as partners. This was my last move professionally
and it turned out to be the type of work for which I was looking.

Our firm has had considerable success and, at present, we have
offices in Richmond, Atlanta, New York and Portland, with an office
in Dallas forthcoming in 1959. Although, with the establishment of
our firm, my ultimate type of job was reached I still was not satisfied
that Richmond was where I wanted to live permanently. Having
been brought up in Boston, the attraction of New England was still
strong, so, in 1957, the family moved to Maine and I opened an office
of the firm in Portland.

While in Richmond, the last three of our children were born,
giving us a family of one boy and four girls. Our son, the eldest
of the children, is in Harvard in the Class of 1961, My eldest girl
will start college in 1959 and, hopefully, by 1y74 the family w ill all
have completed college.

During the years, my hobby has been principally family enjev-
ment. For several summers, prior to moving to Maine, we Vacationed

[ 1408 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

in Cape Cod and Maine. The girls are all horse enthusiasts and the
older ones attend a summer camp where there is a lot of riding.
Living in Maine is all that I had hoped for, although business does
require more travel than I would like. I have done a little hunting
here in Afaine and hope to extend my outdoor activities. The kids
are getting used to the winter activities they did not have in the -
South and I might even try some of them myself.

My contact with members of the Class has been somewhat limited,
although I hope to see more of them in the future. I attended most
of the football games in Cambridge this fall and expect to get to
Cambridge frequently, particularly while my son is in college.
Twenty-five years is some sort of a milestone, I suppose, and I shall
look forward to reading about the class history since 1934.

CORNING TOWNSEND, JR.

    

HOME apprEss: 3 Clarendon Pl., Buffalo 9, N.Y.

OFFICE appRESS: Buffalo Savings Bank, Buffalo, N.Y.

BoRN: Feb. 10, 1911, Buffalo, N.Y. parents: Corning Townsend, Violet M.
Alden.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

MARRIED: Jane Gilbert, Feb. 19, 1938, Buffalo, N.Y, cuitpren: Nancy, June
7, 19393 Corning, 3d, Nov. 24, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Public relations officer, Buffalo Savings Bank.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant treasurer, Protestant Episcopal Diocese of Western
New York; secretary-treasurer, Public Relations Forum, Savings Bank
Association of the State of New York; member, Committee on Public
Relations, National Association of Mutual Savings Banks, member, board
of directors, Y.W.C.A. Child Guidance Center of Buffalo, National
Council of World Affairs, Buffalo Community Chest, Junior Achieve-

[ 1402 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
ment; member, board of advisers, Buffalo Historical Society; member,

vestry, Grace Episcopal Church, Buffalo.

LIFE seems interesting, challenging and fun until one starts to high-
light it on paper and then, brother, all of a sudden it appears peaked,
dull and anemic. I wonder if any of the rest of you had a similar

reaction.

Frankly, I did not graduate. I was with you all for two years and
at the end of that time exercised a decision to go “to work” and
set “many worlds on fire.” After bidding many of you good-bye
in the spring of 1932, I went to Arizona to live in order to extinguish
a sinus condition in full bloom and stayed there almost two years
currying horses on a ranch, The cure worked and I returned to
Buffalo to enter the Buffalo Savings Bank, as a messenger, at the
salary of $12.50. In due time, the occasional promotion allowed
me to marry Jane Gilbert, Sarah Lawrence 737 (daughter of Lester
F. Gilbert, Harvard ’o6, and sister of Frederick Augustus Gilbert,

Harvard ’34, and William Hoyt Gilbert, Harvard ’50), and this was,
by far, the wisest thing I ever did. We now have two children,
_ Nancy (Sarah Lawrence ’61) and Corning, 3d, who is a senior at

the Park School in Buffalo.
The German military machine can never say I hurt them very

much. Although I spent four years in the Air Force, I never saw
overseas duty, but spent the war as a training officer at Officer Candi-
date School and as a personnel officer in the Air Transport Command.

The bank welcomed me back in 1946 and after a bit of retraining
I became a branch manager. After eight years of the delightful
experience of building something out of nothing, I was transferred
back to the head office to start a public relations department — fine
and dandy, unless your wife expects you home occasionally. The
knife and fork circuit is endless and a P.R. man’s time is seldom
his own. That is the chronological story. You can never say I
didn’t warn you.

Reflection upon the past can be depressing, but it also can be
rewarding. As I look back upon these twenty-five years, I find
that my church has come to mean more and more to me. Church
work I find to be most rewarding and with this reward goes, hand-
in-hand, a realization that I need my faith every day to help me,
either to do the impossible or to “keep up with the wagon.” Tsome-
times marvel at the quasi-successful executives who claim an inde-
pendence of their Lord and an ability to do the day's work without

[ 1403 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

His assistance. Along with the Episcopal Church, my interests re-
volve around our children and their problems, and the continual
interests of maintaining a happy home.

I find amateur radio (K2DJO) an absorbing hobby which is shared
by most of my family: Jane —K2DJN, Nancy — K2JIR, while
fishing and chess are interests which my son and I enjoy together
and at which he out-maneuvers me fairly regularly! But at siting
before an open fire with a good book and a well-treated pipe, I
can’t be beaten. .

Definitely, I feel that Middlesex and Harvard started me off on a
successful life. I, therefore, am very grateful for both institutions —
grateful for the standards they set me and grateful for the ability
they developed in me to accept and live up to these standards,

WILLIAM TRACHTENBERG

Appress: 108 §. Andrews Ave., Goldsboro, N.C.

BORN: Jan. 9, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: Joseph Trachtenberg, Bella Shapiro.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934, MD. (Duke Univ.), 1939.
marrieD: Freda P. Trachtenberg, Feb. 18, 1944, Portsmouth, Va. CHILDREN:

Jerome Ian, Dec. 26, 1944; Daniel David, Jan, 10, 1946; Joseph Elisha,
Oct. 25, 1947.
OCCUPATION: Medicine.

NO questionnaire returned.

ROBERT JOHN TRAYHERN

 

Abpress; 8737 D.V., FPO 100, New York, N.Y.

Born: May 14, 1912, Rochester, N.Y. parents: James Morange Trayhern,
Katherine Brown.

[ 1404 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Charlotte High School, Rochester, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931. DEGREES: a.B. (Univ. of Rochester), 1934, A.M.

(ibid.), 1935; A.M. (Harvard Univ.), 1938.
OCCUPATION: Government service.

NO questionnaire returned.

ROBERT EDWARD TREUHAFT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 574 61st St., Oakland, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Edises, Treuhaft, Grossman & Grogan, Oakland, Calif.
BORN: Aug. 8, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: Albin Treuhaft, Aranka Hajos.

PREPARED AT: New Utrecht High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: S.B., 1934; LL.B. 1937.
marRIED: Decca Mitford, 1943, Russian River, Calif. crttores: Ann Constancia,

Feb. 9, 1941; Nicholas, 1944 (died 1955); Benjamin, Oct. 18, 1948.
OccUPATION: Lawyer; partner in law firm.
OFFICES HELD: Member, Alameda County Central Committee, Independent

Progressive Party, 1949; member, Mayor's Committee on Civic Unity,
1950; vice-president, East Bay Memorial Association, 19s6-s9: chairman,
Subcommittee on Administration of Criminal Justice. Alameda County
Bar Association, 1958; member, executive board, National Lawyers Guild,
1958-59.
LIKE most success stories, mine began soon after my admission to
the bar with a $5 a week job in a New York City law office. Here
the success story parallel ends, however, because instead of rising
to fame and fortune in the bar, I have remained in substantially the
same economic position, As a matter of fact, that income tax free
1937 $5 bill still looks pretty good ro me now,
My next job was in the oftice of Elias I dcberman, general counsel
for the International Ladies Garment Workers Union, Lieberman
was a self-taught immigrant who studied law at night, working days

[ 1405 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

in a garment factory. He was an able lawyer, a master in the art
of collective bargaining. Labor Law was the kind of law I wanted
to practise and I could wish for no finer apprenticeship than this.

The rank and file members of the ILGWU were a fiercely mili-
tant bunch, often at odds with the officers of the union, but con-
stantly at war with “the boss.” They streamed through our office
with a bewildering variety of grievances and I found myself carry-
ing the legal cudgels against “the class enemy” with a zeal that tran-
scended the partisanship of advocacy. You cannot know this feeling
unless you have represented the wonderful people who form the
membership of a union like the “Embroiderers, Pleaters, Truckers,
Stitchers and Tubular Piping Workers, Local 88, ILGWU.”

Washington, D.C., was my next stop in the war years, trying
without success to get a job with the National Labor Relations
Board. I landed instead in the Office of Price Administration as an
enforcement attorney. There I met a fantastically beautiful woman
who attracted me not only by her charm and wit, but by her fru-
gality. 1 watched with fascination as she moved down the line of
the block-long counter of the cafeteria in the huge OPA temporary
building. As she passed the beverage section, she would pick up a
glass of tomato juice, down it, and set the empty glass down on a

handy little shelf below the counter. Next she would scoop up a
salad and dispose of the plate in the same way. Then a sandwich.
When she reached the cashier, she had nothing on her tray but a cup
of coffee — cost of lunch five cents. This, I decided, was the girl for
me.

A few months later we were married and living in San Francisco,
where I worked for the War Labor Board. When the war ended, I
was admitted to the California bar and I returned to the practice of
labor law in Oakland.

The post-war years were the years of the cold war and the rise
of McCarthyism. The relatively small handful of individuals and
organizations, my wife and I included among them, who openly
spoke out against the corrosive anti-communist hysteria, were hav-
ing a rough time of it. We participated in this struggle with a joyful
exuberance that is pleasant to contemplate in retrospect. We saw
the whole arsenal of government arrayed in the effort to suppress

dissent. Witch-hunting committees, committees of the American
Legion, loyalty oaths, blacklists, attorney general’s lists and sordid
FBI activity took their toll in jailing, firings and breaking of profes-
sional careers. Despite all this we did score some gains. We led a

[1406 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

successful fight to curb police brutality in Oakland. We fought
racial restrictive covenants in housing, losing all of our cases in the
lower courts, but prevailing finally in the Supreme Court. Demo-
cratically organized unions which we represented, such as the Inter-
national Longshoremen’s and Warehousemen’s Union, were expelled
from the: CIO for their opposition to cold war measures, but man-
aged to survive and even grow in strength. We represented Com-
munist party leaders indicted under the Smith Act, their bail set
at $75,000 each, their crimes presumed to be so atrocious that it was
difficult to find counsel to represent them, and we also saw the day
when the Supreme Court ruled that they were guilty of no crime
at all.

These days my activities are relatively mild. Looking to the
future, I am busy organizing a funeral cooperative, the East Bay
Memorial Association, to combat the high cost of dying. We will
give you a simple, dignified funeral at low cost, $175, including
cremation. Join our lay-away plan.

PHILIP MELANCTHON ‘TUCKER, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 415 E, 52d St., New York 22, N.Y.

_ OFFICE ADDRESS: City Bank Farmers Trust Co., 22 William St, New York 15,
N.Y.

BORN: Oct. 18, 1911, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: Philip Melancthon Tucker, ’99,
Nancy Denison Noyes.

PREPARED AT: Salisbury School, Salisbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Virginia Norris Harrison, Feb. 20, 1945, New York, N.Y.

OCCUPATION: Banker; assistant trust officer.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant secretary and treasurer, Philip Mf. Tucker Co., 1937-47;

. [ 1407 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

assistant trust investment officer, First Pennsylvania Banking & Trust Co.,
Philadelphia, 1950-56.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Bathing Corporation of South-
ampton; Southampton Club.
AFTER graduating from college I spent the next year at the Business
School and only regret that I did not go back for the second year.
Since then I have spent most of my time in the investment field:
first with the Boston Safe Deposit & Trust Company, then my father’s
investment firm, Philip M. Tucker Company, the First Pennsylvania

Banking & Trust Company i in Philadelphia, and now the City Bank
Farmers Trust Company i in New York City.

During the war years, inasmuch as I was turned down for all mili-
tary services, I was with the War Production Board in Washington
for about a year, 1942-43. However, it was long enough for me
to see how much need there has been and still is to clear out the
needless numbers of people in the many over-staffed government
bureaus. The Hoover Commission’s findings should be carried out
to a much greater degree than the politicians have allowed so far.
After leaving Washington, I moved to New York City and spent
the remaining war years and several after that with the Electric
Boat Company, Elco Division, in Bayonne, New Jersey.

In November of 1944 1 met Virginia Norris Harrison and I was
fortunate enough to win her as my bride on February 20, 1945. We
were married in New York City. We spent the next five years in
the city and then in 1950 moved to Haverford, Pennsylvania. In
October of 1956, I became associated with the City Bank Farmers
Trust Company in New York, and we are delighted to be back in
New York again. We both enjoy the museums, concerts and thea-
ters here. Our summers are spent in Southampton, Long Island, and
we have made a few trips to Florida in the winter. Our favorite
spot there is Hobe Sound. My wife and I are looking forward to
spending time together in Europe before too long.

Although I was brought up a Congregationalist, I attended an
Episcopalian School (Salisbury) and was married in St. James Epis-
copal Church and was confirmed there in 1957.

[ 1408 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD DANA TUCKER, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 714 Cummings Ave., Kenilworth, III.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Freeman Coal Mining Corp., 300 W. Washington St., Chicago,

Nl.
BORN: Oct. 8, 1912, Providence, R.I. parents: Richard Dana Tucker, Mary

Elizabeth Bannan.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MaRRIED: Mary Alice Mayne, Feb. 7, 1942, Cincinnati, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Cynthia Mayne, July 24, 1945; Richard Dana, 3d, March 1, 1947; David
Mayne, April 1, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Coal mining and sales, manager of eastern coal sales and purchases,
Freeman Coal Mining Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Cub Scout leader, 1954-57; chairman, coal industry, Chicago
Heart Fund, 1953, retail coal, Chicago Community Fund, 1958; secretary,
1959, director, Chicago Coal Shippers Association; president, Sphere Club,

1958.
MEMBER OF: National Coal Association; Bituminous Coal Institute; Tlinois

Fuel Merchants Association; Harvard Club of Chicago; Bituminous Coal
Operators Association; Appalachian Coals, Inc.

SOMEWHERE along the line, coal dust crept into my blood. It
all started when badly informed government geologists ‘back in the
thirties predicted world gas and oil reserves were ‘sufficient to last
approximately fifteen years. The training I underwent was rather
arduous but, as I look back on it, remarkably interesting. Time
was spent on a coal dock in Boston, in retail selling and management
in Providence, with six months in the mines of W est Virginia, then
three-month stints each in a coke plant, a coal testing laboratory and
an electric generating station.

The Koppers Company with which I was then affiliated sent me
to Chicago in 1940 as a salesman, In 1944 the S.E.C. dismantled the

[ 1409 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Koppers United Company, the coal division ending up as part of
Fastern Gas and Fuel Associates. So my predetermined plan of
eventually working in New England for a company headquartered
elsewhere had backfired beyond repair. I was stationed in Chicago
working for a Boston concern.

Chicago agreed with me, however. It was here I met my wife
who was in graduate school at Northwestern University. We were
married in Cincinnati in February, 1942, with the idea I would
shortly be in service, Again plans went astray. A childhood bone
disease decreed I be classified 4F, so my wartime effort was confined
to allocating coal in the midwest area.

In 1950, I was finally shifted east as manager of the Norfolk,
Virginia, office for Eastern Gas. By then, however, I was a dedicated
Middle-Westerner and accepted my present position with Freeman
Coal Mining Corporation, a comparatively young but aggressive
Chicago company. Since that time we have quadrupled i in size, NOW
ranking number eight in size among the independent coal producers
of the country — even with Alaska added!

We moved from Evanston to this small, closely knit, and most
congenial town of Kenilworth last May. Older homes are comfort-
able, roomy, and nice to have, but they change one’s activities
drastically. My hobbies formerly were golf, tennis doubles, ping
pong (neighborhood champ) and bridge, with customer poker and
gin rummy thrown in at times, Now they are the house, the lawn,
and the rose garden exclusively. Of course, the children are our

chief occupation. At the interesting ages of thirteen, eleven and six,
they keep us young and on the jump. We visit so many PTA meet-
ings, people think we are on the faculty.
Life is good, the coal business is making a strong come-back (so
says the Saturday Evening Post), and we shall see you this spring
even though we may miss Cindy’s junior high graduation,

| 1410 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OWEN TUDOR

 

HOME ADDRESS: 22 Larch Rd., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Channing & Tudor, 19 Congress St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: May 16, 1911, Boston, Mass. parENts: Henry Dubois Tudor, ’95, Eleanor
Lyman Gray. |

PREPARED AT: Avon Old Farms, Avon, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1934; LL-B., 1937-

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Tudor, ’29 (deceased).

OccUPATION: Lawyer; self-employed, office practice.

MEMBER OF: Appalachian Mountain Club; Harvard Club of Boston.

PUBLICATIONS: Co-author, American Law of Property, Little, Brown, 1952.

LIKE my other classmates probably, I find it impossible to believe
I am twenty-five years out of college. Remember those dissipated-
looking broken-down oldsters, the Class of 1909, who staggered
into the stadium in 1934? We all hoped that if we were still around
in twenty-five years we would have sense enough to retire with dig-
nity, and leave the world to the new generation who knew what to
do with it. ‘

Little as we like it and I am sure few of us like it, that time is
here, and we don’t feel in the least like crying quits. Whatever we
may or may not have accomplished, at least we are a sadder and,
therefore I suppose, a wiser bunch and the thought of leaving the
world to the kind of twerps we were in 1934 appalls us, much less
to the youth of today. Seriously though, the Class of ’59 puts us
to shame, they work so much harder and are so much more serious.
I am only sorry that they seem to have less enthusiasm and fewer
illusions. Are illusions always weakness?

Speaking personally, I have yet to make my mark on the world,
and I have sense enough to know that if T haven't by forty-seven,

[gir]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

the chances are I never shall. I have had a very pleasant quiet life,
almost in the shade of the campus. I love law practice, particularly .
if I can steer clear of awkward things like facts and spin my fine
web of legal theory writing a brief in my office. God help me if I
had to face a jury. For these reasons I am trying more and more to
specialize in property, taxes, etc., estate planning and the like. For
want of enough clients of my own I am becoming gradually a law-
ver's lawyer.

My hobbies are cards,. especially duplicate bridge, hiking and
gardening. My health I think is better than when I was in college,
though temporarily — purely temporarily —I have become a victim
of middle- -age spread. Tomorrow I diet. I am sure I am the only
member of my Class who grew five inches taller after graduation!

There are some values derived from twenty-five years of living —
if only sense enough to recognize your limitations and trying to find

a spot where they won't be too significant, instead of trying to beat
your head against a wall. Maybe. this is cowardice, not wisdom —
maybe if I hadn’t lost my courage I could have become a graceful
dancer — but I don’t think so.

Our summer place in Hancock, New Hampshire, gives me a great
deal of pleasure even if the damned woodchucks eat my beans three
times in a season. Whether it’s working in my garden, or walking
over the boulder-strewn peaks of the Presidentials, I find nature still -
hath charms to soothe the savage beast — me.

L. DALLAS UHRIG

 

HOME ADDRESS; 5232 Westpath Way, Fort Sumner Hills, Md.

OFFICE appxess: School of Medicine, Georgetown University, Washington,
DC.

[1412 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Oct. 13, 1912, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: John Herbert Uhrig, Daisy
Hussey,

PREPARED AT: William Penn Charter School, Germantown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932. DEGREE: MUS.M. (Univ. of Arizona), 1942.

MaRRIED: Barbara Ellen Bastian, June 20, 1942, Allentown, Pa. cHILDREN: John,
Oct. 30, 1943; Peter, Feb. 9, 1945; Mary, June 1, 1950; James, Dec. 6,
1952; David, Jan. 16, 1954.

occuPATION: Administrative assistant to the dean, School of Medicine, George-
town University.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Phi Kappa Phi; Phi Mu Alpha (national musical
honorary society).

THE years between my departure from Harvard and my resump-
tion of college work took me a long way from home and a fair dis-
tance from my original academic goal. On the eve of Franklin
Roosevelt’s first election to the presidency, my father and I left
New York for Marseilles, to visit an uncle who was then living in
Provence, about halfway between Marseilles and Toulon. It was a
long visit. Our return was brought about only after the bank crisis
of March, 1933, made it seem prudent to get back to America
quickly. In the meantime, I had begun to dabble in composition and
to weigh the desirability of a plunge into serious music study.

Shortly after we returned home, I began private lessons in har-
‘mony and counterpoint with Dr. Harry Alexander Matthews in
Philadelphia. These studies continued and my interest and absorp-
tion in music deepened, but my work was abruptly halted in June
of 1934, when I discovered that I had tuberculosis, Not badly —
just enough to put me to bed and curtail all activity!

That fall, our family went west — more precisely, southwest —
at the doctor’s suggestion, and [ went to bed in a strange, utterly
new land. Southern Arizona, the desert country, was to be our home
for the next eleven years and more, though we never intended to
stay longer than it would take to effect the cure for which we had
gone there.

By the time I recovered and was ready to study again, it was
1936. Determined, now, to pursue music " professionally, I entered
the University of Arizona in Tucson, and four years later graduated.
The next two years were spent in graduate .w ‘ork there, ‘and I ob-
tained my Master of Music degree in 1942.

The war was on, I was 4-F, but no good opening in my chosen
field — music theory — presented itself, so I went to work for the
Western Union Company, as night manager of their commercial
office in Tucson, About thirteen months later, T joined the faculty

[ 1413 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

of the School of Music at the University of Arizona, to teach the
freshman and sophomore courses in theory, and stayed on until the
end of the war.

In the summer of 1936, my wife and two children (we had only
two then) headed east. That fall I began to study voice in New
York, having done considerable vocal work in my college years
and being greatly interested in choral conducting at the time. The
following year, I taught several music courses at Moravian College
for Women (now Moravian College) in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania,
we lived just across the Lehigh River, in Allentown. While there,
I was appointed to the faculty of St. Louis Institute of Music, where
I taught for the next three years.

Next came a “strange interlude” of two years or so, during which
I experienced my only venture into business, as a partner in a re-
cording company. At the end of that time, my partner and I de-
cided, regretfully, that such matters should be left to those with
more electronically-inclined minds — and more capital.

As our recording business was quietly breathing its last, I took
a position with the Art Publication Society in St. Louis, a firm of
music publishers. And now, five years later, I am about to assume
my newest duties, those of administrative assistant to the dean of the
School of Medicine of Georgetown University. What there will be
to report from now on will depend almost entirely on what I can
do with the job. It’s an uncharted sea, since no one has ever held
the post before. It’s new, exciting and full of fascinating promise.

More than that, it’s impossible to say at the moment.

JOHN HALLOWELL VAUGHAN

 

HOME appress: Harborside, Maine,

[1414]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE AbpREss: Scal Cove Boat Yard, Elarborside, Maine.

BoRN: May 2, 1911, Wellesley Hills, Mass. panests: John F. Vaughan, ‘os,
Ellen Thaxter Batchelor.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

MARRIED: Margaret Clare, March 25, 1940, Montreal, P.Q., Canada. critpess:
Barbara, Lawrence, Robert, Andrea, 1943-1954.

OCCUPATION: Owner, Seal Cove Boat Yard; construction, storage, and repair
(yachts); electrical contractor.

I’M not sure I don’t believe in “imprinting” with humans as it works
with birds — seems they think they are whatever species they notice
or are cared for by, on hatching. I was raised summers on the coast
of Maine, and my first vivid memory is sailing aboard the Aspenet,
a Lawley-designed knockabout built by them in 1896. Originally,
a couple of generations back, the family came from the Kennebec
Valley, Maine. Both my brother and I have returned as permanent
residents —I building, repairing, and caring for boats in the Penob-
scot Bay area.

Many false starts and blind alleys took place first — eight vears
semi-pro music associated with the Arthur Wilson Studio in Boston,
ensemble and solo singing in several Boston churches and on radio,
affiliation with Unitarian young people’s movement and supervising
young people’s group at Arlington Street Church, where I met my
wife, and a year at Tufts Theological School where I learned the
ministry was not for me; management of Consumer Co-op store for
a year after marriage.

Medical advisers told me to get out of the city and stay out, for
which I have been grateful ever since. Operation of a small sailing
camp for boys from 1935 to 1942 overlapped considerable of the
above activity. The Aspenet, our flagship, still going strong covered
the coast with our boys aboard from Portland to Grand Manan.
War conditions broke up the camp (Birch Island) in the fall of
1942.

I wound up supery ising phases of construction of thirty-eight-foot
naval work boats in three local yards under Maine Boat Yards, Inc.
of Elsworth, and later at Mc. Desert Boat Yard. Larter, I was in on
certain early phases of the now famous Controversy development
and had the honor of building the pilot model of the Controversy
26 auxiliary for the designers, Farnham Butler and Cy Hamlin. Se
the circle finally completes and here we are in Maine, not geteiny
rich in eash or finding life easy, but finding it satisfying,

[rgt5 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

This winter we will build our eighth C/26, overhaul our gear for
the spring fitting rush, and try to keep cleared for action from
snow and weather, Raising a family of youngster in the middle of a

‘couple of hundred acres of semi-wild land — some of its ours —a

quarter-mile from nearest paved road — we wouldn’t go back to
a city on a bet.

JOHN MURRAY VEAGUE, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 242-36 54th Ave., Douglaston, Long Island, N.Y.
OFFICE appress: Hughes, Hubbard, Blair & Reed, 1 Wall St. New York 5, N.Y.

BORN: July 29, 1913, Poughkeepsie, N.Y. parents: John Murray Veague, Clara
Mabel Garabant.

PREPARED AT: Erasmus High School, New York, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: AB., cum laude, 1934; LL.B., 1937.

marrieD: Evelyn Chiles, Dec. 27, 1940, St. Petersburg, Fla. cuttp: Pamela
Chiles, April 20, 1948.

occupation: Lawyer; partner in firm.

MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York; American and

New York State Bar Associations, Douglaston Club; Douglaston Yacht
Squadron; Sag Harbor Yacht Club.

THE years slip by and the hair grows thinner: This process started
after graduation with three years in law school, at Cambridge, with
alleged musical overtones by way of a dance orchestra to help with
finances, Thereafter, a trek to New York was productive of initial
employment with a law firm, followed by a couple of changes which
ultimately led to a very happy association with my present firm.

The budgetary drain of weekend commuting to Virginia was al-
legedly solved by matrimony in 1940, to a Southern Republican
from Natural Bridge, Virginia. Our marital status has been blessed
with one daughter, as of 1948. Apartment dwelling was soon there-

[ 1416 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

after changed to suburban living on the North Shore of Long Island,
fairly accessible to the Sound, with a view to the ultimate realization
of the pleasures of boating by way of a small cruiser acquired about
five years ago. The heresy of this power-boat tack, especially for
one with a down-east background, can be explained only by a nearly
disastrous sailing upset in Maine in the late 1940's.

Civic matters, “the school problem” and participation in local
Douglaston Club activities have occupied our spare time and added
to the enjoyment of living in this community. Two family ventures
to Europe, on self-conducted, random tours, have prov ed delightful
interludes in the usual pattern of vacations on the Penobscot Bay i in
Maine. The travel urge becomes more acute with the passing years.

‘The practice of law has been very satisfactory and kind to me.
Specialization i in tax work only brings home forcibly the fact that
the practice of law is no route to fortune. However, it is no deter-
rent to happiness.

Tennis, including indoor winter sessions, has been a fairly success-
ful weapon in the battle of the waistline — now thirty -three inches.

1 count as my blessings a very W onderful family, both immediate
and more remote, good friends, excellent health and a philosophy,
partly developed and partly inherited, which I believe places the
right amount of emphasis on the right things. \lv ultimate hope is

o

to see and do more things than the practice of law has permitted

so far. Incorporated in this plan is the enjoyment of extended cruts-
ing, woodwork and photography.

ROBERT CHURCHILL VOSE, JR.

 

HOME Appress: 163 Court St, Dedham, Mass.
OFFICE AbpRESS: Vose Galleries of Boston, Inc. s59 Boylston St, Boston, Mass.

(1417 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934
gorN: March 30, 1911, Brighton, Mass. parents: Robert Churchill Vose, Sarah
Helen Williams. °

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

marriep: Ann Peterson, March 8, 1941, Brookline, Mass. cuimpreN: Robert
Churchill, 3d, and Abbot Williams (twins), Jan. 13, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Seth Morton Vose, 2d, ’31.

occuPaTION: Treasurer, Vose Galleries of Boston, Inc., dealer in paintings.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Parish Committee, First Church in Brookline (Uni-
tarlan), 1941; director, 1954-57, second vice-president, 1958, Back Bay
Associates, director, Copley Society, 1954-56, Dedham Historical Society,
1958; chairman, Community Fund Drive, 1954, president, Dedham Fed-
eration, 1955; trustee, Boston Arts Festival, 1954-58, member, Parish
Committee, First Church in Dedham (Unitarian), 1958; member of council,
New England Historic Genealogical Society, 1958.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Duxbury Yacht Club; Museum of Fine
Arts, Boston; Albany Institute of History and Art; New York State,
Connecticut and Duxbury Historical Societies; Copley Society.

LOOKING back — nothing spectacular, but, on the other hand, no
complaints. The thirties were lean ones in the business of buying
and selling paintings, but they did provide time to see much of this
country and Europe. By 1941, when our firm, operated successively
by four generations of our family, entered its second hundred years,
I decided to find out whether two could really live as cheaply as
one. Within the year I had the answer: four definitely could not.

The war years were spent loading ammunition for the abler mem-
bers of the ‘Class and patrolling the home-front as a captain in the
Massachusetts Organized Militia.

When we incorporated the family firm in 1953, I became treasurer
and find the continual search for interesting paintings an occupation
I would dive into as the best possible hobby if I should ever officially
retire (if enough of you become similarly enthused, maybe I can
retire). The widespread interest in this field is attested by the fact
that I have been asked to speak all over this country more times than
I (and doubtless my audiences) like to remember.

Some five years ago, twenty-two consecutive years of competi-
tion in the Massachusetts Squash Racquets Association’s winter
leagues came to a reluctant end for me. Since then, Ann and I have
been “overdoing-it-ourselves” in trying to keep in repair and paint

(inside and out) the house in Dedham, as well as a house and cottage
in Duxbury. Result: none of them are ever really ship-shape.

A similar lack of intelligence is evidenced by acceptance of obliga-
tions in many worthy local endeavors, leaving very few evenings

[ 1418 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

free for the much-needed work around the house or the even more
important business planning. Doubtless at the close of these madly-
rushed years, a summary of accomplishments will show much at-
tempted and little done well. The twilight is settling, however, and
things have slowed and quieted this past season with the departure
of the twins for boarding schools. Once Ann and I sat down to read
before ten p.m. In spite of the continuous struggle to keep ahead
of the bills, blistering paint and increasingly knowledgeable (and
muscular) offspring, I doubt that “the good old days” could hold a
candle to the past twenty-five.

ALLAN EDWIN WAHLGREN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 300 9S. Burlingame, Los Angeles 49, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Triad Transformer Corp., 4055 Redwood Ave., Venice, Calif.

BORN: Jan. 24, 1913, Rigby, Idaho. Parents: William John Wahlgren, Elsie
Frances Arscott.

PREPARED AT: Rigby High School, Rigby, Idaho.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: S.B., Cum laude, 1934; M.B.A. [937.

MARRIED: Ettaleah Becker, March 27, 1942, Los Angeles, Calif. cuipren: Lanetta,
Feb. 4, 1946; Allan Edwin, Jr., Sept. 17, 1949.

occupaTion: Treasurer, Triad Transformer Corporation.

FOLLOWING the old adage that business comes before pleasure,
I shall review the business end of my life first.

After graduation from college I decided on law as a career. One
year at the Harvard Law School convinced me that I was not the
controversial type, a quality needed in many areas of law. IT found
out I was by nature more of the constructive type likely: to find a
niche in the growing world of business. Therefore, I crossed the
Charles River to the Business School, from which T graduated in

[1419 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

1937. The years in Cambridge, Boston and New England were
wonderful, but having had an adventure-packed youth with the
streams, mountains and forests of Idaho, I didn’t need Horace
Greeley’s advice about going west. | picked Los Angeles as an area
of opportunity and fairly near my lodge on the Snake River in
Idaho.

The year 1937 was one of recession; it took me until January, 1938,
to land a job, It was that of junior accountant with a brewery. The
pay was poor but the beer was good and also free. By Pearl Harbor
time I was comptroller of the brewery and the money was a bit
better and the beer still flowing free, The head of the brewery was
a man of financial experience and was asked to become financial ad-
viser for the War Production Board. I went along as his assistant.
Thus began nine years with the federal government in the following
capacities: financial adviser, War Production Board; loan officer,
Small War Plants Corporation; regional statistician, Small War
Plants Corporation, deputy regional director, Small War Plants
Corporation; chief, Small Business Division, U.S. Department of
Commerce, for Southern California and Arizona.

In 1951, after helping small businesses of many types with various
problems, I decided to see if I could practise what I had been preach-
ing, so I joined a small transformer company called Triad Trans-
former Corporation, 1 began as comptroller. We had about one
hundred employees. We now have 450 employees with about 600
customers throughout most of the world and have recently become
a subsidiary of Litton Industries. My position is treasurer. My
business life has been interesting, fruitful and, I hope, constructive.

Now for the pleasure part of my life. At the brewery, I had a tall,
dark and beautiful assistant, We enjoyed beer and each other and
she became my boss for life in 1942. We spent our vacations at the

cabin in Idaho and she grew to love the fishing, hunting and the out-
of-doors life in that country. In 1946 we had a little girl. Now, at
thirteen, she is as beautiful as her mother. In 1949 a little boy ar-
rived, and although he isn’t as big as his Dad yet, at nine years he
gives promise of being a better man. I sincerely hope Harvard can
help him with this end, My life has been a beautiful experience. —
Harvard did much to set the stage. It is our desire and plan to return
in June after twenty-five years. I will try in part to help the hand

that has always helped me, not only for seven delightful years, but
ever since. It will be good to share with my family the friends and

[ 1420 ]

Places of twent

2 5TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
five years ago if only for a few June days —
av IS So rare ” . b y J }

** JOHN COTTON WALCOTT

 

BORN: Feb. 24,

1913, Cambrid e, Mass.
Richardson. e

PARENTS:

Robert Walcott, M
PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1934.

MarrieD: Cornelia Sage, Sept. 28, 1936, Albany, N.Y. CHILDREN: Suzanr
Nov. 4, 1938; Sage.

DiED: Killed in action, Nov. 18, 1943, in Italy.

AFTER graduation from Harvard as Class Odist, Walcott held th
Henry Fiske Harvard Fellowship at Trinity College, Cambridge
England, and from there went to the Catholic Institution of the
University of Paris. In 1936 he returned to the United States,
worked for the Forum in New York for a year and then joined the
staff of the Atlantic Monthly in Boston, as managing editor. In 1940
he retired to Maine, where he was engaged in writing a novel when
inducted into the Army in June, 1941. He attended the Adjutant
General’s Training School at Fort Washington, Maryland, and after
receiving his commission as a lieutenant, was assigned to active duty

overseas. He served with the Fifth Army in the ‘North African and
Italian campaigns. He was killed in action in Italy
by his wife and children.

> He was survived

[ 1421]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

RICHARD WALCOTT

 

IME ADDRESS: 295 Dudley Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.
‘FICE ADDRESS: T. Dennie Boardman, 1 Court St., Boston 8, Mass.

RN: May 18, 1912, Cambridge, Mass, parents: Charles Walcott, ’92, Martha
Eustis.

EPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

ARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: AB., 1934.

ARRIED: Penelope Warren, April 9, 1937, Dedham, Mass. cHILDREN: Sandra.
July 30, 1938; Gail Pickman, May 31, 1941; Penelope Winslow, Oct. 11,
1943.

RVARD BROTHERS: Charles Folsom Walcott, ’26, M.D., °31; Eustis Walcott, °32.

SUPATION: Partner, T. Dennie Boardman — Boston real estate firm.

“ICES HELD: Clerk and member, board of trustees, Beaver Country Day
School; member, board of managers, Norfolk House Community Center.

MBER OF: The Country Club, Brookline, Mass.; Owl Club, Hasty Pudding-
Institute of 1770; Boston Real Estate Board.

> the depression was still with us when I graduated, I considered
self very fortunate to land a job in a conservative commercial
1k in Boston, starting as a messenger at the munificent salary of
elve dollars per week. I spent an instructive and pleasant time
th this financial institution for the next seven years, until World
ar II came along. I was commissioned in the U.S, Naval Reserve
J spent the next three years futilely chasing submarines and doing
‘rol duty in the turbulent North Atlantic.

After the war, I was associated with a frozen food enterprise
ich produced pre-cooked complete meals such as are today sold
most supermarkets, Unfortunately we were about ten years ahead
our time and the venture was not successful,

In 1948, I joined the real estate firm of Hunneman & Company,
> acting as their representative in the Brookline-Chestnut EMill
1 Newton areas. After spending the extremely informative years

[ 1422]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with this organization, and making many worth-while contacts, I
joined my close friend and Harvard classmate, Jack Goodrich, as a
partner in the firm of T. Dennie Boardman, in April of 1958. This
is an old and well established real estate company specializing in
the sale of residential properties in the Brookline-Chestnut Hill,
Boston and North Shore areas. After the usual labor pains of reor-
ganizing and modernizing our Boston office, and opening a new
office in Beverly, we now seem to be making real headway and
look forward to many happy and profitable years ahead.

In April of 1937, I married Penelope Warren of Dedham and we
have had over twenty very happy years together. Along the w av
we have produced three glamorous daughters — unfortunately no
sons for Harvard, but the girls have been a source of great delight
to us as well as keeping us closely in touch with the undergraduate
life at Harvard. Sandra, our oldest, is now a junior at Vassar College;
Gail is a senior at the Beaver Country Day School, while our young-
est, Penny, Jr., is just completing her sophomore year at the Garri-
son Forest School, outside Baltimore, Maryland. My wife and I
purchased a house in Newton — about eight miles west of Boston —
and have spent the past twenty years landscaping the premises which
keeps us both busy spring, summer and fall. My wife, Pen, is an avid
horticulturist and has done an outstanding job on the place. She has
won an award for her design of the garden and has several times
had the premises on show.

From the above one can gather that my principal hobby is gar-
dening with time off for occasional sets of tennis and swimming.
We hope very much to manage a trip abroad in the next year or
two, if we can somehow arrange the finances, as we have done no
extensive traveling since we have been married except for several
short winter trips to the Virgin Islands.

[ 1423 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

STROTHER HOLLAND WALKER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3803 Williams Lane, Chevy Chase, Md.
OFFICE abpREss: Operations Research Officer, Johns Hopkins University,

Bethesda, Mad.

BORN: Jan. 19, 1914, Denver, Colo. parents: Justin Clement Walker, Barbara
Holland.

PREPARED AT: East Denver High School, Denver, Colo.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.
MarriED: Dorothy Baines At Lee, Oct. 5, 1940, Jamaica Plain, Mass. CHILDREN:

Justin Clement, June 10, 1943; Mary Strother, May 29, 1945; Susan At Lee,
Feb. 9, 1947.

occuPaTION: Research group chairman, Operations Research Office.
PUBLICATIONS: Business Finds Its Voice, Harper & Bros., 1938; various magazine

articles in the Thirties; technical publications through Operations Research
Office since the war.

HARVARD started me off with a fine training in experimental
science since I majored in zoology. I particularly remember Pro-
fessor Hooton, George Clark, my tutor, and my professor in ex-
perimental embryology (the man and the teaching but, unfortu-
nately, not his name). Filling skulls with buckwheat under Dr.
Hooton’s guidance impressed patterns of methodology on my mind
which prove of value now almost daily in work with quite different
material, |

A term as editorial chairman of the Crimson in 1933-34 somewhat
divided my interests, so that my present work in research culminates
a long but not irrelevant detour through journalism and then in-
dustry. Speaking of the Crimson, it is amusing to see John Monro,
_ my immediate predecessor as editorial chairman, the Dean of Harvard
College —when I remember the hard time he used to give the
1933-34 Dean.

Work in industry was not irrelevant because operations rescarch

[ 1424 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

consists in applying scientific method to operations, either military
or industrial. Operations analysts require grounding both in science
and in practical operations. I’ve had some measure of both and find
both fully used in this research, in the pursuit of which I feel com-
pletely happy. The principal lack felt when my work began de-
veloping more strictly in its present direction about ten years ago
was mathematics, I got up to about the bachelor’s level in this field
on my own or in seminars at ORO, was accepted as candidate for
the A.M. in mathematics at Georgetown University in 1957, and
am now about half way to that goal.

My journalistic work in the 1930's was mostly for Harper's
Magazine under the late Frederick Lewis Allen. It concerned in-
dustrial problems and led naturally to working in industry —
principally for two firms, the Vanadium Corporation of America
and the Mathieson Chemical Corporation.

Our social life has centered for years around family and church.
Both my wife and I were brought up Episcopalians: and our family
now belongs to All Saints in Chevy Chase. Tennis is still my game
and lately we have done a good bit of camping as a family. “This
was a boyhood sport of mine since [ came from the Rockies. Life
at ORO is exceedingly full of random events, but with anv reason-

able breaks in time around next June, we shall certainly be found in
Cambridge for the Reunion.

IRVING WALLACE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3710 3gth Se, NW. Washington 16, D.C.

OFFICE AppRESS: Ferris & Co, 523° Washington Bldg. Washington, D.C.

BORN: Jan, 21, gig, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Frank Wallace, Zina Sharfman,
PREPARED At: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

[ 1425 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934, DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1934; M.B.A.,
1936.
UNMARRIED.

occupaTIoN: Registered representative, Ferris & Company, member of New
York Stock Exchange. :

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Harvard Business School Association of Washington,
1958-59.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington; Harvard Business School Asso-
ciation of Washington.

IT sure doesn’t seem like twenty-five years, but the dates appear

right, so I guess I am due for the “agonizing re-appraisal.” My

quandary is how this will look in print nine months hence, but we

were harangued to write promptly, and I do try to abide by the rules.

The work that I am doing is pretty far removed from the pro-
fessional economist ambitions of my freshman days, but, at least, it
is a selling point with prospective clients. To be more specific, since
1954, | have been a registered representative (“customer’s man” to
most of you), with a local firm which is a member of the New York
Stock Exchange. It is an interesting field, albeit frustrating and
nerve-wracking, until one develops a sort of Harvardian indifference
to what goes on from day to day and tries to look at the “Big
Picture.” At this writing, I still expect to be in the business come
June, so I am not going to forecast the market, except to say I see
nothing in the way of higher prices — but stay with the winners.
If this progress in hedging my opinions continues, I expect that by
our Fiftieth, I shall have become a market letter writer.

My earlier career was that of investment statistician and analyst,
and, from 1940 to 1953, government economist — with one year out
in a family business in Worcester, Massachusetts. The government
career, as a whole, was a stimulating experience, since I was con-
nected with various government programs at the zenith of their im-
portance in national affairs. The War Department, from 1940 to
1944, brought me in contact with the defense build-up and the in-
dustrial aspects of mobilization (1 was deferred from the Army for
a time, and when it finally came to be my turn, I was working at
the Des Moines Ordnance Plant, and in that part of the country a
man of 20/500 vision without glasses was an anomaly among pro-
spective draftees),

In my old age, when I am asked what I did in the last days of the
Last War, since there won't be any more, I shall have to say that
my campaign was the Battle of Inflation, (That one is still far from
won.) In other words, I] worked at O.P.A., when all you entre-

[ 1426 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

preneurs were trying to get price adjustments for your products
while the other fellows “held the line.”

Postwar, I was with the E.C.A., on the Marshall Plan, which in-
cluded the pleasure of a trip to Rangoon, Burma, as a US. delegate
to an International Conference of the Economic Commission for
Asia and the Far East. This involved a round-the-world air-trip.

The new Business Man’s Administration in 1953 meant, if I was
to be consistent in my logic of working where the important things
were happening, that I ought to find my vocation outside of gov-
ernment. Since even the bureaucrats don’t go back to Pocatello, I
stayed in Washington and am still looking for that big deal which
will set me up. As a matter of fact, I am beginning to rationalize a
bit and proceed on the basis that it’s better to be a turtle than a hare.

Now to get to the more personal aspects of my life. As you can
see by the heading, I am probably one of the few who have not
taken the marital plunge — not even to the extent of a broken en-
gagement. I explain the reason in the ordinary layman terms, that
it has just seemed natural for me to stay this way, but if someone
does come along who makes me feel differently, I hope I will still
have enough flexibility to adjust. I think a plus factor has been that I
have lived these past ten years or so in an apartment project replete
with a variegated population, ranging from growing families to
college students.

In view of the lack of family demands, my recreation has prob-
ably been more intense than has been possible for most of vou. I
play a considerable amount of tennis and, although I never was a
tournament player as a youngster, now that I am getting in the
veteran’s class, ] am vain enough to look forward to achieving status
in the athletic world. I enjoy reading and look forward to discon-
tinuing a lot of periodical perusing in the future. I also continually
vow that I shall spend less time with television, but it does have some
very good stuff and, besides, the career of my younger brother,
Mike, has added a certain fillip to my interest in this entertainment
medium.

My other great time-consumer, I guess, is following the fables
and foibles of the. world and individual man — and woman, too. As
far as the world is concerned, it has been more as a spectator than
as an active participant, although I have done some work in political
campaigns and causes when I have been sufficiently stirred. This
year, I am treasurer of the local Harvard Business School Axsocia-
tion, will do a bit of dramatics, a few investment seminars, a heele

( 1427]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Sunday School teaching — and anything else that looks like fun, at
the moment.
While I have been writing this, I can hear the radio playing “Be-

vond the Blue Horizon,” in the background. This was the hit of
the week or something in our freshman year and I can remember
humming it to my self on the way to the University Theatre, on a
late Saturday afternoon, after a football game. There are a couple
of lines in it about, “Beyond the blue horizon lies the beautiful sun”
— “My life has only begun,” etc. That about sums up the outlook
I try to take toward the future.

ALLISON FRANCIS WALSH

 

HOME appreEss: 253 Roycroft Ave, Mount Lebanon (Pittsburgh 34), Pa.

OFFICE AppRESS: National Union Insurance Companies, University Place, Pitts-
burgh, Pa.

BORN: Mav 13, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Michael Francis Walsh, Alice
Elizabeth Sorenson.

prePARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; LL.B. (Rutgers Univ.), 1948.

MarrigepD: Helen Gall, Sept, 27, 141, Jersey City, N.J. cuitp: Marsha Helen,
Sept. 25, 1944.

occupation: Attorney and claims manager, National Union Insurance Com-
panies.

OFFicES HELD: Magistrate, Borough of Fairlawn, N.J., 1949; secretary, National
Union Insurance Companies, since 1956; vice-president, ‘1956-58, president,
1958, Pittsburgh Fire Loss Conference.

MEMBER OF: New Jersey Bar Association; International Law Association; New
York Loss Executives Association. ‘

LITTLE did I think upon graduation that our Twenty-fifth Re-
union would find me many miles from Boston, the city of my birth.
T had always felt a closeness, a certain allegiance to the city of my

[ 1428 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

heritage. Economic necessity, however, soon dissipated any ties that
I might have had. After a brief and fleeting acquaintance with poli-
tics, conservative judgment indicated that my affiliations had to be
transferred. The field of insurance intrigued me and so I set forth
on my chosen career.

About the time of our Sixth Reunion, I met and married Helen, an
embryonic dress designer and fashion model. Our blissful marital
state was suddenly interrupted by the Pearl Harbor disaster. My
ROTC courses and commission at college had made me available.
A sudden telegram called me to active duty. Envisioning an early
departure to combat areas, I bade my fond adieux and prepared for
the worst. Propitiously, however, fate interceded: the War Depart-
ment decreed that I was only available for limited duty. The army
years were only distinguished by the fortitude of Helen and Marsha
in following me around through various camps and stations in the
United States. But, for myself, I did manage to gain a little notoriety.
For a brief span I found myself commanding officer of a company
of WACS. Upon separation in 1946, the GI Bill enticed me to
Rutgers Law School where I received my LL.B. in 1948. Shortly
thereafter, New Jersey added my name to its list of licensed attor-
neys. My practice showed promising signs when again the War
Department made demands upon my services.

In 1951 the same pattern followed. This time, however, I took
my service uniforms out of mothballs and put my law practice
therein, and headed for Korea. In Japan I was sidetracked again.
My services were, it seems, more essential in a non-combat area.
Result — contract officer with the Engineers. In Tokyo I was priv-
ileged to attend the meetings of the Japanese Diet, and as a mem-
ber of the International Law Association, I presented to them a law
capsule on Contempt Proceedings in the United States.

After my second separation, a brief attempt was made to resurrect
my law practice, but to no avail. The field of insurance beckoned
again and has held me fast ever since.

Helen, Marsha and I are now living in Pittsburgh. The Twenty-
fifth Reunion will serve several purposes: an opportunity to revisit
my mother and family in Boston, a renewal of old friendships and
a retrospection with the Class of ’34.

[ 1429 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

JOHN WILLIAM WALSH

  

HOME abpress: 41 Butler Rd., Quincy 69, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: North Quincy High School, North Quincy 71, Mass.

BORN: June §, 1912, Quincy, Mass. Parents: John William Walsh, Susan
Helena McKenna.

PREPARED AT: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., Summa cum laude, 19343 A.M. 1935.

MarRieD: Winifred Mary Tighe, June 25, 1938, Wakefield, Mass. CHILDREN:
David Michael, March 13, 1939; John Francis, June 15, 1942.

decuPATION: Principal, North Quincy High School.

OFFICES HELD: President, Quincy Teachers’ Association, 1945-47, New England
Chapter, American Association of Teachers of Spanish and Portuguese,
1949-50; assistant principal, North Quincy High School, 1946-57; secretary-
treasurer, Harvard Club of Quincy, 1951-53.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa (Harvard); Phi Delta Kappa (Boston University);
Quincy Teachers’ Association; Quincy Teachers’ Union (honorary mem-
ber); American Association of Teachers of Spanish and Portuguese; Massa-
chusetts Schoolmasters’ Club; Massachusetts Secondary Principals’ Associa-’
tion; National Association of Secondary School Principals; New England
Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools; South Shore Principals’
Association; Quincy Community College Association (member board of
directors); American Philatelic Society; Granite City Stamp Club.

pusLications: First Year Spanish, 1954, Second Year Spanish, 1955, Ginn and
Company (collaborated with Professor Charles N. Staubach).

THE week following Commencement I sailed from Boston for
Europe, touring the northern fringe of the Mediterranean and
Western Europe, visiting twelve countries in all, In September |
returned to Harvard to continue my studics in Romance Languages
and received my Master’s degree in June, 1935. Finding myself
spending more and more time in the stacks of Widener and less and
less with people, I decided to embark upon a career in teaching.

[ 1430 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Positions then were very difficult to find. Thus my first venture
was as a substitute and evening school teacher in Quincy. This
gave me the “broad view,” as the saying goes, teaching as I was
grades seven through twelve and on upward to retired world
travelers brushing up on their conversational Spanish. For varying
periods, I “taught” English (all kinds), French, Latin, Spanish,
history (United States, ancient, medieval, world, current), prob-
lems of Democracy (and there are many), civics, geography, music,
art, arithmetic, algebra, geometry, advanced algebra, solid geometry
and trigonometry (which I had never studied myself). My crown-
ing achievement was a class in cooking! All this brought me the
munificent sum of $200 for the first year. This I paid to the Univer-
sity for two graduate courses I was taking at the time.

My first full-time assignment was teaching Latin, geography and
U.S. history at junior high school level from 1937 to 1941. During
this period I also served as guidance counselor, a most rewarding
experience, for it gave me an insight into backgrounds and environ-
ments beyond the classroom. September, 1941, found me in the area
of my first choice, teaching grades ten through twelve French and
Latin at North Quincy High School. The following year I intro-
duced Spanish to North Quincy for the first time. From 1941 to
1945, I taught occasional evening classes in conversational Spanish
to women’s clubs, evening schools, naval and civilian personnel at the
Fore River and Hingham Shipyards. As a 4-Fer I must face my
grandchildren without a war record.

From 1946 to 1957, I served as assistant principal of North Quincy
High School, in charge of attendance, discipline, lunchroom super-
vision, striving to cope with pupil, teacher and parent problems and
problem pupils, teachers and parents. I have often wondered
wherein my days in Widener and lectures on Boileau, Diderot or
Becquer prepared me for this, But I am sure that, if nothing else,
they made much of it tolerable.

In “spare” time Professor Charles N. Staubach, chairman of the
Department of Spanish, University of Michigan, and I collaborated
in the writing of two texts for secondary school pupils, First Year
Spanish and Second Year Spanish, published by Ginn and Company.
This was a simultaneously stimulating and exhausting experience.

In September, 1957, I assumed my present position as principal of
North Quincy High School.

[ 1431]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

My pride and joy are my two 6’ 2”, 190-pound sons, the more so
because, except for some “middle-age-spread,” I have remained in
dimensions about as in college days — 5’ 8” and 135 pounds. David
is a junior at Quincy High School. John put me in an awkward posi-
tion this fall, leading rival Quincy to a 25-16 victory over North
Quincy, in the traditional Thanksgiving Day football game. He
scored two touchdowns, rushed 218 yards against us and won the
annual outstanding player award.

Other than my job my prime hobby is stamp collecting. I love
to travel when I can. Although Europe was a delight, I am now
striving to “see America first” and have pretty well covered the
eastern seaboard from Florida to the Gaspé. So far, I have not been
beyond Chicago, but hope to make it before long.

As I look back it does not seem possible that twenty-five years
have elapsed since Conant presided over his first Commencement.
This quarter-century can scarcely be matched in world history for
the earth-shaking impact it has had on the destiny of Man. I was
proud of Harvard then and am even more so now as I view the role
it has played. 1 am grateful to be counted among its alumni.

RICHARD JOHN WALSH, JR.

 

HOME Abpress: 61 W, ssth St, New York 19, N.Y.

oFFIce Appress: John Day Co., Inc. 62 W. 45th St, New York 36, N.Y.

porn: Dec. 4, 1912, Orange, N.J. parents; Richard John Walsh, ‘07, Ruby
Hopkins Abbott,

prepareD AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934, DRGRER: A.B, ci? latide, 1934.

[1432]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Margaret T. Whedon, Sept. 23, 1934 Litchfield, Conn. (divorced
1957); Mary Ohata Lombard, Oct. 4, 1957, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Jeremy Abbott, April 15, 1936, David Hasham, Sept. 15, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president and editor, John Day Company, Inc.
book publishing.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of directors, John Day Company, Inc., secretary-

treasurer, Publishers’ Lunch Club, 1945. ;
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Publishers’ Lunch Club; PEN,
The Dessoff Choirs.

AS my years at Harvard neared their end, I thought for a while
that I should like to become a teacher. An adviser, probably wiser
than I, suggested that I should go on with journalism, which had oc-
cupied me in school and college. I did just about that, and have not
regretted it — except occasionally when I see the teachers enjoying
their ten-week summer vacations which the rest of us stopped lux-
uriating in twenty-five years ago.

After sampling two related occupations — newspaper work and
public relations —I became and have remained a confirmed book
publisher. But to start with, I sought newspaper training, and was
so fortunate as to find a job as a cub reporter even before Com-
mencement Day. It was on the old Buffalo Tinres, a Scripps-Howard
paper, now defunct for many years. In four years of this, I learned
at least as much as in four years of college, though about very dif-
ferent things. Among other things that I learned was that four vears
was about ‘long enough to remain a newspaperman.

So another stroke of good luck took me, early in 1938, to Earl
Newsom & Company, already one of the finest public relations firms
in the United States and today even more so, I remained only a
year and a half, because at the end of that time there arose the op-
portunity and the need to join my father in running the book pub-
lishing company which he and others had founded in the twenties
and which he was now operating by himself, I became editor of the
John Day Company, Inc., in September, 1939, and have remained
there to the present. As my father has become inactive, | am now
responsible for its operations.

I know of few occupations as interesting as mine, and even fewer
as frustrating. Some call book publishing ; a business, some a profes-
sion. More accurately, i it is a gamble, much as the theatre is. Tw enty
or fifty or a hundred times a year, we launch a new product and
gamble on its public acceptance. And we really Know very lictle
about what the public will accept; most of what we think we know
is hindsight, and when we try to use it on another book, we find that

[ 1433 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

we were wrong about either the book or the public. And that is

what makes it interesting — and frustrating.
Privately s aking, I married young and for many years was kept

thoroughly occupied by family matters and obligations. I ‘made
time off and on for participation in various community choruses, my
hours in the Harvard Glee Club having been among the most re-
warding of my college vears, but there was not much. clse of recrea-
tion. Today things are broadening. Mfy sons are pretty much on
their own; Jerry i is starting architectural school at Yale, after grad-
uating from Hamilton College; David is in the class of 1959 at An-
dover and hopes to go on to Harvard. My second wife and I live
in \fanhattan, a fifteen-minute walk from the office, and have our
life organized for the maximum combination of accomplishment and
enjoyment. We work together, she being an officer of the John
Dav Company and my assistant, and I am working harder than ever
and getting more than ever out of it. I sing bass in the Dessoff
Choirs, a famous New York group of almost professional caliber,
which gives me the finest musical workouts since the Harvard Glee
Club. I have also been able to take up studying the piano where I
left off about thirty years ago, and find that, at least, I have got no
worse.

I used to scoff at the Dale Carnegie school of pollyannism, but
now I’m beginning to think that life does begin in the forties. Which
is a good attitude for a Twenty-fifth Reunion-eer!

ISRAEL WALZER

  

HOME appress: Schemmer Drive, Prescott, Ariz.
ovrice AvbRESS: VLA, Hospital, Whipple, Ariz.

[ 1434]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Dec. 9, 1912, Cleveland, Ohio. parests: Alfred Benjamin Walzer, Erna
Koppel.

prepareD AT: Cleveland Heights High School, Cleveland Heights, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREFS: A.B. cm laude, 1934; M0. (Univ, of Chi-
cago), 1938.

MARRIED: Norma Dunstedter, Jan. 3, 1942, Kahoka, Mo.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Leo Walzer, '29, M.D., ‘33, Joseph Walzer, °34.

OCCUPATION; Physician; chief of medical service, V.A. Hospital.

MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons (fellow).

THE years from 1934 to 1942 were occupied by medical training at
the University of Chicago and internship and medical residency at
the Cook County Hospital. In 1942 I was married and soon after
entered the Army. My army serv ice included thirty-four months
on various Pacific Islands, mostly with the 17th Ficld Hospital.
In 1946 I joined the Veterans Administration and ever since, except
for service from 1954 to 1957 at North Little Rock, have been at
the Whipple Veterans Hospital, just outside Prescott, Arizona.

Life is pleasant — since I made a fortunate choice in marriage
and am doing work that I enjoy in tranquil surroundings. However,
the view from our “Ivory Tower” reveals a disquicting world.

The situation in Little Rock combines political opportunism act-
ing on ignorant emotionalism in a manner that defies rational solu-
tion. Our foreign policy unrealistically expresses smug selt-
righteousness and atomic threats much as does that of the Russians.
Also, I fear that it is a delusion that the “Furor Teutonicus” has been
cured and that the Japanese have forgotten Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
The lag between emotional and ethical maturity and technical ad-
vance promises catastrophic results. This seems so obvious to me
that I await with interest any evidences that my pessimism is un-
justified,

[ 1435 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

JOSEPH WALZER

 

HOME ADDRESS: go Woodside Ave., Malverne, Long Island, N.Y.

EFICE abpRESS: V.A. Out-Patient Clinic, 35 Ryerson St., Brooklyn, N.Y.

30RN: Dee. 9, 1912, Cleveland, Ohio. Parents: Alfred Benjamin Walzer, Erna
Koppel.

PREPARED AT: Cleveland Heights High School, Cleveland Heights, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1934; M.p. (Univ. of
Chicago), 1938.

AarnirD: Alice Thistleton, February, 1946. East Orange, N.J.

[ARVARD BROTHERS: Leo Walzer, 29, M.D., °33; Israel Walzer, ’34.

cCUPATION: Psychiatrist, V.A. Out-Patient Clinic.

4EMBER OF: American Psychiatric Society.

AY training for my medical specialty in psychiatry at Bellevue
Tospital in New York was interrupted by army service which ex-
ended from May, 1942, to March, 1946. The major portion of this
ame was spent with the goth Bomb Group, Fifth Air Force as
light surgeon in New Guinea and as a psychiatrist at the Fourth
seneral Hospital in Melbourne, Australia.

Following my marriage in 1946, I served for six months at North-
yort V.A, Hospital as psychiatrist, and from 1946 to 1948 was chief
of psy chiatr y in the V.A, Hospital in McKinney, Texas. Since that
ime I have been at my present post in Brooklyn.

Hobbies? Since our marriage my wife and I have devoted our
pare time to the study of the care and feeding of dogs and cats.
Jur current menage stands at one aged calico cat, one Irish setter-
nix and one boxer-mix, a “mix” being a breed from which one

arent can be presumed to be acceptable to the American Kennel
club.

[ 1436 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MOREY J. WANTMAN

 

HOME aApprEss: 2 University Flats, Evans Road, Singapore ro, Singapore.

OFFICE ADDRESS: University of Malaya, Singapore ro, Singapore.

BORN: Sept. 27, 1913, Winipeg, Man., Canada. PARENTS: James Wantman, Bessie
Andelman.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932, 1933-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1934(35).

MARRIED: Susan Hanford Glover, Aug. 1, 1957, Rochester, N.Y.

HARVARD BROTHER: Bernard I. Wantman, ’28.

OCCUPATION: Visiting director of -educational research and measurement, Uni-
versity of Malaya; director of Malayan project, Educational Testing Serv-

ice, Princeton (N.]J.).

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Allendale School, Rochester (N.Y.), 1954-57; director,
American Association, Singapore, 1958, Rochester Statistical Association,
1956.

MEMBER OF: American Association for the Advancement of Science (fellow);
American Psychological Association (fellow); Psychometric Society; Amer-
ican Association of University Professors; Sigma Xi; New York- State
Psychological Association; Rochester Association for the United Nations;
New York State Association of Deans and Guidance Counsellors; Amer-
ican Statistical Association, etc.

PuBLICATIONS: Articles on the selection and training of pilots; with W. J. E.
Crissy, an article on the national clerical ability tests of the National Office
Management Association; a chapter in a medical volume on the use of
statistics in medical research; an article on the selection of students and
their placement in freshman courses in an undergraduate college.

HAVING been out of college from 1932 to 1935 to wash second-
hand Budweiser beer bottles, sell women’s underwear, jerk sodas
in a drugstore, etc., ] got my degree in 1935 but took up the offer of
the Class of 1934 to remain a member of it. By that time I had
decided to become a teacher. From 1935 to 1938 the politicians of
the City of Somerville, Massachusetts, where I lived, were uninten-

[ 1437 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

JOHN LANGDON WARD

    

IME ADDRESS: 111 Court St., Dedham, Mass.

FICE ADDRESS: Medical Associates of Massachusetts Memorial Hospitals, 203
Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

RN: Sept. 25, 1911, New York, N.Y. Parents: Alexander Ladd Ward,
Caroline Dudley Fidlitz.

EPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

ARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. 1934.

ARRIED: Ruth Page, Sept. 10, 1938, Cambridge, Mass. cumpren: Leslie Hast-
ings, July 7, 1940; Peter Langdon, Aug. 10, 1943; Richard Miles, Feb. 12,
1948.

upATION; Administrative director of hospital medical group composed of
members of the clinical teaching staff of Boston University School of
Medicine.

ICES HELD: Chairman, Dedham Red Cross, 1952-56.

MBER OF: Nuttall Ornithological Club.

1E even tenor of scholastic life at Harvard was rudely jolted when :
fe insurance salesman convinced me that insurance protection for
imily I did not have yet and paid for with money | had not earned
was a worthy endeavor. Worthy enough at least for me to
nd the first two years after graduation trying to convince others
pend money they too had not yet earned on a similar investment.
> tangible satisfaction of a square meal and sufficient funds to
port the girl who has been sharing my life ever since brought
ut a reconsideration of this means of earning a livelihood. Lever
thers Company cooperated and after a brief stay in Cambridge
me out to Jearn about this business of sclling in Pittsburgh,
veland and Jater Pittsburgh again.
ife was full and the family growing when international smoke
zared. While Uncle Sam was training his recruits, | was organ-
x an Emergency Disaster River Patrol for the Pittsburgh water-

[ 1440 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

front. But these were times of big happenings and the next we knew
the Ward family had settled in Washington while I helped expedite
Lend-Lease goods to the Middle East and later worried about the
administrative workings of the Secretary of State's personal staff.
Participation in the San Francisco and Potsdam Conferences greatly
enlivened this period. But with the war over, the combined urges to
return to private business, fall foliage and to lie on New F. ingland
beaches could not be denied. Besides how could New England ‘birds
migrate twice a year without being carefully observed by me> Ad-
mittedly though, they have done very w ell in spite of a gradually
lessening activity on my part.

So we find ourselves back again where it all started, only now
there are five to feed and a dog. The return journey ended in Ded-
ham and in Dedham we have since remained due to having absorbed
perhaps something of the original name of the town — Contentment.
For the next seven years life was full of sales promotion work with
Kendall Mills, but since then I have been in my present position with
Medical Associates, The field of clinic management is new and
rapidly expanding as the practice of medicine dev elops more and
more along group lines. Medical practice concepts are changing and
I like to feel I may have a part in the growth of an administrative
position which these developments are gradually forcing into a full
bloom profession. ©

Sandwiched in between business activities have been numerous
responsibilities in community life, the principal being chairmanship
of the local Red Cross, lay reading in the church and ‘Sunday School
teaching. Camping expeditions are a great source of pleasure for
the entire family although an ever-increasing amount of time seems
to involve cutting grass, mending windows and fixing leaking faucets.

It is hard to believe that tw enty -five years have rolled by bur,
somehow, bless them, my Ruth, Lee, Peter and Dick keep me feeling
young.

[ 1441 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

+ ROBERT MACHRAY WARD

 

BorN: Dec. 30, 1912, Evanston, Ill. parents; Francis Edward Ward, Christina
Lawrence.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1935.

markieD: Dorothy Jane Simpson, Jan. 29, 1938, St. Paul, Minn. cuitp: Francis
Edward, 2d.

piep: Oct. 29, 1944, in South Pacific area.

AFTER leaving college, Ward returned to St. Paul where he became
associated with the Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing Company, a
firm which was just beginning to put on the market a product
known as Scotch Tape. When the war came, he received a com-
mission in the Navy, serving for a time at the Naval Air Station in
Pensacola, Florida. Later he was sent overseas and while in the
South Pacific he died suddenly of a thrombosis.

CHARLES ELIOT WARE

 

HOME appress: 560 Belden Hill Rd., Wilton, Conn. '

[ 1442 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDREsS: U.S. Rubber Co., 1230 Ave. of the Americas, New York, N.Y.
BORN: Jan. 21, 1912, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Fliot Ware, ’06, Elizabeth

L. Clarke. .
PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934(35).

MARRIED: Kathleen B. Calkins Sample, October, 1948, Chicago, Ill. cHmpren:
Susan C. (Sample) Ware, Sept. 14, 1941; Kathleen C. (Sample) Ware,
May 4, 1944; Lucy C., March 30, 1950.

OccuPATION: Assistant to manager, Eastern Division, U.S. Rubber International

Division.
OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Life Raft Sub-Committee, War Production Board,
1942>46. ‘ ,
AFTER leaving Harvard, I spent a year at M.LT., theoretically
learning some of the finer points of chemical engineering, and then
joined U.S. Rubber Company as a development chemist in their
Naugatuck, Connecticut, footwear plant. Over the following
twenty-three years I have moved several times around New Eng-
land, the Midwest and back to New England, finally settling in the.
hills of Fairfield County, Connecticut.

During the war years, my efforts were devoted to the develop-
ment and manufacture of barrage balloons, emergency life rafts for
aviators and innumerable inflatable “decoy” tanks, guns, landing
craft, etc.; serving, at the same time, as chairman of a WPB Sub-
Committee on life raft development and rubber conservation.

Came the end of the war and I was transferred to the Midwest
where, during the summer of 1948, I accepted the proposal of a
small and very personable four-year-old blue-eyed girl. This resulted
in my marrying three girls on the same day, thus starting the family
side of life in the middle.

Presently living in Wilton, Connecticut, I am still with U.S. Rub-
ber, located in New York, with responsibilities as an executive assist-
ant in the International Division of the company.

[ 1443 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

CHARLES PICKARD WARE

 

HOME ADDRESS: Jupiter Island, Hobe Sound, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ware Real Estate, Jupiter Island, Hobe Sound, Fla.

BorN: Dec. 6, 1910, Brookline, Mass. parents: Malcolm Cunningham Ware,
’o7, Mary Appleton Ware.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass., Belmont Hill School, Belmont,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1032.

MarRiED: Dorothy M. Preston, June 7, 1941, Hamilton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Lawrence Preston, Nov. 17, 1942; Andrew Cunningham, Apri 21, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Donald Ware, 34.

OCCUPATION: Real estate — own firm — broker.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer (Hamilton, Mass.), 1948, director, 1950-52, fund chair-
man, 1951, chairman, 1952, Martin County Chapter, fund chairman, Jupiter

"Island Chapter, 1950, American Red Cross; ‘director, since 1951, secretary,

1951-53, fund chairman, 1951, vice-president, 1956-57, president, 1953-56,
since 1957, Jupiter Island Community Chest; director, Island School,
Jupiter Island, 1952-54; secretary, 1951-58, director, 1951-58, chairman,
Fire-Police Committee, 1952-56, Jupiter Island Association; assistant to
chairman, 1952-54, county chairman, since 1952, district chairman, since
1954, Vice-chairman, since 1958, Republican Finance Committee; Fla.;
member board of governors, Palm Beach County Crippled Children’s
Society, Palm Beach, Fla. since 1956, Congressional candidate, 1956, 1958;
chairman, Martin County Republican Executive Committee, 1956-62; state
committeeman, 1958-62.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; The Travellers Club, Paris, France;
American Club of Paris, Jupiter Island Club, Hobe Sound Yacht Club.

[ 1444 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DONALD WARE

  

HOME ADDRESS: 31 Ridge Rd., Concord, N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Richard D., Brew & Co., Inc., Concord, N.H.

BORN: July 1, 1912, Brookline, Mass. parents: Malcolm Cunningham W: are,
’07, Mary Appleton Ware.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

MARRIED: Dorothy Leach, Aug. 1, 1942, Franklin, N.H. caiwpren: Patricia,
Jan. 27, 1944; Natalie, May 5, 1945; Donald, Jr., Aug. 25, 1946 (died March
24, 1948); Malcolm Leach, Nov. 20, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles P. Ware, 34.
OCCUPATION: Estimator, for a firm manufacturing electronic components for

computer and missile guidance systems.

SEVERAL years in the Boston wool trade were abruptly terminated
when the Massachusetts National Guard regiment of which I was a
member was inducted into federal service, September 16, 1940. Late
in 1941 the Army decided that oldsters of twenty-eight years of
age were of little or no use to the concerted effort, and I was sub-
sequently turned loose in October of that year. The attack on Pear!
Harbor brought about a change of mind and February, 1942, found
me back in uniform. My total of five years in service were notably
unspectacular. I was one of the ninety-day wonders turned out by
the Infantry School in July, 1942, but again my ripe old years
changed the course of events and I was promptly assigned to the
Corps of Military Police. On one assignment or another, I saw a
great deal of the United States up until the time of my release in
October, 1945, but I never once set foot outside the continental
limits of the country.

I married shortly after being commissioned, but for the first three
years of our married life, my wife and I never knew where we were

[ 1445 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934.

going to be forty-eight hours later. We became very adept at pick-

ing up and moving on short notice. For the last few months of the

war we were separated. My wife returned to her home in Concord,

New Hampshire, with two young daughters. It was no longer feas-

ible to make moves about the country.

I was released from active duty late in October, 1945, at which
time the attrition of the textile industry in New England was already
making itself felt. The job to which I had hoped to return no longer
existed; neither did the mill. It had been sold lock, stock and barrel,
and had moved to the South.

Since there was no longer any reason or incentive to return to
Boston and vicinity, jobs were explored here in New Hampshire.
] am compelled to admit that advanced deterioration of Massachu-
setts politically and economically was one of the main reasons why
the green hills of New Hampshire looked so inviting. So life started
anew and I went into the printing business here in Concord and
stayed there for eleven years, ten of which were highly satisfactory.
In the tenth year, control was sold to outside interests and, along
with many others, ] was told my services were no longer required,

Then came the question of whether to seek employment elsewhere
in the printing industry or to sell my years of experience in produc-
tion control and managment in some other line, The final decision
was to stay here in Concord, and I shortly found myself starting out
in an entirely new line of endeavor, the vast and growing field of
electronics.

The Brew Company, delay line manufacturers mainly on a gov-
ernment sub-contract basis, is one of several which in the last five
years have fled Massachusetts and settled in and about Concord,
and there I have been for the past two years. It is a growing concern
and is currently making the third physical addition to its plant
structure since settling here. During this growth period, produc-
tion was principally devoted to small quantities of types of lines
other and larger manufacturers had been unable to produce accept-
ably.

Times have now changed; competition has become keen and bids
must be competitive and must be submitted promptly. The collect-
ing of production and cost information and the preparation of quo-
tations is my newest and current job. It isa new and fascinating field
for me, albeit very time-consuming.

New Hampshire is a small state — its total population would not
equal that of a large city; so, relatively speaking, Concord with its

[ 1446 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

population of 29,000 is a large city. As with other cities, there is a
tendency to move to the suburbs, which here are villages. We have
lived here since the war rather than in a smaller town to take advan-
tage of a school system that is excellent up to the high school level,
from which point on we feel it is inadequate. Our children are now
reaching the age where we must send them away to secure a com-
petitive education. When that is done, we too shall move to the

suburbs and look at the green hills.

JOHN WARE, JR.

 

HOME ApbRESS: Oakley Road, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE AbpREsS: National Shawmut Bank, 4o Water St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 1, 1913, Downey, Idaho, parents: John Ware, Margaret Chanler
Woodle.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B, 1934.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Yeomans Cook, July 6, 1940, Milton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Naomi, May 23, 1943; Camilla, Dec. 29, 1948.

occupation: Vice-president, Commercial Loan Division, National Shawmut
Bank.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Harvard Class of 1934, since 1946.

MEMBER OF: Dedham Country & Polo Club; Union Club, Boston.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Supermarket —Its Growth and Financing,” thesis writ-
ten for and published by Graduate School of Banking of the American
Bankers’ Association, 1958.

AFTER returning home in October 1934, following the baseball
team’s enjoyable but not particularly victorious trip to Japan, I came
face to face with the necessity of earning a living. One year of mer-
chandising experience at Filene’s left me with a comprehensive knowl-
edge of the varying qualities and sizes of ladies’ delicate undergar-
ments and a realization that such was not my métier,

[ 1447 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Since November of 1935, therefore, I have been associated with
the National Shawmut Bank of Boston, in varying and, I hope, pro-
gressive capacities, moving from messenger to credit clerk, to loan
analyst, to business development work and, for the past eight years,
a commercial loan officer. While the nature of my work keeps me
largely in New England, I do find myself occasionally wandering
somewhat west of Dedham and welcome the opportunity of look-
ing up classmates in the hinterlands. Much to my dismay, I found
my vself “going back to school” in the three years 1956-58, attending
the Graduate School of Banking at Rutgers, which I managed to
struggle through, complete w ith a ninety-page thesis.

Family-wi ise and socially, my early years after college were taken
up Ww ith skiing, tennis and general bachelorhood, not actively avoid-
ing matrimony, but aw aiting my turn. My turn came in the spring
of 1940, W hen I first met Bettina and quickly married her before she
could get away. Then followed three delightful years of apartment
life on Beacon Hill, until Uncle Sam came rapping on the door, in
the summer of ’43. Two and one-half years of anti-aircraft Artillery
eventually found me chasing the Infantry and the armored divisions
to the Elbe, when V-E Day arrived. Luckily, V-J Day followed
rapidly, as our outfit was preparing to head for the Pacific; hence,
February of 1946 found me, instead, back home and at the bank.

As the family had outgrown apartment facilities by that time, we
were forced to resort to suburbia, and it looks as though we have
landed for good in Dover, a charming town, rural and small, but still
within commuting distance of Boston.

As I look back over the past twenty-five years, I feel I can
truthfully say that 1 have been very fortunate. True, I haven’t
made a million dollars, but how many of us have? We are still
eating regularly and Bettina seems to have put up with all or most
of my eccentricities to date. We have two fine girls, aged sixteen
and ten, whom we are struggling to educate, but we feel that their
education for the next several months will have to include a course

in coping with the predatory instincts of the sons of 1934 at the
Reunion in June. See you then.

[ 1448 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

NATHANIEL WARE

 

HOME appREss: 5 Powder Horn Lane, Houston 24, Texas.
_OFFICE AppRESS: A. G. Edwards & Sons, 101 Texas National Bank Bldg. Hous-

ton 2, Texas.
BORN: Jan. 8, 1911, Hingham, Mass. parents: Storer Preble Ware, ‘oz, Elizabeth

Kinsman.
PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933.
MARRIED: Eleanor G. Davis, Oct. 10, 1941, Houston, Texas. CHILDREN: Pamela,
Oct. 14, 1943; Nathaniel K., April 12, 1947; Peter B., Nov. 8, 1953.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Storer Preble Ware, Jr., °32; Abbott Kinsman Ware, "36.
occuPaTION: Resident manager, A. G. Edwards & Sons, members New York

Stock Exchange.
MEMBER OF: Braeburn Country Club; Houston Stock and Bond Club.

UPON leaving college I was in the securities business in Boston
until 1940. At that time my National Guard unit was shipped to
Texas and I remained in the service until late 1945. I spent one and
a half years in England before the Normandy invasion and then
through France, Belgium and Germany w ith the First Army as
captain of AA Unit. I was surprised not to run across more of mv
college acquaintances in the service as | know most of them served,
put I did uncover several Europeans with whom [ had attended prep
chool in Switzerland and enjoved many good times with them when
uch things were ata premium.

I met and married my wife in Houston, Texas, in rggt, and upon
ischarge decided to remain in a growing, dynamic area, and I
pened an office here for a New York Stock E xchange firm which
as been a very pleasant association,

My hobbies scem to be limited te a fair golf game and: fanily
tivities with my wife and three growing children,

[ 1449 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

KENNETH WAYNE WARREN

 

JOME ADDRESS: 59 Ledgeways, Wellesley Hills, Mass.
)FFICE ADDRESS: Lahey Clinic, 605 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

30RN: July 16, 1911, Cartersville, Ga. PARENTS: George Hilliard Warren, Judy
Flilen Williams.

REPARED AT: Taylor County High School, Perry, Fla.

“EARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931, 1932-1934. DEGREES: S.B., 1934; M.D. (Temple Univ.),
1938.

sargieD: Ann Trimble, Aug. 19, 1940, Leland, Mich. cuitpren: George Arthur
(died June, 1942) and Thomas Trimble (twins), May 13, 1942; Sally Ann,
Nov. 22, 1943; George Hilliard, 2d, April 16, 1947.

CCUPATION: Surgeon — Lahey Clinic, New England Baptist Hospital and New
England Deaconess Hospital.

FFICES HELD: Trustee, Boston Medical Library, 1955-58; member of corporation,
New England Deaconess Hospital, 1955; councilor, Massachusetts Medical
Society; general chairman, New England Postgraduate Assembly, since
1958; president, Postgraduate Medical Institute, since 1958.

AEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; American Medical Association;
American Board of Surgery (diplomate); American College of Surgery
(fellow); Boston Surgical Society, New England Surgical Society; Amer-

ican Gastroenterological Society; Harvard Club of Boston; Wellesley Coun-
try Club; Dublin Lake Club.

UBLICATIONS: Co-author textbook, Surgery of the Pancreas, contributor to
Surgical Practice of the Lahey Clinic, Babcock’s Textbook of Surgery,

Madden’s Atlas of Surgical Technic, and seventy-five articles on a variety
of surgical subjects.

IWENTY-FIVE years —a quarter of a century — is but a blink
of an eye in the endlessness of time, but in the span of a human life
t is more than one-third of a man’s normal expectancy. And coming
‘0 us, as has the Jasr quarter-century, in the midstream of life, the
‘wenty-five years since graduation will undoubtedly prove the most
neaningful of all.

Leaving Cambridge immediately after graduation with a solemn

[ 1450 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

vow that I would never return to Boston to live, I should perhaps
feel a wave of shame as I sit in my library in Wellesley Halls and
confess that I am now an ardent New Englander. It seems incredible
that experiences during four years in medical school in Philadelphia
which were then so vivid are now, in retrospect, so vaguely blurred.
The rude discovery that concentration in economics at Harvard was
less than something of value in the study of medicine made me feel
cheated in this choice until I learned that specialization in economic
theory was of little consequence even to those who later engaged
in commerce or finance.

After graduation from medical school I went to Detroit where I
spent six years at the Henry Ford Hospital. These were fateful
years during which I acquired a formal training in surgery, a wife,
twin sons, one daughter, and an insistent yearning to return to
Boston. Economically, interns and hospital house officers are among
the most impoverished of moderately educated men. If one w ishes
to become thoroughly deluded as to the economic value of a
Harvard education, one needs only to do sufficiently well aca-
demically to be admitted to medical school; then spend four arduous

ears and a considerable sum of his father’s money to gain the degree
of doctor of medicine. Almost immediately this well-tutored Har-
vard graduate can enter the free labor market and if successful in
the competition for an outstanding internship can earn his bed and
board by the simple device of working twelve to sixteen hours a
day (seven days a week). He no longer doubts that virtue is its own
reward.

We returned to Boston in 1945 when I was invited to join the
surgical staff of the Lahey Clinic. This professional association has
proven a challenging and rewarding experience. In addition to the
demanding problems i in clinical surgery, I have engaged in the post-
graduate training of physicians by contributions to the surgical
literature and by frequent presentations before medical societies
and other scientific associations. One of the most satisfying features —
of my professional career has been the continuous challenge of
teaching and being taught by an endless succession of bright young
physicians, from many lands and representing many creeds, w ho
come to the Clinic to finish their formal surgical training. Because
of this interest I have served as a trustee of the Boston Medical
Library and as a member of the board of directors of the Post-
graduate Medical Institute and am currently its president.

Our younger son, George, by virtue of having been born in Bos-

[ 1451 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

ton, feels a certain superiority over the other members of the family,
At a very tender age he revealed the obvious stigmata indicative of
an ultimate desire to attend Harvard College. That alone has been
sufficient grounds to alienate all but the most primitive affection of
his sister. “Sally and Tommy, less provincial by instinct and locale
of birth, scan the broad horizon west of Dedham and are willing to
believe that civilization has advanced beyond the Berkshires, They
refuse to reveal their future educational intentions. Sally’s devotion
to figure skating and Tommy’s insistence, despite all logic to the
contrary, that hockey i is an exciting athletic adventure rather than an
ill-disguised form of assault and battery may yet persuade them to
pursue their education in New England. Currently, the two boys
are at Belmont Hill School and Sally i is at Dana Hall.

Ann tolerates my busy schedule and frequent absences with a
forbearance characteristic of her Quaker persuasion. She carries
the civic responsibilities for the family and finds her work as a
volunteer in the Children’s Hospital a most satisfying experience.
We live in Wellesley Hills and pass the summer months and many
fall weekends in Dublin, New Hampshire — a charming village sur-
rounded by some of Nature’s grandeur and populated by an inter-
esting array of people.

I am convinced that the depth and consistency of conviction
rather than the substance of the dogma is the measure of the value
of religious experience. Politically, I find it increasingly difficult
to bind myself consistently to either of the major political parties.
Examples of sustained political courage, based upon high moral and
ethical principles, are so uncommon as to suggest that we as a nation
do not deserve and shall not long enjoy the finer fruits of democracy.

Beyond the mid-passage of life, I look back upon my days at
Harvard with an attitude which is surprisingly similar to the one I
held as an undergraduate. It is at once an inspiring and awesome
giant in the world of formal education; and at the same time a place
of unbelievable contradictions. 1 was impressed as a student with
the great wisdom of some of my teachers and by the limited ability
of others. I found it incredible that certain members of the faculty
were advanced in rank over men who in my judgment were more
brilliant and enterprising, I was overwhelmed by the intellectual
capacity of some of my classmates and greatly reassured by the
absence of such brilliance in others. I was surprised by the arrogance
of many Harvard men — undergraduates and faculty alike — and
inspired by the simplicity and humility of others, As I pursue my

[ 1452 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

professional activities and grow relentlessly older, I see all about me

the same incredible admixture and inconsistencies which I knew at

Harvard and which I now recognize as the natural order of things.
Harvard is a rich and rewarding experience and so also 1s life.

PHILIP LYON WARREN, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 477 Colonial Ave., Worthington, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Kroger Co., 457 Cleveland Ave., Columbus, Ohio.

BORN: June 25, 1912, Quincy, Mass. parents: Philip Lyon Warren, 706, Dora
D. Orr.

PREPARED AT: Tabor Academy, Marion, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.

' MarRIED: Helen Church, Feb. 26, 1938, Louisville, Ky. (divorced 1948);
Dorothea A. Bock, March 28, 1952, Newton, Mass. cHttpReN; William
Lloyd and Robert Orr (twins), Dec. 16, 1938; Deborah Deering, Sept. 9,
1940; John Randolph, May 24, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Duncan Orr Warren, ’36.

occupation: Manager, Columbus plant, Baked Foods Division, The Kroger
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Cub Scoutmaster, Englewood, N.J., 1945-48; deacon, West Side
Presbyterian Church, Englewood, N.J. 1946-48; secretary, 19th AMP
Class, Harvard Business School, 1951-52; member, Baked Products Com-
mittee, Quartermaster Association, 1947; mate, Sea Scout Ship No. 3a,
Worthington, Ohio.

MEMBER OF: Lions Club of Port Washington, N.Y. 1933-38; American So-
ciety of Bakery E ngineers} Foremen’s Club of Columbus, Ohio.

I RECALL that twenty-five years ago I was a very pleased young
man to have landed a job w ith the National Biscuit € company during
those dark days of the depression, The next nineteen years of climb-
ing the ladder with this company were punctuated by transfers to
various cities. By the time three years or less had been spent in

[ 1453 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Cambridge, Buffalo, Chicago, St. Louis, New York, Baltimore, At-
lanta and again New York, the spirit of adventure was dimming.
With a growing family, transfers were becoming more difficult and
when the opportunity arose to form a small baking company in
which I would have a major interest, all the family were delighted.
My wonderful wife, Dot, pitched in to help, as well as the two older
boys in their spare time from school. It was an exciting and inter-
esting two years. We enjoyed our friends and activities in Port
W: ashington, New York, and when marketing difficulties indicated
sale of the company, we regretted leaving our new home and friends.
During these last three and a half years, however, we have settled
down in a very pleasant suburb of Columbus and up until recently
Dot and I have been almost overwhelmed with the activities of four
teen-agers. Now the family has reached the dispersal age. Bob
entered the Marine Corps on graduation from high school and Bill
and Debby are away at college. Even with just Jack at home, Dot
and I sometimes agree that there is too much to keep up with. We
enjoy an occasional good game of bridge and belong to a congenial
social group which meets once a month. Dot is very active in com-
munity affairs and being mate of a Sea Scout ship keeps me busy
too. It is an active and pleasant life and between home, community
and work, we feel, a productive one, giving both Dot and me a sense
of accomplishment. Once or twice a year we get out of our subur-
ban rut and away from the flat farm-land of Central Ohio. Visits .
to friends and relatives in lowa and New England with some inter-
esting trips to Cuba, Mexico and the Bahamas have given us a fresh
point of view, along with a much-needed change of pace.
Generally speaking, all of us have enjoyed good health and, al-
though the calendar tells me so, I can hardly believe that I am closer

to fifty than forty. Imagine, a Twenty-fifth College Reunion this
year! See you there.

[ 1454 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD PALMER WATERS, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: Farm Street, Dover, Mass.
OFFICE AppRESS: John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., 200 Berkeley St,

Boston, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 30, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Richard Palmer Waters, Mabel
Atherton Sewall.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Joan Chapin, Sept. 19, 1936, Cohasset, Mass. cepreN: Susan Revere,
Sept. 10, 1940; Joan, Nov. 10, 1942; Diana, Aug. 26, 1947; Sally, June 26,
1950.

occupaTION: Second vice-president, advertising and public relations, John
‘Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, since 1937, member executve committee, 1955-57,
Children’s Service Association; director, Sailor's Snug Harbor, 1939,
Rogerson House, 1939, Public Relations Society of America, t9$4-55;
director, since 1952, president, 1954, New England Chaprer, Public Rela-
tions Society of America; trustee, Winsor School, since 1933; director,
since. 1955, trustee, since 1957, Institutions for Savings, Roxbury; member,

Public Relations Advisory Committee, 1953-55, Foreign Policy Committee,
1955-57, U.S. Chamber of Commerce; member, Advisory Council on
Company Public Relations, Institute of Life Insurance, since 1933.

MEMBER OF: Cohasset Yacht Club; Algonquin Club; Roarin’ Forties.

WITH all due apologies to someone, “’Tisn’t the things I've done I
regret, it’s the things I haven’t done.”

Before fifty, would like to go on Bermuda Race (1960), and fly
in rear seat of jet plane with Navy pilot friend. Can take care of
latter — how about former, classmates?

But seriously, if you must, I've been a very lucky guy — one
wife, four daughters, a male Brittany spaniel puppy and a fine house-
keeper who helps me keep things around home in Dover down to a

low roar,

[1455 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

After college, five years of newspaper experience in Bangor and
Boston were worth while, So were three years with United Shoe
Machinery Company, interspersed with two three-months United
Fund full-time jobs in public relations in the Metropolitan Division.
The four years of Navy were kind to me. For the most part fine
men doing fine jobs — often with very little. Southwest Pacific,
July, 1942 to May, 1943, and Northwest Pacific, October, 1944 to
October, 1945. Presidential Unit Citation for aircraft carrier Enter-
prise, Presidential Unit Commendation for air-sea rescue squadron
(VH-3), and nine stars on Asiatic-Pacifie ribbon for major naval
engagements made me feel the time well spent.

Next in importance as the adventure of a full(?) life were three
months at the 25th Advanced Management Program, Harvard Busi-
ness School, February-May, 1954. My good company has brought
me along to my satisfaction — and I hope to theirs.

On the fun side, Id still rather sail than eat — shooting partridge
and woodcock in the fall, skiing in the winter and tennis in the
spring fill out the four New England seasons. Reading continues
to be my favorite form of passive relaxation and writing is something
I doa little of all the time but mean to do much more.

It has been fun — and not all frolic — being your Class Committee
Chairman since 1951. The smartest thing I ever did was to work
with your Class Committee to get Teddy Chase to run the Twenty-
fifth Anniversary Gift starting in 1956, and Malcolm Stewart to run
the Twenty- -fifth Reunion starting In 1957.

My ex-officio Reunion Committee title as Chairman of Widows
rests lightly but not carelessly on my sloping shoulders. Many: of
us are here today because of men who are not. So let’s remember
them and their kids during Reunion and afterwards so that we all
may say, “I’m glad Ive lived a full and fast eighty rather than a
slow ninety.”

We owe the University and the United States a great deal. In
my opinion, we are taking our civic and national responsibilities

too lightly, if we are to face our children and grandchildren with
honest eyes.

[ 1456 |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES MALCOLM WATKINS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Snow’s Ct., N.W., Washington 7, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Smithsonian Institution, Washington 25, D.C.

BORN: March 12, 1911, Malden, Mass. parents: Charles Hadley Watkins, ’og,
Lura Burgess Woodside.

PREPARED AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.

UNMARRIED.

occuPpaTION: Museum work; curator of cultural history, U.S. National Museum,
Smithsonian Institution.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Committee for Harvard Tercentenary Exhibition of Fur-
nishings and Decorative Arts, 1935-36; member, Committee for Furnishing
the Dana-Palmer House, Harvard University, 1948; director, Early Amer-
ican Industries Association, since 1952; consultant, Jamestown-Williams-
burg-Yorktown 350th Anniversary Celebration Commission, 1955, mem-
ber, Furnishings Committee, Independence National Historical Park, Phila-
delphia, since 1956; adviser on furnishings, Gunston Hall (George Mason
plantation), since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Alexandria Association, Anthropological Society of Washington;
China Students Club (honorary); Early American Industries Association;
Foggy Bottom Restoration Association; Middleton Historical Society; Na-
tional Trust for Historic Preservation; Society of Architectural Historians,
Society for the Preservation of New England Antiquities; The Rushlight
Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles in Avtiques, The Chronicle of Early American
Industries, The Rushlight, the appendix to the annual report of the Smith-
sonian Institution, The Concise Encyclopedia of American Antiques.

MY all-absorbing concern since 1934 has been the cultural history of
European Americans since the first day of settlement. This has been
a natural thing, for my family was made up in good part of col-
lectors who avidly assembled all sorts of American antiques. Indeed,
at the age of six, I myself began a collection of bottles, which, though

[ 1457 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

RICHARD NOBLE WEAR

 

4OME ADDRESS: 180 S. Angell St. Providence 6, R.L

OFFICE appRESS: FE. M. Irons Associates, Inc., 1119 Industrial Bank Bldg., Provi-
dence, R.I.

oRN: Nov. 16, 1912, Malden, Mass. parents: Charles Wear, Sophia Crosman.
REPARED AT: Waltham High School, Waltham, Mass.
EARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931, 1932-1933.

aaRRIED: Hope Cayford, March 15, 1937, Newton, Mass. CHILDREN: Susan Cay-
ford, Aug. 16, 1938 (7. David Neil Fenton, Nov. 16, 1957); Nancy, June 26,
1940; Richard Noble, Jr., Oct. 1, 1954.

SCUPATION: Insurance agent, self-employed.

FFICES HELD: Afember, Republican Town Committee, North Providence, RI;
assistant professor of insurance, Bryant College, Providence, RI.

EMBER OF: Providence Chapter, American Red Cross; St. John’s Chapter No. 1,

Providence, F. & A.M.; St. John’s Commandery No. 1, Knights Templar;
Sports Car Club of America.

mo

TER leaving college in the spring of 1933, q spent several years
1 rootless and bootless occupations, none of which were pleasant
r decently remunerative. Those were tough years, but not with-
ut eventual benefit because they surely toughened me beyond any-
ung I should previously have deemed possible.

| did not begin at a career of any description until 1941 when I
‘as already twenty-nine. In September of that year I became an
surance salesman, and have remained one ever since, with two
eviations to be described further on.

One fine thing did happen during the lean years, My marriage to
wonderful girl in 1937 eventually straightened me out, especially
hen followed by the blessings of my two dear daughters — Susan
August of 1938 and Nancy in June of 1940,

The insurance business has been my business life except for two

ars, 1944 and 1945, in the Navy as an electronics technician. The

[ 1460 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Navy sent me to school for seventeen months, then to Pearl Harbor
to test sound- ~-homing torpedoes and to install them in patrol sub-
marines. Hot stuff in those days and top secret.

In 1946 I resumed insurance selling until 1949, when a strong bent
for the mathematics of insurance rates took me into the Rhode Is-
land State Insurance Department with the title of insurance rating
supervisor. There I spent five years setting up an insurance rating
bureau where none had existed before. I went back into private
business as soon as matters were so well organized as to leave me
with only the duties of a chairman of the board.

I want to spend the next fifteen years giving my children good
foundations for living. By the time that job is done younger men
will be carrying the detail in my own business and I look forward to
being once more a chairman of the board. Good wife Hope looks
forward to the day when we can see as much of each other as we
want, and I can put more time into my avocation, which is the
gathering and cataloguing of a library on the history and develop-
ment of the automobile.

ALLEN LEAMING WEATHERBY

 
  
 
 

ty, a AR: age
re ‘

i j
rs ey a

HOME appress: 116 Madison Ave., Madison, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Drew University, Madison, N.J.

BORN: Feb. 1, 1912, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: Frederick S. Weatherby, Mary |
Katherine Leaming.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B, CU? laude, 1934; A.M, 1952; PH.D,
1956,

MARRIED: Sylvia Burt Cleveland, June, 1932 (divorced 1936); Florence Eliza-
beth Roseen-Pedersen, 1937, Los Angeles, Calif. cumpren: Mark Cleve-
land, March 14, 1933; Blythe Diana Carolyn, March 7, 1940.

[1461 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934
HARVARD BROTHER: Philip Grandin Weatherby, 3d, °39.
occupation: Professor of English.

OFFICES HELD: West Coast editor, Doubleday & Company, several years from

1940; president, Hollywood Book Store, Inc., 1940-46; adviser to Faculty
Fellows, Harvard University, 1955-56.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association; Linguistic Society of America,
American Association of University Professors, The English Institute;

Atlantic Cat Club; Pi Delta Epsilon; Honorary Collegiate Journalism So-
ciety (honorary member).

pusLications: A few poems in Audience.

] HAVE not yet recovered from my embarrassment at being so

loquacious in 1954. My daughter Blythe is attending the University
of Colorado, Class of 1962.

ROGER HAYDOCK WEED

    

HOME ADbRESS: 4795 S. Lafayette St., Englewood, Colo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Denver National Bank, Denver, Colo.

Born: April 6, 1912, Milton, Mass. parents: Arthur Henry Weed, ’03, Eleanor
Haydock.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass. "

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 19343 LL.B., 1939.

Marriep: Hilary T. Lunt, July 8, 1939, Concord, Mass. cumtpren: Arthur H.,
March 2, 1941; Roger Haydock, Jr., March 3, 1943; Hilary Blair, June 1,
1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Harvey Weed, ’41, M.D., 745.

occupation: Trust Officer, Denver National Bank.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Falcon Seaboard Drilling Company, International Social
Service (former officer).

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Cruising Club of America; Columbine
Country Club.
TO the casual observer it might appear that I’ve ‘spent the last

[1462]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

twenty-five years trying to reside with my family in as many parts
of the United States as possible, When first married, we lived in
Boston, then Concord, then Milton, Massachusetts, then Washing-
ton, D.C., then Rye, New York, and now Englewood, Colorado, just
outside of Denver. This does not include the two and one-half years

spent without my family in various parts of the Pacific Ocean during
World War II.

However, it is not as bad as it looks, and these transitions have fol-
lowed an evolutionary rather than a revolutionary pattern. Passing
through these geographical changes, my occupation has shifted from
that of Jawyer to banker by way of the intervening steps of gov-
ernment lawyer, corporate legal slave and private investment bank-
er. It seems as if some part of each of these several occupations
contributes to my present function in the Denver National Bank.
Some people might think it is rough on one’s family to move
around like professional military personnel, but we have managed
to hang together and adapt ourselves to the various communities in
which we have found ourselves. I suppose that the ultimate effect
on my children will be to cause them to marry and settle firmly in
one locality and remain there irrespective of hell and high water —
the very opposite of what their parents did. Even so, their parents
have enjoyed living in an assortment of communities and believe that

modern transportation is such that you can’t get out of touch with
your friends just because of a little ‘distance. There’ sno such thing
as a big distance any more. 7

There are only one or two points about my life that seem to be ¢ of
enough general interest to describe in any detail.

In the first place, of course, is the story of Dick Ames, our late
classmate. Some people may recall that in 1935, I participated in the
Transatlantic Race from New port to Norway on the yacht H aarrab,
which was commanded by Dick’s father, Mr. Robert R. Ames, and
on which Dick was navigator. I joined the crew at the last moment
when one of the regulars dropped out, and I never had seen the
boat or sailed with any of her crew prior to setting out for the start-
ing line. As is generally known, Mr, Ames was washed overboard
approximately i in mid-Atlantic and Dick and his younger brother,
Harry, immediately went overboard after him, w ith the result that
all three were lost. Charlie Tillinghast and John Ware's brother,

Sheldon (who was subsequently killed flying Bz5’s in World
War II), and I were the only persons left on board and we were not
successful in maneuvering the Hamrah to recover the others.

[ 1463 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Since then I have done quite a bit of sailing in various races and

cruised somewhat, and have also had some experience in the conduct
of rescue operations during my naval experiences in the Pacific. If ]
had the Norway Race to do over again today, in the light of what
I have learned, I never would sail on the Hamrah; nor do I think
that any modern Race Committee would accept her as an entrant in
a race of this type. The vessel was fundamentally of poor design
and, though extremely well built, she had no engine and there were
certain maneuvers that she just would not perform at sea. Her equip-
ment —or rather lack of it—would have shocked any modern
ocean racer, besides which we were a comparatively inexperienced
group from top to bottom to be going off on a jaunt of this kind.
While it seems horrible that a tragedy of such proportions should
have taken place, it seems to me, in retrospect, inevitable that a set-up
like the Hazverah would get into some kind of trouble. It is only
unfortunate that the trouble she got into was so severe.

Dick was an important classmate while he lived; and I’m sure
would have continued to be so had he survived. His ‘Personal brav-
ery was of the highest order.

Early i in 1942, 1 was lucky enough to bluff my way into the Navy
as a licutenant (J-8.)s USNR. After completing my training, I
thought my luck had run out when the Navy complied with my
request for North Atlantic duty by sending me to the South Pacific
— par for the course for the Navy. As it turned out, the Navy
was right. I fell in with a group of uninhibited Reserve staff officers
who were more interested in getting on with the war than regular
Navy protocol. Working with this group, I was able to make sig-
nificant contributions to the development of procedures and tech-
niques for rescuing flight personnel shot down or forced down in
combat areas of the Pacific. Having done the staff work, I was en-
trusted with responsibility for the conduct of rescue operations in
three of the major amphibious operations in the Pacific War — very
gratifying in wartime to measure accomplishment in terms of lives
saved rather than people killed, and also a little unusual.

In the course of this work, I served for greater or lesser periods on
three different aircraft carriers (including the British carrier, Vic-
torious), two battleships, three command ships, a submarine and
an LCI, as well as being shore-based at the principal command cen-
ters of the Central and Southwest Pacific Theatres. There was even
a litle “cloak and dagger” work in Washington, involving the ac-
quisition of a secret survival map from a sister service and a mad

[ 1464 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

dash to the Central Pacific to get it into the hands of our carrier
pilots in time to be of use.

Now, however, all that activity is a thing of the past. For the
past few years — and I expect for the next few — all we have been
doing is providing a home and expensive: education for three chil-
dren. If we still have our health when that is done, I have certain
plans (unknown to my wife), but it would be jumping the gun even
to mention them.

JAMES HIGGINSON WEEKES

   

HOME ADDRESS: West Grove, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: J. Robert Wilson, 135 E. State St., Kennett Square, Pa.

BORN: Sept. 11, 1911, New York, N.Y. parents: Arthur Delano Weekes,
Dorothy Lee Higginson.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1034. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MARRIED: Katharine Sands, New York, N.Y. (divorced).

HARVARD BROTHERS: Arthur Delano Weekes, Jr. °31; Townsend Underhill
Wreekes, ’37.

OCCUPATION: Real estate salesman.

OFFICES HELD: Co-chairman, Red Cross Fund Drive, Southern Chester County,

Pa., 1957; lieutenant commander, U.S. Navy.
MEMBER OF: Seawanhaka Corinthian Yacht Club, Oyster Bay, N.Y.

I AM still searching for the perfect job and, with any luck, I just
might find it in the next twenty-five years.

After graduation | started out with the Union Carbide Company
in their foreign department. This association was interrupted by
the war. Since returning from a five-year stint in the U.S. Navy,
I have worked in self-service laundries, which mv brother and I
operated for four years, in a glass business of my own, a plastic

[ 1465 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

factory and a refrigeration concern, all of which were on Long
Jsland. In 1955 I moved to Pennsylvania and am now in real estate.

Much of my time is still devoted to upland game-shooting, sail-
ing, fishing and riding. One of these days I expect to return to my
house on Oyster Bay Harbor where you will find me in a rocking-
chair contemplating the water and enjoying memories.

DUDLEY ALBERT WEISS

    

HOME appRess: 50 Philbrick Rd., Newton Center 59, ‘iass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 State St., Boston 9, Mass. os

porn: May 17, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Willa Jacob Weiss, Esther
Herman.

pRePARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1934; LLB. 1937-

MarRigD: Thelma Akabas, June 9, 1940, Boston, Mass. cHirp: Eleancr Ruth,
Sept. 8, 1942.

occupation: Lawyer.

i

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa, American, Norfolk County and Middlesex County
Bar Associations; Bar Association of the City of Boston; Judicature So-
ciety; United Lodge, AF. & A.M.; New Century Club.

AFTER twenty-five years, I feel that perhaps I am becoming obso-
lete. Ours is a generation that came into being just prior to a savage
war marking the destruction of a civilization that at least did lip
service to the idea of the dignity of man and his worthwhileness.
Democracy was believed to be an end toward which people and their
governments were working, slowly, but inexorably. Some correla-
tion existed between what people thought, said and believed and
what they did. Today that is not so. We, as a nation, and the aggre-

gate of nations which people our planet, have become masters of
self-deception, contradiction and hyprocrisy,

[ 1466 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Our democracy was nurtured in a society where the prevailing
premises concerned themselves with the -concept of individual and
religious freedoms, and these provided the matrix of our political
institutions. The effort to add contradictory and ill-defined eco-
nomic concepts to these freedoms has almost perverted our civiliza-
tion and culture. The impact upon our generation has been par-
ticularly marked. The 1920's, with their false prosperity and pro-
hibition, made gamblers, law breakers and hypocrites of many. The
depressed ’30’s turned a large part of our nation in the direction
of looking for something for nothing, whether it be as contestants
on a quiz show, or as members of economic groups who impressed
our government with the idea that it is an insurer of economic pros-
perity. The ’40’s suffered a war fought for Four Freedoms, but
one which almost completed the annihilation of the idea of man as
an object of dignity in large areas of the world.

Does man exist for the state, or the state for man? We profess
the latter and are engaged in a vast conflict with the powers that,
in their deeds, assert the former. The great tragedy is that in our
eforts to maintain our existence, we have too often adopted the
tec niques and thinking of our adversary, except in our courts which
acpear to be the last citadel of freedom. As such, they are under
giteck, | oe

‘Fhe most significant contribution that America has made t
c.vuization has been the concept of progress, which we have sprea
across the globe. Too frequently, this is interpreted in material
terms, so that the rest of the world is seeking to enioy the material
things which we feel we must have because the ubiquitous ads insist

sv

they are necessary for our well-being. We now no longer produce _
for consumption, but consume for production. Conformity is a

virtue, individualism is a vice, at least in practice, but not in bac-
calaureate sermons. I am sorry to say that this is the age of the
disappearance of the eccentric. The authoritarianism our generation
was brought up to abhor now surrounds every aspect of our living.
Brainwashing is practised not only in the jails’ of our enemies; its
chief protagonists are to be found on Madison Avenue, We still pay
lip service to our democratic beliefs, but they have become
shibboleths as meaningless as TV ads. Both our totalitarian adver-
saries and we ourselves are approaching the development of institu-
tions which probably will have more in comnion than we now think
possible. Only our right to question the acts of our government

[ 1467 ]

fos SD

4a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

The past twenty-five years have not been easy ones, but I never
have regretted them. ‘The practice of law is always exciting, stimu-
lating and, even if at times not remunerative in dollars, rewarding.
People in difficulty, obstacles that seem insurmountable and the
realization of how weak we all are, have made me humble. The
sincerity of true friends, the gratefulness of clients and the realiza-
tion that in each of us there is a divine spark, these are the things
which seem to have the only real permanence in life. I shall ever be
indebted to Harvard for expanding my horizons so that the inclusion
of such concepts is a basic premise in my thinking. Without ques-
tion, it has been the most dominant influence in my life and has given
me the faith and confidence to view the future with optimism.

SIMON LOUIS WEKER |

     

Ei - : A
4 A . ws

HOME abpress: 8514 Milford Ave., Rosemary Hills, Silver Spring, Md.

BORN: Feb. 13, 1913, Hinson, Fla. parents: Max Weker, Lottie Jacobs.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1934; ED.M. (Boston

Teachers Coll), 1938; Certificate (Acad. of International Law, The Hague),
1950; LL.B. (George Washington Univ.), 1952.

Marriep: Gertrude Glory Tucker, Feb. 22, 1952, Brooklyn,
Laurie Jane, May 9, 1953; Jonathan Lloyd, Dec. 27, 1954.

occuPaATIoN: Political analyst, U.S. Government.

MEMBER oF; American Bar Association, Nu Beta Epsilon Law Fraternity; Amer-

ican Society of International Law; National Lodge, A.F. & A.M., Wash-
ington, D.C., Seneca Consistory, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.

N.Y.) CHILDREN:

THE invitation from the Class Report Committee to render an ac-
count of one’s life and experiences of the past twenty-five years is
somewhat unsettling to this correspondent. The lack of equilibrium
does not arise from any conviction that a member of the Class of

[ 1470 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

’34 is incapable of enunciating profound observations about what
life has taught him, but stems rather from the realization that
Father Time is about to chalk off another twenty-five-year period
in his book against this correspondent’s credit quota. Since none of
us has too many twenty-five-year segments left to enjoy, this cor-
respondent suggests that the Class of ’34 fool that old man by issuing
Class Reports at more frequent intervals than twenty-five-year
spans!

Life was “earnest and real” for me in those depression years fol-
lowing graduation. After an unsatisfying apprenticeship as a “junior
executive” in the fields of retail merchandising and insurance ac-
counting, I fulfilled an old ambition to teach in the Boston schools.
World War II put an end to that scholastic activity by instilling in
me a desire to occupy myself with wider horizons. My four years
overseas in the ETO with the US. Army sharpened my already
existing interest in those political and economic developments that
were making the United States the leader of the Western World.
So to Washington in 1946 and employment as a political analyst
with the Department of State! Simultaneously, I pursued the law
course at George Washington University where I focused my atten-
tion on the field of international law. I obtained my law degree,
was admitted to the District of Columbia bar, and received a Cer-
tificate from the Academy associated with the International Court
of fustice at The Hague.

have just returned from a tour of duty 3 in Germany that lasted
four years. It was an enjoyable experience for myself and family.
From a larger point of view it was reassuring to ‘observe the eco-
nomic strength displayed by a miraculously revived West Germany
and to know that she is on our side in this Cold War. But to keep
her and our other European allies there will take constant effort
and vigorous leadership on the part of the United States, if Europe
is not to succumb to Soviet blandishments and threats. These are
historic times for our generation, which has had more than its share
of hot and cold wars and is now being menaced with new problems
arising from the probings of outer space.

Despite the creeping inflation that permeates our economy — we
were overwhelmed by the enormous increases in prices that have
taken place in the last four years — we are glad to be home again.
We don’t worry any more about checking the water supply for our
children or the things they can eat, as we did in Furope; we just
try to teach them moderation in their consumption of ice cream

[ 1471 ]

_—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

and cokes, but it’s a losing battle for us. We're slowly getting set-
tled back in our old house after unpacking mountains of cartons
and barrels —soon we, too, will be able to enjoy the pleasures of

life in Suburbia, U.S.A.

DAVID WELD

 

HOME ADDRESS: New Mill Road, Smithtown, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: White, Weld & Co., 20 Broad St., New York 5, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 10, 1911, New York, N.Y. parents: Francis Minot Weld, ’97,
Margaret Low White.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.,; Thacher School, Ojai, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: AB., magna cum laude, 1934.

Marrizp: Mary Blake Nichols, Jan. 4, 1936, New York, N.Y. cuitpren: David

Low, July 6, 1938; Francis Minot, 3d, Nov. 22, 1939, Anne Floyd, April
27, 1941; Wilham Floyd, July 31, 1945.
HARVARD SON: Francis Minot Weld, 3d, 61.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Alfred White Weld, ’30 (deceased); Francis Minot Weld,
Jr., 732.

occupation; Partner, White, Weld & Company, investment banking and
brokerage firm.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer and vice-president, Society of St. Johnland, since
1948, member, Smithtown Board of Education, 1950-53, Greenvale School
Board, 1953-55; chairman, Smithtown Republican Committee, since 1955;

member, board of managers, Harvard Club, 1956-57; director, several
small corporations.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Union Club; Anglers Club; Lunch
Club; St. George’s Golf and Country Club; B.P.O.E.; Smithtown Boosters.

HAVING gone through college with no set goal in mind, I spent

the first year after graduation as a trainee in the foreign department
of the Guaranty Trust Company of New York.

Next, I took the commendable step of marrying the sister of our

[1472 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

classmate, Floyd Nichols, and together, Mollie and I spent the follow-
ing two years in England and France, where I continued working
as a bank clerk. This was a wonderful experience for us in a period
of unusual interest, with England still at the height of her power,
while France was beginning to crumble under a series of socialist
governments. In many ways, working for a year with foreigners in
a foreign country seems equivalent to a year in college, from the
broad educational point of view.

In 1938, we returned to the United States, had our first son and
bought an old farm in Smithtown, Long Island. At this point, I
went to work for White, Weld & Company, investment bankers and
brokers, and have been in that firm ever since, with the exception
of the war period. °

During the war, I was lucky to fall into_a job of neve er-ending
interest ‘and change, with minimum exposure to bullets — in the
combat intelligence end of the Army Air Force. For three years, I
trekked around with a P-38 (Lockheed Lightning) Group, changing
bases from Ireland to Algeria, Tunisia, Italy and Russia. All this
could be considered as a worthy supplement to a Harvard education.

Back home again after the war, I made a real effort — despite
the handicaps of being a commuter — to take an active part in com-
munity life, This involved running Red Cross campaigns, serving on
church and school boards and, more recently, acting as chairman of
our local Republican party. This last job—in a township of
35,000 which has a precarious Republican plurality — has been
vexing, challenging and rewarding in turn. To me, the main interest
in being a “political boss” is the variety of people and problems vou
encounter. Politics, by the way, led me into the marginal w eckly
newspaper field, perhaps a natural sequence to activ ity on the
Crimson in college years. Incidentally, Mollie has also taken an
active part in community and county life, which means that between
the two of us there is hardly enough time left for our many hobbies.

Number one hobby, needless. to say, is our family of four
children — one sophomore at Harvard, one sophomore at Kenyon
College in Ohio, one senior at Milton Academy Girls’ School and a
thirteen- -year-old at Middlesex School in Concord, Massachusetts.

Other ranking hobbies would be duck and upland bird shooting,
trout and salmon fishing, golf, tennis, travel and reading.

I’m still enthusiastically in favor of Harvard C ollege and our
present form of government, but I'm definitely opposed to com-
muting on the Long Island Railroad — a special form of punishment

[ 1473 ]

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

to which a few of us appear sentenced for the balance of our work-
ing life.

WILLIAM STANWOOD WELLINGTON

 

HOME apprEss: Pecksland Road, Greenwich, Conn. oo
OFFICE ADDRESS: % Adams & Peck, 120 Broadway, New York 5, N.Y

BoRN: Aug. 30, 1912, Brookline, Mass, PARENTS: Stanw ood Gr zray Wellington, ’oo,
Alice Hamlin Baker.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1034. DEGREES: A.B., cU#H? laude, 1434 A MBA, 1937-

MarrieD: Harriet H. Heywood, June 16, 1934, Port iand, Maine (divorced

1939); Mrs. Jane Carithers Slaughter, Aug. 1, 1947, WwW inder, Ga. CHILD:
Benjamin Baker, July 16, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Roger Hinckley Wellington, 739 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Securities; parmer in New York Stock Exchange firm of Adams &
Peck. .

OFFICES HELD: Member, Greenwich Republican Town Committee, five years;
member, Representative Town Meeting, Greenwich, six years; member,

finance committee, since 1950, board member, 1950-56, fund drive chairman,

1951, treasurer, 1953-55, Greenwich Chapter of American Red Cross, gov-
ernor, Greenwich Skating Club.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Down Town Association, New York:

Round Hill Club, Greenwich; Greenwich Skating Club; Devon Yacht Club,
East Hampton, Long Island.

THE first few years after graduation were spent in the cotton textile
business and at the Harvard Business School. During the latter part
of 1937 my business activities turned to the vicinity of lower Broad-
way in Manhattan, where I have been located ever since, first with »
the Central Hanover Bank and later in several securities firms. In
recent years, together with two friends whom I have known for
twenty years, I have been a partner in the New York Stock Ex-
change firm of Adams & Peck. We do a little of most everything

[ 1474 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in this field, but our principal activity is ferreting out new, or im-
proving, investment situations for institutional, as well as individual,
clients. It has been an absorbing occupation and we have been quite
busy trying to improve our service as well as endeavoring to make
a good living out of it.

My first marriage ended in divorce in 1939 and for the next few
years I lived in New York City. I married again in 1942 and sub-
sequently settled in Greenwich, Connecticut, where Jane, Ben) (our
adopted son) and myself have been ensconced for the past fourteen
years. I have never been very happy about the daily commuting
chore, but as long as my business happens to tie me to the Island of
Manhattan, I much prefer living in at least semi-country to a city
apartment, Like other similar communities, Greenwich has grown
enormously, but it is a good place to live with many different things
to do and many good friends to join in doing them. My wife and
I have participated in a fair amount of civic and charitable work
and we like to tangle over the bridge table with other like-minded
couples. There is plenty of opportunity for athletic activities, ten-
nis, paddle tennis, skating, and occasionally I get out into the beau-
tiful woods that line our golf course, searching for my horrendous
hooks and slices. All of these various outside activities, however,
have been secondary to the wonderful experience and satisfaction
in helping to bring up a very fine son, if the reader will pardon my
natural prejudice.

A not inconsiderable part of my spare time these last ten or twelve
years has been spent in political affairs with emphasis on the organ-
izational side of the Republican party in Greenwich and the state.
I started out with the Young Republicans, where I was at one time
president of the New England Council of Young Republicans.
Subsequently, I have worked on our Republican Town Committee,
the local and state finance committees, the Republican State Platform
Committee, and as a delegate to state conventions and the Repub-
lican National Convention i in 1952. Tam presently Republican State
Central Committeeman for the 36th District. The event that pro-
pelled me into doing more than average in this field was the unbe-
lievable (!) election of one Harry S. Truman as president in 1948.
Following this peculiar aberration on the part of the voters, I wanted
to help somehow with the process of purting Ike in the White House.

Since then I have continued my interest and I think the principal
reason ts a desire to do my small bit toward making and keeping the
party a progressive vehicle for government, Put another way, [hike

[1475]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

to see good (in my opinion) Republican candidates nominated for
office and elected. After all, government is an important influence
in our lives and of necessity elected officials spend a great deal of
our money. Politics has afforded me a liberal education in the ways
of human nature and it has been an enjoyable activity as well.

As the result of a crack in the side of my skull incurred in rg4o,
I did no involuntary traveling during the war. Business travel has
taken me around the country and several years ago my wife and I
took a very leisurely tour of the Rockies and California, by car.
These trips plus a couple of excursions to Florida have been the
extent of our travels. In recent summers we have been going out
to Amagansett on the far end of Long Island, which is an excellent
spot for a vacation and Jong weekends —a little surf swimming,
tennis, picnicking on the beach, fishing off Montauk (I seldom catch
anything), and a lot of sitting on the verandah of the Devon Yacht
Club gazing out at the waters of Gardiner’s Bay with a cool drink
in hand and a few congenial people around. This latter activity be-
comes more appealing every year!

As our Twenty-fifth Reunion approaches, I can’t help but think
back to the old’ gaffers who came back to Cambridge for their
Twenty-fifth, when we were in college. It is slightly astonishing
that I don’t seem to feel now the way they looked to me then, al-
though I'm sure we shall all seem pretty ancient to the Class of 1959.
In any event, one of the pleasanter surprises in life is the fact that
Tam ‘looking forward to the next twenty-five years with perhaps
a little more anticipation than I did back in 1934.

CARTER WELLS

 

HOME appress: 2816 E. Kenwood Blvd., Milwaukee 11, Wis.

[ 1476 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
OFFICE ADDRESS: Flint Corp., 2410 W. Capitol Drive, Milwaukee 6, Wis.
BORN: April 22, 1911, Boston, Mass. Parents: Mackey Wells, ’08, Alida M.

Carter. .

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-10932.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Mackey Wells, Jr., ’32-

OCCUPATION: President, Flint Corporation, automotive accessory company
and national manufacturers’ agency.

OFFICES HELD: President, Milwaukee Civic Music Association, Milwaukee Civic
Concert Association; vice-president, Central Agency for Chronically Il,
former member, board of directors, Milwaukee YMCA.

MEMBER OF: Masons.

THE old saying, “A rolling stone gathers no moss,” can be the sum-
mary of my story since 1934. I’ve lived out of a suitcase or sea bag
almost constantly in this period, traveled all over the United States
into every corner several times, been to Europe three times, Japan
once, Australia and Hawaii several times, etc., etc., probably totaling
about one million miles of travel and have nothing to show for it.
No wife, no children, no medals, no mansions or great possessions,
or worldly effects as people measure such, and only a growing girth
to indicate I’ve enjoyed life to the fullest.

It has been a full life though, because there aren’t many places
or activities in a normal life with which I haven’t had some ex-
perience. Business pursuits have been very considerable, and I am
now president of my own enterprise selling an automotive accessory
all over the world. Since the war I’ve developed five companies
with only one flop. I’ve run for political office on four separate oc-
casions, with no luck; been the head of several civic organizations,
either for charity or culture; had several positions in my church and
have done a great amount of speaking around the country in youth
work programs.

While I don’t have the pleasure of raising a family, I receive great
pleasure watching my Harvard mates raising theirs as I visit around
the country. Then, Harvard is one of my hobbies in that I am
active in keeping the quota from Wisconsin filled, It is thrilling to
see these fine lads develop and to get to college at least twice a year.
Another hobby is my country home where I have a most pleasant
and beautiful “Shangri-la.” It is a veritable paradise and enables me
to keep my sanity in a busy life. Dana Tucker and John Monro

will attest that it is a real retreat.
The greatest satisfactions have come in my work with young

[ 1477 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

people. Through the YMCA HI-Y activity, church activity, Har-
vard recruiting, sponsorship of young people in music, American
Field Service assistance and many more such efforts, I feel that any-
thing I might have done so far has been a privilege and even a
challenge in this uncertain world. Even with the veneer which
young people seem to be developing, I see a great need for a re-
sponsive “ear” on the part of these young people and if I can be
such, my personal philosophy will have been fulfilled. In the grind-
ing circumstances of our life, these good young people need en-
couragement and ] deem it my mission in life to serve as a cheer
leader for them on the side lines.

So I write that I have very little to show in a monetary way for
twenty-five years out of Harvard, but I’ve lived it to the fullest
and have been happier than most people. My sincerest hope is that
it has been in conformity with our basic Christian code of love for
our fellow-men.

¥

CLEMENT WILLIAM W ELSH

 

HOME AbpREss: 750 Ludlow Ave., Cincinnati 20, Ohio.
OFFice appRess: Forward Movement Publications, 412 Sycamore St., Cincinnati,
Ohio.

orn: Mav 21, 1913, Oakmont, Pa. parents: James Winfield Welsh, ’o1, Ada
Page Clement. .

PREPARED AT: Shaker High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1934; B.D. (Episcopal
Theological School), 1937; pup. (Harvard Univ.), 1958.

MarrieD: Catherine Cooke Gilman, Aug. 28, 1937, Minneapolis, Minn. CHILDREN:
David Clement, June 9, 1940; Jeremy Gilman, Oct. 13, 1943; Catherine
Ann Canby, Oct, 2, 1946, Timothy William, May 17, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Winfield Welsh, Jr., ’31, M.B.A., °33.

[ 1478 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Editor (and clergyman), Forward Movement Publications, pub-
lishers of pamphlets for Protestant Episcopal Church.
PUBLICATIONS: Articles, a little poetry and fiction.

AFTER college and seminary, I served as a curate at St. John’s
Church in Waterbury, Connecticut, then as rector of St. James
Church, South Groveland, Massachusetts, while doing graduate
work at Harvard. I then served on the faculty of Kenyon College,
and of the Episcopal seminary, Bexley Hall, both in Gambier, Ohio.
From time to time, I acted as chaplain of the college. Since 1957,
I have been editor of a publishing house that publishes a daily de-
votional guide (annual circulation two million) and booklets and

pamphlets (some six million per year).

STANLEY GARFIELD WELSH

 

HOME aAppress: 5 Westminster Rd., Summit, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Tomes & Welsh, 120 Broadway, New York, N.Y.

BORN: June 21, 1911, New Bedford, Mass. parents: William Garfield Welsh,
Cora W. Stanley.

PREPARED AT: Tabor Academy, Marion, Mass.; Milford High School, Milford,
Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.

MarriED: Betty Hurst, Jan. 26, 1935, Summit, N.J. cumpren: Sidney Elizabeth,
Jan. 8, 1936; John Stanley, May 10, 1937; Meredith, June 4, 1942; William,
June 6, 1948.

HARVARD SON: John Stanley Welsh, ’59.

OCCUPATION: Partner, Tomes & Welsh; member, New York Stock Exchange.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Kansas City Southern Railroad, 1946-57, Douglas “Air-
craft Corporation, since 1953.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

AFTER leaving college I worked for Martindale-Hubbell, Ine.,
[ 1479 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

publishers, until the spring of 194: when I applied for and received
a commission (licutenant j.¢.) in the Navy. I left the Navy as a
lieutenant commander in October, 1945, after spending my entire
service in the Cable Censor’s office in New York City. In February,
1943. | had bought a seat on the New York Stock Exchange, so
upon leaving the Navy I went down on the Exchange floor to earn

a living, first as a $2.00 broker and then as a specialist for the last
ten years.

Except for fairly extensive traveling, 1 have devoted my time to
my family. My elder daughter graduated from Wellesley in 1958

and my elder son expects to graduate from Harvard in 1959, to
celebrate my Twenty-fifth Reunion.

WILLIAM WEMPLE

 

HOME apprEss: 30 Cambridge Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y. .
OFFice appress: Dewey, Ballantine, Bushby, Palmer & Wood, go Wall St., New
York, N.Y.

BORN: Nov. 3, 1912, New York, N.Y, parents: William Lester Wemple, LL.B.
’03, Dorothy Gunnels.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: AB., 1934, LL.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1937-
MarrieD: Dorothea Dutcher, Nov. 1, 1941, Washington, Conn. CHILDREN:
Paige, Aug. 13, 1942; Katharine Holland, May 20, 1944; William Barent,

June 22, 1946; Leslie, May 4, 1948, Wendy, Oct. 26, 1950; Stephanie, Sept.
2, 1952; Liana Ashley, April 14, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Holland Wemple, '35.

occupation: Lawyer; member of firm, Dewey, Ballantine, Bushby, Palmer &
Wood.

orFices HELD: Counsel, Bureau of Acronautics, 1945; general counsel, Navy

Department, 1946; director, Columbia Law School Alumni Association,

Inc., Scarsdale Community Fund and Council, Inc.; member, Planning
Commission, Village of Scarsdale.

[ 1480 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Down Town Association, New York, The Association of the
Bar of the City of New York; New York State and American Bar As-
sociation; New York County Lawyers Association; American Law In-
stitute; The Town Club, Scarsdale; Scarsdale Golf Club, Inc.

AFTER graduating I went to Columbia Law School and since then
have been practising law in downtown New York City, except during
the war. From 1942 to 1946, I was in the Office of the General
Counsel in the Navy Department, Washington, D.C., both in and
out of uniform.

My wife and I were married in 1941 and have seven children.
Since the arrival of our third we have been living in old suburban
houses with the challenge of spare bedrooms. The rooms are all
occupied now.

I haven’t overlooked the instructions asking for my social, politi-
cal or religious convictions. Twenty-five years ago I could and
probably did write with complete assurance on these topics. Un-
fortunately, I didn’t keep the papers.

1 HENRY BICKNELL WESSMANN

 

BORN: Jan, 4, 1913, Forest Hills, N.Y. parents: Alfred Charlton Wessmann,
Maud McDan.

PREPARED AT: Hempstead High School, Hempstead, Long Island, NAY.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

MARRIED: Doris Bale Reichers, June 2t, t944. CliepReN: Doris Christine, Oct. 21,
1945; Marjorie Jeanne, July 3, 19437; Henry Robert, Feb. 2, r9so.

pinp: May 16, 1956, Manhasset, Long Island, N.Y.

wipow: Ars. Henry B, Wessmann, 37 Wyate Rd, Garden City, Long Mand,
N.Y.

HENRY BICKNELL WESSMANN spent {Wo years W ith our Class.
Ile was a member of Kirkland Elouse tennis team, freshman instru-

[ 1481 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

mental clubs and J.V. lacrosse team. Since leaving college he had
been associated with the book manufacturing firm of J. F. Tapley

Company in Long Island Citv, New York. He was survived by his
wife and three children.

CHARLES IRVIN WESTHEIMER

Ja eset 3p ae RR ET
aie o

  

HOME AppRESS: 485 Wood Ave. Cincinnati 20, Ohic.
OFFICE apprEss: Westheimer & Co., 326 Walnut St, Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

BORN: Noy. 29, 1912, Cincinnati, Ohio. pareNTs: Irvin Ferdinand Westheimer,
Dufhe F. Heinsheimer.

prepareD at: Hughes High School, Cincinnati, Ohic; Taft School, Waterbury,
Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1034.
MARRIED: May Orton, Sept. 25, 1943, Cincinnati, Ohio. cHILDREN: Thomas
Orton, Nov. 27, 1946; John Robert, March 28, 1949; William Charles,

Sept. 11, 1952; Mary Helen, April 27, 1955, Duffie Caroline, Aug. 29, 1957-
occupation: Stockbroker, partner, Westheimer & Company.

oFFices HELD: Director, Junior Achievement of Greater Cincinnati, since 19545
member, Cincinnati Board of Education, since January, 1956.

MEMBER OF: University Club; Queen City Association, Losantiville Country
Club.

AN autobiography is an autobiography, and since this is undoubtedly
my only autobiography, it shall be authoritative. Whose life these
days could not be written as a biography focusing on the autos he
has owned? Thus, mine.

Graduation and a year at Business School allowed me to keep a
’31 Ford touring car with a torn top. Since I got more out of
school than I got out of school, I got out of school to get a New
York job in May, 735, with a Wall Street stockbroker. Which
meant, in turn, no car, but subway and Fl riding instead. Home

[ 1482 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

(which was and is Cincinnati) called at Christmas-time, and home
I came to work in the family firm, also stockbrokers. Wonderful
to be a wage-earner, unmarried, living with my parents, and I lived
it up with a big Buick coupe.

These were the readjustment years in a way too, and a time to
know one’s self. Did I wonder now that the elegant Buick had to
last five years, when it was replaced by a Pontiac convertible with
leather seats? But not for long, because in January ’42, I was shipped
off to Panama and duty with the Sixth Air Force. There I re-
trenched and drove a ’34 Chevrolet (on the left side of the road.

I was there the midnight that driving was changed to the right
side of the road). In the fall of ’43 I got another chance to drive
the Pontiac: returned home for a month’s leave to be married. The
Pontiac was ours —note the plural— when I finally returned for
duty, first at Dayton, then New Jersey, next New York and finally,
Oakland, California. It brought us home, civilians, in October 45.

The new-design postwar Studebaker (is it going forward or back-
ward?) was our first joint venture. Then a son in November 746.
Along with an old house there was a new Buick which took us on
several Cape Cod vacations, once towing a Lightning back to Ohio.
In ’51, a Hillman Minx traveled 6000 kilometers of European roads
for us. We returned home to a crowding house and a crowding
| carport when we became a two-car and two-sen family. A Plymouth
this time for commuting. When the family once again enlarged
(Boy No. 3), the car had to be a station wagon (For d) which in
time moved with the Plymouth and us to a new house, big enough
for the two additional children (daughters) and one addition val car

(in the future).

This spring of 1958, we (just two of us) toured a Fiat around
Greece. At home a Nash Metropolitan has replaced the Ply mouth.
Is there social commentary as w ell as self-analysis in the change

from my postgrad affluence to mature modesty i in the small car?
An auto can be a biography.

[ 1483 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

NATHANIEL GRIFFIN WETHERBEE

 

JOME ADDRESS: 40 Browning St., Weymouth, Mass.

FFICE ADDRESS: Naumkeag Trust Co., 217 Essex St., Salem, Mass.

orN: Feb. 27, 1912, Braintree, Mass. PARENTS: George Henry Wetherbee, Jr.,
Clara Griffin Simonds.

REPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

FARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

‘arRIED: Mary Elizabeth Wolcott, Dec. 1, 1945, Rochester, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Nathaniel Wolcott, Dec. 17, 1946; Martha Bartlett, Nov. 29, 1948.

cUPATION: Trust officer, Naumkeag Trust Company.

Fices HELD: Member, Weymouth Limited Town Meeting, 1950-58; treasurer,
Weymouth Chapter, American National Red Cross, 1954-58.

EMBER OF: Harvard Club of Quincy; Railway & Locomotive Historical So-
ciety; Railroad Enthusiasts; Fiduciary Tax Associates.

WENTY-FIVE years has indeed been a short time. In common
ith many others graduating in 1934, any job was a good one.
hus, by ‘chance, I entered the trust field of banking at the New
ngland Trust Company in Boston, It is a fascinating business.
nele Sam’s call, early in 1942, took me only to familiar places —
ortland, Maine, and Washington, D.C.

Upon leaving the Army in 1946, I started again in banking as
sistant trust officer of the Granite Trust Company, Quincy,
assachusetts, and at the same time was off to a late start in raising
family. I hope my son will be in the Harvard Class of about 1969.
ore recently, in September, 1958, 1 changed my banking connec-
mms to become trust officer of the Naumkeag Trust Company,
Jem, Massachusetts. In the not too distant future our family will
‘obably be living on the North Shore. |
Life in a suburban town is full of varied activities — Cub Scouts,
rm League Baseball, Campfire Girls, PTA, and so many other
ings that we never accomplish half the projects on the agenda.

[ 1484 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Our travels have consisted principally of vacations in western
New York State, a region that we have come to like as much as
New England. As far as politics are concerned, I have an intense
interest in local affairs, having served several years as an elected
representative Town Meeting member in Weymouth. In town
politics, party makes no difference, otherwise we are strongly Re-
publican. In religion, I am an Episcopalian, reformed from Uni-
tarianism. My hobbies are still railroading and railroad history, but,
alas, the glory of the steam locomotive has all but disappeared. My
son says, “Don’t forget that you are a stamp collector, too.”

I wouldn’t have missed the four years at Harvard for anything
in the world. If nothing else, I learned to think independently and,
I hope, effectively.

EDWARD WEXLER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 28 Sky View Circle, Newton Center 59, Mass.

30RN: Oct. 22, 1909, Vilno, Poland. Parents: William Wexler, Riva Chayett.
-REPARED AT: Dorchester High School for Boys, Dorchester, Mass.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932, 1933-1935. DEGREES: AB., 1934(35); LL.B. (Boston
- Coll.), 1941.

AarRieD: Anita Polsky, June 5, 1949, New York, N.Y. cuipren: Ilene Jessica,
Feb. 25, 1951; Robert William, Nov. 6, 1952.
CCUPATION: Real estate business.

HAVE been engaged in the real estate business all my life and
ianaged to get an LL. B. degree from Boston College Law School
1 1941, by attending the evening classes, After a twenty-eight
ionths’ stint in the Air Corps during World War II, in the ‘China-
urma-India Theatre with the 2oth Bomber Command, I picked up
here I left off and resumed the real estate business. I passed the

[ 1485 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

Massachusetts bar in 1949, but never got around to active practice.

While on a business trip to Havana, Cuba, in January, 1949, I
met my future wife whom I married on June 5, 1949. We have a
daughter, Nene Jessica, seven, and a boy, Robert William, who is
six. Tam very much of a home body much to the chagrin of my
wife. I am keenly interested in current events and am an avid
reader along those lines. My wife is a classical music addict and I
have her to thank for learning to appreciate classical music which
we both enjoy very much,

As for my political viewpoints, 1 am an independent in my think-
ing and have voted Republican and Democratic, as my Vv iews at the
time compelled me. But with inflation as a real threat and with both
political parties trying to outdo each other in placating the ap-
petite of the ever-demanding voter, a third, or independent party
would be a welcome and sobering influence to put both parties on
notice that complacency while in office and in power is both im-
prudent and dangerous.

As for the wherewithal, I have found satisfaction through the years
that money is a thing to be respected and not w orshipped. Re-
spected, because you have to work hard t> come by it. This then
is a thumbnail report of my life for the last <juarter-century.

JOSEPH MICHAEL WHALEN

 

HOME abpress: 18 Grant St. Concord, Mass.

OFFICE abbress: American Mutual Liability Insurance Co., 12g Lincoln St,
Boston, Mass.

Born: Aug. so, 1912, Concord
Wallace,

preparep at: Concord High School, Concord, Mass.

[ 1446 }

» Mass, paReSts: John W. Whalen, Margaret L,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B. 1934.

MarrieD: Margaret F. Burns, Sept. 18, 1943, Whitman, Mass.

occuPATION: District sales manager, Boston District Office, American Mutual
Liability Insurance Company.

MEMBER OF: American Institute For Chartered Property and Casualty Under-
writers; Knights of Columbus, Boston Chamber of Commerce.

ALL of my business career has been with the American Mutual. I
have occupied various positions in the sales department in the New
England area. In my present assignment as district sales manager
of the Boston office I am responsible for the production of new ac-
counts and service to our many industrial policy-holders in the
greater Boston area.

In April of 1943, I was fortunate to receive a commission as en-
sign in the Navy. To my surprise and delight my first assignment
was at the Naval Communications School at Harvard. For six months
I was stationed in the Harvard Yard studying flashing light and code
and drilling with wooden rifles. While at Harvard, much of mv
spare time was spent in defending the bad spring weather at Cam-
bridge, the hard bunks and the food at Harvard Union. After six
months of answering questions about the “War in the Harvard

Yard,” I received my orders to the Fifth Amphibious Force in the
Pacific, My duty with the commander of Air Support proved to
be most interesting. Our units were assigned to the headquarters
ships for the invasion fleets. With all of the “Brass” aboard we
_ were well protected by smoke screens during air attacks. On nine
invasions I was able to escape without injury even though on one
occasion our flagship, the USS Nashviile, was severely damage d by
a kamikaze plane. The most enjoyable ‘part of my tour ia the Pacific
was the free time spent at the Hawaiian Islands between invasions.
Since the war my navy activitics have been confined to occasional
dining and dancing at the Officers’ Club.

In 1954 I was accepted into the Society For C hartered Property
and Casualty Underwriters. This is a national society which awards
the professional designation “C.P.C.U.” as evidence of the fulfillment
of a prescribed period of satisfactory insurance experience, the suc-
cessful completion of a series of comprehensive examinations, and
the acceptance of a strict code of ethical conduct. My wife and I
have enjoyed traveling to the national conventions, both for the
seminars on insurance and the social functions.

In 1956 I was saddened by the death of my close friend and our
classmate, Bill Fitzgerald. He will be remembered as our host at

[ 1487 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

the Class Dinners and pre-reunion get-togethers at the Parker iH
where he served as manager for so many years.

For many years I have been interested in all forms of Sportin
events, especially baseball. I have finally succeeded in making me
wife a Red Sox fan. Just recently she purchased a new pair of
skates and is hoping she can get me to go skating. Hope there will
be no broken bones to keep us away from the Reunion,

Ouse,

TAGGART WHIPPLE

 

OME AppRESS: Muttontown Road, Syosset, Long Island, N.Y.

FFICE abpress: Davis, Polk, Wardwell, Sunderland & Kiendl, 15 Broad St.,
New York 5, N.Y.

ors: Oct. 1§, 1912, Manchester, N.H. parents: Stanley C. Whipple, ’og, Ruth
S. Taggart.

REPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.,; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N.H.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934; LL.B. (New York Univ.), 1938.

sarrieD: Katharine G. Brewster, July 10, 1941, Oyster Bay, Long Island, N.Y.
CHILDREN: Christine, Feb. 7, 1946, George S., Sept. 21, 1950, Hugh W.,
March 29, 1953.

cCUPATION: Lawyer.

FFICES HELD: Director, Theatre, Inc., East Woods School, Inc., Community
Hospital at Glen Cove, trustee, Village of Muttontown.

“HE Class wants to know all about your career history, your fam-
y, your travels, hobbies, war record or government service, and
our social, political, or religious convictions.” So says the form we
| received — quite a large order!

Such a variety of things have happened to me since graduation
at I find it hard to sort them out. To begin at the beginning, a
eek after graduation | started working in New York and have

[ 1488 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

been there ever since except during the war. The first four years
were taken up with working for Judge Warren Barrett, general
counsel for a railroad, and night law school. This was followed by
a change of scene when I became a neophyte at the law firm where
I still practise. In both places I was lucky in being able to work
for and associate closely with two older lawyers whose principles
and precepts were and still are a constant source of admiration —
Judge Barrett, and later, until his death in 1955, John W. Davis.

1941 brought a couple of pretty pronounced changes — marriage
and the war. Having endured a variety of Army posts from North
Carolina to California, I got to North Africa and then Italy in a
light field artillery battery. After a long winter at the front in the
mud, I am still looking for the press agent who coined the phrase
“sunny Italy.” Apart from that, the high point was entering Rome
the day it fell with all the excitement you might expect. Later I
had a chance to do a type of staff work in Washington that sounded.
interesting, and after some months of that and the end of the war
I spent a time at the State Department trying to help set up one of
their new postwar activities.

The war had one advantage — it forced many of us to change
the everyday scene of our activities and gave us a chance to take a
hard objective look at them after the war when deciding what to do
and where to try it. After the usual mental pulling and hauling that
prevailed during this immediate changeover period, I decided to re-
turn to my prewar starting point— New York and the same firm.
I became a partner in 1950.

We live in the country which means commuting; but it is worth
it for a variety of reasons, not the least of w hich i is raising three
children among trees, grass, and an unpredictable variety of animals.
Part of the summer we try to spend at the seashore; sailing cruises
took the place of this two years, the last time with the oldest chil-
dren —really one of the best ways to spend a family vacation.
The rest of the summer we eat our w av through the vegetable
garden’s corn and tomatoes, tomatoes and corn, et ‘al, My w ite and
I try to take a winter vacation every vear, and this has brought us
to various parts of the Caribbean and Bahamas, where we tind the
swimming, schnorkeling, and relaxed life intriguing. Shooting and
fishing I find increasingly enjoyable, golf incre: asingly unconquerable.

Community activ itics — hospital, school and village — have taken
a fair amount of time, but with all their demands are, I think, ene
of the best ways of giving content to a principle that has been pretty

[ 1489 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

badly eroded — the idea that local problems are best solved at the
local level by the people most intimately concerned, not by con-
stantly looking to the State House or W ashington, If that sounds
reactionary, let it be noted that my point is ‘frequently made by
liberals in commenting on the increasing difficulties of maintaining
the role of individual, independent thought and action in a society
characterized by mass attitudes and bigness.

As for the working day, which after all takes up most of our wak-
ing hours, it has inv ‘olved problems and personalities so varied and
diverse that I have never had a chance to ect bored (well, hardly
ever).

I cannot think or write of those twenty-five years and this June

without expressing how much I miss and will miss Tom Nazro, Bob
Hurlbut and Joe Kellogg

JOHN BRIDGERS WHITE
- na “ sc aenadieaiiie |

:

    

HOME appress: Amherst, N.H.

OFFICE appress: Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, 60 Garden St.
bridge 38, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 17, 1911, Tarboro, N.C. parents: Robb White, Laura Placidia
Bridgers.

PREPARED aT: Episcopal High School, Alexandria, Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934(46); a.m. (George Washington
Univ.), 1955; o-pHit, (Univ. of Edinburgh), 1957.
UNMARRIED,

, Cam-

occuPaTION: Information officer, Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory

NOW then, This is the part I have been waiting for. Ha!
What a tangled web we weave,
When college first we leave. .

[ 1490 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

When I first left college I thought, as did most of us in those old
unhappy far-off days, that our lives were to be measured entirely
by ° ‘success,” which in turn was measured entirely by money. W hat
a hideous idea! How splendid it turned out to be false! W ell, be-
cause of one thing and another (and, as a matter of fact, yet another),
I did not graduate with the Class of 1934. In fact, 1] was lucky to get
out ahead of the bailiff or proctor or whoever pursues intellectually
bankrupt absconders. So it was more than difficult for me to get a job.

I used to spend the mornings in the spacious employment room
of Jordan Marsh, reading the paper, napping and applying for every
kind of job a large department store offers — everything from photo-
graphic technician to vice-president in charge of sales. V ery com-
fortable chairs in that office. Sometime early in January, 1935, I
was offered a job. Filing clerk in the library of the Boston Herald-
Traveler. Salary $10.50. Hours forty-six, I believe; I remember it
was a five-and-a-half-day week. I loved that job. I filed clippings
of people, that is, stories from newspapers concerning individuals
rather than nations, companies, wars, depressions and so forth. I
worked from 6 p.m. to 2 a.m., or thereabouts, and much enjoved
spinning fantasies with my immediate superior, Don Ross (now city
editor of the Herald), concerning our future adventures in the Afri-
can jungle, a region far wilder than anv ever explored by Alan
Quatermain.
=. After Don left, I agitated and in a few weeks I was in the city
.. room—a full-fledged copy boy! Salary $10.50 a week. Imagine
... ascant nine months after starting work, and already a promo-
tion, or anyway not a demotion. I was naturally wild with enthu-
siasm and in almost no time managed to latch onto three other

jobs — I started work at 10 a.m. modeling for artists of the Mfuscum

School, at noon I put in a shift as winter sports and fish and game
editor of the Traveler, and some time or other in the afternoon I
opened letters and otherwise functioned as assistant to the director
of the New England Radio News Service, a position classified as
CAF-1, the lowest Civil Service rating. My total week's take was
about $29.

Life was very happy. Actually, T have never since been much
happier — some, particularly now, but not much. Work really is
the best thing for people and [am extremely glad that T have lived
with and known it, and Tam sure thar, having thus known it, [shall
forever be a better man, wiser, more able to: apprechite all cood
things. What happened was that in a few more months, my werk

[ r4gt ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

I had the challenging job of clothing our scientifically impeccable
fact and theory in publicly comprehensible language. Wild days,
those first months of the Space Age — two conferences a day, and
special i interviews and such stuff in between; I can’t remember how
long it was before I managed to leave the building at 79 Garden
Street and go to sleep in a bed.

Excitement about Space cooled off a little, however, and in the
summer of 1958 I went to Florida to put in some duty at my primary
task, camera observer. Now, December, 1958, I am about to go to
Persia to do likewise. We have stations at these two places plus
India, Spain, Hawaii, South Africa, Japan, Australia, Curagao, Argen-
tina, Peru and New Mexico. When I am not Information Officer
for the Observatory, I am a sort of roving camera observer, so after
Persia F may go for a matter of months. to South Africa, or who
knows w here? Not a bad life. Not a bad life at all.

Three summers ago I was sweeping floors in the Pan American
Union every night for §25 a week; two summers ago I was handing
"out cutlery i ina fast-and-nasty restaurant in the South of England.
Now I am the august Director of Information of the Smithsonian
Astrophysical Observatory, from time to time, when we get into
hassles with the Russians about positions and deaths of their satellites,
the Voice of America. Tomorrow? Next Year?? Hmmmmm. A
factory worker at a bench? A teacher? A butler in a rich Texas
house like Ruggles of Red Gap? A baldheaded something sham-
bling through ‘the seventeenth century in search of vampires, were-
wolves and the phoenix? Or perhaps an apprentice to a Persian
Parsee, singing lovely songs to the sunset from a spidery minaret?
Who knows? God, or Allah, decides these things — for a bachelor.

Modesty forbids my making a claim which otherwise I would
be quick to assert: that this account is the cockeyedest and most
ramshackle Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report ever brewed. When-
ever will we all have a chance like this again, to look back over a
quarter-century of our lives and to spread out what we see for the
curiosity and comparison of our compeers, those who have come
from the same halls and moved through the same years to the same
reunion? So now remains naught but to end, not with a bang, but
with a firm resolve under no circumstances to look back over any
single word of this mishmash. No inspection, no correction. Go,
little book. Come, little classmates.

(Ed. Note., Though J. B. White refused to “look back over any
[ 1496 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

single word of this mishmash,” the Class Report Chairman could not
do likewise. What is published here is a drastically abridged (though
uncensored) version of an absorbing, colorful narrative (not nearly
as ““cockeyed” and “ramshackle” as J.B. would have one believe).
Under other circumstances the entire report, or almost all of it,
should have been printed without curtailment. Since Classmate
White is now in Persia, there was no time to submit this digest of
his manuscript to him for his approval. I hope that in straining the
soup I did not remove all the flavor. B.H.L.]

JOHN UNDERHILL WHITE

 

HOME Appress: Contentment Island, Darien, Conn.

OFFIcE ADDRESS: White Development Corp., 80 Lincoln Ave., Stamford, Conn.

BORN: Dec. 7, 1911, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Harold Tredway White, Ruth
Underhill.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. magua cum laude, 1934; Pub. (Univ.
of California), 1940.

MARRIED: Laura Schaefer, Oct. 21, 1936, Vacaville, Calif. (divorced 1946);

. Eleanor Stonington, April 30, 1948, Avon Park, Fla. crupren: Priscilla
Ruth, March 27, 1938; Nancy, June 13, 1940; Margaret Ann, June 5, 1933.
Mary Eleanor, May 4, 1949; Willam Augustus, May 2, 1953; Richard Ston-
ington Stevens, Jan. 14, rogo (stepchild); Susan Cora Stevens, April 25,
1942 (stepchild); Jean Virginia Stevens, Feb. 1, 1944 (stepchild.

HARVARD BROTHER: Harold Tredwav White, Jr., ’37.

occupation; Physicist, president, White Development Corporation,

MEMBER OF: American Physical Society; Optical Society of America: Appala-
chian Mountain Club; Sierra Club of California; Norwalk Vache Club.
PUBLICATIONS: Eight parents; twenty-two technical papers, mostly on applica-

tions of spectroscopy and instrument design,

A LITTLE learning is a dangerous thing.” Afrer graduation |

[ 1497 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

took a brief trip to Europe with my sister and then returned to
school to fulfill an ambition to become a physicist. To get a broader
picture of the country, I chose the University of California. The
physics department was excellent, and my interest in skiing got me
a most enjovable assignment as coach of the ski team. When the
board of regents and the lesser officers all agreed that my Ph.D. re-
quirements had been met, I moved back East to work in the Esso
Laboratories in New Jersey, where I stayed for the duration.

Near the end of the war I moved to the Perkin-Elmer Corporation
in Connecticut, getting more and more into the side of science that
deals with the design of instruments. After five years with them I
left to start a small instrument company of my own, which I find
most interesting and stimulating. It is an odd sidelight that I care-
fully avoided analytical chemistry and engineering courses through
all my college and graduate years, but my first job was in instru-
mental methods of analysi sis and the later ones largely in engineering.

Our family life is many-sided. There are three of my * children,
three of my wife’s and two of ours, though our normal complement
is now down to four. The others are away ir school and college.
Even half the horde, as we often refer to them, i is enough to keep
time from hanging on our hands.

Besides raising children, our activities are mostly outdoors. We
live on the water where everyone can sail and swim in summer. We
have taken most of them on several mountain camping trips, and
they have all started to ski.

PETER ANDREW WHITE

appress: 58 Tolman St., Canton, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 4, 1912, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Adolph White, Antonia Per-
tinikas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: AB. 1934(35).
OCCUPATION: Engineering.

NO questionnaire returned,

[1498 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT EMELIN WHITE

 

HOME AppRESS: 7 Guion Lane, Larchmont, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Spencer, White & Prentis, Inc., ro E. goth St.. New York 16,

N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 3, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: Lazarus White, Marie Emelin.

PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, Bronx, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B. IN CE., 1934.

MARRIED: Betty Goldstone, Nov. 4, 1938, New York, N.Y. cHitprex: Betsy,
Nov. 12, 1941; Frederick L., Aug. 21, 1944; Emily, July 10, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Emelin White, 732.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and director, Spencer, White & Prentis, Inc.
foundation contracting and engineering.

OFFICES HELD: Member, School Board, Larchmont-Mamaroneck, N.Y. 1952-<38.

MEMBER OF; American Society of Civil Engineers; Harvard Engmeering So-
ciety; Moles; Harvard Club of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Miscellaneous technical articles on underpinning and founda-
tions.

IMMEDIATELY after graduation I headed out west to my first job
as engineer on lock and dam construction on the Mississippi River
at Winona, Minnesota, It was not strange that I landed a job so
soon, By an odd coincidence my father was president of the con-
tracting company which was fortunate enough to have this work
to do instead of being depression-idle, The pay was twenty-three
dollars per week — the work week was sixty hours long. When
winter came and the work shut down, I and ‘the other single engi-
neers were laid off, but having saved some money, we were able to
enjoy vacations in Bermuda.

For three years I roamed up and down the Mississippi, living at
Red Wing, ‘Minnesota and St. Louis. It was rough, fascinating
large-scale work, what with floods that submerged the construction
for weeks at a tine, droughts when one could actually walk across

[ 1499 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

the river, bitter cold (Minnesota) and suffocating heat (St. Louis).
Finally, New York called in the shape of a contract for the Eighth
to Eighteenth Streets section of the Sixth Avenue Subway and |
learned a more sophisticated type of construction, delicate but also
fascinating.

Then came marriage to a girl I had known since 1933, but not the
end of moving about the country, for we lived in Hartford, Con-
necticut, Mobile, Alabama—the latter place from 1934 to 1945,
building T-2 oil tankers — Providence, Rhode Island in 1946, and
then finally settling down to my present commuter’s suburban
existence in Larchmont.

The reconstruction of the White House in 1950 provided me and
my family with an exciting interlude of living and working in
Washington. I was in charge of our firm’s job of the shoring and
underpinning. We took great pride in this accomplishment as, by
special law, this was the only work held to be so critical that the
contractor was to be selected by negotiation and not by competitive
bidding and because the final cost of this part of the work was only
sixty percent of the estimated cost. :

During the past six years I found myself deeply involved in
public education, as I was elected to two terms as trustee of our

local school board which controls an excellent system with an enroll-

ment of 4400 students. The problems of expansion and coping with
cold war effects—from charges of godlessness in 1952 to the
Sputnik revolution of 1957 — provided me with the “liberal educa-
tion” T was supposed to have missed in Pierce Hall. No longer on
the school board, I enjoy the leisure time of being a private-spirited
citizen again,

To complete the picture, 1 am a Democrat, mostly of the New
Deal-Fair Deal stripe; in sports ] play a lot of slow tennis and sail a

ign I have no hobbies and no collections; I like to travel with
my family.

STEPHEN STORY WHITE

HOME ADDRESS: 10057 Warner Rd., Milan, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Yo U.S. Embassy, Managua, Nicaragua

BORN: Nov. 1, 1509, Oklahoma City, Okla. PARENTS: Harr Wh;
May Pendergast. ° y White,

preparep aT: Hutchinson High School, Hutchinson Min

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932. » Minn,

‘91, Sophie

| 1500 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Louise Sophie Pommerening, Sept. 20, 1940, Ann Arbor, Mich
CHILDREN: Warren Stephen, Sept. 25, 1942 (died Sept. 15, 1945)5 Philij
James, Dec. 13, 1945; Marian Janet, April 14, 1947; Carolyn Ann, Feb
15, 1949. : i,

OccUPATION: International Cooperation Administration; horticulturist; 1m.
provement of horticultural practices in Nicaragua, with special reference
to coffee and cacao. ;

MEMBER OF: A.A.A.S.; California and Torrey Botanical Societies; Americar
Horticultural Society; Sigma Xi. ;

PUBLICATIONS: Doctoral thesis: “Vegetation and flora of the region of the Ric
de Bavispe in northeastern Sonora, Mexico.”

WALTER ADELBERT WHITE, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Netta Rd., Dedham, Mass.

BORN: March 25, 1910, Dedham, Mass. Parents: Walter Adelbert White, Celina
F. Halbauer.

PREPARED AT: Dean Academy, Franklin, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934.

MaRRIED: Helen O. Lowe, Nov. 16, 1940, Dedham, Mass. curtpren: Walter
Richard, Dec. 3, 1942; Beverly Ann, Feb. 23, 1944; Robert Stephen, Aug.
14, 1946; David Allen, March 26, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Supervisor, Post Office Department.

OFFICES HELD: Selectman, Dedham, Mass:, 1951-55.

[ 1501 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

OOTHOUT ZABRISKIE WHITEHEAD

 

JME ADDRESS: 26 E. 8ist St, New York, N.Y.

rN: March 18, 1911, New York, N.Y. Parents: Oothout Zabriskie White-
head, Maria Campbell.

EpaRED AT: St, Mark's School, Southboro, Mass.
ARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933.
‘MARRIED.

SUPATION: Actor.
MBER OF: Plavers’ Club.

the spring of 1933 I left Harvard to go cn the stage. Edward
ssey who directed the Harvard Dramatic Ciub in Saki’s “The
itched Pot,” in which I appeared, gave me my first job that
amer in Millbrook, New York. My friend, Richard Hepburn,
taken me to his family’s house in Hartford for many weekends
ing my last year at Harvard, His sister, Katherine, introduced
to Jed Harris during the early fall of that ycar. As a result I
a small part with her in “The Lake.” During the following
ter, Nancy Hamilton introduced me to Elsie Janis and Leonard
nan. Asa result I appeared in the first “New Faces.”
fter I had been on the stage for three and a half seasons [ met
eat teacher of acting, Boris Marshalov, and studied with him
larly for several years. Among other plays in New York during
1930's, I appeared in “Madame Bovary” and “The Sea Gull”
he Theatre Guild. Katherine Hepburn introduced me to John
. In 1939, after testing several actors, he cast me in “The
es of Wrath.” After I had completed this part I played
nce Day, Jr. in “Life With Father” in Chicago for a year and
f with Lillian Gish, Percy Waram and Andrea King.
as under contract to Twenticth Century Fox in late rgg1. My
ment in the Army the day after this country had entered the

[ 1502 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

war stopped me from doing any pictures. Because of inadequate
results from physical tests | was unable to attend officers’ training
school. I remained an enlisted man all through the war doing special
service work.

After I had been discharged from the service at the end of 1945,
John Ford offered me a part in one of his films and thus encouraged
others to do the same. During the next two years and a half, I
appeared in a succession of pictures: “My Brother Talks to Horses,”
‘The Romance of Rosy Ridge,” “The Pirate,” “A Song Is Born,”
“Family Honeymoon” and “Roadhouse.”

At the end of 1949 in Los Angeles, I first heard the word Baha'i.
I inquired about what Baha’i meant and six months Jater became a
member of the Baha’i World Faith. From that time on I began to
do Baha’i work. The Baha’is believe that Baha‘u’llah, the “Glory
of God,” is the Prince of this world, “the Spirit of Truth” who will
guide you into all truth, the “Everlasting Father,” the “Prince of
Peace,” the “Lord of Hosts,” the “King of Glory.” Baha'u'llah
came to cleanse humanity from all prejudice, either economic, na-
tional, religious or social. He came to unify and spiritualize the
entire planet. Baha’i work is voluntary. Only a few give their
whole time to it. Everyone is urged to have a profession. I have
continued being an actor while doing Baha’t work. I was chairman
of the Spiritual Assembly of the Baha'is of New York for three
years starting in 1954. In January, 1955 I had the wonderful privilege
of visiting Haifa, Israel, the headquarters of the Baha'i World F aith
and having six meetings in a small group with Shoghi Effend, the
late guardian of the Faith and eldest great grandson of Baha'u'llih.

While in New York just recently, I appeared i in a good many
television shows, among them, “The Remarkable Incident at Carson
Corners,” produced by Studio One. Two summers ago I toured
partly in New England with the Gish sisters in “The Chalk Garden.”
Last February, John Ford invited me to appear in “The Last Hur-
rah.” I am now in Alexandria, Louisiana, working in “Eforse

Soldiers’” directed by him.

[ 1503 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

HOWARD STOCKTON WHITESIDE

  

E ADDRESS: 93 Hillside St. Milton, Mass.

‘E appress: Parkman, Robbins & Russell, 30 State St., Boston, Mass.

: June 2, 1912, Wareham, Mass. parents: Alexander Whiteside, ’95, Ethel
stockton.

RED aT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. cum laud, i934; LL.B. 1937.

Ep: Elisabeth R. Swift, April 29, 1939, Whitinsville, Mass. CHILDREN:
‘aidee, April, 9, 1942; Alexander, Aug. 29, 1944; Elisabeth S. May 8,
48. | |

2D BROTHER: Thomas Whiteside, ’32.

TION: Lawyer.

HELD: Member of board, American Civil Liberties Union, Family
vice Association of Greater Boston, St. Luke’s Home for Convalescents,
inity Neighborhood House & Day Nursery.

2 oF: Boston and American Bar Associations; Kittansett Club; Milton-

osic Club; Tennis & Racquet Club.

PT for three war years, I have been a Boston lawyer since
ting in 1937 from Harvard Law School. Having been a mem-
small Jaw firms, I have had much varicty in my work. The
¢ has been only modestly profitable, but very pleasurable.
ome life is typically suburban: bad golf, work around the
cashore vacations, and an occasional trip (Europe, western

. These plus enjoyment of family life, participation in
urch and non-partisan political affairs (Town Mecting
“warrant committee) Ieave few idle moments.

in the Army during World War JI, both as an enlisted man
n officer. My branch was military police, but my chief
1 assignments were civil affairs in France and staff judge
work in Germany, I had a chance to stay on after the
1 to assist in breaking up I. G. Farben Industries, but the

[1504 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

call of family and home, and the possession of the necessary nt
of points to get there, had stronger appcal.

Some years ago I discovered that, although there were plen
people active in alerting the country to the external and int
threats of Communism, there were all too few engaged in pre
ing understanding and meaningful observance of the federal
state constitutions, particularly of the Bill of Rights. I have, «:
fore, devoted quite a lot of time in the past eight or ten yea
work in this field. Politically, I have been independent and ten
vote for a candidate rather than for a party. However, I think

a detectable innate conservatism has kept people from Worry
too much over my maverick tendencies.

Physically, 1 hope to be recognizable next June and to be able
say the same of my classmates.

ALDEN ROGERS WHITMAN

 

HOME Appress: 8 Gramercy Pk., New York 3, N.Y. _

OFFIcE ADpREss: New York Times, 229 W. 43d St. New York 36, N.Y.

BoRN: Oct. 27, 1913, New Albany, N.S, Canada. Parents: Frank Seymour
Whitman, Mabel J. Bloxsom.

PREPARED AT: Suffield School, Suttield, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1933, 1934-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1934035). /

Marriep: Helen T. Kaposi, May 31, 193% New York, N.Y. cHhmpren: Harriet,
Nov. 10, 1944; Daniel, Aug. 20, 1947.

occupation: Copy editor, The New York Tinvies.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

KARL ROBERTS WHITNEY

 

ME ADDRESS: P.O. Box 5004, Seabreeze Station, Daytona Beach, Fla.

FICE appRESS: U.S.N.A.S. Dispensary, Jacksonville 12, Fla.

RN: Mav 14, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: Myron Henry Whitney, Marie
Schillander.

PARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

.RS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1934(35); 1.9. (Tufts Coll.), 1939.

RRIED: Virginia C. Amidon, Aug. 5, 1938, Worcester, Mass. CHILDREN: Vir-
ginia Ann, July 31, 1939 (m. Theodore J. Hansen, Dec. 21, 1958); Karl
Roberts, Jr., July 8, 1941; Myron William, May 19, 1923.

“pation: Captain, Medical Corps, U.S. Navy.

ABER OF: Seminole Canoe Club, Jacksonville, Fla.

STANTON WHITNEY

       

i

ApbRESS: 100 Woodland Drive, Fair Haven, N.J.

AbDRESS: % 1), Van Nostrand Co., Inc. 120 Alexander St., Princeton, N.J.
Sept. 30, 1g11, New York, N.Y, parents; Stanton Whitney, ‘or, Eleanor
anklin Duane.

Ep at: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

IN COLLEGE! 1930-1934. DEGREE: AB, cum Lande, 1934,

[ 1506 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MarRiED: Florence Candler Cobb, July 15, 1936, Paris, France (divorced togt).
CHILDREN: Stanton, Jr, July 21, 1941; Christopher Duane, March 28, 1944;
Beatrice Candler, Nov. 1, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHERS: M. Duane Whitney, "36 (deceased); Edward F arley Whit-

ney, 38.
OccUPATION: Vice-president and manager, School Department, D. Van Nostrand

Company, Inc., publishers.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Seabright Lawn Tennis & Cricket

Club; Seabright Beach Club.

AS with many, I suppose, of our college generation, the depression
and World War II loom large in my thoughts as I look back toward
1934, although few of us at ‘that time considered war even a remote
possibility in a world that had been made safe for democracy. I
managed to postpone some of the worst effects of the depression
on graduation by winning the Lionel de Jersey Harvard Fellow ship
for a year’s study at Emmanuel College, Cambridge University.
Perhaps I should confess I have always suspected mv success in
winning the fellowship was attributable ro the fact that none of mv
better qualified classmates had heard of it, so failed to apply. At
any rate, I enjoyed my year in England at Harvard’s parent uni-
versity immensely, living in rooms ‘that mav once have been oc-
cupied by John Harvard when he was an undergraduate, despite the
fact that I succeeded in breaking my leg rather thoroughly playing
rugby within a month of my arrival at Emmanuel, This effectively
curtailed my activities for some months, but I had recovered suf-
ficiently by March to go skiing in Austria and to renew my ac-
quaintance with France, especially Paris, during the long Faster
vacation and to make an ass of myself trying to play cricket during
the summer (“ spring” to you) term.

While still in England I was lucky enough to be offered a job
teaching the classics : at Groton, so spent a large part of my summer
boning up on my Latin and Greek and studyi ing the finer points of
football as helping to coach the school football team was to be
included among my many duties. At Groton I] spent a happy, un-
eventful and largely undistinguished seven years trving to impress
somewhat unresponsive students with the beauties of Latin and
Greek and definitely enthusiastic would-be athletes with the ad-
vantages of a good stiff arm on the gridiron and a quick recovery

on the river.

I might still be a schoolmaster if Hitler and his cohorts had not
upset the uncasy truce in which the world found itself in the late
thirties. Since I was an ardente proponent: of the interventionist

[ 1507 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

school, Pearl Harbor made it imposible for me to remain on the
sidclines and I volunteered for the Army as soon as T could obtain
my release from my teaching job.

For the next almost five vears IT worked for Uncle Sam. I was
fortunate enough to be sent to OCS some four months after I be-
came an infantryman and after graduating as a lowly shavetail I spent
the next vear, much against my will, teaching at Fort Benning. I
finally escaped this prosaic assignment by persuading the Parachute
Troops that I was just what they were looking for. Henceforth my
military career was more ev entful, as I was ultimately assigned to
the 82d Airborne Division and saw service with it in France,
Belgium and Germany. It was not an experience that I would like
to repeat but on the other hand [ am glad that I had it.

On my return to civilian life late in 1946, 1 did not go back to
teaching but stayed at least on the fringe of the educational pro-
fession, which was the only thing I knew anything at all about, by
getting a job with D. Van Nostrand, one of the oldest technical and
educational publishing houses in the country. I have been w ith them
ever since and have thoroughly enjoyed my job in all its different
facets. And I hope to be with them still if and when I am able to
propel a wheelchair through the Yard on our Fifticth Reunion.

FREDERICK WEBSTER WHITTEMORE

 

HOME ApbRESS: 33 Audubon Rd, Wellesley Hills 81, Mass,
OFFIce appress: United Investment Counsel, 210 Newbury St. Boston 16, Mass.

BORN; Oct. 23, 1912, Cambridge, Mass. parents: William Stewart W hittemore,
04, Alice Stearns Babson,

PREPARED AT: Northwood School, Lake Placid, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DicarE: AB, cum laude, 1934,

[ 1508 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Maraiep: Frances A. Humphreys, Dee. 23, 1933, Cambridge, Mass. cunt peen:
Nathaniel B., July 17, 1938; Alison, Feb. 2, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and treasurer, United Investment Counsel.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Wellesley National Bank; trustee of several trust funds.

MEMBER OF: Wellesley Club; Wellesley Country Club; Wellesley Curling Club;
Algonquin Club.

MY life during the past twenty-five years has been fairly normal. [
was married in my senior year in college, near Christmas, and we
are celebrating our twenty-fifth anniversary in December, 1958.
We have had two children, live in Suburbia (Wellesley), and I
have worked for the same organization since 1935. United Business
Service—United Investment Counsel provides constant personal super-
vision for the investment of its clients.

The high points of our life together have been our trips, which
have taken us to Nassau (our honeymoon), Cuba, Florida, Canada,
Europe, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. We love to travel and
hope to do lots more of it during the years ahead. In the last few
years, we have become increasingly interested in sailboat cruising
along the New England coast, and here again we look forward to
spending more time in this fashion. As far as sports go, skiing is
-my main love, while my wife is the golfer in the family.

+ ROBERT JOHN ELLIS WHITTIER

 

BORN: June 27, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Robert A. Whittier, Eva Filis,
PREPARED AT: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931, 1932-1933-

MARRIED: Mary A. Cota, Nov, 23, 1935. Cranston, RL ciao; Donald J.
piep: July 1, 1958, Watertown, Mass.

wivow: Mrs, Robert J. E. Whittier, 45 Evans St. Watertown, Mass.

ROBERT JOHN ELLIS WHETTIER spent two years at Harvard
[ 1509 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

with our Class. After leaving college, he was engineer and radio
man for Triad Manufacturing Company in Pawtucket, Rhode Island,
and radio engineer for National Union Radio Corporation in
Newark, New Jersey, Later he became an engineer for the Ray-

theon Manufacturing Company in Waltham, Massachusetts. He
was survived by his wife and son.

GEORGE WIGHTMAN

 

HOME appeess: 22 Bremer Circle Rd., Hingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 210 South Sc, Boston 11, Mass.

BorN: Dee, 4, 1912, Brookline, Mass. parents: George William Wightman,
12, Hazel Virginia Hotchkiss.

Prepared AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1934.

Mariko: Virginia Dyer, Nov. 5, 1937, Hingham, Mass, cHitpren: Joan Dyer,
Oct. 1, 1939; Wendy Hotchkiss, Nov. 11, 1942; Virginia Mayo, April 2,
1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Hotchkiss Wightman, ’49.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, 1955, Northwestern Leather Company, Mass.
[former offices held: assistant treasurer (1938), treasurer (1941), trustee
(1945), vice-president (1948)]; vice-president, controller, chairman,
Northwestern Leather Company, Mich., 1955-58, director, Wm. Brooks
Shoe Company, 1939; chief, Leather Control Section, U.S. Army Quarter-
Taster, 1941-42; consultant, War Production Board, 1942-43; chairman,
Trade Survey Committee, Tanners’ Council, 1945-46; treasurer-trustee,
Derby Academy, 1948-55; consultant, Army Audit Agency, 1949; member,
Personnel Board, Hingham, Mass., 1953-55.

MEMBER OF: Lodge of St. Andrew; University Club; Tennis & Racquet Club;
Hingham Yacht Club.

[1510 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RALPH WESLEY WILBUR

 

HOME ADDRESS: 55 Damon Ave., Melrose, Mass.; (summers) Brier Neck, Glouces-

ter, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 784 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.
BORN: Jan. 6, 1913, Melrose, Mass. parents: Ralph Harland Wilbur, Eliza Ellen

Richardson.
PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: S.B., 1934.
MARRIED: Gwen Kelloway, Sept. 11, 1937, Melrose, Mass. cHiLpreN: Elizabeth

Feb. 19, 1941; Ralph Alan, March 4, 1945.
OCCUPATION: Executive in printing firm; New England sales manager for manu-

facturer; manufacturer's agent.
IT is startling to note that twenty-five years have slipped by so
quickly and to realize that the world has made more marks on me
than I on it.

Gwen and I progressed from skiing in the years B.C. (Before
Children) through Brownies, Bluebirds, Cub Scouts, PTA, and
church committees up to the present hiatus where we are getting
our second wind. The family is our chief interest. Bette is at Ohio
Wesleyan and Ralph will enter high school in the fall.

Building a summer cottage for the family at Gloucester has been
ny principal outside activity recently. Skin diving has replaced
‘kiing, and in September I brought up the hard way our current
onversation piece —a 42-inch, 28-pound lobster.

A few comments on these subjects should suffice: career history —
nything but dull; travels—that twentieth wedding anniversary

‘ip to Bermuda was very nice; war record — helping make money,
ver ten million dollars, literally — but since it was printing occupa-

on currency for the European Theatre under a contract with Uncle

m, it was permissible.

[1511 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

DONALD FREDERICK WILCOCK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1445 Valencia Rd., Schenectady, N.Y.

OFFicE apprEss: General Electric Co., Schenectady, N.Y.

BoRN: Sept. 24, 1913, Brooklyn, N.Y. parents: Frederick Wilcock, ’oo, Jennie
Marie Young.

PREPARED AT: Manual Training High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: S.B, IN CE. summa cum laude, 19345
pes. (Univ. of Cincinnati), 1940.

MARRIED: Marjorie Ellen Ferris, Sept. 3, 1938, Saugus, Mass, cHILb: Donald
Everett, Feb. 2, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Carrington Wilcock, ’42, M.B.A., "46.

occupation: Manager, Chemistry and Metallurgy Laboratory of the General
Engineering Laboratory, General Electric Company.

oFFices HELD: Chairman, Lubrication Division, ASME, 1956; eastern regional
vice-president, American Society of Lubrication Engineers, 1958.

MEMBER OF: Tau Beta Pi; Sigma Xi; ASME; ASLE, ACS; Edison Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Bearing Design and Application, Wilcock and Booser, McGraw-
Hill, 1957; several dozen articles and patents, including: “Mechanism of
Lubrication Failure in High Speed Ball Bearings,” ASMIE Advance Paper
49-A-376, Trans. of the ASME, 72, 817-824 (1950); “Turbulence in High
Speed Journal Bearings,” ASME Trans., 72, 825-34 (1950); “Adventures
in Lubrication,” Lubrication Engineering 7, 277-80 (1951); “Oil Flow,
Key Factor in Sleeve Bearing Performance,” ASME, Trans. 74, 849-65
(1952), D. F. Wilcock and M. Rosenblatt.

WHEN I was a young boy, I built tree houses and wagons. Later,
it was model railroads. Since T can remember, my prime interest
has centered on science and engineering. It has made a fascinating
and fruitful career,

Looking back on Harvard engincering training, it was outstand-
ing in its emphasis on fundamentals, “These are relatively timeless
and have withstoud the test of changes in ficld, from civil engincer-

[1512]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing to engineering science, to chemistry, to chemical engineering,
to mechanical engineering, to technical management.

But in 1934, technical jobs were scarce “indeed. By joining
Western Union and attending their Operators School, I learned new
skills — touch typing, office management and, of course, telegraphy.
After the school, managing offices in Brooklyn, New York, and in
Newton, Massachusetts, brought me in contact with countless
people, a valuable counterbalance to a predilection for things.

In 1936, an attractive fellowship made it possible to study for
advanced degrees in engineering science at the University of
Cincinnati. Chance seems to play a large part in one’s life and
this was no exception. Mother read a tiny announcement of the
fellowship in the Christian Science Monitor and passed it over, with
the remark that I probably wouldn’t be interested (1 was studying
soil mechanics, part-time, in the Graduate School at the time).

Marge took the leap into marriage with me, while I was still
a graduate student, with a year to go. We were oddities on the
campus — how times have changed! We don’t regret, though, the
slow build-up to the necessities and luxuries that we wanted. Cer-
tainly one’s pleasure in the selection, choice and receipt of each
item is heightened in this way.

Following graduation there was a three-year period at a Sherwin
Williams Company research laboratory in Chicago, I left there in
1942 in order to seek more physics-oriented than chemistry-oriented
work and joined the General Electric Company Research Labora-
tory. I was promptly set to work on the chemistry of silicone oils.
Our son was born here in Schenectady during this period,

The silicone oil work led to an opportunity. to put in place and
head up a new G.E. Bearing and Lubricant Center in Lynn, Massa-
chusetts. We were able to add significantly to know ledge and
practice in the field, and the work ‘culminated IN an invitation to
prepare the book, Bearing Design and Application. We were able
to live in charming old Marblehead, adding immeasurably to the
pleasure of this period. Marge was very seriously ill here in 1950,
but the Lord, aiding a fine surgeon, has spared her with apparent
full recovery.

In 1953, I was invited to return to Schenectady to head up the
Chemistry and Metallurgy Department of the company’s General
Engineering Laborator y —and I am still at it. Sche nectady is very
near the Adirondack Mountains, and we have just completed a
small camp on a beautiful lake, about seventy miles away, This and

[ 1513]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

a Comet sailboat will probably occupy our Icisure time for many
years to come.

"In 1957, the opportunity to represent officially the ASME at the
London International Conference on Lubrication and Wear provided
the springboard for a travel vacation through England, France,
Italy and Switzerland, My brother had been resident just long
enough as a visiting professor at the University of Bologna to give
us a fascinating insight into Italian life. The good results on my
35 mm color film on this trip seem to have embedded photography

as a new hobby, alongside of swimming, boating, carpentry and
model railroading.

PHELPS WILDER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 656 Maple St., Winnetka, Ill.

OFFICE appress: Chicago Rawhide’ Manufacturing Co., 1301 Elston Ave.
Chicago 22, Ill.

porn: Dec. 15, 1912, Elmhurst, Ill. parents: Erskine Phelps Wilder, Amy
Whipple Peacock.

PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, Il.
| YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932,

MarRieD: Elizabeth Salisbury Dickinson, Sept. 5, 1936, St. Joseph, Mich. CHIL-
prex: Deborah Murray, March 10, 1939; Alice Leveritt, Aug. 11, 1942+
occupation: Vice-president, director of sales, Chicago Rawhide Manufacturing
Company, manufacturer of oil sealing devices used primarily in the auto-

motive industry,

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, 1954-55, member board of trustees, Hyde Park
Neighborhood Club, member board of trustees, Shimer College, 1957-585

member, Winnetka Caucus Committee, 1958, member board of directors,
Benton House.
MEMBER OF: Bob O’Link Golf Club.

HAVING left Harvard before graduation, | went to Wall Street as
L 1514]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a first step in search of an interesting career. After a few months
I realized that another field of business would be more rewarding
and joined the marketing department of a large petroleum company
in Omaha, Nebraska. While there, I became a cub reporter and held
this job for an interesting year, after which I was discharged as a
result of an austerity program. In 1934 I moved to Chicago and
joined the marketing department of Chicago Rawhide Manufactur-
ing Company.

In 1936 I took the marital plunge and have been thankful ever
since. These intervening twenty-five years have passed far more
rapidly than I care to realize. In the Jast ten years I have become
interested in golfing, in the last two years in skiing. I have been
grateful for acquiring a desire to learn while at Harvard and over
the years have developed the hobby of reading. I enjoy listening to
most classical and some modern music. I dislike television.

I have lived for many years in the neighborhood of the University
of Chicago where I have participated in civic affairs and political
activities in behalf of the Republicans and Democrats, I have at-
tended the Unitarian Church more frequently than any other. I
have a great respect for the Quakers and my elder daughter i is at
present studying at a college founded by the Society of Friends.

Except for those moments when I felt my problems were caused
by another person, or thing, I have had very few regrets. I have en-
joyed the challenges of being a husband and father, a business man
and a citizen. During the war years I was deferred on two counts;
one was being too tall and the other having an occupatien classified
as essential to the war effort.

I am looking forward to renewing acquaintances and friendships
during this Reunion. I feel privileged to have witnessed the last
twenty-five years which have been violently eventful in respect to
depressions, wars, technological developments, etc. They have lett
me with a tendency toward baldness, less acute sight and hearing,
and a very slightly increased waistline. The experience acquired
during these years has strengthened my conviction that Harvard
University will play an increasingly important role in developing
men who will influence the affairs of mankind toward constructive
and peaceful ends.

[1sts ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

HENRY SEYMOUR WILEY

 

HOME appREss: R.D. 2, Cumberland, RI.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Swan, Keeney, Smith & Jenckes, git Turks Head Bldg., Provi-
dence, R.I.

BorN: Aug. 24, 1912, Sault Ste. Mare, Mich. parents: Merlin Wiley, Helen
Seymour.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: $.B., miagua Cui laude, 1934, LL.B., 1937.

MarrieD: Mary T. Shepard, June 26, 1937, Franklin, N.HIl. (died March 6, 1957);
Ruth E. Kearns, Oct. 26, 1957, Bridgeport, Conn.

HARVARD BROTHER: James S. Wiley, ’44.

occUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: President, Rhode Island Philharmonic Orchestra, since 1957.
MEMBER OF: University Club of Providence.

AFTER leaving Harvard Law School I got a job in the law firm in
Providence which I am still with today. In 1940 my first wife and
I moved to a village in the country twelve miles outside of Provi-
dence which proved to be an extraordinarily active and closely knit
community — minstrel shows, glee club, dramatics, July 4th parade
and community celebration including fireworks, community club,
dances, garden club, farm bureau, ‘adies’ aid, camera club, ete.
Population staved at two or three hundred until 19 50 W hen it began
to jump by leaps and bounds. The old flavor is going but the new,
so far, is pretty good, so I think Pil hang on a while yet before
retreating in the face of massive real estate dev clopment.
- After World War II, our July gth parade fell on evil days and
almost died out. Yours truly, who had always been an enthusiastic
participator in this antiques ‘and horribles affai air, ended up as parade
master in an attempt to save it. Mission was accomplished and I'm
su parade master, If you've never scen an affair like this, you ought
| Pm afraid that for the duration of this hour of clow ning, the

[1516 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

patriotic motivation of the 4th is pretty much forgotten, but we all
have a wonderful time. One year I overslept and marched in pajamas,
bathrobe, and slippers, wearing a hastily scrawled sign telling why.
Got a prize, too.

For fourteen years I called square dances, quitting about the
time my first wife became sick. I have not taken it up again, partly
because of the pressure of business, but it certainly was fun while it
lasted. I heartily recommend square dancing to anyone under sev-
enty-five. Some years ago, as a music lover, I got ‘drafted into the
effort to keep a symphony orchestra going here in Providence.
Mainly to protect my seat in the Veterans Memorial Auditorium
from evaporating but also because those better fitted for the job ex-
erted enormous pressure in order to avoid having to do it themselves,
I ended up as president. Every year is a last ditch “save the orchestra”
campaign, and I suppose it will always be the same. Such seems to
be our fate.

Along the way I’ve been involved in cooperatives, credit untons,
lobbying for causes (after a bit of this, I understand the fascination
political office has for the politician; it’s heady brew). I have traveled
around the United States a good deal over the years, particularly
around the West. Since my first wife died and my parents have
_ become quite elderly, I haven’t done as much traveling but my feet
are itching again. Those of you who knew Marv will not be sur-
prised to hear that her last two years were a lesson in courage.
Knowing that she had a cancer and that the chances of cure were
no better than fair, she put on an amazing demonstration of good
cheer and what might be called “chin-upmanship.” It couldn't have
been done better. Even at the end her concern was for others, not
herself,

A little over a year ago I married an old friend and Radclitte
dormitory mate of Mary’ s, Ruth Kearns, and things are looking up
again, Ruth and I went to her Twenty-fifth at Radcliffe last vear
and also to Mary’s Twenty-fourth. We have been asked to come
back this year to Mary’s Twenty-fifth and plan to do so. I have
been living for the past six years in a beautiful old New FE ngland
farmhouse built in 1776 w hich has a four-acre pond beside it com-
plete with bath houses and a swimming beach, wonderful for skat-
-ing in winter as well as swimming in the summer. We have three
guest rooms, so if I don’t show up at Reunion T would be happy to
see some of my 1934 friends down here (only thirty-five miles from
Cambridge).

[1517]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

LAWRENCE WILKINSON

   
 

 

HOME appRESS: Llewellyn Park, West Orange, N.J.

oFFIcE appREss: U.S, Aviation Underwriters, Inc., 110 William St., New York 38,
N.Y.

sorN: Feb. 7, 1912, New York, N.Y. PARENTS: Henry Wilkinson, Edith Lee
Burke. |

REPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.
EARS IN COLLEGE! 1930-1931.

FARRIED: Josephine Colgate, Oct. 16, 1943, West Orange, N.J. carpren: Edith
Burke, Nov. 28, 1944; Russell Colgate, March 8, 1948.

ARVARD BROTHER: John Burke Wilkinson, ’35.

scupaTion: Vice-president in charge of Hull Loss Department and assistant in
airline underwriting, U.S. Aviation Underwriters, Inc.

*FICES HELD: Member, Juvenile Conference Committee of West Orange; direc-
tor, YMICA of the Oranges and Maplewood.

EMBER OF: Downtown Association; New York City; Essex County Country
Club, West Orange, N.J.; Edgartown Yacht Club, Edgartown, Mass.

LEFT Harvard at the end of my freshman year. The following
‘inter I went to work in a savings bank in New York City. There
was able to earn just enough money to pursue my interest in flying.
In 1937 I combined my avocation with my vocation going to
‘ork for Seversky Aircraft Corporation, the predecessor of Re-
ublic Aircraft Corporation. In those days the remuneration in air-
-aft factories was extremely low. By 1939 1 was again seeking to
nprove my financial condition. Early in 1940 I entered the aviation
surance business and in 1941 joined U.S. Aviation Underwriters,
AC, |
The fall of 1942 found me a buck private in the USAAF at Brook-

y Field, Mobile, Alabama. In July, 1943, I graduated from Air
‘orps Officers Candidate School at Miami Beach and was assigned
» Warner Robins Air Service Command in Georgia. For nearly

[1518 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

two years I stayed at Warner Robins doing a variety of jobs in air-
craft maintenance and supply and advancing to the rank of captain.
Finally, at my own request, I was transferred to the Far East Air
Service Command reporting to Headquarters at Hollandia, New
Guinea, on July 4, 1945. From there I proceeded to Naha, Okinawa,
where I stayed until long after the war ended, not returning to
civilian life until April, 1946.

Shortly after my release from military service I returned to my job
with U.S. Aviation Underwriters, Inc. In 1953 I was elected a vice-
president and am charged with the supervision of the Hull Loss
Department in addition to airline underwriting.

In 1943 I married Josephine Colgate. We have two children,
Edith, age fourteen, who enters Garrison Forest School next fall,
and Russell, age ten, who I hope will attend St. George’s. We live
in the same house in which I grew up, which today is unusual. We
spend our summers at Edgartown, Massachusetts.

GARDNER ALSTON WILLIAMS

 

HOME appress: 11 Plaza, Fort Buckner, Okinawa.

OFFICE apprEss: Hq. USARYIS, APO 331, San Francisco, Calif.

BORN: Aug. 13, 1913, Berwick, Maine. parents: Ralph E. Williams, Ellen A.
Smith.

PREPARED aT: Holten High School, Danvers, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; A.M. (Syracuse Univ.), 1953.

MARRIED: Elsie Griswold Wheeler, May 11, 1942, New Rochelle, N.Y. cHiLpren:
Durant Griswold, April 9, 1947; Glen Kimball, Aug. 15, 1949; Terry Alston,
Feb. 28, 1951.

occupation: U.S. Army officer.

THE Tenth Reunion in June, 1944, probably found a majority of
the Class in uniform and scattered around the globe. The Twenty-

[ 1519 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

after college will be not less happy, stimulating and filled with
intangible riches than these I have been privileged to enjoy.

+ GERALD MAURICE WILLIAMS

 

BorN: Dec. 25, 1912, Brooklyn, N.Y. parents: Charles Lawrence Williams,
Lelia Hickman.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931.

marriep: Joyce Williams.

piep: Aug. 31, 1942, Boston, Mass.

GERALD MAURICE WILLIAMS spent one year with our Class.
He never communicated with the Secretary and had been carried as

a “lost” man on our records since our Triennial Report. He was
survived by his wife.

i + HARRISON WILSON WILLIAMS

 

BoRN: Sept. 29, 1911, Milton, Mass. parents: Edward Cary Williams, Elinor
Wilson.

[ 1522 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

DIED; June 11, 1932, near West Chester, Pa.

HARRISON WILSON WILLIAMS was killed in an automobile
accident at the end of our sophomore year. He was survived by his
mother and two brothers.

JOHN ZALE WILLIAMS

ADDRESS: % American Embassy, Havana, Cuba.
BORN: March 22, 1911, Carlin, Nevada. parents: John Frank Williams, Ada

Beerman.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933, 1934-1935. DEGREE: aB. (Univ. of Nevada), 1934.
OCCUPATION: Diplomatic service.

NO questionnaire returned.

ROBERT DOWNES WILLIAMS

 

HOME apprEss: 8 Canterbury Village, Columbus 21, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Battelle Memorial Institute, 505 King Ave. Columbus 1, Ohio.

BORN: Nov. 23, 1911, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: Robert Seaton Williams,
Bertha Maria Downes,

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.; Belmont
High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B, 1934(35); S.M. (Massachusetts Inst.
of Technology), 1937.

marriED: Christine Buchholz, June 14, 1941, Urbana, Ill. critpren; Abigail Anne,
June 14, 1943; Miriam Ruth, Nov. 22, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Seton Sawyer Williams, °35.

occupation: Research supervisor, in charge of industrial contracts, Battelle

Memorial Institute.
orrices HELD: Chairman, Columbus Section, American W elding Society, 1946-46

[ 1523]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

MEMBER OF: The Society of the Sigma Xi; American Institute of Mining, Metal.
lurgical and Petroleum Engineers, Ohio Society of Professional Engineers,
Leatherlips Yacht Club; Toastmasters International.

publications: “Utility Characteristics of Aircraft Arc-Welding Electrodes,”
The Welding Journal, Nov., 1942 (co-author); “Weldability Tests of Air.
craft Structural Steels,” The Welding Journal, Nov., 1943 (co-author),
“The Flash Welding of Hard-Drawn High-Carbon Steel Wire,” The
Welding Journal, Oct., 1946 (co-author); “Welding and Cutting,” Metals

Review, July, 1947; “Some Problems in Argon-Shielded Metal-Arc Weld-
ing of Thick Aluminum Plate,” American Institute of Electrical Engineer-
ing, May, 1949 (co-author).
AFTER graduating I moved “down river” to M.LT. Three
years later, two as a graduate student and one as a teaching assistant,
I obtained an S.M. degree in metallurgy. During this time, I also

had two very interesting summer trips through most of the coun-
tries of Western Europe.

In 1937, I joined the teaching staff of the University of Illinois
where I organized a welding engineering course and also taught
required metallurgy courses. Early in my fourth year at Tlinois, 1
met the fair lady who became my wife. We were married the fol-
lowing June. Part of our w edding trip was spent at Key West,

F lorida, j in a brief family reunion with my brother and his new
bride and my parents.

Since my wife was the daughter of a professor, and Illinois had
rather strong rules on nepotism, 1 was teaching “on borrowed
time” when 1 returned in September, 1941. ‘This, * plus the blitz of
December 7, plus a stiff hip which precluded any military activity,
led me to join the research staff of Battelle Memorial Institute in
Columbus, Ohio (the largest private research institute in the United
States). I was in the Welding Research Division there for about nine
years. During the war years, practically all of my work was on
projects for the three armed services and other government agencies.
An interest in the business end of the Division’s activities led to my
becoming an assistant to the Institute’s business manager, and to my
present job as supervisor in charge of industrial contracts. Shortly
after my transfer to the management side and before the contract
office occupied my full time, I was appointed security officer, a
position which I carried on—along with my other duties — for
about five and one-half years. Since Battelle had contracts for clas-
sified research with the AEC and numerous branches of all three
armed services, this was an interesting assignment. Ultimately, Bat-

[ 1524 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

telle’s continued growth made it impossible for me to continue to
wear two caps, so I dropped the security one.

As to outside activities, much of my time has been spent on our
home which we moved into in 1950 and are still finishing, even
though it is also beginning to require some repairing. I have also
participated in numerous community and church activities. Though
earlier active in several technical societies, | have recently limited
my professional activity primarily to participation in the affairs of
the local chapter of the National Society of Professional Engineers.

Our two daughters are, of course, my wife’s and my major inter-
est in life. Although their own activities are taking up more of their
time (and frequently ours as well), we still manage to do quite a
few things together. One of our major interests in 1958 has been
sailing. We acquired a 16-foot Rebel in the spring and raced her
weekends. No comment on our standing at the end of the season,
but we did win one race.

All in all, life has been not too unkind and I am looking forward
to the next twenty-five years with as much interest as I looked
toward the past twenty-five way back in 1934.

THOMAS BLAKE WILLIAMS

    

HOME AppREsS: Farm Street, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Rivett Lathe & Grinder, Inc. P.O. Box 7, Brighton, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 5, 1910, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Ralph Blake Williams, Susan
Jackson.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1934.

MaRRIED: Eleanor Claflin, Jan. 26, 1940, Brookline, Mass. cHitpren: Thomas
Blake, Jr., May 19, 1941; Susan Jackson, Dec. 21, 1942; Eleanor Claflin, Jan.
15, 1947; Sandra Morton, Nov. 19, 1949.

[1525]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

occupation: Vice-president, sales manager, Machine Tool Division, River
Lathe & Grinder, Inc.

orFices HELD: Director, Rivett Lathe & Grinder, Inc. since 1942; treasurer,
Community Recreation Service of Boston, since 1948, trustee, Charles
River School, 1950-53, Family Service Association of Boston, since 1955,
Milton Academy, since 1956, New England Grenfell Association, since

aexnen “OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Cruising Club of America; Ski Club
Hochgebinge.

IMMEDIATELY following graduation, 1 left for Europe and a

cruise on a ninety-foot schooner in the Mediterranean and Aegean

Seas. A wonderful way to forget the rigors of Cambridge and a

college life. Following the cruise I spent the winter in Munich

gathering culture at the University and the Hofbrau House.

On my return to the U.S.A., I entered the Harvard Business
School in the fall of 1935 and was able to survive one year. As I
had secured a job for the summer at Rivett Lathe & Grinder, Inc.,
located just up the river from the Harvard Stadium, I was fortu-
nately able to convince the management of my value and resultingly
have been with this concern to the present.

The machine-tool business is notable for its ups and downs and
Rivett Lathe has been no exception, Working from the bottom to
second in command has been at times frustrating and discouraging,
but we have weathered through successfully and over-all it has been
interesting and enjoyable with delightful associates.

A two-year stint in the Army’s navy, as skipper of an Air Corps
crash-boat, spent mostly in the Philippines, furnished me with suf-
ficient Army experience to more than satisfy me.

Occasional business trips have been combined with pleasure and,
during the past few years, my wife and I have found excellent
skiing throughout the U.S.A. and Europe. Life in my home com-
munity has been pleasantly interspersed with varying jobs on school
committees, planning boards and with fire engineers, as well as the

usual run of local charities.

My four children offer many problems and much fun, Holding
their noses to their books, skiing and sailing with them keep us
all in and out of trouble. Life has been interesting and very kind
to us all.

[ 1526 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HAROLD WINER

  

HOME ADDRESS: 80 Myrtle St., Claremont, N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Queen Shop, 6-8 Pleasant St., Claremont, N.H.

BORN: Aug. 19, 1913, Lynn, Mass. parents: Morris Winer, Rose Pruss.

PREPARED AT: Berlin Senior High School, Berlin, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: AB. 1934.

MARRIED: Irene Brody, Oct. 11, 1937, Boston, Mass. cuitpren: Alexandra Lee,

Feb. 20, 1940; Kalman Aaron, Oct. 21, 1942; Ann Shana, Dec. 4, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Owner-retailer.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Red Cross Drive, 1946, Claremont Forums and Con-
certs Association, 1946; Junior Chamber of Commerce Key Award for
Man Under 35, 1946; founder and president, 1947, president 1957, B’nai
B’rith Lodge; president, Claremont Chamber of Commerce, 1948, Temple
Meyer-David, 1950 (also board member, 1946-59), New Hampshire State
Council of B’nai B’rith, 1953-55; New England Regional Board Member,
Anti-Defamation League, 1948-59; Claremont General Hospital Advisory
Board Member, 1952-54; member, New Hampshire State Commission for
Educational Television, 1955-58, Templar ‘Chapter, DeMolay Advisory
Council, 1955-57, General Committee, District No. 1, Grand Lodge, B'nai
B’rith, 1955-57, board of Claremont Mental Health Association, 1955-58,

New Hampshire Broadcasting Council, Citizens’ Advisory Committee,

1958-59, Claremont School Board, 1957-60; associate member, Mary Hitch-

cock Foundation, Mary Hitchcock Hospital, 1957-59.

4EMBER OF: Masons; Zionist Organization of America; Harvard Club of New

Hampshire; Beta Gamma Sigma, honorary society (Columbia School of
Retailing).

‘WENTY-FIVE years ago at an unsullied, nevertheless legal,
venty-one — Harvard and I parted company. Ina state of freedom
ordering on bewilderment I hit New York with octopodous force.
y world centered about the retail establishments of B. Altman &
ynpany and the Columbia School of Retailing. Both sat up briefly
d took notice of my entry into their periphery. Neither rose.

It was but a year later that I fell heir to a title — that of assistant

[1527]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

through the burning sands of Africa with Patton (1 was once on
paper attached to Third Army) but [never saw Africa in my life.
The publicity manager did a good job for the horel. Dozens of
calls from friends including Bob and Hilda Berner who helped us
celebrate my triumphant, now well publicized, return to my native
land. Find of the week: A suit (civilian) that fit-— and through its
graces loss of identity with the G.I. hero story which was lovingly
spread over the pages of home town Durly Eagle as well.

And so home at last the sturdy conquering hero, Now a swirl
of new civic projects and activities, fodder for ulcers which I man-
fully acquired. Sandwiched in came sweet Ann Shana — and now
we are “five.” Born, too, another Queen Shop in Glens Falls, New
York — more country-store clothes. Since the war I turn out second
rate water colors which occasionally I place in cooperative art ex-
hibits and sell at inferior prices to unsuspecting friends. Have joined
the select fraternity of ski-addicts-sporting-a- -broken-leg (last win-
ter) and wish heartily I had not been “selected.”

] suppose generally one might say that my life is epitomized by
“life-in-the-country’ * standards. Very little seems to be ready- -made.
The opportunity to pioneer and create politically and culturally
has been constant. Public life and change is fashioned by the citi-
zenry in a close-to-earth decentralized philosophy. When I pause
now to reflect on the occasion of our Twenty-fifth, there are some
things I would have changed could I do them over again — but
much I would keep just as it is. This tale Pll ponder and relate for
my Fiftieth Class Life.

ROBERT BURNS WINSLOW

 

HOME ADDRESS: §26 Welch's Point Rd, Milford, Conn.
5 ’

[ 1530 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE AppREss: Connecticut State Dept. of Education, 67 Willow St, Water-
bury, Conn.

BORN: June 20, 1911, Ashland, Aroostook County, Maine. parents: James Henry

Winslow, Ella Claire Hood.

PREPARED AT: Ashland High School, Ashland, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934; EDM. (Boston Univ.), 1949.

MARRIED: Bertha Louise Greenlaw, June 20, 1936, Houlton, Maine (divorced
1948); Leatrice Estelle Benner, July 16, 1949, Brunswick, Maine. CHILDREN:
Robert Burns, Jr., Jan. 19, 1939; Diana Claire, Oct. 9, 1943; Gregory Duncan,
Sept. 12, 1950; Kimberley Maryon, May 20, 1953, Lynne Elizabeth, April 12,

1956.
OccUPATION: District superintendent of schools, Waterbury, Conn.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Milford Rotary Club, July, 1958, to
October, 1958; member, Tenure Committee, National Education Associa-

tion, 1951-54.
MEMBER OF: Connecticut and National Education Associations; Connecticut

Association of Public School Superintendents; National Association of
School Superintendents; American Association of School Administrators;
Association for Supervision and Curriculum Development; Masonic Order.

WHEN I left Harvard Yard in June, 1934, I did not have the re-
motest idea that I would take up teaching. However, one often
finds himself a victim of circumstances and such was my case in
the depression year of 1934, My attempts to break into the business
world via such companies as National Cash Register, General Foods,
etc., were unsuccessful. Thus, in October, 1934, in desperation, I
organized an adult education class in Ashland under the direction of
the Maine Stare Department of Education with the help of W.P.A.
funds.

In January, 1935, I accepted the principalship of a two-year high
school in the small town of Masardis, Maine. My experiences in
this northern Maine town were rugged and never-to-be-forgotten
ones to be sure. My duties ranged from teaching all the subjects
(eight per day) in this two-year high school to fighting the elements
in sixty degrees below zero weather. I attempted to meet this latter
problem by feeding logs to a large monster of a box stove in one
corner of the classroom. One event for which I shall never forgive
this stove happened in late January, 1935, when the mercury dropped
to sixty-one deerces below zero, Grave circumstances faced the
few of us who managed to arrive at the schoolhouse on this bitter
cold and crispy morning. The fire had died out sometime during
the night and all the ink in the various desks had frozen solid. Need-
less to say, nothing much was accomplished this day either educa-
tionally or in the field of non- -directional guidance (even the pupil-

[ 1531 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934
again for evening board mectings is time-consuming and tiring to
sav the least.

In November, 1953, Lea and I acquired an unpretentious cottage
on Ravmond Lake, Ravmond, Maine. It’s a very beautiful and quiet
spot where we and the children go at the slightest excuse, During
the summer months as well as on many other w eckends, we can
usually be found there. It’s one piece of property we don’t ever
want to part with. For years we have been swimming and fishing
enthusiasts, but last summer we acquired another habit — boating.
With our new fourteen-foot runabout and 25 h.p. Evinrude, we
are exploring new waters in New England and enjoying new thrills.
Who knows what will happen to me w ith my W ife presenting me

with water skis for Christmas? The seven of us can’t wait "til June
comes again. I am blessed with a lov ely wife and five fine children
— two boys and three girls. The children range in age from three
to nineteen and were born in Florida, Massachusetts “and Maine.

Although I have such other interests as hunting and photography,

I now find it difficult to find sufficient time to pursue them. The
Winslows are all members of St. Peter’s Episcopal Church in Mil-
ford and are pleased at the apparent gradual increase in church at-
tendance in general. We feel that the real hope of the future lies in
this direction and that without the church the world will not be
able to keep its perspective in these fast-moving and changing times.

Lea and I are looking forward to a cessation of our government’s
“give-away policy,” the stopping of Korean fiascoes and a more
positive and firmer foreign policy.

GORDON DOW WINSOR

 

Home appkess: § Warren St, Winchester, Mass.

[ 1534 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
OFFICE ADDRESS: Bates Shoe Co., Webster, Mass.
BorN: Aug. 28, 1911, Medford, Mass. parents: John Thomas Winsor, Orra Dow.

PREPARED AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B, 1934.

MARRIED: Ruth Mary Bennett, Dec. 12, 1941, Nashua, N.H. cHitprex: Barbara
Ann, July 4, 1943; Janet, Sept. 15, 1936, Laura Mae, July 19, 1949; Susan
Jeanne, Oct. 4, 1952; John Thomas, 2d, March 16, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Sales representative, Bates Shoe Co., manufacturers of men’s shoes.

MEMBER OF: Bear Hill Golf Club; Harvard Club of Boston; National Shoe

. Travellers Association.

IT’ has always been my conviction that any autobiography should
start with birth or possibly the pre-natal state, but since this auto-
biography is limited to post-graduation I hereby entitle this work
“Life Began at Age 22.”

When Harvard spewed its graduates into the unhealthy economic
climate that was 1934, I joined the home office of a large insurance
company in Boston. After three years of intensive application, 1
found myself making very little money and buried in figures in the
premium department. Sales seemed to offer the best financial reward
for effort, so in 1938 I embarked on a sales career.

This was interrupted in 1942 when J secured a commission in the
Navy. After a year of indoctrination and coastal duty off Bar Har-
bor, Maine, I was given command of an A.P.C. (coastal transport).
After about six months of shakedown, etc., we sailed to the South
Pacific where our duty was interesting and varied: we acted as
escort vessel, station vessel, rescue vessel, towed target for P.T.’s,
carried inter-island personnel, probed unexplored islands for Jap
watchers, acted as mail boats, cargo carriers, etc. After a year of
commanding this A.P.C., I was given command of A.P.C. Flotilla
5 — forty-seven A.P.C.’s based in the South Pacific; then shore duty
as separation officer in Boston.

The pattern of our post-war life has been solid. Our first four
children were girls and finally little Jack arrived three Vvears ago.
My family and business absor b most of my time, leaving little chance
for travel, hobbies, etc. I do manage to get in a little colf oeccasion-
ally and swim a bit in Afaine during the summer, In spite of mv
serious attempts at exercise and diet, I'm losing the Battle of the
Waistline.

Tolerance and liberalism express my religious atcirude. Politic ally,
I would say I should be classified as an dade ‘pendent Republican. T he
twenty-five post-graduate } years have mellowed ambition and substi-
tuted realism for dreams. I believe that there is only one thing

[ 1535 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

that can stop the mad race for supremacy between the United
States and Soviet Russia: Veritas.

PRESCOTT BROWNING WINTERSTEEN

 

OME ADDRESS: Quarters 217, Marine Corps Recruit Depot, Parris Island, S.C.
FFICE ADDRESS: P.O. Box 476, M.C.R.D., Parris Island, S.C.

RN: Dec. 14, 1912, Buffalo, N.Y. parents: Roy Brown Wintersteen,. Bertha
May Prescott.

EPARED AT: Moses Brown School, Providence, R.1.

ARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931, 1932-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; S.T.B., 1954.

sRRIED: Dorothy Frances Drown, Oct. 21, 1939, Uxbridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Prescott Browning, Jr. July 20, 1942; Wendy Hannaford, June 29, 1950;
Jeremy Comstock, Feb. 4, 1955.

UpaTION: Chaplain, U.S. Navy.

COURSE in economic geography induced me to enter woolen
‘tile manufacturing upon my graduation. It was an easy begin-
ig, because I had been brought up amidst textile families. Within
nut two years, however, I found that an uncatalogued course at
rvard had fostered an idealism which transcended a preoccupa-
1 with manufacturing materials to make moncy.

n making a clean break of it, I enrolled at the Meadville Theo-
‘cal School, an affiliate of the University of Chicago. To top
my training, I returned to Harvard’s Divinity School. In 1939
ompleted my study in residence, took a parish in delightful
blchead, and married, A quict life of contemplation and religious
ice Jay ahead, |

he Navy chaplaincy proved to be a challenging ficld of service,
1 an incidental reward of a sense of offering ministry where
stry was genuinely needed, In my early days of the chaplaincy,

[ 1534 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I said that w hat I liked about it, as compared with the parish

ministry, was “more men and less matrons.” It is still true.

Life in the Navy has been no bed of roses, but where would it
have been? The wife of one of our ambassadors (a Yale man, him-
self) asked me at a dinner not long ago, “What is a Harvard man
doing in the Navy?” It is a fair question. I think a Harvard man
has a place wherever he chooses. He can bring something to it,
and he can take something from it. His Harvard training has
equipped him to do both.

It has been my fortune to participate in several “firsts,” as well
as to take my turn in being buried in oblivion. Among the firsts
were being on board the first ship (USS Augusta) to enter Casa-
blanca harbor (1942); on board the first submarine to conduct mis-
sile launching experiments; assigned to the group of submarines
which made the first experiments with under-ice operation in the

Arctic; on board the aircraft carrier which claimed the highest
number of targets; all categories, during the Korean conflict; laying
groundwork for pay billets for chaplains and a more specific part
in the Naval Reserve program for them; initiating work with the
postwar Japanese Navy in creating a program of moral guidance
for the newly-emancipated youth of Japan and developing a tech-
nigue of officer-to-man communication, required under the new
democratic form of government in Japan. The latter two enterprises
were coincident with duty as Force Chaplain on the staff of the
commander, Naval Forces, Far East and chairman, Chaplain’s Com-
mittee (Army, Navy, Air Force), Headquarters, Commander-in-
Chief, Far East.

The Navy afforded me a year of postgraduate work at Harvard
(1948-49), and this was followed with a year of research at the
Great Lakes Naval Training Center, on the family of origin as an
index of Service performance and on the family of marriage as an
influence upon the Service career.

During these Navy years, my family has survived the trials and
ordeals of separations and many moves. Indeed, it seems to have
flourished. They were happily rewarded with two years of resi-
dence in Japan. My elder son is looking toward Harvard in the fall.

At this anniversary, Iam not looking back, only, Ie will not be
Jong before twenty years in the Navy have been completed. What
then? More years in the Navy, or a new career in civilian life?
Who can tell? I think ic will be the latter, and T shall be thankful

[ 1537]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

if the good health and dependable supply of energy which have been
mine will sustain me in new endeavors.

NATHANIEL THAYER WINTHROP

 

HOME ADDRESS: 770 Park Ave., New York 21, N.Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Shearman & Sterling & Wright, 20 Exchange Pl., New York 5,
N.Y.

BORN: May 20, 1912, Hamilton, Mass. parents: Frederic B. Winthrop, ’97, Sarah
B. Thayer.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1934; LL.B. (Univ. of Virginia), 1938.

MARRIED; Serita Bartlett, July 3, 1935, Beverly Farms, Mass. (divorced 1947);
Eleanor R. Beane, June 17, 1950, Cambridge, Mass. cHiLprEN; John, June 22,
1936, Matthew B., May 8, 1938, Beekman, April 6, 1941; Serita, Dec. 22,
1943; Nathaniel Thayer, Jr., Nov. 30, 1951; Katharine, April 20, 1954; Cor-
nelia T., July 5, 1956; Stephen, Aug. 18, 1958.

HARVARD SON: John Winthrop, ’58.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Robert Winthrop, ’26; Frederic Winthrop, 728.

occupation: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Wall Street Investing Corporation; treasurer, Child
Study Association of America, former trustee, Solebury School, Madison
Avenue Presbyterian Church, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, River Club; various Bar Associations. -

IN 1946, after the war, I moved with my four eldest children from
near Boston to a Manhattan apartment, and since then have con-
tinued to enjoy the hustle and bustle of New York while avoiding
some of the pressures that seem to make others dislike this fair
city. The reasons for the move were various, but, being somewhat
of a New Dealer in philosophy, I had found the then business pes
simism of Boston distasteful, and, for myself, had confidence thatthe
world was not going to hell in a hack. I wanted to settle in a

[ 1538 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

community where some of the excitement of business enterprises
and enthusiasms for public improvement might brush off on me.
Paradoxically enough, I proceeded to associate myself with a law
firm that did very little practice other than trusts and estates. This
might not seem like work which would appeal to one who likes to
consider himself a liberal at heart, but I worked closely with the
Jate C. Alexander Capron and found what I did absorbing and
fascinating.

In 1950, . Eleanor Beane of Cambridge (daughter of Arthur Beane,
"11), another transplantee in New York, and. I were married in the
Harvard Chapel. By 1954 there were two more children, so that
we paused a little before deciding that the time had come for a
“Second Sabbatical.” While at college I had made a vow that, if I
could afford it, I would try and take such a “Sabbatical” every ten
years in order to assess where I stood and where I wanted to go.
The war took care of the first “Sabbatical.” My naval service had
consisted of much more inactivity than action and there was plenty
of time for assessing goals and aspirations. In spite of my having
had the excitement of participating in four invasions on various
destroyers, neither I nor any of the men on the ships on which I
served had the misfortune to be wounded.

For this “Second Sabbatical” during the winter of 1954-55, we
made Beirut, Lebanon, our headquarters for several months and
managed to visit such exotic spots as Aleppo, Babylon, Bagdad,
Damascus and Palmyra, to name a few. My wife and I studied
people and history, sociological and political, of an area about which
we knew next to nothing and which was in the news so much last
year. Son John, then a freshman at Harvard, missed out on all of
this, but managed a trip to the USSR the following summer.
Matthew, at Solebury School in New Hope, Pennsylvania, got as
far as Europe with us before returning solo. Beek at Le Rosey i in
Switzerland joined us for a trip to Jerusalem and Bethlehem for
Christmas, Serita thoroughly enjoyed (in retrospect, at least) at-
tending a USA-like junior high school just off the campus of the
American University, which is predominantly attended by children
of oil company employ ces and AUB professors, although many
other nationalitics are represented in its student body. A young
lady with a Master’s degree from Columbia added considerably to
the mobility of my w ife and me by taking charge of Nat and Kate.
While the two of us were on a side trip to Cairo and Istanbul, she
fell in love with, and later marricd, a Palestinian refugee. She and

[ 1539 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

the children boarded a ship for New York in Beirut, which Eleanor
and I joined at Athens since we wanted to visit Israel. The social
and economic development of this turbulent little Republic is fasci-
nating to see.
Because Mr, Capron had died suddenly just before our return to
New York, I changed my association to a firm having a more varied
practice than his. My wife and I have tended to get involved in
extra-curricular activities related to the problems of rearing and
educating children, which, as an intellectual and physical endeavor,
we both find somewhat too all-absorbing, but fun. Tennis still is a
necessity to my morale, and I try to play at least twice weekly
but find myself playing less singles. As for squash, that I play
less and less. Our large family would have to lead somewhat of a
sardine-like existence if all were in New York at once in our apart-
ment, but that seldom happens, and during the Christmas and spring
vacations, we have plenty of space to expand at a lumber and shoot-
ing plantation which my brothers and I own in Allendale County,
South Carolina. Summer activities seem to scatter the family, and
we like to vary our headquarters; so have tried summering at Hun-
tington, Long Island, Mattapoisett, Massachusetts, and even in Eu-
rope. The law I practice is extending a bit into problems of oil and

corporations and causes me to travel just about the right amount
for my taste.

ALFRED CLARENCE WOLF

 

HOME appRESS: Birch Lane, Greenwich, Conn.

orFice appress: The Ford Foundation, 477 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y,
BoRN: Nov. §, 1911, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Louis Wolf, Clara Ost.
PREPARED aT: Stroudsburg High School, Stroudsburg, Pa,

[ 1540 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931, 1932-1935. DEGREES: a.B., cum laude, 1934(35);

M.P.A., 1954.
marriep: Agnes Strauss, June 30, 1945, New York, N.Y. cuiLpren: Sally, May

17, 1947; John Alexander, Dec. 31, 1951; Steven Sidney, April 16, 1954;
Andrew Michael David, Feb. 26, 1957.

occuPATION: Director for Latin America and the Caribbean, Overseas Develop-
ment Program, The Ford Foundation.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington; American Society for Public Ad-
ministration; American Political Science Association, American Economic

Association.

FOR the first time in many years, I am compelled, in an effort to
comply with the deadline required for the submission of this narra-
tive, to review the topography of the past twenty-five years or so,
and to think especially of my early years at Harvard.

‘The course over these years has been reasonably straightforward,

and undoubtedly parallels some of those described elsewhere in this
volume. The difference, if there be one of any consequence, lies
largely in the impact of the Great Depression on my undergraduate
course, both in the delay in getting my degree, and in my field of
academic interest. I believe, too, that the Depression may have had
some influence on the uneven nature of my career search during the
several years I remained at Harvard after my graduation. It is a
fact, moreover, that the catastrophic economic and social situation
of the 1930’s did ultimately impel me to a career in public service,
which I have followed without deviation since 1938. My career
medium has changed during these twenty years: the first fifteen
were spent in the federal government, the past five in private agen-
cies — but I think it fair to say that the objective has been consistent.

I am not convinced that the facts of my career will command a
wide audience, but here they are, for the record:

My first job in Washington was as an economist with the Divi-
sion of Social Research of the Works Progress Administration. I
worked for some time on the problems of the chronically depressed
coal mining and textile manufacturing areas of the country. This
assignment was followed by others stemming from the socio-eco-
nomic problems of the day. In 1940, our division was engaged full-
time on labor market, housing and community facility surveys in
prospective defense production areas for the Advisory Commission
to the Council of National Defense.

Abruptly, in March of 1941, I was reminded by the Navy that
I had signed up as a reserve officer several years earlier, The result
was a quick transition from civilian to military status. After a very

[ 154 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

acceptance in the summer of our recommendations for the African

program, I was turned loose on the problem of developing the

Foundation’s interest in the Caribbean and Latin America. I am now

immersed in this project, and I am looking forward to my first

tour of Latin America in the spring and early summer of 1950.

As difficult as the transition was from federal service in 1953,
the result has been gratifying. I have acquired a much larger out-
look on the world, reflected literally in my current professional
concern with world-wide problems, and I have been able to con-
tinue my interest in public service through association first with a
university and then with a private foundation. It has occurred to
me in writing this that my first interest in the federal government
with the problems of underdeveloped areas of the United States has
been enlarged in the past two decades to include the underdeveloped
regions of the world. This was not planned; it just happened to work
out this way!

I have no special hobbies or interests. My family has grown to
four children, ranging in age from two to eleven, and I enjoy the few
hours I can spend with them. My wife, to the extent that four chil-
dren allow her to do this, pursues an interest in public affairs and
liberal politics, and in these matters 1 encourage her, As our chil-
dren grow older, we try to resume with them our interest in the
out-of-doors, My work persists in absorbing by far most of my
time and energy, and I am confronted, as are most of my friends,
with the perplexing dilemma of how best to allocate precious time
among these precious competing claimants.

_My association with my Class and my classmates has not been
close, nor have I been able, over the years, to participate in Harvard
matters in a conventional fashion. This I regret. On the other hand,
I have developed through the years as a result of my work gratify-
ing associations with some members of the Harvard faculty and
with many men who have obtained their professional training at
Harvard, and I have had this recent official connection with Harvard.
In the past several years I have had a part in extending Harvard’s
interest in distant lands, and it has been a great source of pleasure
to observe for myself the reputation for excellence Harvard has
earned, even in the remote parts of the world.

[1544 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PAUL JAMES CHARLES WOLFER

  

HOME ADDRESS: 603 Line St., N.E., Decatur, Ala.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Tennessee Valley Cooperatives, Inc., P.O, Box 291, Decatur, Ala.

BORN: Aug. 1, 1911, Wellesley Hills, Mass. parents: Paul Carl Wolfer, Martha
Katherine Seybold.

PREPARED AT: Newton Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1934(35); MBA. 1937(38).

MARRIED: Emmie Frances Polhill, Sept. 14, 1940, Cambridge, Mass.

occUPATION: Auditor-analyst.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, Reserve Officers Association of Decatur, di-
rector, National Society of Accountants for Cooperatives, committeeman,
Cub Scouts; member, executive committee, Citizens for Better Govern-
ment; trustee, First Baptist Church (Decatur).

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Birmingham, Ala.; Kiwanis Club of Decatur,
Reserve Officers Association; National Society of Accountants for Coopera-
tives; Morgan County Farm Bureau.

FOLLOWING graduation from the Business School, I entered
men’s shoe manufacturing, being first employed by W. F. Douglas
shoe Company, Brockton, and then at Milford Shoe Company in
Wilford, Massachusetts,

My wife was completing her work for a Master's degree in psy-
hiatric social work at Smith College when I met her. We were
aarried at Harvard Chapel in September, 1940.

On May 6, 1941, I was called to active duty as first lieutenant,

“S. Army, Q.MLC. This tour of duty included thirty-three months

North Africa, Italy and southern France. Reverted to Active

sserve as lieutenant colonel on January 1, 1946.
My wife’s home is Decatur, Alabama, This is where we have
cn since World War II. Here I have been associated with the
nnessce Valley Cooperatives, Inc., a fertilizer and feed manu-
turer, since December 15, 1945.

[ 1545 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

BENJAMIN HERBERT WOODSUM, II

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 1016 Washington St., South Braintree, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 31, 1911, Braintree, Mass. PareNTs: Benjamin Herbert Woodsum, Jr.,
Elizabeth Powell.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1934(35)3; LL.B. » 1939.

UN MARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: Chorus pro Musica, Boston; Rotary Club, Braintree, Mass.

SRADUATED from Harvard Law School and admitted to the
\fassachusetts bar in 1939. Served in the Army, March, 1942, to
Jecember, 1945. Practised law in Boston and Braintree.

My life has been fairly uneventful, but I have kept interested,
rying to find out something about the world in which I live. My
vocations or hobbies are mostly associated with music and art, but
ny interests and reading tend to be rather broad. I certainly owe
his attitude and state of affairs largely to my association with Har-
rard. Maybe I carry it too far, as I sometimes feel I am heading
oward the point where | shall “know nothing about everything.”

[ 1546 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DAVID GRAHAM WRIGHT

 

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 81 President Ave., Providence 6, RI.
BORN: Nov. 9, 1912, McKinley, Pa. parents: William Wallace Wright, Florence

Hulda Geckeler.
TRANSFERRED FROM: Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934. DEGREES: A.B., C1771 laude, 1934; M.D. (Univ. of Penn-

sylvania), 1938.
MARRIED: Mildred Marlin Smith, July 8, 1939, Bryn Mawr, Pa. cnitpres: David
Wallace, Jan. 16, 1942; John Thornton, Jan. 20, 1946. |
OCCUPATION: Physician; specializing in psychiatry and psychotherapy, teacher.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Out-patient Clinic, 1945-48, superintendent and physi-

cian-in-chief, 1948-51, Butler Hospital, Providence, R.I., member, Commit-
tee on Military Psychiatry, July, 1948, to June, 1950; examiner, Civil Service
Department, June, 1949; member, Committee on Organizing, Regional Con-
ference of the National Rehabilitation Association, March, 1950, Study

Group for “Care of Aged,” April, 1950, Practical Nurse Committee, Jan-
uary, 1951, Governor's Special Committee to Study the Problems of the

Aged, Governor’s Special Committee on Nursing Education, 1953; consult-

ant in psychiatry, Butler Health Center, since 1956; member, Committee

on Social Welfare, Committee on Postgraduate Education, Committee on
Organization of New Veterans Hospital, Rhode Island Medical Society;
member, editorial board, Rhode Island Medical Journal, Psychiatrie Bul-
letin,; member, Standing Committee, Rhode Island Society for Neurology
and Psychiatry; member board, Hospital Association of Rhode Island;
member, National Committee for Mental Hygiene (con. member), Group
for the Advancement of Psychiatry (con, on hospitals); consultant in neu-
rology and psychiatry, Veterans Administration Regional Othice, Provi-
dence; consultant psychiatrist, Rhode Island Hospital; member, Consulting
Staff, Crippled Children and Adults of RI Inc.; consultant, Wallum Lake
Sanatorium, Lying-In Hospital, Providence; chairman, Conference on Prob-
lems of Consciousness of the Josiah Macy, Jr. Foundation; member, Panel
of Appraisers, Committee on Handbook of Biological Data of the Amer-
ican Institute of Biological Sciences, April, 1950; member, board of diree-
rors, Youth & Family, Inc. medical consultant, Advisory Committee, Rhode

1547 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934
Island Maternal Health Association; associate clinical professor of psychi-
atry, Yale Univ ersity.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association (Fellow); American Psychiatric
Association (Fellow); American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology (Dip-
lomate); Providence Medical Association; Hospital Service Corporation
of Rhode Island; Boston Psychoanalytic Institute, Inc.; Rhode Island So-
ciety for Mental Hygiene; Harvard Club of Rhode Island; Providence Art
Club; Rhode Island Historical Society; Providence Chamber of Commerce;
Military Order of Foreign Wars; New York Academy of Sciences; Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania Club of Rhode Island; Alpha Omega Alpha, Group

for the Advancement of Psychiatry; American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science.

puBLicaTions: Member, Advisory Board (editorial), Cancer Bulletin, October,
1950; associate editor, Psychosomatic Medicine, May 1, 1950-1951; several
articles on psychotherapy, the latest of which are: “Psychotherapy with
Schizophrenics,” chapter, International Universities Press, Inc., 1952; “States
of Awareness in Schizophrenic Patients,” in Proceedings of the Conference

on Problems on Consciousness — 1951 Josiah Macy, Jr. Foundation Publica-
tion.

PRACTISING in psychiatry with a vital interest in psychotherapy
is continuously provocative and fascinating — an exploration with-
out end. With a wife and two boys that are even more so, and
even more exciting, and the funny combination of other interests
and things that I enjoy, it’s not easy to put the past twenty-five
years into any sort of narrative.

There was medical school at the University of Pennsylvania,
internship, residencies, learning years, research years, years of
psychoanalytic training. All this was good and very exciting, and
then — as now — full of self-questioning in many directions.

There was the war, in which I was unusually fortunate — whether
overseas with the Eighth Air Force or doing psychiatric planning
and research at the Pentagon or, at the end, running the psycho-
therapy and teaching in an Air Force convalescent hospital for
combat flying men who got back. Through nearly all of this, I
was able to call my own shots — win, lose or draw — all of which
I certainly did, "

In the twenty-five years, there have been no dull bits at all that
occur to me. We, the family, have always enjoyed doing things and
learning things, as much as the twenty-four hours of the day allow,
and have found the allowance all too little for our liking. We camp,
we fish, we read, we watch birds, we look into flowers, trees, ani-
mals, bugs, geology, minerals. We read a great deal — paleontology,
prehistory, ancient history and its archeology, myths, more recent

[ 1548]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

history — in considerable detail — and the proper study of man. |]

like to do things with my hands — more exploration, I’m sure.

Knowing nothing technically, I smear paint, chip granite, carve

wood as I choose, make things of metal. When I've the time for this

I do not know. Perhaps there’s not much more that matters except
that I have a friend or two or three, and this is very good, especially
when first among them are my wife and our boys. I cannot help
believing more deeply each day in the overwhelming strength of
love, in the search for truth and the freedom it brings, in the validity
of learning, of growing by getting things done, in the awful falli-
bilities in all men, and the far deeper inner decencies and unknown
or unrecognized potentialities in every man—beyond what is
credible — and I believe that to create, no matter how, to stick one’s
neck out and never to do anything but live stubbornly aware, and

with joy, is a great good.

ALBERT LESLIE WYCOFF, JR.

    

HOME ADDRESS: 1189 Tice Pl., Westfield, N.J.

OFFICE ADDREss: American Cyanamid Co., 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20,
N.Y.; S.P.S. Dept., P.O. Box 152, Linden, N.J. (temporary).

BORN: May 13, 1913, Highland Park, N.J. parents: Albert Leslie Wycoff,
Carolyn Christine Zimmerman.

PREPARED AT: Rutgers Preparatory School, New Brunswick, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932. DEGREE: S.B, (Rutgers Univ.), 1936.

MaRRIED: Carolyn Virginia Granberry, Feb. 21, 1936, Burlington, N_J.
occuPATION: Manager, Standard Products and Sample Department, American
Cyanamid Company.

MEMBER OF: Society of American Magicians and local groups; Holland Society
of New York; Chi Psi Fraternity; Chemical Market Research Association
(ex-founding member); miscellaneous local civic groups.

[ 1549 ]

mess e SA

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

graduates with O years of business experience receive payment
embarrassingly close to that I’ve heard-earned over twenty-three
years. I enjoy my work, but am wondering if I would not enjoy
higher financial return enough more to make it worth uprooting
mv ‘self and going with another company, even now. Apparently,
I've been pegged as a good special job man or trouble shooter, and
no one wants to take me out of circulation by putting me in a
straight management job. Since I was responsible for instituting
savings on my present job that will amount each year to over 150%

of my total salary for the past twenty-three years, I guess | can see
their point! ,

ERNEST ALFRED WYE, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 67 Hillside Ave. Nutley, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Standard Oil Co. of New Jersey, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New
York, N.Y.

BORN: July 27, 1912, East Douglas, Mass. parents: Ernest Alfred Wye, ’or, Ruth |
Frothingham Gray.

PREPARED AT: Asbury Park High School, Asbury Park, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: S.B., 1934; M.B.A. (New York Univ.),-1946.

marriep: Mary Elizabeth Mario, Oct. 8, 1938, Asbury Park, N.J. (divorced
1954); Marjorie Bean Johnson, July, 1958, Nutley, N.J. caitpren: Christo-
pher Gray, May 12, 1942; Sara Porter, May 6, 1944; Marsha Lynn Johnson,

Oct. 23, 1940 (stepdaughter) ; Douglas Wells Johnson, Feb. 21, 1943 (step-
son).

HARVARD BROTHER: William Gray Wye, ’43.

occupation: Assistant secretary, Coordination Committee, Standard Oil Com-
pany of New Jersey.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Ridgewood (N.J.) Tennis Club;
Nutley (NJ.) Tennis Club.

MY business career has been almost entirely with the Standard Oil

[1552]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Company (New Jersey) in New York City. This comes as no small
surprise to me. The job came to me through a personnel agency.
In the dark days of 1935, this was something of a miracle. To land
in a department concerned with coordinating a big company’s
activities also was a break. I have had a number of departmental
transfers, but always in the field of coordination and planning. The
scope of this field has made a one-company career acceptable.
During the war, I spent some time in PAW, working particularly
on tanker tonnage, and returned several times for special assignments.
After the war, I had to make a choice between “figures and analytical
work” or “words.” For better or worse, I chose words — and now
the writing up of projects and programs as assistant secretary of the
Coordination Committee is my chief concern. Jersey subscribes to
group thinking and in consequence it depends heavily on committee
operation. There are thirty or more committees which report on
their efforts to the Coordination Committee.

Working for a fine company in a live industry is a lot for which
to be grateful. Yet like many “organization men,” I keep pondering
whether this is enough. The activities of some of our more free-
wheeling classmates arouse admiration and a certain amount of
envy. Hence, I am still searching for some fulfillment to add to the

organization work.

I was married for the second time in July, 1958, to, of all things,
my Class Day girl. We feel we should have done it tw enty-five
years ago. She has a boy and girl as do I, and they are a congenial
four. One is now in college. How ever, there will be one vear when
they will all be in college together. This could be both a challenge
_and a catastrophe!

My leisure occupations still are largely sports. Possibly this is
to prevent any attempts at profound thinking, On occasion, I still
trundle the old bones around in a doubles match in the New Jersey
League. I find I can play a couple of hours Sunday morning and
still go to work on Monday, if I spend Sunday afternoon in bed.
Other sports are squash at the New York Harvard C lub, some
badminton, and golf when tired. One boy is stitf competition in
golf, one is likely to be soon in tennis, and all four kids coach me
on swimming. My wife is not athletic, so she just cheers them on!
Both my wife and I took part in the various community activities,
as our children grew up. Now we are resting on our oars. For us,
looking to the time the four are processed through college, it appears
that travel may be the main interest.

[ 1553 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I934

My pride in Harvard is still strong. However, I continue to feel
that we do not sufficiently emphasize the development of doers and
men of action so much as researchers and teachers of teachers.

As to values at this stage of life, the bomb and the nuclear era
have made a deep impression on me, First, there was the shock of
the bomb with the prominence of New York City as a target, adding
a personal touch. Then there was the question of what. to tell the
children— when you were wondering what to tell yourself. It
seems to me that all that one can do in this area is to decide on some
pattern of living. To the best of my ability, it is to be more con-
cerned with family relationships, more sharing of time and thoughts,

more interest in other people. It isa policy of calculated myopia in
the age of brinksmanship.

RAYMOND YESNER

 

HOME appRess: Sunbrook Road, Woodbridge, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Veterans Administration Hospital, West Haven, Conn.

BORN: April 18, 1913, Columbus, Ga. parents: Benjamin Nabrisky Yesner, Anna
Tulbowitz,

prEeARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS EN COLLEGE: 1930-1932, 1933-1935. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1934(35) 5 M-D.
(Tufts Coll), r94t.

Marriep: Bernice Lieberman, Feb. 16, 1947, Somerville, Mass. CHILDREN: David
Raymond, Jan. 15, 1948; Donna Lee, July 29, 1949, Steven Charles, May 7,
1951.

occupation: Pathologist; chief, Laboratory Service, Veterans Administration
Hospital, West Haven, Conn.

OFFICES HELD; Associate clinical professor of pathology, Yale Medical School,
chairman, Professional Standards Board, Medical Library Committee; chair-
man, Tissue Committee, V.A. Hospital, 1953-58, Tumor Board, 1954, 1958.

MEMBER OF: College of American Pathologists; American Association of Pathol-

[1554]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ogists and Bacteriologists; New England and Connecticut Pathologic So-
cieties; International Academy of Pathology; New England V.A. Clinical
Research Society; Alpha Omega Alpha; Sigma Xi; Connecticut State Med-
ical Service; American Medical Association, Connecticut Trudeau Society.
PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles including: “Fatal Myocardial Sarcoidosis,”
American Heart Journal, 41, §, 1951; “Ultrasonic Measurement of the
Effects of Heparin on Blood Viscosity,” Laboratory Investigation, 1, 4, 1952;
“Blood Viscosity of Psychotics and Nonpsychotics Under Stress,” Psycho-
.somatic Medicine, 16, 5, 1954; “The Treatment of Thromboembolism with
Aqueous Heparin,” Surgery, Gynecology @& Obstetrics, 106, 293, 1958;
“ABO Blood Groups and Gastric Cancer,” Journal of Chronic Diseases, 8,
3, 1958.
WHEN I was at Boston Latin School, Harvard was the only college
to which I applied. It may have been a foolish thing to do, but my
father’s brother Paul had gone to B.L.S. and Harvard before me;
it seemed to be a way of life and I did not consider anything else.
Boston Latin School did indeed prepare me well for the college
boards and with a small scholarship in my pocket I became a sixteen-
year-old commuter.

[ have just read in the October, 1958, issue of Harper's Magazine
an article entitled “Imperial Harvard.” It contained the enlightening
information that 38% of Harvard’s 4oo commuters attended private
secondary school, and that last year there were three accidents in-
volving commuters driving Jaguars. This is an expressive com-
mentary of the change of tempo since my own commuter days when
I walked the two miles from home to Memorial Hall at a steady four
miles per hour. I took a year’s leave of absence in 1932 and so
graduated out of course with the Class of 1935.

I emerged with a Bachelor’s degree into an unimpressed Boston,
in which many of my classmates who had graduated in course were
strugeling with substitute teacher jobs. For a year I worked, first
as a control chemist in a Wilmington, Delaware, tannery and then
more happily as a research chemist in a Massachusetts hospital,
where I lived in a dormitory with senior medical students. I was
entranced by their talk and work and decided that I, too, would like
to spend my life in this fascinating field. But I had never even had a
course in biology at Harvard! My education had a big hole in it.
So back I went, this time as a special student, to take the necessary
premedical courses.

After a delay of three years, I at last started in graduate work at
Tufts Medical School in 1937. In May, 1941, with the United States
teetering on the edge of Europe’s war, I joined the Massachusetts

[31555 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

training ship Naztucket, as ship’s surgeon, for a six months’ cruise
and expected once more to miss graduating with my class. But Provi-
dence was there on the right day, and I was able to get to Medford
to participate in the ceremonies before putting to sea again. We
were at sea a few days later when Hitler’s armies invaded Russia.

In October, 1941, I started training in pathology at the Beth
Israel Hospital in Boston, under the late, great Dr. Monroe J.
Schlesinger. In two months, war had engulfed the United States
and I had no idea how long I would be allowed to train. During the
first few months that I was in his department, Dr. Schlesinger
hardly spoke to me. It was only when I became his senior resident
that I learned what a warm but shy individual he was, (It happened
that years later I sat with him at a meeting of the New England
Pathologic Society when he had a fatal coronary occlusion.) The
months of residency training sped by with only occasional brief
departures from the hospital. After two years, Dr. Farber offered
me a residency at the Children’s Hospital, but I felt compelled to
join the war effort, volunteered and was called to active duty in
January, 1944.

After six strenuous weeks at Carlisle Barracks Medical Field Serv-
ice School, I was handed a diploma and ordered to the Army and
Navy General Hospital at the resort town of Hot Springs, Arkansas.
After six more weeks, I received orders to Hampton Roads Port of
Embarkation and naturally thought I was headed for Europe. But
when I arrived in Virginia, I found they needed a pathologist at
Camp Patrick Henry, and there I stayed for two years, first em-
barking the boys, then debarking them, Lots of bark and a little
bite. Exotic diseases from all parts of the world funneled back into
our hospital, including an epidemic of Q fever, the first in this
country, and in the description and publication of which I par-
ticipated. | wound up my army career at Woodrow Wilson General
Hospital and Camp Lee, Virginia, and went home in December, 1946.

I was thirty-two years old and not yet started on my career. To
this I then turned my attention and 1947 was a year of solid ac-
complishment. I was married, licensed to practise medicine and
settled down to practise pathology at the newly-burgeoning V.A.
Hospital in Newington, Connecticut. I became a diplomate of the
American Board of Pathology and was appointed assistant clinical
professor of pathology at Yale. We took a Quonset hut on the

grounds temporarily, since a new hospital was going to be built in
West Haven, to which we expected to move. Six years and three

[1556 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

children later, we left our Quonset and moved into an unfinished,
contemporary house we had been building in Woodbridge, and I
really mean building it. I was my own general contractor, painter,
floor-layer and landscaper, all done from a headquarters forty miles
away. I learned a lot of things to which I had not been exposed at
Harvard, and somehow the job was done. I was appointed chief of
Laboratory Service at the newly-completed 890-bed West Haven
'V.A. Hospital and associate clinical professor of pathology at Yale.

Five years have gone by and we are happily rooted in this com-
munity on three acres of land, on which we have dammed a trout
stream to make a large swimming and skating pool. My wife is the
children’s librarian for the town. I spend my time in running our
laboratories, research and teaching. We are both vitally interested
in education and hope that our boys, who are students in our Wood-
bridge schools, will find them stepping-stones to Harvard, which
provided me, a poor commuter, with a priceless opportunity and a
sustained love of education and research. A problem is posed for
the boys by the facts that I am a Harvard graduate, teach at Yale
and live in a Yale community. This is solved by cheering for Yale
except at the Harvard-Yale game when they reverse colors.

CHARLES WALTER YUNGBLUT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3547 N. Valley Se, Arlington 7, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: International Cooperation Administration, 1216 Maiatico Blig.,
Washington 25, D.C.

BorN: April 29, 1913, Dayton, Ky, parents: Charles Walter Yungblur, Mary
Stackwood Gibson.

PREPARED AT: University School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES? A.By 1934; LL.B, 1937(38).

marniep; Elizabeth Prince, July 18, 1950, Terrace Park, Ohio.

[1557]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

the specific operation of the non-military side of the Mutual
Security Program. I contacted Tom Naughten, my favorite Harvard
roommate, W cho avas then Director of Personnel, Security and In-
tegrity for the agency, and has since continued his remarkable
career with an outstanding performance as director of the very
important Operations Mission in Thailand. Tom encouraged me and
I accepted a post in Congressional Relations in the spring of 1956.
We have our share of problems, but the Program is becoming less
and less controversial as its purposes and objectives are better under-
stood by Congress and the general public. In my opinion, the Cold
War will be won or lost in the field of economics, where, indeed,
Premier Khrushchev has chosen to make the challenge, when he de-
clared last year, “We declare war upon you — in the field of peace-
ful trade. The threat to the U.S.A. is not the ICBM, but in the
field of peaceful production, We are relentless in this and it will
prove the superiority of our system.” The International Coopera-
tion Administration, now concentrating full-time in the operation of
the non-military side of our Mutual Security Program, including
economic and technical assistance to the less-developed but free
nations of the world, is in the front-line of the Cold-War. I feel
privileged to play my small role in this effort and find the work
extremely interesting and rewarding.

JOHN RICHARD YUNGBLUT

 

HOME appress: 21 Church St., Waterbury, Conn.

OFFiceE appkEss: St. John’s Church, 16 Church St, Waterbury, Conn.

BoRN: April 29, 1913, Dayton, Ky. parents: Charles Walter Yungblut, Mary
Stackwood Gibson.

prepareD aT: University School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

[ 1560 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1931, 1932-1935. DEGREES: A.B. Cun laude, 1935; B.D.
(Episcopal Theological Seminary), 1939.

marrieD: Yvonne Catharine Philippe, Aug. 17, 1935, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Martha Ann, Oct. 3, 1946; John Stackwood, April 22, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles Gibson Yungblut, ’20; Charles Walter Yungblut, 734,

LL.B., ’37-
occuPaTION: Minister; rector, St. John’s Episcopal Church.
OFFICES HELD: Rector, St. Thomas Church, Terrace Park, Ohio, 1939-51; chair-
man, Waterbury Area, Council of Churches, 1954-56, Episcopal Pacifist

Fellowship, since 1958.

MEMBER OF: The Fellowship of Reconciliation.

PUBLICATIONS: Pamphlets: “Historical Continuity of Christian Pacifism”, “Unity
of the Spirit in the Bond of Peace”; “Seven Audacious Claims of Jesus
Christ”; “Great Paradoxes of Our Faith.”

AFTER graduation from the College, I entered simultaneously the

Harvard Divinity School and marriage. My wife had been a student

at Radcliffe and we had known each other during the last three

years of our undergraduate period, sharing a good deal of the major
events on both campuses. She received an appointment as assistant

librarian while I was a student at the seminary. The second year I.

transferred to the Episcopal Theological Seminary where I con-

cluded my preparation for the ministry IN 1939. |

Accepting a call to my first parish in Terrace Park, outside of
Cincinnati, Ohio, was a little like going home, for I had been
brought up under Frank Nelson, the rector of historic Christ Church,
a prophet and preacher of the Word and a giant in civic life. Asa
boy I had been an ardent baseball fan and had once delighted to
present the famed Eppa Rixey with a cigar in the dugout, It held
special significance ‘therefore for me when he turned out to be
vestryman in the parish I was to serve for twelve happy vears and
offered me a cigar during the initial trying interview before a call
was issued.

St. Thomas Church was the only parish of any kind in the com-
munity of Terrace Park, numbering some fifteen hundred people.
This meant a unique opportunity to serve as pastor to men and
women of all denominational backgrounds and to have in actual ex-

erience an ecumenical ministry. To serve the unity of the Church

of Christ has been one of the great passions of my life. The other
major concern has been the cause of peace, which I have tried to
serve through the Episcopal Pacifist Fellowship and the Fellow ship
of Reconciliation. They have always seemed related to me.

Coming to St. John’s Church, W aterbury, was areal wrench, for
in Terrace Park our “lines had fallen in pleasant places.” Our

[1561 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

children were thriving in the gracious suburban freedom. The
rectory in W aterbury i is in the center of an industrial community
where the children have no neighborhood playmates. But the work
embraces all kinds and conditions of men, a wider fellowship of
Christ. Two girls’ schools are attached to the parish, St. Margaret’s
and Westover. As colleagues in my daily work, I have an older man
and a young curate in training. Were I able to choose a parish any-
where in the country I could not select one more to my liking, for
it seems to me as nearly a cross-section of our contemporary common
life as could be imagined.

Meantime I have not ceased to dream and Albert Schweitzer’s
counsel seems to me increasingly sound: we are to be inward men
with an outward ethic. The outward ethic is easy enough; the in-
wardness is harder and more important because the outward ethic
in the end is sustained only by this inward vitality. Increasingly, I
have sat at the feet of the great mystics of all religions and outside
all traditions. In the end they are the interpreters of life, and I have
. become increasingly attentive to the great artists, especially literary
artists, for I have learned that though they have most commonly stood
outside the Church in our time they have sometimes spoken the
Word more faithfully than the Church herself.

We have been blessed with health. Our children come forward
apace and I am taught by them, meanwhile wistfully hoping that I
may become more childlike. This much I know: the great w onder
of life j is friendship and love.

GEORGE ZAKON

 

HOME appress: 229 Fuller St, West Newton, Mass.
OFFICE AppRESS: William Zakon & Sons, 1328 Beacon St, Brookline, Mass

[ 1562 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: June 8, 1912, Boston, Mass. PaReNTs: William Zakon, Elizabeth Berkman.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREE: A.B, 1934.
MarRiIED: Roslyn Goldberg, June 18, 1939, Asbury Park, N_J. (divorced 1947);

Miriam Jean Chernis, Oct. 23, 1949, Boston, Mass. cHipres: Laurence
Richard, Nov. 14, 1954; Lynne Caren, May 19, 1956.
HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Zakon, ’29.

OCCUPATION: Investments.
OFFICES HELD: Partner, William Zakon & Sons, 1934-52; vice-president, C. H.

Graves & Sons Co., Inc., 1938-52.
MEMBER OF: Kernwood Country Club.
JOINING a family liquor business on the wholesale and distilling
level, I became buried in work in a reborn industry fraught with
chaos and constant change. Havi ing sold this business in 1952, I
am now engaged with four brothers in various endeavors.

Three years in the Navy, principally as gunnery officer on
merchant ships, afforded me a prized experience — high adventure,
world-wide travel.

Blessed with two moppets, my wife and I lead the conventional
parents’ life, I guess, with some time devoted to travel and fishing.

As for hobbies, I have dabbled with many but find golf is chronic.
Socially, I think there is a growing dearth of integrity and ethics,
both in business and the professions. Politically, I am a Republican.

Harvard? My life’s richest experience.

Ravenel, you made me feel ten years younger!

ARTHUR ZANDITON

 

HOME AppRESS: 83 Shaw Rd., Chesenue Efill 69, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Republic Pipe & Supply Co, 1355 Columbus Ave. Boston 20,

Mass.
[ 1563 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

porN: Aug. 24, 1911, Boston, Mass, parENts: Jacob Zanditon, Rebecca Rosenthal.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932.

marrieD: Mildred Lipsitz, June 11, 1939, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Janet Beth,
July 31, 1941; Barbara Ann, Mav 27, 1944; Rebekah Marjorie, July 28, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Sidney Zanditon, ’17.

occupation: Vice-president, Republic Pipe & Supply Company, distributors of
electrical, plumbing and mill supplies.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Harvard Hillel, 1953-54, Jewish Vocational Service of
Boston, since 1953, Kirstein Fund, since 1954, Boston Chapter of American
Technion Society, since 1956, Brookline High School PTA, 1958, Electric
Institute of Boston, since 1959; vice-president, Brookline High School All-
School Council, 1956-57.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; American Technion Society; Electric
Institute; National Association of Electric Distributors; AIEE (associate);
Massachusetts Bay Lodge; Brandeis University Associates; Friends of
Harvard-Radcliffe Hillel.

THERE must be things that I would change if I had them to do over
again, but were they in any way to affect the result of the past
twenty-five years, then I would not alter them at all. Though the
first five got me nowhere, I think I would have the last twenty years
pretty much as they are. By whatever yardstick man measures his
days, I think he would find mine have been good ones and happy.
My family charms and bewilders me with its infinite capacity for
love and fun and argument. The relative calm of our life together
is Smashed at intervals by the crises that, apparently, are indigenous
to the development of the female personality — and our female per-
sonalities, in addition to my wife’s, are in full bloom with Janet
at seventeen preparing for a career in occupational therapy,
Barbara at fourteen planning a different but meteoric future each
day, and Betsy at eleven trying hopefully to persuade us we'd be
happier with a stable than a garden in our yard. °
When in September of 1932 I chose not to return to college for

financial reasons, I felt certain I would return the following year.
It was twenty-four years later that I again had the urge, finances
and time (I thought) to seriously consider going back. Dean Leigh-
ton was helpful but doubtful about any benefit a busy executive
might derive from taking a course or two a day to get a degree. He
was right! A careful study of the catalogue convinced me that, at
my age, the once intriguing and stimulating undergraduate courses
lose their appeal.

As I mentioned above, the first five years got me nowhere. Maybe
it was the depression, but I got lost in a rut as a cracker salesman.

[ 1564 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Then, early in 1938, I went with General Mills and met Mildred —
an eventful combination that got me going. The work was exciting
and profitable in the many experiences I enjoyed. In i940, after
living the first year of our marriage in Springfield, we realized that
any measurable success with General Mills would force us into a
migratory existence we would not enjoy. We decided to return to
Boston and I set out in the electrical distributing business.

That was a decision we have never regretted. Learning a new
business with a new company presented many problems. The work
was difficult, the hours were long, and we made many mistakes. |
sometimes wonder how we survived, but survive we did, I had to
learn much by myself and in the ever-changing electrical industry
there has been much to learn. I’ve at times “griped and at odd
moments wished I were doing anything else, but all in all my busi-
ness has been good for me and to me and I've enjoyed my years in it.

Being the only male amongst four females (five, if we count
Cindy, our German shepherd) has certainly made for anything but
a dull family existence. I put up a tough front and insist I’m master
of the domain but the girls have learned that this is a sham, so I've
learned the art of graceful retreat. Seriously, my choice of a wife
could not have been better. Mildred has been a fine wife and
wonderful mother. All of our children have had a basic religious
education which we hope has given them a firm spiritual foundation.

I haven’t always had as much time to devote to civic and charitable
causes as I would like, but since we feel our responsibilities strongly,
Mildred has represented us well in many major and several minor

community activities. I: have solicited ‘for numerous charities in
industry drives and my work as a board member of the Jewish Voca-
tional Service has been gratifying. .

I was forced to make. a hobby “of gardening when the snow melted
from the 10,000 feet of, land behind our house and revealed a
wilderness. We are very proud of our tuberous begonias and I
highly recommend “Bo” Breck’s dwarf dahlias. When the garden
was under control, I took up golf. W ould that day had never ‘come!
Being of strong mind, I have a weak back and a high score. In the
summer, though, it affords me the opportunity to take an afternoon
off each week. We've had the inclination but not the time te travel
extensively, Last summer we toured the West Coast and hope by
our Fiftieth to have seen the world.

Politically, Pve voted for men and issues regardless of party, bur
always have kepe a little to the right of my liber ‘al wife, which has

[ 1565 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

made for “interesting” discussions. I have hopes that Nelson Rocke- _
feller will be good enough as Governor of New York so that he
may be the Republican nominee for President in 1960.

GEORGE EDWIN ZOPF

 

OME ADDRESS: 2 Ellery St., Claremont, N.H.
“FICE ADDRESS: Buckley, Zopf & Sayce, 149 Broad St., Claremont, N.H.

RN: May 13, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: George Ferdinand Zopf, Teresa
Frances Henebury.

eparep aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

SARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1934. DEGREES: A.B. 1934; LL.B. 1937.

ARRIED: Marjorie M1. Ryan, Sept. 8, 1942, Washington, D.C.

cupaTION: Attorney-at-law; partner in firm of Buckley, Zopf & Sayce.

FICES HELD: Member, Sullivan County Bar Association, since 1946, president,
- 1954; representative, New Hampshire General Court, 1949-50; member,
Claremont City Council, 1952-55; solicitor, Sullivan County, since 1953;
member, since 1953, president, 1957-58, New Hampshire County Officers
Association; legal adviser to several charitable organizations in Claremont.

EMBER OF: Kiwanis; New Hampshire Bar Association.

‘ June, 1934, the plan of my future life.called for spending three
ars at the Law School, passing the Massachusetts bar examina-
on, and then a life in the practice of law in my home town, Boston, —
or eight years I stuck to the script — in 1937 I was graduated from
e Law School and became a practising attorney in Boston. In
ily, 1942, like thousands of others, I entered the Army and for the
rty-seven months that followed I served as an officer in the
idge Advocate General’s Department. Most of my service was at
e New York Port of Embarkation, but in 1945 I got to England
id France. My war time assignment as a judge advocate was largely
continuation of my civilian work except that for the first time in

[ 1566 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my career I became engaged in the handling of criminal cases, a
branch of the law I previously shunned but which I now found
quite to my liking.

In the service I was on duty continuously with a Manchester,
New Hampshire, lawyer, himself a transplanted Bostonian whom I
knew at good old Boston Latin School. Through the war vears we
became fast friends and in due course I learned all the good things
about the sovereign state of New Hampshire. In April, 1946, having
been thoroughly sold on New Hampshire, 1 opened an office in
Claremont in partnership with my army friend. Prior to the day I
hung out my shingle I had been in Claremont but once and then
only for three hours; my partner had been there but a few times him-
self. It was a cold, rainy day in February, 1946, when I made my
first visit to Claremont. Just as I entered the city limits, the sun
broke out in all its glory and I considered that as an omen of good
and prosperous days ahead — and I am pleased to sav that 1 cor-
rectly interpreted the sign. At first my wife Marjorie and I both
greatly missed the type of life which a large metropolis offers and
there were times we felt that we just could not make the adjustment
to life in a small city. Within a year we had made friends, joined
organizations and had become a part of our new community. Now
when we visit our folks in Boston, we return home w ondering how
they stand the street cars, buses and traffic jams — all of w hich we
ourselves took as a matter of course prior to 1946. "

During the war years I had my first contact with the criminal
law and I developed a considerable interest in the problems of law
- enforcement. Although new in the community I became a candidate
on the Republican ticket for the office of county solicitor or county
prosecutor, as it is sometimes called. Perseverance paid otf — after
two defeats I finally won the nomination and the election and have
since been elected three times. The emoluments of this office are
not sufficient for a living and I must also handle my fair share of the
work in my firm. How ever, working with law enforcement of-
ficials and the prosecution of criminal Jaw violators is a most inter-
esting, although clearly not the most profitable, phase of my daily
work,

I cannot go back in my mind over the past twenty-five years with-
out thinking of John R. (Red) Canavan of our C lass, who was my
closest fr iend during our undergraduate years, Red went to the
Pacific early in 1942 as an Artillery officer and distinguished himself
in many battles on the islands. He contracted an incurable disease,

| 1567 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1934

multiple sclerosis, and in December, 1947, after long suffering,
passed away at his home in Boston. His loving wife, Mildred, lost
a devoted husband; I lost a friend most dear to me; and the Class of
1934 lost a loyal member.

So far as my family is concerned, it consists of only my wife
and myself. Despite our fondest hopes the good Lord, for some
reason, never saw fit to bless us with children and we have no
potential “Harvard son.” We have, however, enjoyed excellent
health, each of us has one parent still living, and we have had our
share of this world’s things, for all of which we are indeed thankful.

I have not been constant in any hobby. For a long while I was
what might be termed a “bug” on golf — playing daily, worrying
about my game, swing, etc, Lately it has been gardening and de-
veloping good lawns that have taken my leisure time in the spring,
summer and fall. In the winter, and we have enough of it in
northern New England, card playing, reading, TV and work claim
all my time. That’s about it in a nutshell for the past twenty- -five
years and I hope we won’t have any more historical narratives to
write until the Fiftieth.

[ 1568 |

Honoris Causa

 

Last year the Class of 1933 paid tribute to Miss Ruth Mahoney
by printing her picture in the 25th Class Report and designating her
as an Honorary Member of the Class. Acting without the advice
of Reunion Counsel Abe Collier, we are not certain of our authority
to accord her similar membership in the Class of 1934, but we do
50 anyway and happily follow the precedent of publishing her photo-
sraph. As you can see, Miss Mahoney bears no resemblance to the
emales who appear in some of the cartoons which graced our
nailings, cartoons, which, incidentally, are the product of Maxfield
‘arrish, Jr., 28, to whom we and many other Classes are also in-
ebted. Miss Mahoney’s specific contributions to the Class Report
-e stated in the Foreword, but in addition, she strengthened might-

7 the morale of the Class Report Committee by her cooperative
irit, her quiet efficiency and her unfailing good humor.

In Memoriam

* Indicates deaths reported since 1954

Richard Glover Ames
Fernand Louis Baehler, Jr.
Edward Carl Bald, Jr.

John Burrage Blakely
*William King Blight
*\faurice Emil Bothner

Bruce Irvin Butterworth

Paul Townsend Campbell, Jr.

John Redmond Canavan
*Fred James Carr, Jr.

William Anderson Chapman
George Coventry
Frederick Greeley Crocker
John Arnold Curtis, Jr.
Hugo Charles deFritsch
Kenneth DiMenna
Bayard Tuckerman Elkins
Richard Atherton Field
Joseph Dudley Fisher
Ralph Roswell Fitch, 2d
*William Michael Fitzgerald
*Waldo Emerson Forbes
William Hamilton Gibson, 3d

Benjamin Ginsberg

Charles Folsom Goodale

William Henry Hamman
*Parmely Webb Herrick

John Thomas Higgins

Charles Edward Hill
*Howard Warner Huntington

Robert Satterlee Hurlbut

Arnold Philip Hurwitz
*Robert Lewis Hutchinson
Bradish Johnson
Waters Kellogg
Paul Henry Krusa
*Thomas Larkin, 3d
Clark Smith Larsen
David Williams Lattimer
James Parrish Lee
David Levin
John Mason Little, Jr.
*William Douglas McAdams, Jr.
Thomas Asher Meade
Everett Michael Murphy
Thomas Wibird Nazro
Frederic Russell Nourse, Jr.
George Edward O’Brien
Victor Duncan O’Brien
*Harold Sol Saxe
Harrison Douglas Smith
Peter King Stockton
John Swarts
*Louis Bartlett Thacher, Jr.
Robert Strachan Thomson
John Cotton Walcott
Robert Machray Ward
*Henry Bicknell Wessmann
*Robert John Ellis Whittier
Gerald Maurice Williams
Harrison Wilson Williams

[ 1570 ]

Geographical Distribution

ALABAMA
Decatur: P. J. C. Wolfer

ARIZONA
Phoenix: L. McClennen
Tucson: I. W. Gardner, W. P. Hazard

Whipple: 1. Walzer

CALIFORNIA
Altadena: E. H. Taylor
Berkeley: E. B. Lawton, Jr.
Beverly Hills: S. E. Ach, R. J. Beckerman, A. Lewis
- Corte Madera: S$. C. Monroe

El Cerrito: S. Mead
Glendale: B. Henry, C. C. Jamison, T. J. Ripley

Hillsborough: R. B. Murray, Jr.

Hollywood: W. P. Black

La Jolla: W. K. Porter, 2d

Lakewood: E. R. Sargent

Long Beach: L. A. Cook, Jr.

Los Angeles: J. W. Allen, D. L. Berni, A. Cone, J. Cryden, C.
Flashman, A. G. Goldenberg, G. Gore, H. E. Holm, L. Klein,
D. E. Peter, I. Rosenblatt, A. E. Wahlgren

Malibu: J. B. Harding

Napa: H. L. Barnes

North Hollywood: H. S. Golde

Oakland: R. E. Treuhaft

Oceanside: R. Lawrence, Jr.

Ojai: H. G. Dorsey, Jr.

Pacific Palisades: 8, C. Rome

Pasadena: R. S. Cosby, C. Harris, J. L. Johnson, R. T. Souter,
S. S. Taft, Jr.

Sacramento: M. J. Gibney, Jr.

San Diego: D. Miller, B. I. Small

[rs7r]

