*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

ITARVARD CLASS
OF 1935
“‘wenty-fifth Anniversary Report

 

CAMBRIDGE
Printed for the Class
1960

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Harvard Class of 1935
Supplement to the 25th Anniversary Report

 

THIS SUPPLEMENT to the 25th Anniversary Report includes recent
photographs of members of the Class of 1935 which were received
too late for printing with their autobiographies.

This is no fault of the majority of these men, to whom a great
injustice has been done. For some unaccountable reason, our official
studio in Chicago neglected to send in the portraits of eleven class-
mates until March 16, which was 8 weeks after the deadline for
receiving this material in the Class Report Office.

The editor of this publication, and the Class Report Committee,
wish to apologize to these men in the Chicago area.

mOBERT CRAMPTON ACKERMA_—
(Story on page 4)

 

——ar_ Geary BINGHAM, Jr.
(Story on page 103)

 

——ra NCIS Kerwick Coie
(Story on page 281)

Max Leavete Baucuatas
(Story on page 74)

 

Jason Oriver Burack
(Story om page 202)

gris PTI to tainneg ahaa DS Bile a

 

R. Grecory DuRHAM
(Story on page 378)

Set Soa seats Se ESAS RN eA NARA BN SOR RTI, 8

ig
c
#
‘ald

  
  

Aetna copay oa ee i

  
  
 

: TOPE 5 ty a,
: . 7
a
Ait gaa
iy ?

AMET ELC ay

Cuarzes Rosert Moore Joun NorMAN
(Story on page 945) (Story on page 997)

 

CHESTER RALPH SINGER FRANK GopFREY SOHN
(Story on page 1246) (Story on page 1268)

 

ALEXANDER STILLMAN
(Stury on puge 1303)

Harvard Class of 1935.
Records of the Class

CARLISLE ABELL

 

HOME appress: 28 Gardner St., Hingham, Mass.

oFFIcE appress: United Shoe Machinery Corp., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Afay 21, 1912, Quincy, Mass. parents: Walter Pennington Abell, Pru-
dence Norley.

PREPARED aT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MarrieD: Evangeline H. Nicolle, Aug. 13, 1938, Quincy, Mass. cuitp: Susan
Dean, Oct. 16, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Supervisor of overseas promotion and sales of industrial machinery
and equipment, United Shoe Machinery Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Various offices or committees, Red Feather, Red Cross, Boy
Scouts, Campfire Girls, since 1941; president, P.T.A., 1951; vestryman,
Church of St. John the Evangelist (Episcopal), Hingham, 1953-56, 1958-
6o.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Suggestion Systems; Hingham Republican
Committee; Town Committee, South Shore Hospital Fund Drive.

PUBLICATIONS: Three-time lecturer, Maine State Safety Conference.

TWENTY-FIVE years ago at this time I recall looking forward:
(1) immediately, of course, to graduation; (2) to gainful employ-
ment in a line of work to my liking (probably a naively optamistic
objective for those depression-soaked days when most any job was
a blessing); and (3) to the realization of the opportunity to pursue
outside of business hours skung, ball games, travel, hobbies and

[i]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ROBERT CRAMPTON ACKERMAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 216 N. Grant St., Hinsdale, III.

OFFICE ADDRESS: General Foods Corp., 7123 W. 65th St., Chicago, Il.

BORN: Aug. 15, 1912, Brooklyn, N.Y. PARENTS: Philip Crampron Ackerman,
’06, Cornelia P. Ruck.

PREPARED AT: Morristown High School, Morristown, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1935.

marrieD: Alice G. Beekley, April 23, 1938, West Hartford, Conn. CHILDREN:
Robert Crampton, Jr, Aug. 11, 1942; Waldron Cheyney and William
Beekley (twins), Oct. 17, 1945.

occuPaTION: Personnel manager, General Foods Corporation, manufacturers of
5.0.8. steel wool soap pads.

EDWARD GRAY ACOMB

 

HOME AbpRESS: 77 Hall Pl., Grosse Pointe Farms 36, Mich.

OFFICE appress: Ford Division, Ford Motor Co., Southfield & Rotunda Drive,
Dearborn, Mich.

BORN: June 28, 1915, Donora, Pa. PARENTS: William Edward Acomb, Dorothea
Letitia Gray.

prevakep at: Deerfield-Shields Township High School, Highland Park, IIL.

[4]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: AB., cum laude, 1935; LL.B. 1938.

MaRRIED: Theodora Wilson, June 28, 1941, Amherstburg, Ont., Canada. cum-
DREN: Anne Meredith, Oct. 31, 1945; Lindsay, Jan. 26, 1949.

OccuPATION: Customer relations manager, Ford Division, Ford Motor Company,

AT the end of seven years at Harvard University I was presumably
an. educated man but I had no better idea what to make of my life
than when I had started, except that I knew that I had neither the
talent nor the temperament to practise law. In 1938 there were few
job openings, and I settled upon becoming a casualty insurance
underwriter, which I remained until I was called into service in 1942.
My service career consisted of instructing officer candidates at the
Anti-Aircraft Artillery and Infantry Schools and a leisurely stint
in Hawaii as an assistant adjutant-general. Following the war, I
joined Ford Motor Company and have been with it ever since in a
variety of administrative capacities. For the most part these assign-
ments have been interesting and the “new” Ford Motor Company ts
a stimulating place to work. As all organization people know, how-
ever, “administration” 1s peculiarly subject to the vagaries of manage-
ment, internal politics and the business cycle; and I have not been
immune from difficulties in this regard. Furthermore, it is not
especially remunerative, and Harvard College has had to take a
position of low priority among my obligations.

I am not a joiner; I tend to neglect good works and social obliga-
tions, and I like nothing better than puttering in the garden or read-
ing solid non-fiction on almost any subject in the evenings. Luckily,
I made a wonderful marriage, and my wife, besides compensating for
my deficiencies, has effectively kept me from turning into a complete
recluse. Hence I attend church and PTA meetings, "tT have taken up
the recorder (in addition to spasmodic fiddling and choir-singing),
and I enjoy long conversations with friends in our home. Despite
my interest in the political show, I cannot generate sufficient convic-
tion about either party to participate actively on their behalf.

[5]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

LESTER ADELSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 23005 Beachwood Blvd., Beachwood 21, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cuyahoga County Coroner’s Office, 2121 Adelbert Rd., Cleve-
land 6, Ohio.

BoRN: Aug. 20, 1914, Chelsea, Mass. parents: Myer Adelson, Ida Lourie.

PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1935; Mv. (Tufts
Coll.), 1939.

MARRIED: Luisa Ann Menci, Oct. 29, 1942, Meridian, Miss. cHiLpREN: Nadine
Gail, July 14, 1956; Marc Steven, April 3, 1958.

occuPATION: Pathologist and Chief Deputy Coroner.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Alpha Omega Alpha; Cuyahoga County, Ohio
State and American Medical Associations, American Society of Clinical
Pathologists, College of American Pathologists; American Academy of
Forensic Sciences; International Academy of Pathology, American Asso-
ciation of Pathologists and Bacteriologists; Sigma Xi.

PUBLICATIONS: Approximately thirty-five papers in medical journals.

IT is indeed a sobering experience to be requested to set down in
writing, however briefly, what has transpired in one’s life over the
span of the past quarter-century. Are we really as ancient as the
twenty-five-year classes we saw parade when we were undergradu-
ates? It gives one pause.

The acquisition of an M.D. degree at Tufts School of Medicine
occupied the first four years after graduation. This was followed
by three years of hospital training at the Hartford Municipal Hos-
pital where I played the familiar starring role in the recurrent
romantic drama, “Intern Meets Nurse.” This culminated in my
marriage in October, 1942. Halfway through the third year of my
hospital appointment the Axis changed whatever plans I had for the
immediate future, and in September, 1942, I entered the AAF as a
medical officer. The next three and a half years provided the mili-

[6]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tary phase of my professional career. A couple of years in the
South Pacific (definitely not from the show of the same name)
taught me that life (and death) can be anything but beautiful. How-
ever, I was fortunate to return home with an intact soma and an
only slightly traumatized psyche. .

Following my separation from the service, I immediately re-entered
hospital training as a resident in pathology at the Hartford Hospital
where I spent three and one-half busy, rewarding and pleasant years,
aided and abetted by the G.I. Bill of Rights. During my stay at
that fine institution I developed an interest in forensic pathology
(or legal medicine, as it is more popularly known), which | fur-
thered and nurtured by embarking on a fellowship at the Department
of Legal Medicine at Harvard Medical School. Here I spent the
next fourteen months being introduced to the intricacies and com-
plexities of medicolegal investigation. This activity was extremely
important in crystallizing my professional interests and activities.
On completing my fellowship I accepted the position of Pathologist
and Chief Deputy Coroner at the Cuyahoga County Coroner’s
Office in Cleveland, Ohio. Here I have remained with the excep-
tion of a five-month hiatus during 1955-56, when I made an ill-
starred move to Los Angeles in a futile attempt to transform the
Coroner’s Office there into something resembling a twentieth cen-
tury forensic medical establishment. After a series of frustrating
and discouraging experiences, I returned to Cleveland and picked
up the threads dropped so shortly before. (In medicolegal circles,
this round trip is known as “Adelson’s Folly.”)

After fourteen years of marriage my good wife presented me
with a daughter, followed in twenty months by a son. (There is
choice material here for a treatise on “Parenthood After Forty.”)

In addition to my work at the Cuyahoga County Coroner's Office,
I teach at Western Reserve’s School of Medicine where I hold the
rank of assistant professor of legal medicine. Superimposed on these
responsibilities is some additional teaching at the Law-Medicine
Center of Western Reserve.

The bulk of my activity consists of the medicolegal investigation
of sudden, unexpected and violent deaths. This entails a fairly
heavy load of morbid anatomy in the autopsy room, plus a con-
siderable volume of courtroom appearances, testifying in criminal
and civil actions arising from the laboratory studies. It is a varied
type of existence, replete with interesting challenges and oppor-
tunities for research and investigation. Aluch of the work possesses

[7]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19365

an immediacy of importance seldom found in other types of labora.
tory activity.

I am happily surrounded by several capable, hard-working col.
leagues who help to share the burden of the daily routine. The
occasional unoccupied moments during the working day and many
evenings are devoted to pursuing some project or study related to
my work or teaching. My latest opus is literary rather than labora-
tory in flavor. It is entitled, “The Coroner of Elsinore — Some
Medicolegal Reflections on Hamlet” and is scheduled to appear in
the New England Journal of Medicine sometime during the winter
of 1959-60.

What profound thoughts do I have at this soul-searching moment?
Relatively few. Middle age has caught up with me (and all the rest
of us). I find that twenty-five years have flown by all too rapidly.
The youthful notion that I might some day become a global arsonist
has long since been replaced by the more mature and realistic
thought that striking an occasional small spark to cast a moment’s
flickering light in an obscure corner of the world’s work is (for
me, at least)-a full-time responsibility. To discharge that responsi-
bility well and to try to make a couple of decent human beings
of my two offspring are my chief aspirations.

+ EMILIO AGUILA

 

BorN: Nov. 22, 1898, Jucuapa, Salvador, Central America. parents: Pedro
Antonia Munoz, Maria Rosa Aguila.
PREPARED AT: National Institute of San Salvador, Central America,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932, 1933-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935.
pieD: Sept. 11, 1958, Boston, Mass.

AFTER graduation Aguila did graduate work at Harvard and Bos-
[8]

ate Re ———

NbGSieh Met:

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ton College. While at college he was president of the Spanish Club.
He had not been heard from since our Fifteenth Anniversary Report
when he wrote that he was doing research at Fordham University.

ALBERT JOHN AKIN

 

HOME apprEss: Linden Lane, Glen Head, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Foreign Trade Council, Inc, 111 Broadway, New
York 6, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 8, 1912, Hewlett, Long Island, N.Y. parents: Albert John Akin,
Gwendolyn Wickersham.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1935.

MaRRIED: Dorothy M. Forbes, June 29, 1935, Wellesley, Mass. CHILDREN:
Alison, June 2, 1937 (#. Brewster A. McN. Righter, June 21, 1958); John,
July 8, 1939; Gwendolyn, July 26, 1950. GRaNpcHILD: Nina Righter, Oct.
31, 1959.

OCCUPATION: Secretary, since 1955, director of Western Hemisphere Division,
since 1947, National Foreign Trade Council, Inc.; executive director,
Council for Inter-American Cooperation, since 1947.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Green Vale School, 1950-55; vice-president, governor,
Links Golf Club.

MEMBER OF: American Brazilian Association; Colombian-American Chamber of
Commerce; Haitian-American Chamber of Commerce; Pan-American So-
ciety of the United States, Inc.; Akin Hall Association; Piping Rock Club;
Beaver Dam Winter Sports Club; Mid-Ocean Club; The Recess.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles and addresses on foreign investments and foreign
trade, or Latin-American affairs,

LIFE since graduation has been interesting and rewarding, although
not in a spectacular way. I was married a week after our Commence-
ment and shall celebrate the twenty-fifth anniversary right after
our Reunion. I spent five years with the foreign department of
Union Carbide Corporation in New York, two with Cabot, Cabot

[9]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

& Forbes in Boston. When the war came I was rejected by the armed
services and joined the Office of Inter-American Affairs in Wash-
ington under Nelson A. Rockefeller. Considerable travel, mostl
in South America, was a relief from the bureaucratic life in the
capital.

Postwar activities have been mostly with the National Foreign
Trade Council, Inc., in New York, an organization composed of
American companies engaged in international trade and business or
related services industries. The work is geared to the promotion
and protection of United States foreign trade and investment.

Travel in recent years has been pretty much limited to business
trips within the country and vacations in Bermuda and the Bahamas.
Golf is my favorite hobby. Political leanings are definitely Republi-
can, since I feel that the G.O.P. offers the country the best chance
to hang on to the principle of free, private, competitive enterprise.
When you are concerned with business in other countries you come
to appreciate, so much more, the system which built our nation’s
strength.

ROBERT ALBERG

 

HOME ADpRESS: 12 Kraus St., Ramat Aviv, Tel Aviv, Israel.

OFFicE AppREss: Alliance High School, Ramat Aviv, Tel Aviv, Israel.

BORN: Dec. 9, 1912, Lynn, Mass. parents: Benjamin Alberg, Ida Gasco.

PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-193§. DEGREES: B. JEWISH ED. (Boston Hebrew Teachers
Coll.), 1933; A.B. cum laude, 1935.

MaRRIED: Odette Schliachter, June 23, 1953, Paris, France.

occupaTION: Teacher of English, Alliance High School.

orFices HELD: Editor, Journal of Massachusetts Teachers Federation, 1951-52;
president, Lynn Zionist District, 1956-58; vice-president, New England
Zionist Region, 1958-59.

[ 10 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Zionist Organization of America, American Zionist Council,
American Federation of Teachers; Americans for Democratic Action,
Israel Association of High School Teachers.

MOST of my time since 1935 I’ve spent as a schoolteacher. Right
after graduation I started teaching in a yunior high school in my
native city of Lynn, Massachusetts, and I worked there most of the
time. I taught civics and American history, trying to pass on some
of the insights that we got from Professors Schlesinger, Merk and
Holcombe. I also ran a record shop in my spare time, and when
television appeared I worked the shop into a sizeable installation
and repair service. This was all right while it lasted, but unfortu-

nately it did not last too long.
From 1952 to 1953, I was in France teaching at a school for the

children of American Army personnel at Fontainebleau. It was in
France that I met my wife and we were married in Paris. I was able
to see a good part of western Europe and Israel. We returned to
Lynn in 1953 and besides teaching public school I taught in a re-
ligious school afternoons until this year.

Six months ago (July, 1959), we came to settle here in Israel. I
have been teaching English in a high school in Tel Aviv since
September. Of course, as new immigrants we have a multitude of
daily-changing impressions, of gripes about red tape and of prob-
lems of the mechanics of getting settled. At the moment of writ-
ing this we are having door trouble: how to get our big refrigerator
through the small kitchen door and how to fix the lock on the front
door so we can both leave the apartment at once. They tell us that
fifteen years ago people didn’t need locks, but that since the war
and the concentration camps all kinds of people are now coming
here.

My hobbies have been tennis (more or less), golf (more and
more) and listening to music. But most of mv spare time I've given
to languages, especially to a study of the language barrier in this
shrinking “world. I’m one of those few who feel that something
better has to be done to solve this problem than the time-consum-
ing method of teaching millions English, or Russian, or Chinese.
There are too many other things to learn. I've looked into Esperanto
and its rivals, and though there are many problems involved, U feel
they are on the right track, Some day before our Fiftieth Reunion

I hope to write something about it.

[ar]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

+ EDWARD CARSON ALLEN

 

BORN: Sept. 25, 1914, Brookline, Mass. parents: William John Allen, Margaret
Maxwell.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; MD. (Tufts Univ.), 1939.

MARRIED: Barbara R. Daniels, Feb. 6, 1943, Melrose, Mass. cHmtpren: Charles
E., May 25, 1944; Robert C., Nov. 16, 1946.

DIED: July 14, 1953, Newton, Mass.

wipow: Mrs. Edward Carson Allen, 41 Cochituate Rd., Newton Highlands,
Mass.

AFTER graduating from medical school and two years’ intern-
ship at the Newton Hospital, Allen served four years in the Navy,
attaining the rank of commander. Upon returning to civilian life
he did postgraduate work in anesthesia at Harvard Medical School
and was a member of the staff of the Lahey Clinic. He was a diplo-
mate of the American Board of Anesthesiology. At the time of his
death, he was chief anesthesiologist at the Faulkner Hospital. He
was survived by wife and children.

[12]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FREDERICK STEVENS ALLEN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 131 Sir Francis Drake Blvd., Ross, Marin County, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pacific Coast Title Co. of Marin, Fifth & Court Streets, San
Rafael, Calif.

BORN: July 3, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: George W. H. Allen, Gretchen
Brooks Stevens.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: AB., 1935-

MARRIED: Barbara Rice, April 17, 1937, Schenectady, N.Y. CHILDREN: Fredenck
Stevens, Jr., Oct. 15, 1938; Jonathan B., Feb. 16, 1941; Thomas W. Oct.
22, 1943; Alice Rice, Jan. 10, 1948.

OccUPATION: Vice-president, manager, Title Searching Department, Pacific
Coast Title Company of Marin, escrows, title insurance, real estate.
MEMBER OF: Spee Club of Harvard University; Harvard Clubs of New York
and San Francisco; San Rafael, California, Lodge, B.P.OE.; Amencan So-
ciety of Naval Engineers, Society of Naval Architects and Marine Fnet-
neers; Military Order of the World Wars; American Ordnance Aso-
ciation; General Society of Mayflower Descendants; National Society of

the Sons of the American Revolution.

LOOKING back, I find it difficult to figure out where twenty-five
years have gone. I often wonder where we would all be today
if we'd had twenty-five war-less years to work on. It is my SINCErest
prayer that the horrors of war will never be experienced by our
children and grandchildren.

After college I started as a “special apprentice” with the American
Locomotive Company i in Schenectady, New York. Only three days
a week at first — we only built one locomotive a year — those were
bad times in the railroad industry. After our marrage, my appren-
ticeship was continued in Latrobe, Pennsylvania, Auburn, New York
and New York City. I ended up in the Chicago office as a sales
engineer. By that time diesel locomotives were on the production

[13]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

line and I suddenly became a “diesel expert,” which was to have
a later effect on my war record.

In June of 1941, as a result of my Harvard R.O.T.C. commission,
] was ordered to report to Treasure Island in San Francisco Bay for
mine-sweeping training. Somehow the “diesel expert” handle came
to the attention of the Commandant and I was switched to the

ship repair and conversion business, in which I stayed through both
wars. By the time Pearl Harbor came along we had a fully inte-
grated repair base on Treasure Island, manned by over 1000 civilian
and naval personnel. An astonishing number of the Class of 1935
passed through that base during World War II.

The war over, Barbara and I were so in love with the San Fran-
cisco Bay Area that, rather than return to Chicago, we moved to
Ross in Marin County and I became a ship superintendent with the
Shipbuilding Division of the Bethlehem Steel Corporation in San
Francisco. There I gained the experience of overhauling many
larger ships, both naval and commercial, than I had become familiar
with at Treasure Island.

Then came Korea and the Navy recalled me to active duty with
the rank of commander, as inspection officer for the assistant in-
dustrial manager, 12th Naval District, from June, 1951, to March,
1956. During that period we contracted for and supervised the
overhaul and conversion of the largest naval vessels that could be
assigned to private industry for that type of work.

Having made a complete change of profession, I am presently
vice-president and head of the title searching department of the
Pacific Coast Title Company of Marin, the youngest and fastest-
growing title company in the county. A growing knowledge of
the history of our county and a great opportunity to participate
in its growth and development make this business daily more interest-
ing and challenging. An obvious advantage is the ten-minute com-
mute from our home in Ross.

A year and a half ago we acquired a summer home in Bolinas,
California, overlooking the Pacific Ocean. It’s only a forty-five-

minute commute in the summer months, and we go there as many
weekends as we can during the school year.

Our oldest boy, Freddie, graduates from the University of Penn-
sylvania this spring, after which he will have two years at sea as
an ensign in the Naval Reserve. Jonathan will be a sophomore at
the Case Institute of Technology in Cleveland, Ohio, next year,
and Tommy, a senior at St. George’s School in Newport, Rhode

[14]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Island. Alice alone is at home with us, doing very well at the Ross
Grammar School.

HYMAN ALTER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 271 Rutter Ave., Kingston, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cohen & Fein Co., 201 S. Washington St., Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

BORN: Jan. 11, 1914, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: David Alter, Jennie Swartz.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.

MarrieD: Pauline Miller, Nov. 27, 1947, Boston, Mass. cHiLpREN: George,
March 2, 1949; Irene, March 11, 1951, Marleen, Sept. 29, 1954-

occupation: Plant manager in charge of production, Cohen & Fem Company,
manufacturers of army field jackets.

MEMBER OF: A.F. & A.M.; A.A.O.N.M.S.; B’nai B’rith; Northeast Pennsylvania
Harvard Club.

IN the Twentieth Anniversary Report I gave a brief account of
the adjustment my family and I were making to a new position, a
new home in a new environment. Evidently, I was just beginning
a career of adjustment periods then. We are going through our
third adjustment experience now. The second was in Hazleton,
Pennsylvania, and the present one in Kingston, Pennsylvania, a
suburb of Wilkes-Barre.

Of course, each change of residence was made following the
rainbow to better opportunity and better living, all with the en-
couragement and cooperation of a devoted wife and three wonderful
children still too young to feel their roots being torn from them.
In each case, however, we have found acclimating to a new com-
munity quite pleasant and interesting. Making new friends, work-
ing with them, sharing their social and communal problems has
given us a tolerant understanding of people and mueh satisfaction.

[15]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

The spiritual gains we have made have been far greater than the
material progress in the past few years. Although the future becomes
less predictable with each succeeding year, we face it with greater
self-confidence and peace of mind.

I] am a plant manager of a men’s outerwear garment factory. As
such, my duties are to fulfill the insatiable expectations of an em-
ployer, the unreasonable requirements of customers and the impos-

sible demands of labor, each of whom knows how to do my job
better than I, but retain me to bear the responsibility for their

misfortunes. Bearing such responsibility has become my forte and
a comfortable livelihood.

SUMNER YALE ANDELMAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3853 S. Florence Pl., Tulsa, Okla.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 320 Utica Square Medical Center, Tulsa, Okla.

Born: Aug. 8, 1914, Boston, Mass. parents: Michael Andelman, Teresa Cohen.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: a.B., cum laude, 1935; M.v. (Univ. of
Buffalo), 1oqr.

MARRIED: Florence Smith, June 21, 1942, Boston, Mass. curtpren: Lani Michael,
April 12, 1942; Alice Dale, Sept. 5, 1943; Julie Carol, July 3, 1949; Ross
Bennett, March 24, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Physician; private practice.

OFFICES HELD: Medical director, Northeastern Oklahoma Chapter, Arthritis &
Rheumatism Foundation, since 1949, Recreation Center for the Physically
Handicapped, Tulsa, since 1956; president, Oklahoma Rheumatism Society,
1951-52, 1956-57; vice-chairman, Interchapter Medical & Scientific Com-
mittee, National Arthritis & Rheumatism Foundation, 1959-60.

MEMBER OF: Tulsa County Medical Society; Oklahoma State Medical Asso-
ciation; American Medical Association; American Congress of Physical
Medicine, American Rehabilitation Association; American Heart Asso-
ciation; American Geriatrics Association, New York Academy of Sci-

[16 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ences; Alpha Omega Alpha Honorary Medical Society, Phi Lambda
Kappa Medical Fraternity; Tulsa Urban Society; Planned Parenthood
Association; Harvard, M.1.T. and University of Buffalo Alumni Associa-
tions; Tulsa Philharmonic Association; Tulsa Chamber of Commerce;
Oklahoma Heart Association; B’nai B'rith; Zionist Organization of America.

AFTER graduation I did one year of graduate work at Harvard
and then transferred to M.I-T. to work for a Ph.D. in the Depart-
ment of Biology and Public Health. However, medicine beckoned
me and I matriculated in the University of Buffalo School of Medi-
cine where I graduated in 1941. After one year of internship at
Walter Reed General Hospital, two significant events took place:
first, I was married and then the Army. I remained in the regular
Army until the end of 1947. During this time I saw service with the
38th Infantry Division in the Pacific, participating in the campaigns
of New Guinea and on Leyte and then on Luzon. Our outfit re-
captured Bataan, Clark Field and many other parts of Luzon, I
returned to the States on V-J Day in 1945, with the rank of major,
and took postgraduate training in internal medicine at the Army-
Navy General Hospital in Hot Springs, Arkansas. It was there
that I became interested in rheumatic diseases and decided upon this
field as my specialty.

After leaving the Army in 1947, I entered private medical prac-
tice in Tulsa, Oklahoma, and have remained here to date, continu-
ing in the specialty of diagnosis and treatment of rheumatic diseases.
This specialization has brought me in contact with most of the
rheumatologists throughout the world, through International Con-
gress in Rheumatic Diseases, the Pan American Congress in Rheu-
matic Diseases and the American Rheumatic Association. My pro-
fessional problems have been related to helping rehabilitate the
crippled arthritic and to returning him to the maximum of his physi-
cal, mental and emotional condition compatible with his ability.

Since marriage, my family has grown and now consists of three
daughters, aged sixteen, fifteen and ten, and one small boy aged three.
My wife and I have tried to bring the family up in a liberal demo-
cratic atmosphere with tolerance to all.

Politically, we have leaned to the Democratic Party. We have
tried to show our children as much of the country as “possible and
have traveled in all directions in pursuance of this aim. The result
of our travels has been not only an enjoyment of the vacation aspects
of the trips, but an appreciation of the educational and historic
values as well. My hobbies have been golf, swimming and sculpture.

[17]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

DONALD GRIGG ANDERSON

 

HOME ADpDREsS: 186 Buckland Ave., Rochester 18, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: University of Rochester Medical Center, 260 Crittenden Blvd.,
Rochester 20, N.Y.

BoRN: Aug. 2, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: James Hewston Anderson,
Myra Esther Grigg.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1913-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; M.. (Columbia
Univ.), 1939.

MARRIED: Erna Louise Goettsch, June 25, 1938, Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.
CHILDREN: Patricia Gail, Nov. 27, 1943; Robert Vail, Oct. 4, 1945; James
Henry, May 7, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Woodruff Anderson, 739, 4.M., ’40.

occupaTION: Physician; dean, School of Medicine and Dentistry, director,
Medical Center, University of Rochester.

OFFICES HELD: Dean, Boston University School of Medicine, 1945-47; secretary,
Council on Medical Education and Hospitals, American Medical Asso-
ciation, 1947-53; secretary, Committee for the Survey of Medical Educa-
tion, 1948-53; member, Citizens Federal Advisory Committee on Educa-
tion, 1949-52; reserve consultant, Surgeon General, U.S. Navy, 1950-57;
member, board of directors, American Medical Education Foundation,
since 1950, Rochester Rehabilitation Center, since 1954; Rochester Re-
gional Hospital Council, since 1954; Alpha Omega Honorary Medical So-
ciety, since 1959; consultant, Surgeon General, U.S. Army, since 1953,
Rochester General and Highland Hospitals, since 1955; member, Advisory
Committee on Education to Chief Medical Officer, Veterans Administra-
tion, since 1956; member, board of trustees, Rochester Chamber of Com-
merce, since 1958, chairman, Healing Arts Educational Advisory Com-
mittee to National Director of Selective Service, since 1958; vice-president,
Association of American Medical Colleges, 1959-60; member, Advisory
Committee on Personnel for Research, American Cancer Society, since
1959, New York State Regents Committce to Inspect Medical Schools in
Belgium, 1959, Program Committee, Second World Conference on Medical
Education, 1959.

MEMBek or: Pundit, Harvard Club of Rochester; University Club of Rocheste?s

[18]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Monroe County, New York State, American and World Medical Asso-
ciations; Rochester Academy of Medicine; American Federation for
Medical Research; Federation of State Medical Boards of the United States,
American Board of Internal Medicine (diplomate); Mountain View Club,
Greensboro, Vermont.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles in professional journals and textbooks on the
chemotherapy of infectious diseases and on medical education.

A PERCEPTIVE writer has observed, “A man at fifty begins to
recognize how much he depends on the quality and range of what
he learned before he was twenty. If he enjoyed a thorough educa-
tion, his sense of gratitude grows with the passing years.” It is not
_ surprising, therefore, that as the forties slip by, I find my gratitude
to Harvard taking on new dimensions.

To be able twenty-five years after the last class with Whitehead,
Lowes or Merriman to relish such a book as The Greek Way by
Edith Hamilton, to get full pleasure from a rereading of Shake-
speare’s sonnets, or to be able to contemplate with some objectivity
and perspective the forces that threaten to limit the span of our
American culture, with its electric can openers and solid gold
putters, are but a few examples of why I feel increasingly grateful
for the quality and range of education we experienced at Harvard.

In contrast, I recall my discontent and disappointment when I
found that in medical school there was little of the sharing between
student and teacher of the spirit of intellectual inquiry and enthu-
siasm so characteristic of Harvard. Major emphasis was on the
memorizing of existing knowledge and the learning of routine
technical procedures. The faculty, though distinguished for their
research and scholarship, made only infrequent efforts to stimulate
the students’ interest in the processes by which knowledge 1s dis-
covered, expanded, tested and refined.

Many of these teachers on closer acquaintance in later years,
proved to be warm, stimulating men with a real capacity for in-
spiring and encouraging junior colleagues to scholarly effort. The
defect in medical teaching, therefore, lay not so much in the teachers
as in the system — a system which was a carry-over from an earlier
period when medical education was conducted largely outside of
universities and when medical students by and large were admittedly
an unenterprising lot.

The primary objective of this outmoded system was the training
of safe, competent technicians — not the development of protes-
sional practitioners and scholars with capacity for continuing

[19 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

PETER ANGELO

 

HOME ADDRESS: 49 Newton St., Weston 93, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 820 Main St., Waltham 54, Mass.

nor: Sept. 25, 1912, Brooklyn, N.Y. parents: Nicholas Angelo, Pietrina Com-
marata.

preparFp At: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; M.D. (Tufts Coll.),

1939-
starrizp: Helen Ruth Cataldo, Dec. 21, 1940, Waltham, Mass. cHiprEN: Helen

Maria, Jan. 31, 1942; Catherine, Oct. 20, 1945; Margaret, Aug. 15, 1947.

occupation: Physician; general practice and general surgery.

orrices HELD: Member, active staff, associate surgeon, Waltham Hospital,
medical examiner, Seventh District, Middlesex County.

MestneR OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
Massachusetts Medico-Legal Society.

A LOOK back at our 1935 Class Album recalls for me not only
a remarkably unruffled countenance but also the clear announce-
ment “intended vocation: medicine.” And medicine has occupied
practically all my time since June, 1935. In June, 1939, I received
my MLD. from Tufts Medical School. During the following nine-
tcen months I served a rotating internship at Lynn Hospital.

Then came a term of over five years of military service in various
hospital surgical services. Two years of this time were spent in the
Southwest Pacific area in the early phases of the war there — in-
cluding several months in the Fifth, one of the first portable surgical
hospitals formed for servicing the fighting in New Guinea.

‘The past fourteen years have been spent in my chosen type of
medical practice. It is a hectic, busy existence, but a most satisfy-
ing one, In my spare time I enjoy my family and the pleasures of
farming in Maine.

\

[22]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EUGENE HENRY ANGERT

 

LAST KNOWN appreEss: % Mrs. Borden S. Veeder, 849 Kent Rd., St. Louis, Mo.

BORN: Oct. 25, 1913, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Eugene Henry Angert, Vera
Gianinni.

PREPARED AT: John Burroughs School, Clayton, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935.

ANGERT has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since
1949.

ALBERT ARANSON

 

HOME appREss: 177 Caleb St., Portland, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 39 Deering St., Portland, Maine.

BORN: Jan. 4, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: Samuel Aranson, Rose Baker.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1935; MoD. (Boston
Univ.), 1941.

MARRIED: Golde Leah Rodman, Oct. 6, 1942, Brookline, Mass. cHitpreN: Peter
Howard, Aug. 26, 1943; Mark, April 16, 1949; Paul, Nov. 18, 1950; Robert,
Dec. 18, 1953.

[ 23 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

occupation: Physician; internal medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary and treasurer, Cumberland County Medical Society,
senior physician, director, Pulmonary Function Laboratory, Maine Medica]
Center, Portland, Maine; consultant in chest diseases, V.A. Center, Togus,
Maine; fellow and governor for Maine, American College of Chest Phy-
sicians; physician and past president of staff, Portland City Hospital; vice.
president and member of board, Maine Tuberculosis & Health Associa.
tion; member, board of directors, Jewish Federation of Portland; presi.
dent and member, board of directors, Temple Beth-El, Portland, Maine,
president, Maine Trudeau Society, 1955, Maine Society of Internal Medi-
cine, 1958-59; member, board of directors, Associated Hospital Service of
Maine, 1958.

MEMBER OF: Maine Medical Association; Cumberland County Medical Society;
Portland Medical Club; B’nai B’rith; American Trudeau Society; Samoyed
Club of America.

PUBLICATIONS: Several medical articles.

FOUR years at Harvard followed by another four at Boston Uni-
versity Medical School, internship and residency at the Boston City
Hospital, marriage, the war including a few jaunts as the guest of
Uncle Sam to Camp Lejeune, North Carolina, Hawaii, Guadalcanal,
Okinawa, Guam and then, after V-J Day, to Tzingtao in North
China. Picking the Navy, I'd forgotten that the Marine Corps was
supplied with medical personnel by the parent service. Back to
Boston and another year and one-half of further training at the V.A.
Hospital, Framingham, Massachusetts. Then to private practice of
internal medicine in Portland, Maine, and the addition of three more
sons to our original war baby. Contrary to the statement in our
Twentieth Anniversary Report, my wife no longer needs to be con-
soled about living in an all masculine household: our neighbors’
girls are beginning to balance the scale.

The only conviction that has remained and sustained me in the
past twenty-five years is that the only real happiness is in a life of
service; so obvious an idea as to appear trite to some. The obsession
with “security” has even reached the rock-bound coast of Maine,
but most of our Democrats are enlightened ones like Muskie and
Coffin; the others are not for export as we don’t want to add to
Washington’s troubles. In religion, the Faith of my Fathers is as
applicable and pertinent today as it was over two thousand years
ago, a Way of Life for those who heed its teachings. See you all
in June.

[ 24 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DONALD ARMSTRONG

 

HOME ADDRESS: 227 Riverside Ave., Riverside, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New York Life Insurance Co., Room 2700, 51 Madison Ave.
New York 10, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 16, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: James Alexander Armstrong, Anne
Liley.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., magna cum laude, 1935; M.B.A., Cum
laude, 1937.

MARRIED: Virginia Louise Barnes, Oct. 1, 1938, Wellesley Hills, Mass. cHit-
DREN: Anne Devereux, March 27, 1941; Bruce Barnes, June 19, 1943;
Marilyn, Feb. 1, 1947.

occupaTION: Research associate, Market Research, New York Life Insurance
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, executive committee, Greenwich Boy Scouts of Amer-
ica, 1954-57; C.L.U., since 1957; instructor, Pace College, 1957.

MEMBER OF: American Marketing Association.

NEVER in my imagination, while under the shelter of Mother
Harvard, could I conjure up such an extensive and bewildering maze
as that which lay before me in 1935 and through which I've been
wandering and wondering for twenty-five years.

In the greenness of my salad days no maze was evident, only the
bright road to easy success which I would craftily reach by a short
detour to the Business School.

Finally, cut free and adrift in the make-a-living world, the maze
' began to spring up around me. I was buffeted and chivvied into
~ cul-de-sacs that held such delicious promise only to find the success-
ful short cut more elusive than ever and the plan of the maze ever
more baffling.

One thing though, like the rat in the maze going toward a reward,
we seldom try the same blind alley again, and were we given a

[25]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

PHILIP ATHANAS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 118 Patterson St., Attleboro, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Bronson Bldg., Attleboro, Mass.

BORN: July 19, 1913, Attleboro, Mass. parENTs: Constantine K. Athanas, Cathe-
rine Cooper.

PREPARED AT: Attleboro High School, Attleboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933, 1935-1937. DEGREES: AB., 1935(37); LL.B. (Boston
Univ.), 1948.

MaRRIED: Madeline Minna Klotz, May 7, 1949, Providence, R.I. CHILDREN:
Evelyn May, March 20, 1950; Fredericka Dorothea, Sept. 26, 19§1;
Mariechen Madeline, May 20, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Practising attorney; judge.

OFFICES HELD: Civil Defense director, Attleboro, 1950-51; acting clerk, 1950-51,
special justice, since 1956, Fourth District Court of Bristol, Attleboro;
vice-president and director, Attleboro Visiting Nurse Association, 1952-
53; chairman, Citizens for Eisenhower Committee, Attleboro, 1952; mem-
ber, Attleboro School Board, since 1953; corporator, Attleboro Savings
Bank, since 1955; director, Newcomb Home for Elderly Ladies, Norton,
Mass., since 1955, Southeastern Massachusetts Society for Prevention of
Cruelty to Children, since 1956, Southeastern Massachusetts Heart Asso-
ciation, 1956-59, Ezekiel Bates Lodge, AF. & A.M., Attleboro, since 1957.

MEMBER OF: Fourth District Court and Bristol County Bar Association; Massa-
chusetts Special Justices Association; Republican City Committee, Attle-
boro (formerly); V.F.W. Post (former member and judge advocate);
American Legion Post (judge advocate).

THE reader has probably noted above that my years of attendance
at Harvard College were interrupted by a leave of absence which
represented the junior and senior years for most of the Class. After
completing my first two years I was forced to take an economic
leave of absence, returning to my junior year in the fall of 1935 and
somchow, more than miraculously, managing to hang on until my
graduation in 1937, bloody, battered and bewildered. Dean Alfred

[28 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

C. Hanford, who perhaps will not recognize my photograph or even
remember my name, through his untiring efforts and patience with
me during those last two years in college, constitutes the miracle
above indicated.

Upon my graduation in 1937 I took a fling at the life insurance
business; was an agent writing ordinary. It was apparent within
a very short time, both to management and myself, that my extreme
youth was a definite liability; that in order to sell to the gray of
temples, you should also be gray. Subsequent to that not too
successful effort, I became a branch manager for a retail fuel dealer
with a main office in Providence, Rhode Island. The title was high
sounding, but the salary low. Prospects of advancement were poor
to nil. In desperation I changed to another similar position; then
Pearl Harbor came to the rescue and, for a time at least, decisions
of where, when, how and with whom were to be decided for me.

After my release from service in 1946, the G.I. Bill was too much
of a bonanza to be ignored. I applied to and was admitted to the
Boston University School of Law and was graduated from that
institution in 1948. After a successful bar examination the follow-
ing month, I opened an office for the general practice of law in
Attleboro, Massachusetts. Following the usual rough beginning,
I began to get lucky and with that ingredient at my side have built
a moderately large practice for which I am grateful. I have used
the word “lucky” advisedly inasmuch as I feel that mediocrity
combined with more than your share of the breaks can carry you
faster and farther than absolute genius Jacking the breaks.

In November of 1956, I was named Special (associate) Justice
of the Fourth District Court for Bristol County by the then gover-
nor, Christian A. Herter, the finest governor that this Common-
wealth has ever had in spite of his having so appointed me to a
judicial post.

Harvard, now after twenty-five years, what does it mean to me,
now that the pain, the frustration, the struggle to graduate are far
behind me and the years have had their mellowing effect? I can
no more put the answer to this question into words than I could
fix a price on the life of one of my three daughters if I were re-
quested to do so. Suffice it, that I can never walk through the
Yard without experiencing the indefinable tingle in the spine which
defies analysis or explanation.

My basic philosophy at age forty-six: The age-old saying ts an
everlasting truth, to wit: “The best things in life are free.” Once

[29]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

you have made up your mind that you will never be rich or famous,

you can then settle back to enjoy your greatest attributes — your
family, your good health, your good friends.

ROBERT GREENE ATWOOD

 

HOME AppRESS: 201 Norwood Rd., Annapolis, Md.

OFFICE appREss: Headquarters, Air Research and Development Command,
Andrews Air Force Base, Washington 25, D.C.

BORN: July 10, 1914, Arlington, Mass. parents: Charles Fenner Atwood, ’96,
Adah Caroline Gorton.

PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; M.B.A., 1938.

MARRIED: Lois Creighton Hill, Dec. 26, 1941, Reading, Pa. CHILDREN: Robert
Greene, Jr., July 11, 1943 (died Oct. 13, 1957); Mary Hill, Nov. 21, 1944;

James Creighton, Feb. 21, 1948; Samuel Gorton, Oct. 8, 1956. \
HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Tillinghast Atwood, ’30.

occupation: Air Force officer engaged in research and development.

AFTER college and the Business School, I set up a photographic
enterprise of my own. This was cut short early in 1941 by enlist-
ment as an aviation cadet. During World War II, I was in Alaska,
Africa and the Southwest Pacific Area doing astronomic explora-
tion and aerial reconnaissance. Since then, assignments have included
navigation, SAC operations, intelligence and research and develop-
ment.

A recent assignment was a three-year tour in Wiesbaden — 4
wonderful family experience. On returning from overseas, wé
selected Annapolis as a place to live, knowing I'd be working near

Washington, We are by the Severn River and enjoy swimming,
boating and water skiing.

Flying and temporary duty travel cut into my off-duty time,

[30]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the major part of which is spent with my family. One of life’s
greatest satisfactions is to see daily progress in the children. Other
activities include leadership of outdoor Scout activities and instruc-
tion in the U.S. Power Squadron. My weight gives me a constant
struggle. I try to live each day by itself, and in totaling them I
find that life is good.

HUGH HOWARD BABCOCK

 

HOME ADDRESS: Katonah’s Wood Road, Katonah, N.Y.

OFFICE AppRESS: Union Carbide Corp., 30 E. 42d St. New York 17, N.Y.

BORN: Nov. 13, 1913, Brooklyn, N.Y. Parents: Hiram Howard Babcock, ’o7,
Gladys Harry.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935 (36).

MarRiED: Marion Somerville, March 10, 1941, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Linn, Sept. 14, 1942; Brooke, Jan. 29, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Assistant secretary and assistant treasurer, Union Carbide Corpora-
tion.

OFFICES HELD: Director and secretary, Clear Pool Camp; director, Westchester
Heart Association.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Institute of Aero-
nautical Sciences; Regency Club; Harvard Club of New York; Bedford
Golf and Tennis Club.

I LEFT college at midyear in my senior year and spent the time
climbing in Baluchistan and Sikkim, adjacent to India, until the
commencement of Harvard Business School. After one year, I went
with Union Carbide where I have been ever since.

Living in Java for two years, where I was engineer of a factory,
gave me a chance to continue climbing, but limited to volcanoes.
For the following four years I was in South Africa managing a

[31]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

factory. On home leave I married Marion Somerville, returning
to South Africa in 1941 by flying the Pacific.

During the war I was involved in various production jobs in this
country with emphasis on the proximity fuse and walkie-talkie
batteries. Shortly after the war, we moved to New York, living
first in Chappaqua and now in Katonah. This was the last and final
of thirteen moves.

In the home office of Union Carbide I was in industrial relations
and then in finance, being responsible for employee benefit plans,
Recently I have been with a group developing new ideas for the
corporation and have been responsible for promoting and coordinat-
ing the defense efforts of the corporation.

Business occupies some of my time but does not seriously impair
my interest in golf club activities where I was chairman of the
Greens Committee for several years and am now president — my
goats and geese, and above all my two daughters.

JOHN JOSEPH BABKA

 

HOME apprEss: Oak Drive, St. Clairsville, Ohio.

OFFICE appress: Hanna Coal Co., Georgetown, Ohio.

BORN: Feb. 6, 1914, Cleveland, Ohio, parents: John Joseph Babka, Marie H.
Kubu.

PREPARED AT: St. Ignatius High School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1933. DEGREFS: A.B. (Western Reserve Univ.), 19353
LLB. (ibid.), 1938.

mararp: Flaine Virginia Marley, June 21, 1941. CutLprEN: John Christopher,
Nov. 12, 19433 Julie Ann, February, 1947; Jeffrey Scott, October, 1949
(died April, 1953).

occupation; Compensation director, Hanna Coal Company, division of Con-
solidation Coal Company,

[32]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

INASMUCH as I entered Harvard as a transfer student and left after
one year, [ do not feel entitled to membership in the Class of 35. How-
ever, succumbing to the indomitable stamina of Art Todd, I have
prepared this prose gem — after the first deadline, which explains
the youthful picture which is some ten years old.

As I sit and reminisce, trying to gather material for this opus,
I realize more clearly than ever that I have never done anything re-
motely spectacular or noteworthy. After Harvard, came Western
Reserve University in Cleveland, Ohio, where I received my A.B.
degree in 1935. In 1938 I was graduated from the Western Reserve
University Law School, and was admitted to the Ohio bar. In 1940
I was elected to the House of Representatives of the Ohio General
Assembly, representing Cuyahoga County, and was fortunate to
serve six years in that august body. I managed to escape most of
the mental and emotional traumata incident to such a position and
today I have all my senses.

On June 21, 1941, the hottest day of the year, I married Elaine
Virginia Marley of Cleveland, Ohio. We kept company for seven
years more or less steadily, so the most violent disagreements were
over by the time we married and consequently our marriage has
been a ball. I think I can safely say that this feeling is not unilateral.

On November 12, 1943, John Christopher was born. Today, six-
teen years later, he is 6’ 4” tall, 175 pounds heavy, a football and
basketball-playing member of the junior class at St. John’s Central
High School at Bellaire, Ohio, where he has had straight A’s through-
out his high school career. At the moment, he is earnestly engaged
in seeking an appointment to the U.S. Naval Academy.

In February of 1947, Julie Ann entered upon the scene. She is
preparing to be graduated from the eighth grade at St. Mary’s
School at St. Clairsville, Ohio, where, not to be outdone by her
brother, she is a straight A student. She is a normal, lively, noisy,
ecstatic at the idea of becoming a teen-ager, sometimes impossible
to stand, other times lovely, young lady.

October, 1949, saw Elaine and me blessed with the coming of
Jeffrey Scott, We only had him three and a half years, as the Good
Lord, in His wisdom, took him from us in April, 1953. He was a
healthy, husky, intelligent, mischievous bundle of energy, whose
shriek, “Daddy’s home,” will never be forgotten.

During World War II, a pair of trick knees, received when I
tried to be a broad jumper, kept me from service in the armed
forces. However, I left the practice of law and worked at a factory

[33]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

which produced machinery and mortar shells. In 1947 I became
associated with Hanna Coal Company Division of Consolidation
Coal Company, a coal mining company, and in 1948 I moved my
family to St. Clairsville. The move was difficult for Elaine, but
Jock and Jill thought living in the country was wonderful. In 1953
I was appointed compensation director of the company and pres-
ently hold that position. In this capacity, I do a great deal of travel-
ing representing the company at hearings on unemployment and
workmen’s compensation matters.

I have kept up my interest in politics and am more or less active
in Democratic Party affairs. From 1948 through 1953, I was a
member of the National Committee of the Young Democrats of
America, and in 1952 and 1953 I was president of the Ohio League
of Young Democratic Clubs. I no longer seek public office but
last fall my wife was a candidate for our village council. There
are other things which take up my time. I am a member of the
Belmont County, Ohio State and American Bar Associations. I
am associate director of the Belmont Hills Country Club Duplicate
Bridge Club, and my wife and I are co-chairmen of the Country
Club Social Committee. With a son who is a most enthusiastic Boy
Scout (he is an Eagle Scout), I could not escape being a Scouter.
Last year I was Scoutmaster of his troop —if you maintain the
proper attitude and your sense of humor even camping can be
fun. I am an officer of my Knights of Columbus Council. I am
president of our Home and School Association. I am out of my
mind!

My recreation, what there is of it, consists of reading, spectator
sports (live and TV), some favorite TV programs and golf when
the weather permits.

That is John Babka twenty-five years later. Incidentally, since
my father passed away in 1937 and the family was not known in
St. Clairsville, I have dropped the Jr. As I stated, too many words
ago, I have accomplished nothing spectacular or noteworthy, but
it has been, for the most part, a lot of fun and I'm glad it happened.

[ 34]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LEROY MANSON BACKUS, JR.

 

HOME apprEss: The Highlands, Seattle 77, Wash.

BORN: Sept. 30, 1914, Seattle, Wash, parents: LeRoy Manson Backus, ’o5, Edith
Helen Fredericka Boetzkes.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932. DEGREE: A.B. (Univ. of Washington), 1935.

MARRIED: Betty Tashjian, April 15, 1944, Canton, Ohio. CHILDREN: LeRoy Man-
son, 3d, April 1, 1945; Thomas Sterling, Feb. 20, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Manson Franklin Backus, zd, Bus. Sch., 1931-33.

occupaTion: Banking and real estate investments and management, account
executive, Foster & Marshall, members New York Stock Exchange, owner,
Biltmore Rentals.

OFFICES HELD: Director and treasurer, Potlach Pottery, Inc., 1934-39; secretary,
1947-48, 1959-60, vice-president, 1948-49, president, 1949-51, Washington
Society, Sons of the Revolution; director, Montana Gold & Chemical Com-
pany, 1954-56, Goldfield Consolidated Mines Company, 1955-56, First
Realty Corporation, since 1959, director and vice-president, American
Chrome Company, 1955-56, Canterbury Investment Company, Inc., since
1957; director and secretary, 618-Second Avenue Inc., 1955-59; treasurer,
Seattle Chapter, Armenian Benevolent Union, 1956-58, Boy Scout Troop
321, 1958-59.

MEMBER OF: Chi Psi Fraternity; Seattle Golf Club; The Highlands, Inc., Seattle;
Seattle Real Estate Board; New England Historical and Genealogical So-

ciety. ,

SINCE graduation I have been blessed with a happy marriage, two
strapping, healthy sons, good health, friends and enough worldly
goods for a comfortable living. There are more mountains of
achievement to cross today than twenty-five years ago, and so I
shall not want for reasons to keep busy.

My military life was rewarding not only in the discharge of heavy
responsibilities but also in the extensive travel involved. Commis-
sioned as an ensign, Supply Corps, USNR, in February, 1940, I

[35]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

served as assistant supply officer, USS Zeilin, 1940-42; supply offi-
cer, USS Trinity, 1942-44, U.S. Naval Training Center, Miami,
Florida, 1944-45; staff, fleet supply officer, Commander Service
Force, Pacific Fleet, 1946; Reserve Supply Corps program officer,
1947-49; staff, Commandant 13th Naval District; commanding offi-
cer, Cargo Handling Division 13-1, 1949-50, Cargo Handling Com-
pany 13-1, 1950-51, Naval Reserve Ships’ Supply Officer Division
13-3, 1953-56; promoted commander, January 1, 1951. I traveled
throughout Australia and visited India, Arabia, New Guinea and a
number of exotic remote islands in the Indian and the South Pacific
Oceans, to say nothing of tours of duty in Honolulu and Miami.
Feeling that an active well-trained reserve force is essential to the
safety of our blessed land in these troubled times, I have kept active
in the Naval Reserve, even to the present.

Challenge and the unexpected are the rule in the investment and
real estate game. At one point I have negotiated a 30,000-square-
mile mining concession in Ethiopia with Emperor Haile Selassie, at
another I have supervised the building of a warehouse, and yet at
another I have been instrumental in bringing about the reorganiza-
tion of a business to the satisfaction of those concerned. It’s been a

lot of fun.

FRANCIS HENRY BACON, II

    

HOME appREss: 15 Emerson St., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Richard A. Buck, Statler Office Bldg., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 7, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Frederick Calvert Bacon, ’o09; Mary
Sutherland.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGP: 1931-1932.

MaggieD: Janct Gale, June 3, 1936, Belmont, Mass. ciitpreN: Kendall F., April
18, 1939; Jean E., April 26, 1941; Nancy G., May 9, 1942.

[36]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
occuPaTion: Stockbroker. |
OFFICES HELD: Cambridge Lodge of Elks.

MEMBER OF: Oakley Country Club, Watertown, Mass.; Palm River Country
Club, Naples, Fla.,; Belmont Literary Society, Belmont, Mass.

WITH the assistance of my daughter’s typewriter and the persist-
ence of Frank Knowlton, this poor opus has been finally completed
after many false starts. Let me take you back to late spring of 1932
when Tommy Hunter, Jack Hutchinson and I went down to Win-
throp House and concluded arrangements for our sophomore “dig-
gings.” Everything looked might rosy at that time, as I had been
promised a summer job with Lever Brothers Company, the big
soap manufacturer, and I had a store of wonderful memories, friend-
ships and experiences as a result of my freshman year at Harvard.

The big depression had been underway for some time and little
did I realize what effect it would have on my future. My father’s
furniture business practically collapsed overnight during the sum-
mer of 1932 and my temporary job turned out to be a permanent
one, for I spent the next fourteen years with Lever Brothers Com-
pany doing market research and sales promotion. During this time,
I married my childhood sweetheart, Janet Gale of Belmont, and
was able to purchase a nice home in Belmont where we are now
residing.

A new president of Lever Brothers cleaned house during the
fall of 1946 and after fourteen years with this company I found my-
self without a job. Fortunately, I still had plenty of spring left in
the old frame and I decided I would get into the furniture business,
which was not strange to me as a result of the family background.
For the next seven years I traveled New England selling furnish-
ings to hotels, schools, colleges, hospitals and similar institutions.
However, I found the mileage was beginning to take its toll physi-
cally and week after week away from home was becoming a night-
mare. When the opportunity to join Paine Furniture Company of
Boston presented itself in the fall of 1953, I jumped at the chance
immediately and the following six years with these people proved
to be the happiest business association I had made to date.

Two years ago I joined a syndicate which purchased 1200 acres
of ranch land on the Palm River in Naples, Florida. A beautiful
golf course has been created here and we are in the process of de-
veloping a country club residential area with access for boats to
the gulf via the river. It appears to me now that in the not too dis-
tant future Naples, Florida, will be my permanent residence.

[37]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

For the past ten years the stock market has taken a lot of my
attention, and on October 1, 1959, I entered the brokerage business
with Richard A, Buck & Company of Boston. My Florida interests
made such a change desirable, as I hope that this profession will
enable me to open an office in Naples after I arrive there.

Fishing, hunting and golf are my chief hobbies and certainly the
area of Florida that will be my home provides everything one
could wish for to enjoy these activities. Classmates who might be

passing through Naples, Florida, can find the Palm River Estates
just north of the city line and the entrance is on the Immokalee
Road one-half mile east of Route 41.

Conclusion of this twenty-five-year capsule should mention that
my son, Kendall, is a sophomore at Bowdoin College and my
daughter, Jean, a freshman at the University of New Hampshire.
Nancy, the youngest, is a senior in high school and is preparing for
college entrance next fall.

WILLIAM VAN ANTWERP BAILEY
al -

 

HOME ADDRESS: 47 Minges Rd., Battle Creek, Mich.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1211 Security Tower, Battle Creek, Mich.
BORN: March 5, 1914, Battle Creek, Mich. parents: John William Bailey, Lil-
lian M. Cobb.
PREPARED AT: Battle Creck High School, Battle Creck, Mich.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; M.B.A., 19373 LLB.
(Univ. of Michigan), 1940.
Makriep: Ruth E. Poat, July 10, 1935, Battle Creek, Mich. cHitpren: Joan
Carter, Oct. 18, 1936, Evelyn Cobb, May 29, 1939, William Van Antwerp,
Jr., June 7, 1942.
OCCUPATION: Attorney.
orvices HELD: Mayor, Battle Creck, Mich., 1947~$33 president, Michigan Munic-
ipal League, 1y49-51; secretary, National Rivers and Harbors Congress,

1957-60,

[ 38 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT HARDY BAKER

 

HOME AppreEss: Adams Street, Westboro, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Reed & Prince Manufacturing Co., Worcester, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 9, 1912, Dedham, Mass. PARENTS: Ross Wakefield Baker, ’99, Bessie
Mary Smith.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Mary Bourne Sill, Nov. 6, 1937, Westboro, Mass. CHILDREN: Laura
Ashley, Jan. 10, 1942; Joanna Prentiss, July 20, 1944; Robert Hardy, Jr.,
Aug. 29, 1945; Francis Sill, Sept. 15, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Ross Wakefield Baker, Jr., 33; William Perry Baker, 736.

OCCUPATION: Assistant to president, Reed & Prince Manufacturing Company,
manufacturers of large fasteners.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Industries Training School, 1945-52, Graduate School,

1947-52, Stevens Institute of Technology, Hoboken, N.J.; trustee, Stevens
Academy, Hoboken, N.J., 1950-52.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous technical papers and articles in publications of Stevens
Institute of Technology.

THE first job I had after leaving college was in Worcester, Massa-
chusetts, as a door-to-door salesman. Perhaps I rang more back-
door bells than anyone else; at any rate, I made quite a few sales
and in a contest won second prize. I didn’t make much money; in
fact, I didn’t even make enough to cover the drawing account of
fifteen dollars per week that the company put into my pay envelope.
My perseverance was due to a determination to show a certain
girl that I could earn enough to support two!

After a while the company took me inside to decorate the store
windows and increased my pay a bit. Since the advertising man-
ager and I didn’t always see eye to eye, I was soon transferred to the
air-conditioning department as a draftsman of sorts, with another
raise. On the strength of this last raise, I got married.

[39]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

A year later I heard of an opening at the Human Engineering
Laboratory at Stevens Institute of Technology in Hoboken, New
Jersey. This seemed like a good step to an industrial job and I took
it. The pay went down, but this job was on a “fellowship” basis,
so I didn’t complain. My wife went along with it, low pay and all.

After three years of grueling work giving tests to troubled
teen-agers (better than testing misfit adults), there was an opening
at the college in the Defense Training School. This I took at better
pay, becoming the assistant director. The school became the War
Industries School and I became the director. We trained hundreds
and hundreds of men and women for jobs in the war industries.

At this point our personal life changed with the arrival of our
first child, a red-headed daughter, named Laura Ashley and called
Ashley, Ash or Red! We moved into an apartment on the campus
and consorted with the faculty. This in itself was an education!

When Harvey Davis, president of Stevens, offered me the job of
director of the graduate school, I accepted. For some years I ran
both schools, one at graduate level and one a technical institute,
enlarging the curricula, increasing the number of programs and
degrees offered and building the enrollment to around 1400 stu-
dents. Coincident with the retirement of Dr. Davis came the reali-
zation that my job there was done. What remained was a desk job,
following a well-defined routine with decreasing opportunity.

In the meantime, our family had increased by two, Joanna — more
commonly known as Jody—our second daughter, and Robert
Hardy, Jr., our first son. The three little Bakers are growing up and,
as is the invariable custom of the young, voicing loud and positive
opinions. When word reached them that things were ending for
us at Stevens and that we were investigating a new occupation, the
decision was unanimous — return to New England,

We moved temporarily to Dedham and then to Concord. During
this time I was occupied at the Air Force Research Center in Cam-
bridge as an administrative officer. This gave me two years’ valu-
able experience in “gobbledygook”! Also, at this time we welcomed
another red-headed member to our family, our second son, Frank.

At this juncture, I landed the job I had been steering for, one
that would use the assorted administrative experience I had accumu-
lated. From the record above you can sce what and where it is.
And I can tell you that it keeps me very busy.

Weare now settled in our new home in Westboro, Our domestic
life keeps us from getting fat and bored. My wife describes the

[ 40 }

2A ERT ITT |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

family succinctly as consisting of two boys, two girls, two dogs,
two cats and two beat-up parents!

VICTOR GERARDO BALBONI

 

HOME ADpREss: 79 Crafts Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Warren Bldg., Massachusetts General Hospital, 275 Charles
St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 27, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: Gerardo M. Balboni, Mo». ’o4,
Lillian Dobie.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; M.D., 1939.

MARRIED: Marjorie Camp Fletcher, June 16, 1944, New York, N.Y. cHiLpreN:
Lillian, June 8, 1945; Christina, May 29, 1947; Marjorie, Jan. 12, 1949; Lisa,
Nov. 12, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Albert Balboni, m.B.a., "q1.

OCCUPATION: Physician; private practice of internal medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant physician, Massachusetts General Hospital; visiting
physician, Robert Breck Brigham Hospital, instructor in medicine, Har-
vard Medical School, president and member of corporation, Boston
Tuberculosis Association; member of corporation, Perkins School for the
Blind, Watertown, Mass., North Bennett Street Industrial School, Boston.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts and Suffolk Medical Societies; American Medical
Association; American College of Physicians; New England Rheumatism
Society; American Rheumatism Society; Harvard Club of Boston; The
Country Club, Brookline; Sakonnet Golf Club and Sakonnet Yacht Club,
Little Compton, R.I.

PUBLICATIONS: Collaborating editor to Fourth, Fifth, Sixth Editions of Comrroe’s
Arthritis and Allied Conditions, Lea and Febiger, Philadelphia, medical
articles, chiefly pertaining to arthritis, in medical journals,

THESE twenty-five years have gone all too rapidly, but to say the
least, they have been interesting years and good to me,
1935-39. Harvard Medical School.

[41]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

1939-42. Postgraduate training at Peter Bent Brigham and Massa-
chusetts General Hospitals.

1942-46. Army Medical Corps, first lieutenant to major.

1946-60. Practising medicine in Boston at the Massachusetts
General and Robert Breck Brigham Hospitals. Part-time teaching
at Harvard Medical School. My chief professional interest is in the
study and treatment of arthritis and allied disorders.

Our four daughters, three of whom are now at Winsor School in
Boston, keep us hopping. We all go skiing when weather and my
practice permit, and we have a house at Little Compton, Rhode
Island, where we spend the summer. My chief interests there are
racing our “old Beetle Cat” and trying to play golf in the eighties,
I must say that the only time I feel the full weight of these twenty-
five years is when I realize how rarely now I achieve that desired

SCOre.

THOMAS BALMER

 

HOME apprEss: 27 River Glen, Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fiscal Information Service, 33 Rector St., New York, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 9, 1913, Chicago, Ill. parents: Edwin H. Balmer, m.a, ’03, Katha-
rine MacHarg.

PREPARED AT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931~1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MarrieD: Eleanor E, Hamant, Oct. 19, 1935, Medfield, Mass.

occupation: Financial public relations — account executive, Fiscal Information
Service.

Memper oF: New York Society of Security Analysts, 1940-42; Harvard Club
of New York, 1937-42.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles in financial and business magazines,

I HAVE spent most of my business life in Wall Street in the field
of financial public relations. 1 write busincss and financial news

[42]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and annual reports for corporate clients. While this is far from the
creative type of writing that I was striving for when I studied under
such accomplished professors at Harvard as the late Bernard DeVoto
and the late Professor Maynadier, nevertheless I never fail to find
it interesting and gratifying work.

My service during World War II consisted of four years, from
1942 to 1946, as a radar officer, first in the Signal Corps and later
in the Air Corps. I had the pleasant and nostalgic experience of be-
ing assigned to Harvard for advanced work in radar theory in the
autumn of 1942; from there 1 progressed to the Massachusetts In-
stitute of Technology for further study before being assigned to
active field duty.

For a time during the late 1930s and early 1940s I was a member
of the Harvard Club of New York. However, I found that when
my business transferred to the Wall Street area I simply did not
get uptown often enough to use my membership to any extent. It
goes without saying that | greatly miss the friendships I once had
there.

Currently I am spending a fair amount of time on church work
as a vestryman of Grace Episcopal Church in Hastings-on-Hudson.

While I was an undergraduate at Harvard I met the lovely girl,
Eleanor E. Hamant of Medfield, Massachusetts, whom I later
married. She was attending the Harvard Graduate School of Edu-
cation when I first met her. Our twenty-fifth wedding anniversary
comes in the same year as my Twenty-fifth Anniversary Reunion.

Your questionnaire says this account should reflect my “point
of view.” I think a main benefit of studying under the distinguished
Harvard faculty has been that I am more adaptable and have been
better able to cope with the vast and sweeping economic and social
changes that have taken place during the past quarter century than
would otherwise have been the case.

[ 43 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

JOHN JACOB BANDEIAN

 

HOME AppRESS: 1265 Northampton St., Holyoke, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 210 Pine St., Holyoke, Mass.

BorN: March 15, 1912, Garen, Armenia, PARENTs: John J. Bandeian, Flora
Gureghian.

PREPARED AT: Bridgewater High School, Bridgewater, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1936. DEGREES: S.B., 1935 (36); m.p. (Tufts Coll.), 1941.

MarrieD: Alice M, Kechijian, April 4, 1942, Providence, R.I. cHiLpREN: Natalie,
Aug. 25, 1945; John Jacob, Jr., Dec. 15, 1946; Stephen Harry, Oct. 15, 190.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Attending surgeon, Holyoke Hospital, Holyoke, Mass., since
1948; courtesy surgeon, Providence Hospital, Holyoke, Mass., Roger
Williams Hospital, Providence, R.I.; vestryman, St. Paul’s Episcopal
Church, Holyoke, Mass., since 1950; director, Holyoke chapter, American
Red Cross, since 1949.

MEMBER OF: Holyoke Chamber of Commerce, Boy Scouts of America Coun-
cil; American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society; Hamp-
den District Medical Society; Springfield Academy of Medicine; American
Board of Surgery (diplomate); American College of Surgeons (fellow),
American Trudeau Society; American Cancer Society; Holyoke Canoe

Club.

FOR weeks after receiving Frank Knowlton’s letter of September,
1959, requesting a biographical sketch, I pondered on what I might
ut down that would be of interest to my classmates. I hope that
that which follows will be interesting reading. One thought stood
out above all else: had I envisioned the complexities and responsi-
bilities of my professional career, twenty-five years ago, I would
probably have turned to something less challenging such as teaching
or even chemistry. Having so little resources, I must have been
bold and somewhat rash to have chosen medicine as my intended
vocation,

During the early part of my sophomore year at Harvard I lost

[ 44 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

too much time out, due to illness, to finish the year. After recuper-
ating, I fell in with a troupe of adventurers selling magazines. This
venture carried me to the western part of Massachusetts. When I
left my overcoat in default of room rent, little did I realize that six-
teen years later I would settle in that vicinity for my life’s work.

When I graduated in 1936 but as of the Class of 1935, I found it
necessary to secure a job to bolster up my funds before entering
medical school. Armed with an S.B. degree in chemistry and a letter
of recommendation from my mentor, a chemist, Herman Richter,
Class of 1912, I ventured forth in search of a job. The disillusions
that followed must have been common to most of us in those years.
The only job I could land was as a chemist in a leather mill in Law-
rence, Massachusetts, at twenty-one dollars a week. I could not see
how I could save anything toward my medical education. At
another venture, I was runner-up to a man with a Ph.D. degree for
a job as teacher of seventh grade science. There were one hundred
applicants for this position. Dejected, I returned home to Bridge-
water.

Soon my spirits were buoyed up again. There were many poultry
farmers in Bridgewater. These kindly folks were complaining bit-
terly of the high cost of poultry food and of the low price of poul-
try products. As I reflected on the plight of these farmers, I began
to draw on the knowledge that I had gained in “Chem. 15.” Soon I
put on the market a poultry ration in which the chief source of the
protein was a relatively inexpensive soyabean meal, instead of the
expensive ground meat and bone. This experience and product soon
made me the owner of a 3000-bird poultry farm.

The financing of my medical education seemed fairly secure. I
applied to Harvard Medical School for admission. The then dean of
admissions, Dr. Hale, suggested that I continue with poultry farm-
ing. Undaunted, I applied to Tufts Medical School. Dean Stearns
of Tufts was much more gracious. His trust in me was not betrayed,
for after graduation I went on to become a specialist in surgery.
Four years after matriculation at Tufts Medical School, I embarked
on seven years of internship and residencies in several hospitals in
and out of Boston. Shortly after beginning my second year of
training in hospitals, it became necessary for me to take the “cure”
for tuberculosis at Trudeau Sanatorium at Saranac Lake, New York.
After three months of bed rest at that hospital I was placed on the
staff, where I learned a few things about pulmonary diseases, and
where I did a great deal of philosophizing.

[45]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Twelve years after graduation from Harvard College, I found
myself the possessor of a wife and two children, a diploma from
medical school, and several certificates attesting to the fact that I
had served as intern and resident in several hospitals. We settled in

~.. . Holyoke, where I earned my first dollar other than what I had

earned years before from the poultry farm. Two years later I be-
came a diplomate of the American Board of Surgery, and still later
a fellow of the American College of Surgeons. Dame Fortune has
dealt well with us. We enjoy a happy family, with three children,
good health, the respect of our fellow-citizens, a lovely home in
Holyoke, and another home in Harwich on Cape Cod where we
spend the month of August each year.

Surgery is both my vocation and my avocation. I enjoy the work
very much. But I find time for other work, too. This includes such
activities as being a vestryman at St. Paul’s Episcopal Church and
chairman of the Every Member Canvass for the past five years; a
director of the American Red Cross; an incorporator of the Holyoke
Hospital and of one of our savings banks; chairman of the intern
and education committee and of the program committee of the
Holyoke Hospital; and a member of the Holyoke Chamber of Com-
merce. And I do enjoy taking care of my four acres of lawn and
shrubbery surrounding our home. The disease of golfing has not
yet afflicted me. As a family, we do some fishing. Recently we dis-
covered that surf fishing is great fun. For this we go to Nauset
Beach with the aid of a beach buggy.

I have hopes that Natalie, aged fourteen years, may some day
enter Radcliffe, although I won’t argue too much if she enters Pem-
broke College, my wife’s alma mater. I do hope that John, Jr., aged
thirteen, and Stephen Harry, aged nine, will some day enter Harvard
College. I look forward with great anticipation to our Twenty-fifth
Anniversary Reunion.

[ 46 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

VINCENT MANLY BANKS

 

HOME appreEss: 148 Franklin St., Milton 86, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Metropolitan Transit Authority, 31 St. James Ave., Boston,
Mass.

BoRN: Feb. 15, 1914, Boston, Mass. parents: John Patrick Banks, Wanda Mary
Kowalik.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933. DEGREE: LL.B, (Northeastern Univ.), 1940.

MarrieD: Mary Agnes Elwood, Oct. 12, 1938, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Vincent
Manly, Jr., Sept. 24, 1940; Michael Paul, Jan. 16, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: Boston Bar Association, Massachusetts Bar Association, Redberry

Council, Knights of Columbus, Holy Name Society, New England Transit
Club.

AFTER leaving college in the middle of the depression, I had several
varied and short-lived experiences as a truck driver, gas station at-
tendant and masseur. Then, in 1936 I started to work in the audit-
ing department of the old Boston Elevated Railway Company and
today I am still with its successor, the Metropolitan Transit Author-
ity, but as a lawyer in the legal and claim department — having
meanwhile graduated from Northeastern University Law School
in 1940 and passed the bar.

I have been happily married since 1938 to the same girl I first
dated when I was a freshman at college. We have two fine sons,
one a pre-legal freshman at Suffolk University, the other a sopho-
more at Cathedral High School.

My travels have been limited almost exclusively to the New
England area, particularly Cape Cod where we have spent many
vacations at Dennisport. Aside from swimming and sun-worshi
ping at the Cape in the summer, and occasional ‘bow ling and poker
in the winter, my only hobby has been my family.

[47]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

In my own quiet, conservative way, I have enjoyed the past
twenty-five years and am looking forward with anticipation to liv-
ing in the atomic age. I am optimistic enough to think it will be an
age of peaceful progress rather than one of war and destruction.
With the help of the Good Lord, I expect to be around in 1985 when
the Class celebrates its Fiftieth.

CESAR LOMBARDI BARBER

 

HOME ADDRESS: g1 Sunset Ave., Amherst, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Amherst College, Amherst, Mass.

BoRN: June 3, 1913, Berkeley, Calif. parents: Alvin Barton Barber, Lucy
Lombardi.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., surmma cum laude, 1935.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Duncan Putnam, Oct. 10, 1936, Dorset, Vt. CHILDREN: George
Putnam, March 18, 1940; Lucy Lombardi, Oct. 6, 1941; Robert Ennis,
March 24, 1947.

OccUPATION: Professor of English, Amherst College.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Amherst Town Democratic Committee, since 1951;
Amherst Town Meeting member, since 1956; trustee, Cummington School
of the Arts, since 1958, Bennington College, since 1959; vice-president,
New England College English Association, 1958-60.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association; College English Association;
American Association of University Professors.

PUBLICATIONS: “Strange Gods at T. §. Eliot’s Family Reunion,” in T. S. Eliot:
a Selected Critique, ed. Leonard Unger, New York, 1948; co-author, The
New College Plan, Amherst, Mass. 1958; “The Power of Development
...in a Different World,” in third, enlarged edition of The Achieve-
ment of T.S. Eliot, by F. O. Matthiessen, New York, 1959, Shakespeare's
Festive Comedy, Princeton, 1959; articles on Renaissance literature.

I HAD four years of graduate study on fellowships which left me
royally free to study as I liked and, after the first year, to get mar-

[ 48]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ried: a Henry Fellowship at Cambridge in England and then a junior

fellowship at Harvard. Then came three years of teaching in the

History and Literature Department, then the war. I entered the

Navy via a job as executive secretary of the Woods Hole Oceano-

graphic Institution, so that I was an ersatz oceanographer in uniform,
with a missionary mission to promote the use of smoke screens
which led in the end to being a gunnery officer in charge of smoking
at Iwo Jima and Okinawa. Since 1946 I have been in the English
Department at Amherst, with occasional summer teaching jobs at
Harvard and Yale, research fellowships at the Folger Shakespeare
Library, a fellowship year-off in 1954-55 which enabled me to
finish a book on Shakespeare, and recently a crescendo of committee
assignments. The last of these was on a joint committee of the four
neighboring colleges which has produced a hopeful plan for the
creation of a new style of college in this area. Next year I shall be
on a research assignment as a visiting professor at Princeton, as far
away from committees as I can get.

From the time of the Spanish Civil War until World War II, I was
much concerned with campus left-wing politics — political action
seemed desperately necessary, even though the chances of its being
effective came to seem smaller and smaller —the more so because
in studying literature, depth psychology and anthropology I was
constantly dwelling on those areas of life and art which are beyond
the contro! of will or mind. My experience in the war, and the new
situation the war created, made the wholesale hopes and fears of the
prewar period seem quite unreal. I work now in a variety of retail
political situations, mostly of gown, but also of town — town meet-
ing member, member of the town Democratic Committee. It seems
now that what one values in society at large depends crucially on
the integrity and intelligence of individuals achieved and maintained
man by man. It also seems that what one values in individuals de-
pends on things in them that are mostly out of sight, and that may
involve cruelty sometimes as well as kindness.

My teaching has been chiefly in the Renaissance and modern
periods: Spenser and the Elizabethan drama; Yeats, Joyce, Ehot and
other modern poets. My main interest is in the interplay of social
form and literary form. Thus in writing about Shakespeare’s come-
dies I was following in them the development of a festive pattern for
experience which was characteristic of traditional holidays like May
Day and Twelfth Night. I hope to go on to look at Elizabethan
tragedy as part of the same evolution of self-consciousness as the

[ 49 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Reformation, following parallels in the development of dramatic
form and religious ritual. All this is well-trodden ground! But I find
it very exciting to go over it again by the light of present-day think-
ing about the nature of man, society and relig:on. And fortunateiy
students keep coming along who find it exciting too. To make one’s
own perceptions become real for students is some sort of equivalent
— second best to be sure — for the embodiment which an artist can
give his thought.
I should add that I am sometimes troubled when I realize that the
seminal ideas in what I regard as “present-day thinking” were mostly
roduced by men who flourished a generation ago. When I was in
college I thought that we were taking part in an emergent literary
and intellectual revolution; now it seems that we came in just at the
end of a great moment which had begun around the turn of the
century, and that we may be living out our intellectual lives in a
period which is consolidating and elaborating rather than making
its own fresh starts. I hope that this feeling does not in fact reflect
chiefly the “hardening of my allegories,” as a colleague calls it~
and that the surprise of my life is still coming at me.
Now that my pre-Pearl Harbor son and daughter are in college,

I am seeing higher learning as a customer. Nevertheless I remain
“a high tuition man,” eager to charge all you rich business men the
full costs of your children’s educations, though granting scholar-
ships, of course, to any of you who can prove you are as poor as |
am. When pressed by non-academic friends about the professor's
soft life, 1 must admit, though, that we do have one wonderful ad-
vantage. It is not true that we lead a leisurely life — we are as sub-
ject to compulsive American busy-ness as any other group. But it
is true that we get marvelous opportunities to change from one k:nd
of work to another and from one place to another. It was particu-
larly satisfying to have a full year for reading and writing and travel
— there were periods when I felt that I had the sort of masterful
control of my own time which must have been the usual thing for
the gentlemen of leisure who until recently produced most of the
heritage we busy people now work over. I should add that year in
and year out, night and day (especially night), my wife reads books

just for pleasure! She tells me about them, too.

[50]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

++ ARTHUR WILLIAM BARKER

 

BORN: Sept. 9, 1914, Branford, Conn. parents: Earle Andrew Barker, Winifred
Hinkley.

PREPARED AT: Branford High School, Branford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1935.

DIED: June 12, 1938, New Haven, Conn.

ARTHUR WILLIAM BARKER spent four years with our Class.
While an undergraduate he was a resident of Eliot House and a
member of the Debating Council. He received his S.B., cuz laude,
and had entered the Yale Medical School.

ROBINSON FRANKLIN BARKER

Roe ae TD MDA RE at ee ee a ge

   

HOME Appress: 8 Woodland Rd., Sewickley, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co., 1 Gateway Center, Pittsburgh, Pa.

BORN: Dec. 20, 1913, Boston, Mass, parents: Williston Wright Barker, M.p., ’o6,
Gertrude Russell Sherman.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

[51]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

marrige: Mary Lucinda Haskins, July 8, 1938, Kansas City, Mo. cHILpren:
Christopher Haskins, Nov. 21, 1943; Susan, Sept. 13, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHERS: James Sherman Barker, °32, M.B.A. 734; George Leverett
Barker, °38 (deceased).

occuPATION: Vice-president and general manager, Glass Division, Pittsburgh
Plate Glass Company.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Sewickley Academy, 1952-58; member, board of gov-
ernors, Woods Run Settlement, 1953-55; member, Vestry, St. Seephen’s
Episcopal Church, Sewickley, Pa., since 1953; member, various Community
Chest Committees, 1953-58; director, Pittsburgh Plate Glass Export Cor-
poration, since 1955, Duplate Canada Limited, Toronto, Ontario, since 1958,
Smith & Stone Limited, Toronto, Ontario, since 1958, member, Board of
Health, Edgeworth Borough, since 1957; vice-president, Pittsburgh Plate
Glass Foundation, since 1957; member, shareholders’ executive board, Pitts-
burgh Plate Glass International, S.A., Geneva, Switzerland, since 1958;
member, Diocesan Council, Diocese of Pittsburgh, 1959, Industrial and
Professional Advisory Council, Pennsylvania State University, 1959; mem-
ber, board of managers, Trade Relations Council of the United States,
since 1959; director, Western Pennsylvania Safety Council, since 1959;
member, Pennsylvania Society, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Western Pennsylvania (secretary, 1957-59);
Duquesne Club; Allegheny Country Club; Edgeworth Club; HYP Club
of Pittsburgh; Harvard Business School Club of Pittsburgh.

ALTHOUGH I have had only one wife and one employer during
the last twenty-five years, which probably makes me some sort of
statistical freak, those years have been anything but monotonous. :
In the spring of our senior year, with the assistance of the Harvard
Alumni Placement Bureau, I was fortunate enough to secure a job
as a trainee with Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company. One of my
clubmates remarked at the time that it sounded like a fine opportunity
but that I would probably wind up in “Kansas City or some other
jumping-off place.” I allowed as how they could not do that to a
Bostonian but, nevertheless, found myself a few months later as-
signed to my first permanent task in our sales branch at Kansas City.
It is a fine town at any rate, but I am particularly fond of it since
there I met my wife. I courted her at long distance from Western
Kansas where I worked a sales territory. We were married one day
in 1938 and transferred to Miami the next, where my training con-
tinued in our sales branch there. Our budget was not fat enough to
permit us to keep up with our friends who came to Florida to play
but we were sorry to leave when transferred to Baltimore where I
became manager of our Glass Sales Department in 1940.
Shortly after Pearl Harbor I was commissioned in the Navy, and
following indoctrination school at Fort Schuyler in the Bronx was

[52]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

assigned to the Norden Bomb Sight Training Program at the Naval
Proving Grounds at Dahlgren, Virginia. At the completion of that
training course I was retained briefly as an instructor in it, and was
soon transferred to the Naval Air Station at Jacksonville, Florida, to
become second in command to the Bomb Sight School. This even-
tually became the Aviation Fire Control School of the Naval Air
Technical Training Command and I was in charge of it during the
last year of the war.

From a business and gallantry standpoint my war years were not
very productive, but were definitely so from a family standpoint as
it was during that period that both of our children were born. In a
flurry of bottles, formulas, diapers and bassinets we resumed civilian
life in the late fall of 1945 at Nashville, Tennessee, where I was
manager of our sales branch until 1948. At that time we were trans-
ferred to the general offices in Pittsburgh where I moved successively
from assistant manager of plate glass sales, to assistant general mana-
ger of merchandising branches, to assistant to the president, to gen-
eral manager of Planning-Glass Division, to my present position
since 1957, as vice-president in charge of the Glass Division. In 1956
I attended the 30th A.M.P. at the Harvard Business School.

We feel that we have been most fortunate in having the oppor-
tunity to bring up our children in Sewickley, which is a delightful
and complete community, We Harvards are badly outnumbered
by the Yales and the Princetons, and constantly have to make refer-
ence to the difference between quantity and quality. We look for-
ward each year to a short stay in Florida in the winter and another
in Maine in the summer. In the small amount of leisure time avail-
able I try to satisfy my interest in golf, music and salt-water fishing.

An extremely active business and family life has left little room
for philosophizing on the mysteries and purpose of life, but as our
children grow up and leave the nest for boarding school and college
the tempo of things may slow down enough so that sometime dur-

ing the next twenty-five years I can find the time to put down on
paper what I really think it’s all about.

[53]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

WILLIAM GARDNER BARKER

 

HOME Appress: Andrews Road, Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Thomas J. Lipton, Inc., 1500 Hudson St., Hoboken, N_J.

BORN: May 27, 1913, Brookline, Mass. parents: Charles Miller Barker, Lila
Brookhouse Rice.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 1935; S.M. (Massachusetts Inst. of
Technology), 1937.

marrigpD: Milda Allen, June 20, 1935, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Sue Brookhouse,
March 4, 1937; William Gardner, Jr., Oct. 12, 1940; Elizabeth Hastings,
June 9, 1942; Bruce Allen, Nov. 9, 1946.

occupation: President and director, Thomas J. Lipton, Inc., manufacturers and
marketers of tea and various food products.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, U.S. Tea Association; trustee, the
Nutrition Foundation, Inc.,; director, British-American Chamber of Com-
merce; chairman, platform subcommittee of the Winnetka Caucus Com-
mittee, 1954-55; member budget committee, Community Chest and Council
of Greenwich, Conn.; member keyman committee, Connecticut State
Republican Organization, member president’s council, American Institute
of Management, member Class Committee, Harvard Class of ’35; member
Overseers’ Committee to Visit the Department of Germanic Languages and
Literatures and the Busch-Reisinger Museum, Harvard University.

MEMBER OF: New York Yacht Club; Indian Harbor Yacht Club; The Beach
Club (Greenwich); Pleon Yacht Club (Marblehead); American Yachts-
man’s Association; Greenwich Skating Club; The Brook; Harvard Club
of Boston, University Club (Chicago); The Presidents, The Newcomen
Society of North America; Association of Sloan Fellows; English Speaking
Union, Grocery Manufacturers of America; American Marketing Asso-

ciation; American Management Association; Sales Executives Club; Navy
League of the U.S,

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles for trade and business magazines,

THE first and most important event that set the pattern for the past
twenty-five years occurred four hours after graduation — Milda and

[54]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I got married, The first year was spent in California where I was
working at the Stanford Graduate School of Business Administra-
tion; then we came back to Cambridge for a year at M.1L.T. With
formal education behind us, we started a more normal life of raising
a family, acquiring our first home, and, of course, full-time employ-
ment. After a background of engineering, this latter turned out to
be in the field of advertising and marketing with Lever Brothers
Company, just down the river from the hallowed halls of Harvard.
Summers, we pursued our ever-favorite hobby of sailing, and ever-
present activity of raising children.

During the war, I spent three years in the Navy as a supply offi-
cer on what developed into very pleasant duty. The first year was
at the Boston Navy Yard, and the next two years in the Pacific,
mainly based out of Pearl Harbor. Most of these three years was
spent handling all phases of cargo operations.

After the war I returned to Lever Brothers Company and quickly
found myself deep in the subject of new products and company
expansion. This involved many new experiences, extensive travel
throughout the United States, and also a considerable stretch of time
in Europe. It was extremely interesting, involving as it did all facets
of the business problems, and finally led to a new assignment in
Chicago — director of new products, Pepsodent division of Lever
Brothers Company, which included home permanent waves and
cosmetics.

Our family, which now included four children and miscellaneous
dogs and cats, happily settled into the life of the Midwest. Although
we may have left the ocean and salt water sailing, we so thoroughly
enjoyed the people that this was the start of another pleasant era for
the Barker clan. We had just got settled down when Lever Brothers
started going through varied gyrations, and it looked as though we
were headed back east again. We finally decided to stay in Chicago;
so I changed jobs and joined the Simoniz Company as executive vice-
president. |

The next six years were a happy blend of good living, helping to
guide the children as they grew up, enjoying all the various stages
of their fascinating and perplexing vagaries, and rebuilding, revita-
lizing and expanding Simoniz. Business life included considerable
_ travel throughout North America, the Caribbean area, and Europe,
but fortunately this time Milda was able to go with me on the longer
and more interesting junkets. Also, during this period I had a chance
to develop a hobby which I acquired during the war — skin diving.

[55]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Much of our vacation time was spent in diving and underwater colo, _
photography wherever we could find warm, clear water.

In 1956 came the next major crossroads: I left Simoniz ang |
joined Thomas J. Lipton, Inc., as vice-president — new product,
This meant pulling up our roots, leaving Winnetka and our many
friends, and moving back east. Although our offices are in New
Jersey, we decided to settle in Greenwich, Connecticut, midst old
friends and grand salt water sailing. Our first move, even before
finding a house, was to buy a thirty-seven-foot yawl on which we |
planned to spend as much of our spare time as we could. Fortunately,
during the past few years we have been able to accomplish quite a
bit of cruising, and we have all thoroughly enjoyed it, and our new
life back east.

On the job front, things have progressed interestingly and 1 am
now president. The challenge in the food field today is fascinating
— particularly in the case of consumer package goods — you either
grow or die. We plan to grow through aggressive expansion with
new products and some acquisitions. The planning, the doing, and
seeing some of the effort really shape up make a normal workday
whistle by. Some of the children are now grown and have married,
and the others are growing fast, but fortunately all are close by.
Our clan has increased with the addition of our first grandchild, who
frequently joins us. The last twenty-five years have been most re-
warding, most happy, and most memorable — with the scattered
problems only making us appreciate our great good fortune all the
more.

RICHARD STORRS BARNES

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 1628 N. Wells St., Chicago 14, Ill,

[56]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BorN: April 9, 1914, Mineola, Long Island, N.Y. parents: Roderic Barbour
Barnes, Rose Marie Naething.

PREPARED AT: Gunnery School, Washington, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933, 1934-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1935(36); AM. (Univ.
of California, Berkeley), 1941; pH». (Yale Univ.), 1953.

MARRIED: Katherine S. Watkins, Aug. 31, 1943, Pasadena, Calif. cup: Roderic
Watkins, April 24, 1954.

occuPATION: Antiquarian bookseller.

MEMBER OF: American Historical Association.

MY life, seen in the perspective of forty-five years, appears, I regret
to say, to be a series of forgotten yesterdays. I had already for-
gotten a couple of them before coming to Harvard, and of those
forgotten since then I suppose the Harvard years are among the
most completely so. On leaving college I went to work in Brook-
lyn at the record wage of $12.00 a week, a figure that appears to be
worth noting for reasons of contrast with the (not necessarily my)
present. Standard depression stuff, as a matter of fact. This $12.00
wage was not only in itself a farce, but it was attached to work
(clerk, exporting electrical supplies, seventy-two hours a week)
that soon put me in the hospital — ninety days of pneumonia just
before the time came when a case of the kind would have been
cleared up in hours. That was ninety days at $75.00 per day, and
the question of my father’s recovery from the financial kick was as
nice as the other. To southern California in 1938 — favorable
climate, light work, teaching in a boy’s prep school. Brooklyn and
school teaching — two more forgotten yesterdays, though the school
teaching came up again later. I had always had some sneaking intel-
lectual interests that had been conspicuously unrealized at Harvard
—the few people that knew me there know that and why — and
I somehow got interested in history. This led me to take a master’s
degree at the University of California. I'd have gone on for the

doctor’s there — it was a more stimulating place to me than Harvard

had ever been or than Yale was to be afterwards — but the confusion

of the war period made it impossible at the time for reasons that

no longer seem valid.

War record — none. I was put in 4-F on V-D Dav, having been
kept hanging in intermediate categories throughout the previous
years. Being during the war unable either to get into the services
or to get a “regular” job outside the services, I was driven to take
a job on a week-to-week basis in a bookshop, inflation by that time
having driven the salary up to $20.00 a week. As it happens, that
experience in a San Francisco bookshop determined my life, though

C57]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

it did not seem that this would be the case for a long time after-
ward. After six months of pushing best sellers, I had a chance to go
back to the school where I had taught before and did so for the bal-
ance of the war. In 1943, after a prolonged campaign, I induced a
distant relative, whom I had met in California because she was a
relative, to marry me, whereupon her life too was converted into
a series of forgotten yesterdays. We taught school together for
another couple of years. At the end of that time, the strain of school
teaching which was, however, never other than tedious made it
seem that it must be then or never, so we went back to New Haven
to finish up at graduate school. It did not even occur to me to apply
at Harvard, and as it was, the Yale people gave me a hard enough
time about my Harvard record. The good one made at California
must have been ultimately decisive. I had intended to study Ameri-
can diplomatic history at Yale with S. F. Bemis but somehow never
did. Most of us at graduate school at that time were over age, and I
suppose the Yale people were somewhat at a loss about what to do
with us. I stalled on my thesis but finally got pushed off to Chicago
in a librarian’s job which sounded good at the time. I love books —
most scholars and librarians hate them — and it meant no teaching.
It didn’t work out, and in 1951 I found myself out of a job and
without even the means to move my now rather extensive posses-
sions to some place I might like better than Chicago. So we decided
to try the book business on our own. I wrote my doctoral disserta-
tion in my first book store. It is only fair to say that since my de-
cisive experience in 1941 in selling books, I had never been entirely
out of the book business, a circumstance that accounted in part
both for my getting stalled at Yale and for the failure of my library
job. Book-selling looks to us like a today that is not going to be-
come a forgotten yesterday — we're stuck with it this time. The
conditions of the antiquarian book business are too ramified to be
dealt with in many times the space I have at my disposal here, and
in any case too weird to be made intelligible in even a longer treatise,
Book-selling is at once a declining and a rising business. The num-
ber of book stores in American cities approaches the vanishing point,
but at the same time various people are carrying on specialist activi-
ties in scattered areas, many unzoned for business. Most of these
dealers supply out-of-print and rare material to libraries (I find that
exactly two-thirds of 1959 business was library business) and in
that area there appears to be a more or less indefinitely expanding
market produced by the astounding growth of colleges since the

[58]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

war. In addition, there is a good deal of foreign business to be had,

America having just recently been discovered in the matter of books,

I have seen little or nothing since college of the few people I knew

there and just as little of my other acquaintances of other forgotten
yesterdays. Chicago appeals to me for a lot of reasons that I can-
not really get to the bottom of. The natives here don’t seem to care
for it. Speaking of natives of Chicago, we produced a son five and
a half years ago. He surprised us by appearing at all, and he has sur-
prised everybody else ever since on a variety of other counts. Will
he ever go to Harvard? Not unless he is a lot better prepared for
ic than I was. As for politics, somewhere along the line, perhaps
about 1944, having been a born and unreconstructed Republican, I
became a definite if not enthusiastic Democrat. Looks as if we'll all
have to hold our noses and vote at this next fracas. Well, ’ve done
it before.

WILLIAM BARNES

    

HOME ADDRESS: 2620 East West Highway, Chevy Chase 15, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of State, Washington 25, D.C.

BORN: Dec. 23, 1914, Albany, N.Y. parents: Thurlow Weed Barnes, ’12, Elisa-
beth Dale Glover.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. Cure laude, 1935; s.M. (Columbia
Univ.), 1936.

MARRIED: Virginia Lee Layton, July 2, 1938, Wilmington, Del. (divorced 1943);
Louise Alice Neu, Oct. 17, 1944, Springfield, I]. cumpren: Virginia Lee,
Jan. 30, 1942; Elisabeth Louise, March 22, 1946; Charles Glover, June 3, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Foreign service officer.

MEMBER OF: American Foreign Service Association; American Civil Liberties
Union; Finlandia Foundation; Lions Club of Helsinki, Finland.

PuBLIcATIONS: “Allied Observation of Elections in Greece,” American Forcign
Service Journal, June, 1946.

[59]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

EXCEPT for a year as a reporter and copy reader on the now long
defunct Boston Evening Transcript, my life since graduation has
been spent in the foreign service of the United States, which I
entered in 1937. I have served at the following posts: Amsterdam,
Netherlands, 1937-38; Buenos Aires, Argentina, 1938-41; Depart-
ment of State, 1941-46; Lisbon, Portugal, 1946-50; Helsinki, Fin-
land, 1950-54; Department of State, since 1955. My current Wash-
ington assignment began with a short tour of duty in the Depart-
ment of Commerce followed by two years as chief of a unit in the
Department of State responsible for directing the economic report-
ing work of the Foreign Service. I am now assigned to the Depart-
ment’s Historical Division where I am engaged in writing a history
of the Foreign Service from Benjamin Franklin’s time to the present.

DAVID GRANT BARRETT

      

-
x‘
~
HOME ADDRESS: 123 Massasoit Ave., Barrington, R.I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Plastic Mold & Engineering Co., 20 Starr St., Johnston, R.L.

BORN: Feb. 9, 1913, Brockton, Mass. parENTS: Michael Francis Barrett, ’97,
Louise Grant.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935-

MarRiED: Louise Ann Mullin, June 18, 1938, Canton, Mass. cHitpren: David
Grant, Jr., May 21, 1939; Stephen D., April 12, 1941; Michael D., Feb. 29,
1944; Kathleen, Oct. 24, 1948, Peter, Dec. 16, 1950; Ann, Feb. 18, 1953.

occupaTION: Sales manager, Stylar division, Plastic Mold & Engineering Com-
pany, manufacturers of plastic products primarily related to the elec-
tronics industry.

OFFICES HELD: Various minor offices in trafic clubs and sales organizations.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Rhode Island; Barrington Yacht Club; Barring-
ton Players, Fall River Country Club,

[ 60 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WHETHER it was due to the rather awe-inspiring career histories
included with the questionnaire, or to a natural inclination to pro-
crastinate, this Report is a last minute effort, and, of necessity, very
sketchy. By comparison with the histories from previous classes,
and by examination of the foregoing bare essential details, it might
be assumed that my life since Harvard has not been one filled with
accomplishments. However, appearances can be deceiving, and my
overall feeling 1s that life has been good to me in many ways. While
there has been little wealth, there has been much health, and the
absence of “offices held” has been the direct result of a strong
interest in a fine family life.

Businesswise, the last twenty-five years have been divided into
three distinct phases. Shortly after graduation, and with absolutely
no relation to my field of concentration, I joined International
Harvester Company in Boston as a very minor cog in their advertis-
ing department. At the time, this was intended to be the means to
an end — the field of agency advertising in New York or Boston —
but events led to a different course. After a few months in Boston,
my activities changed to the sales field, first retail and then whole-
sale. A succession of transfers to Providence, northern New Jersey,
Aroostook County, Maine, New Haven, Waterbury, and Bridge-
port, Connecticut, and finally Buffalo, led into more responsible
sales management positions each time, and an ever-increasing desire
to establish a permanent home and some stability. The opportunity
to fulfill this desire came in 1945, when I was appointed district
manager of International back in the New England area, and was
able to select a location for the second phase of my business life.

Early in 1946, with my figures crossed and my knees shaking, I
left the security of International’s payroll and opened a distributor-
ship of the company’s products on my own in Fall River, Massa-
chusetts. At the same time, we purchased a 250-year-old home in
the small town of Barrington, Rhode Island, and happily have
been there ever since, watching the town, the tax rate, and the ac-
companying problems grow as our family did. The distributorship
in Fall River, a textile city with all the problems of an industry
dying in the North, proved to be a lost cause, and after ten years
of extremely hard work and much sacrifice on the part of Louise
and our family, I brought that phase of our life to a close in 1956
by disposing of the business lock, stock, and barrel, Ten years had
left me much wiser, much poorer and much older.

The third, and present, phase has been by far the most satisfactory

[60]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

from every standpoint. After disposing of my business, I joined
a moderate-sized, progressive firm, Plastic Mold & Engineering
Company in Providence, Rhode Island, with the responsibility of
pioneering an entirely new product in a field completely divorced
from the company’s ‘regular market. This involved not only sales
and sales management, but also all phases of production, personnel
work, and general management. It has been a great satisfaction to
be involved in the birth and early healthy life of this new child.

One of the more pleasant aspects of this present phase has been
the traveling involved — not enough to be boring or burdensome
but enough to be highly interesting. This last year involved an ex-
tensive trip through France, Switzerland, Germany and England,

in addition to covering the United States. Louise is able to accom-
pany me on occasion, including the European trip, and this of course
makes the job much more enjoyable.

Six growing boys and girls make a busy, interesting home life.
Dave, Jr., is in his third year at Providence College; Steve is a fresh-
man at William and Mary, and Mike is in high school. Kathy, Pete
and Ann are all in elementary schools. No honor students, and yet
no juvenile delinquents. It looks like a long hard row ahead to pro-
vide college for all, but to date it has been well worth the effort.
Possibly we may have one at Harvard yet.

With regard to interests and recreation, again things are centered
around the home. This old house, while it has lots of history and
charm, demands considerable attention, and with the high cost of
professional repairs, we have been forced to learn how to paint,
wallpaper, lay floors, and do general carpentry. With a small amount
of woodworking equipment in the basement (which is so low that
T have to work practically on my knees) I find relaxation from the
day’s worries. Our location on Narragansett Bay affords plenty
of swimming and some boating, but my main interest, sportwise,
remains golf, at which I am becoming poorer as I become older.
An occasional fling at dramatics in the local players group com-
pletes the picture.

What started out to be sketchy has become pretty lengthy, but
it’s hard to condense twenty-five years into a few lines. Altogether,

life has been interesting all the way to date, and has been full of
compensations to offset the periods of struggle and hardship. My
family is healthy and happy and appreciative of the many fine things
this life has to offer. What more can a man ask?

[ 62 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MORTON DAVID BARRISCH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3200 Kingsley Rd., Shaker Heights, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 811 Superior Bldg., Cleveland 14, Ohio.

BORN: Oct. 16, 1914, Stamford, Cong. parents: Morton David Barrisch, Sarah
Bertha Robin.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935. DEGREES: A.B. cu laude, 19353 LL.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Betty Emrich, Oct. 9, 1953, Cleveland, Ohio. cuitp: Robin Ann, April

6, 1957-
occuPaATION: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Delegate, board of directors, Cleveland Welfare Association;
member, board of directors, Camp Fire Girls, past president, B'nai B'rith,
Cleveland Chapter, Americans for Democratic Action; vice-president and
member, executive board, Jewish Community Centers, member, executive
board, American Jewish Committee, Jewish Community Federation.

MEMBER OF: Ohio, Cleveland and Cuyahoga County Bar Associations, Harvard
Law Association; Oakwood Country Club.

SINCE I have just completed the rewriting of my will, it seems very
appropriate that I should now set down my theories of life and a
résumé of my activities during the past twenty- -five years.

I find it difficult to say anything about me — not because I am
modest but, on the contrary, because I am so vain and have com-
paratively so little to say. In the face of cosnvc, internat-onal, na-
tional and statewide successes of my classmates, I find myse'f, as
Oliver Wendell Holmes said in one of his letters to Pollock, just a
run-of-the-mine lawyer. If my self-analvsis were not sufficiently
frank, that one statement in the Report form submitted to us was
enough to send me back to my practice in the basements of the
small claims court: “Publications — If the list is a long one, include
principal works only.” I once wrote an editorial for the local paper;

[ 63 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

it was published in three sections and I was paid $30 for the total;
i.e., three ten buck fees.

I served as one of the directors of the National War Labor Board
for the Midwest area during the war years and now am in the private
practice of law in Cleveland, Ohio. I specialize in labor law and if,
after the Walsh-Healy Act, the Wagner Act, the Taft-Hartley Law,
the Ives and Kennedy bills, and the Landrum-Griffin Act, any fur-
ther rules or bills are passed, I shall, with other labor attorneys,
become a true expert in the art of gibbering semantics.

I married rather late in life and was forty-three when my first
child was born. It is disconcerting to realize that at the doddering
age of fifty-five I shall still be attending PTA meetings and dancing
school recitals. This, however, is the reward for procrastination,
and since I seem to be tardy in all of my deeds and accomplishments
(I was fifteen before I had any experience with a woman, sixteen
before I graduated from high school, and twenty when I graduated
from college), it must be that I am either a psychopathic procras-
tinator or given to late maturations.

Labor law is a particularly fascinating segment of the practice
and more especially so if, as in my case, the attorney can effectively
represent (in different situations, of course) both the employees and
the employer. There is no phase of law, to my knowledge, where
the practitioner is as deeply and continuously exposed to the more
basic elements of human nature. The windfall to the labor attorney
comes from the fact that he is constantly meeting with people (as
contrasted to the marriage of the tax lawyer to the Tax Code) and
has been able to develop, as a by-product to the knowledge of law,
an even greater knowledge of people. Perhaps one the most
rewarding factors is finding statesmanlike qualities in so many
ordinary workmen who have neither the financial nor educational
background normally supporting them. I am particularly grateful
to have had this opportunity proffered to me and hope I have been
neither too preoccupied nor too immature to have missed it.

[ 64]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ERNEST RALPH BARRON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 53 Beatrice Circle, Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: First National Stores, Inc., 5 Middlesex Ave., Somerville, Mass.

BORN: May 4, 1913, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Hiram Barron, Anna Stone.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: AB., 1935; PH.D. (Massachusetts Inst. of
Technology), 1940.

MARRIED: Jeanette Eileen Wedrow, Oct. 11, 1941, Washington, D.C. cHiLpren:
Stephen Charles, Sept. 29, 1942; James Wedrow, Nov. 17, 1944; Jonathan
Lee, Feb. 3, 1948, Mark Russell, May 21, 1952; Susan Hope, Nov. 29, 1954.

occuPaTion: Frozen food headquarters buyer, First National Stores, Inc., food
chain stores in New England and New York.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, 1955-57, vice-chairman, 1957-58, chairman, 1958-59,
Northeast Section, Institute of Food Technologists.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Food Technologists.

WHEN I have been asked by my sons on different occasions, “Dad,
what extracurricular activities did you participate in while at Har-
vard?” my truthful response has been, “I took up billiards at the
Harvard Union the day after I enrolled and also became fairly pro-
ficient at contract bridge during my sophomore year.”

These activities were quite demanding and held a far greater
interest than the pursuit of a career in medicine. Graduation in ’35
saw me with an A.B. in the field of biochemistry and with a burn-
ing desire to become immediately self-supporting. A year of indoc-
trination in one of F.D.R.’s alphabet agencies conv inced me that
my debut was ill-timed, M.I.T. thereupon inherited a very chastened
and insecure Harvard graduate. Four years later, even though
armed with a Ph.D. in food technology, I still felt safer within the
academic confines and accepted a research and teaching post at
M.LT. This was of fairly short duration for I entered the gentle-
man’s branch of the service in May of 1941, as a bacteriologist. By

[ 65]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

proper observance of navy ritual and being fortunate in the timing
of the promotion schedules, I was released from active duty in
November of 1945 as a commander H-V(S), USNR.

By now my fortunes were enhanced by the acquisition of a family.
The disturbing prospect of supporting it clearly indicated that a
teaching post might not enable us to eat with regularity. Therefore,
in 1946 I accepted the position of laboratory director for the First
National Stores, Inc., headquarters at Somerville, Massachusetts,
and settled down to suburban living in the town of Belmont, with all
of the attendant civic and familial responsibilities.

It took this fair son of Harvard until 1958 to realize that the
everyday excitement of “big business” was a challenge he could
no longer resist. Since then I have been associated with the same
concern in the purchasing and merchandising of frozen foods — no
ulcers yet but never a dull moment.

My current extracurricular activities no longer include billiards
but do include snarling at my charming mate whenever she blithely
ignores my efforts to improve her bridge game. I sense that old
age is approaching for I no longer subscribe to overnight camping
activities with the boys but confine myself to such harmless pur-
suits as watching them perform in their varied school athletic en-
deavors — football, baseball, track, etc. As for Suzy, she was long
in arriving after four boys but quick to realize that she holds a
unique position in our family. I would suspect that somewhere
along the line there will be another Harvardian or two, be it son or
son-in-law.

LESTER MANUEL BARRON

 

HOME abpress: 2507 Panorama Terr., Los Angeles 39, Calif,

[ 66 ]

SOE AR A ORT MIP I

DSO RIE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: Garden Crest Convalescent Hospital, 909 Lucile Ave. Los
Angeles 26, Calif.

BORN: July 9, 1913, Derby, Conn. parents: Harry Joseph Barron, Annie
Yudkin.

PREPARED AT: Derby High School, Derby, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 1935; M.B.A. (Univ. of Chicago),
1938.

MARRIED: Vera Mayers, Dec. 29, 1938, New York, N.Y. cyipren: Richard
Bruce, June 3, 1942; Roger James, Dec. 27, 1944; Paul Howard, May 29,
1946.

occupation: Hospital administrator.

OFFICES HELD: Administrator, Allerton Hospital, Brookline, Mass., 1941-47,
Alton Road Hospital, Miami Beach, Fla., 1947-48, Garden Crest Hospital,
Los Angeles, since 1954; chairman, Advisory Committee, Los Angeles
City Health Department, 1956-60; chairman, Boy Scout Committee, 1956-
59; board member, Gateway Hospital, 1957-59.

MEMBER OF: Sierra Club Ski Mountaineers, Hospital Council of Southern
California; Harvard Club; Merit Employment Bureau.

IN 1936 I received the Certificate of Public Health from the Har-
vard School of Public Health and in 1937 received the Rosenwald
Fellowship in Hospital Administration to the University of Chicago.

Vera and I have made the circuit — Chicago, New Y ork, Boston,
Miami and then back to Los Angeles. Along the way, we estab-
lished two charitable hospitals and three fine sons. We decided to
return to Vera’s home town where we join our boys in skiing on
Saturdays and sailing on Sundays!!' As members of the Sierra Club
we hope to do our part in practising conservation of our wilderness
areas and at the same time continue to enjoy the Sierras as long as
we can toddle along.

At this stage we're developing our own nursing home and find

the geriatric field as undeveloped as the acute hospital field was
twenty-five years ago!

| 67 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

HERBERT CYRUS BARROWS, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 721 S. Forest Ave., Ann Arbor, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: English Dept., Haven Hall, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor,
Mich.

BORN: Jan. 2, 1914, Wilmington, Mass. PARENTS: Herbert Cyrus Barrows, Nina
Louise Kincaid.
PREPARED AT: Wilmington High School, Wilmington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 72agna cum laude, 1935; A.M. 1936;
PH.D., 1948.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Associate professor of English, University of Michigan.

+ STUART EDWARD BARTON

 

porn: Dec. 21, 1912, Brookline, Mass. parents: George F.dward Barton, Louise
Webb.

prepakep AT: Rugby School, England.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

pep: Nov. 12, 1944, in a plane crash near Harmon Field, Newfoundland.

STUART FDWARD BARTON was with our Class one ycar.
[ 68 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

After a short time in the business world, he joined the administra-
tion staff of American Airlines, In January, 1943, he entered the Army
Navigation School in Chicago, graduating as an airplane navigator
and proceeded to his professional work, flying between Brazil and
Africa, Later he volunteered for service between Assam, India, and
the Allied advance-base in China, commuting “over the hump.”
After a few months he returned to New York and for a short time
was supervisor of navigation. He then entered upon the series of
transatlantic flights which continued until his death. He had com-
pleted his fiftieth transatlantic flight.

FREDERIC CROSBY BARTTER

La sree ae oe pagers

sagt ate OR
: Ma
~~, Aine
, . .
a

  
  
     

HOME ADDRESS: 217 W. Montgomery Ave., Rockville, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Heart Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,
Md.

BORN: Sept. 10, 1914, Manila, Philippine Islands. parents: George Charles
Bartter, Frances Crosby Buffington.

PREPARED AT: Lenox School, Lenox, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935, DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; M.D. 1940.

MaRRIED: Jane Hazen Lillard, May 25, 1946, Cohasset, Mass. cumpren: Frederic
Crosby, Jr., July 13, 1948; Thaddeus Charles, Oct. 30, 1950, Pamela Anne,
May 8, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Physician, research; chief, National Heart Institute.

OFFICES HELD: Chief, Section Clinical Endocrinology, National Heart Institute.

MEMBER oF: American Society for Clinical Investigation, Peripatetic Society;
Endocrine Society; Society for Expenmental Biology and Medicine; Sault
and Water Club; American Board of Intemal Medicine (diplomare).

PusLications: “The Effect of Adrenocorticorropic Hormone in Panhypopitut
tarism,” 1950; “The Effects of Adrenocorticotrepic Hormone and Cor
sone in the Adrenogenital Syndrome Associated with Congenital Adrenal
Hyperplasia: An Attempt to Explain and Correct its Disordered Hormonal
Pattern,” 1951; “The Regulation of Aldosterone Sceretion in Man; The

[ 69 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Role of Fluid Volume,” 1956 (all in Journal of Clinical Investigation),
“Studies on the Control and Physiologic Action of Aldosterone,” Recent
Progress in Hormone Research, 1959.

NOW that the Bulletin has even supplied the formula for these
biographies, it is difficult even for the worst backsliders (of whom
my mail now tells me I bring up the rear) to procrastinate further.
(Incidentally, the term backslider is entirely a misnomer here. My
History I thesis was also the last, and I am still trying to finish one
of my Medical School projects.)

The formula, as I remember it —I have lost the Bulletin — calls
for (a) a tribute to the good days bonae sub regno Veritatis, (b) an
interim note complete with family history and (c) a spot of phi-
losophy.

(a) My break with the good old days was a gradual one: I spent
four more years in Harvard at the Medical School. There followed
an internship at Roosevelt Hospital in New York. By that time the
war had begun and the huge, bifid Coast Guard-Maritime base at
Manhattan Beach was founded. I was assigned to the hospital which
was staffed by the U.S. Public Health Service. To the charter mem-
bers of that hospital staff, military service was less onerous than
it was to many of our contemporaries: there was no precedent for
such an establishment, and it was difficult or impossible to adapt to
it many of the sacred traditions of Lord Nelson and his time.

There followed a most rewarding year in Guatemala and Mexico,
where I acquired a good deal of Spanish, amoebic dysentery and the
title of “Medical Officer in Charge of Onchocerciasis Investigations.”
It was felt that if the Panama Canal were attacked and if we needed
to approach it by land, our personnel were in danger of infection
by onchocerciasis, the form of filariasis that is carried by a coffee
fly and may cause blindness. (At the same time, malaria was being
eradicated, in a vast program of incalculable cost — and value — in
the United States. Our results showed that the same could be done,
at a figure nowhere in sight, for onchocerciasis.)

(b) In 1946, 1 married Jane Hazen Lillard and we returned to
live within a pebble’s throw of Dunster House. For five years,
while serving progressively as fellow, assistant and associate in medi-
cine at the Massachusetts General Hospital and the Harvard Medical

School and as tutor in biochemical sciences at the College, I was
thoroughly exposed to the brilliant and original mind of Fuller Al-
bright (Harvard 21, M.D., ’24) who, with incomparable good
humor, was fighting his losing battle with Parkinson’s disease,

[70]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

By 1951, Frederic, Jr., and Thaddeus Charles had arrived, and
the National Institutes of Health were completing their hospital for
clinical investigation: we moved to Baltimore to organize a section
to help fill it. In 1953, adorned with Pamela Anne, we moved to
Rockville and the National Heart Institute, where I] work as endo-
crinologist in cardiologist’s clothing, largely dedicated to physiology
in man and dog. We spend our “spare” time shoring up our 1860
house, collecting mushrooms, singing in amateur operettas and
watching — perhaps guiding a little — the potentialities of our three
young people. They never cease to surprise us with the boundless
creativity that — in spite of television — occupies their spare time.

(c) As for the philosophy, perhaps it should wait for the Fiftieth
— well, no. Our era was rich in (professional) philosophers and
we were among the last privileged to hear Whitehead: perhaps a
proper biography should acknowledge this privilege. But as to
applying his formula for the functions of reason — “i. to live, ii. to live
well, iii, to live better’— my 1959 conclusion is that there has
never been quite time to progress from “the reason Ulysses shares
with the foxes” to “the reason Plato shares with the Gods.” As for
Hocking’s conviction that success is equivalent ultimately to finding
peace — this will have to wait till the Fiftieth.

DONALD BRAYTON BATES

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1515 Patrick Ave., Reno, Nev.

OFFICE aDpREss: Nevada Bank of Commerce, 1 N. Virginia St. Reno, Nev.

BORN: Sept. 6, 1912, Ely, Nev. parents: Osmond George Bates, Mabel Bray.

PREPARED AT: White Pine County High School, Ely, Nev.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1931-1935. DEGREE! A.By 1935.

MARRIED: Geraldine Ryan, Sept. 3, 1939 Ely, Nev. cuiepren: Victona Joan,
Feb. 25, 1945; Kathleen Ellis, June 28, 1948; Cullen Ryan, April tt, r9s4

[70]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

HARVARD BROTHER: George Bates, M.D. 735.

occupation: Banking; executive vice-president, director, Nevada Bank of Com-
merce.

OFFICES HELD: President, Nevada Bankers Association, 1953-54; member, Na-
tional Board of Field Advisors, Small Business Administration, since 1954;
member of directors, Hidden Valley Properties, Inc., since 1956, Hidden
Valley Country Club, since 1957; executive board member, Nevada Area
Council, Boy Scouts of America, since 1957; member, executive committee,
State Bank Division, American Bankers Association, since 1958, member,
executive committee, Nevada Bankers Association, since 1959; director,
since 1957, treasurer, since 1959, Reno Y.M.C.A.

MEMBER OF: Society of Former Agents of F.B.I.

AFTER four years at Harvard, I returned to Nevada and worked
one year, then decided that 1 would like to live in the east. After
attending the Harvard Business School for one year and comparing
my opportunities in the two sections of the country on a more
realistic basis, | again moved back to the west. I was employed in
a furniture store where I had had previous experience during sum-
mer vacations until 1939, when I decided to go into banking as a
permanent career. I worked several years in a bank in Salt Lake
City, during which time I married the gal who is still suffering along
as my wife. Next, a move to Elko, Nevada, in 1941, where I joined
the Nevada Bank of Commerce, the firm with which I am still em-
ployed.

During the war I served as a special agent of the F.B.L, being
stationed at New Orleans, Detroit, Louisville, and as a resident agent
in Covington, Kentucky, where our first daughter was born. After
the war I returned to Elko and shortly thereafter to Reno when we
opened our first bank in that area, Since that time we have been
through two floods and a gas main explosion, and have opened three
more banks in the Reno-Sparks area. This state is growing along
with the rest of the west, and the Nevada Bank of Commerce has
kept pace with this growth, The totals of the bank were only about
one million when I was first employed in 1941. Now the totals are
approximately sixty million. Certainly banking is not stereotyped,
at least the way we do it, for we are classed as an independent, and
the challenge of the development of new business and new, unusual
situations has made my work very interesting. Also there is a per-
sonal satisfaction in helping individuals get started and eventually
become sucessful. Needless to say, we do collect interest during
this period.

To date I have acquired two daughters, one son, two dogs, two

[72]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

horses and an aquarium, plus an assortment of other pets who are no
longer with us. That little boy was my last chance of having a male
member of the family, so naturally I take quite a bit of credit as a
pressure player when the chips are down.

I don’t think that my wife can be classified as a golf widow — I
play only whenever I get a chance, and lots of times when it is my
turn to baby-sit, I rent an electric golf cart and let the kids drive
around with me. All of us have a lot of fun horseback riding and
we watch the children ski. We have excellent hunting in this area,
as well as in the adjoining states, and I have been as far afield as
Canada in search of game. I have had some enjoyable trips to the
Gulf of California, described as the “fishing hole of the world,” and
am a confirmed deep-sea fisherman. However, my wife was so
enthusiastic when she caught her first striped marlin that I had it
mounted and hung in my office. Now I find that it’s a wee bit dis-
concerting when people ask me who caught it and I have to tell
them, “My wife.”

It seems hard to realize that twenty-five years have passed since
I graduated from Harvard. There were so many more things that
I felt I could accomplish in that time! I know now I shall have to
hurry during the next twenty-five years.

MAX LEAVELL BAUGHMAN

 

HOME Appress: 315 Abbotsford Rd., Kenilworth, Ill.
OFFICE ADDRESS: La Salle National Bank, 135 S. La Salle St, Chicago go, Hl.

BORN: Nov. 24, 1913, East St. Louis, Ill parests: William Leavell Baughman,
Reta Maude Lober.

PREPARED AT: Fast St. Louis High School, Ease St. Louis, II.
YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 1935; M.B.A., 1937.

MarRRIED: Mildred Jean Dudley, Sept. 23, 1949, Chestnut Hill, Mass. cHi pres:

[73]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Lyle Mildred, Jan. 11, 1942 (adopted); Jeanne Dudley, July 18, 1950; Wil-
liam Leavell, 2d, June 21, 1951; Richard Emery, Oct, 22, 1953; Charles
Jeffrey, Sept. 13, 1957-

occupation: Vice-president, head of international division (foreign depart-
ment), La Salle National Bank.

OFFicES HELD: Vestry council, since 1955, Finance Committee, 1956-58, Church
of the Holy Comforter; Diocesan convention delegate, 1956-58; Scholar-
ship Committee, Harvard Club of Chicago, since 1955; chairman, Member-
ship Committee, 1956-57, member, World Trade Committee, Legislative
Committee, Chicago Association of Commerce and Industry; Membership
Committee, since 1956, captain, Reception Committee, since 1957, Speakers
Table Committee, Executives Club; chairman, Research Committee, Rob-
ert Morris Associates; Chicago World Port Committee, International Trade
Club; various charity fund-raising campaigns such as Boy Scouts, Com-
munity Fund, Red Cross.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Banking; Bankers Association for Foreign
Trade; Masons; Shriners; Harvard Club of Chicago; Harvard Business
School Club of Chicago; Kenilworth Kalicoes; City Club of Chicago,
Kenilworth, Hickory Hill Hunt, and Northbrook Sports Clubs.

FRANK KNOWLTON’S constant reminders for a story for the
Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report may no longer be pushed aside be-
cause of the pressure of business affairs. So here goes a brief (?) sum-
mary covering the years from 1935 to the present. When in college, I
always wanted to go to the Harvard Law School, but those were
the days of the depression, and it was important that I obtain a
scholarship. This was not forthcoming from the Law School and
so I went to Harvard Business School, paying my way with part-
time jobs, work scholarships and loans. I graduated in 1937, M_B.A.,
and obtained a very fine job from the point of view of salary with
C..T. Corporation. I went to New York for a week to meet the
top officials and then to Manchester, New Hampshire. While up
there, my duties were mainly the collection of slow accounts, and
you may recall that there was a recession in the latter part of 1937.
In other words, I had “lots of business.” My title was that of
“adjuster,” but it should have more properly been “repossessor.”
No one seemed to have any money in those days when the mills in
New Hampshire shut down, In the spring of 1938 I was called upon
to repossess a “hot stove” — it was hot because the family was cook-
ing lunch in the stove and heating the laundry tub on top of the
stove. We had to shovel out the hot ashes, and the trucking com-
pany hauled the stove away, That was enough! I didn’t know what
I was going to do, but I did know that it would be something else.

I went back to Boston and hoped to join a Boston bank, For some

[74]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

reason or other I picked the Second National Bank (now the Second
Bank — State Street Trust Company) and this was the only bank
that would do. The Second National Bank’s operations showed a
loss each day, for I well remember that they had a daily Profit &
Loss figure. ‘hat so large an institution had a daily P & L amazed
me, but I was all the more determined to join the bank. A number
of my references wrote to an officer of the bank as part of a planned
campaign. The letters were scheduled to arrive about two weeks
apart. After five or six of them I was asked to come into the bank
and told that if I could find something else to do for the summer of
1938, I could join the bank in September. During that summer I
taught tennis at the Duxbury Yacht Club, and every day that it
rained cost me about forty dollars. On a sunny day I had about
eight hours of lessons. Five dollars an hour times eight hours
equalled forty dollars. This was more in a day than I was destined
to make in two weeks, for I started with the bank as a messenger at
fifteen dollars a week. A few weeks later, I was promoted to the
transit department and after several weeks I wrote a report on its
operations. I was immediately taken into the credit department, and
that was the end of my training program. After some months in
the credit department, we decided to start a new type of lending
activity. We started a department to make loans on the cash-sur-
render value of life insurance. This is now a regular operation in
many banks throughout the United States, but around 1938 and
1939 it was an entirely new development. The large banks of New
York stayed out of the field for several years because they were
afraid of alienating the large life insurance companies which carried
substantial balances with the New York banks. The department
prospered and by 1941 we were making loans of this tvpe all over
the United States. Eventually, we handled some of these loans for
Harvard College, whose treasurer felt that this was a desirable out-
let for some of the Harvard endowment funds. The rates pre-
vailing at that time for a secired loan may be of interest to business
people today. We made loans at two per cent for one year, two and
a quarter per cent for two years, and two and a half per cent for
five years. Imagine being able to borrow money these days at those
rates of interest!

Then came World War II. I was in the Air Force in the United
States for just five days and then was sent to England, where I re-
mained for four and a half years. T returned to the United States
in December, 1945, just a day before Christmas, While in Poyeland

[75]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

CHARLES LUDWIG BAUMANN, JR.

    

aaa

HOME appress: King’s Crown Hotel, 420 W. 116th St., New York 27, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Horace Mann School, 231 W. 246th St., New York 71, N.Y.

BORN: Feb. 18, 1914, Far Rockaway, New York, N.Y. parents: Charles Ludwig
Baumann, Berenice Leerburger.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: AB., cum laude, 1935; aM. (Columbia
Univ.), 1954; LLB. (ibid.), 1957.

MarrigD: Catherine Yeo, Jan. 11, 1949, Battle Creek, Mich. (divorced 1953).

occupation: Teacher, assistant librarian, Horace Mann School.

OFFICES HELD: Precinct captain, member, executive committee and New York
County Committee, Hamilton Republican Club, Seventh Assembly District,
South Manhattan; member, Alumni Council, Horace Mann School, 1957-
59.

MEMBER OF: American Historical Association; American Library Association,
New York Historical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Two US. patents for electronic constant-speed governors, 1945.

IT is unfortunate on the one occasion when publication is certain
without fear of rejection slip that I am asked to cover such a trivial
subject as my accomplishments. Not to be overly-introspective, I
made my major misstep when I listened to my father’s urging to
enter his installment furniture business.

In 1940 the Army rejected me for defective hearing and so, with
some vague patriotic purpose in mind, I tried to shift from an “arts”
to a technical type by studying radio engineering at RCA Institute.
In June, 1942, | managed to avoid a hearing test and reported at
Fort Monmouth as a second lieutenant in the Electronics Training

Group. There I came across many of the boys and roomed with
my childhood chum, the late Dick Green, '36.

The following winter found me at Cambridge in a small group
of Navy and Army men studying at Austin Hall and M.1.T. I saw

[78]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

an occasional Kirkland Housemate among the hordes of Navy in-
doctrinees who had taken over the Yard. Having by great effort
learned at RCA how to amplify signals without distortion, I never
quite understood matters at M.I.-T., where for radar the maximum
distortion was desired.

Two safe years followed at Tampa’s Drew Field, because the
radar sets on which (it said) I was qualified would be seriatim de-
clared obsolete. Finally, I sailed with a junior first lieutenant and
ten enlisted men for Manila, only to learn of the Japanese surrender
while anchored off Ulithi. Official duties with the Thirteenth
Fighter Command did not seriously interfere with six pleasant months
in Manila’s high society.

Upon discharge I moved to Battle Creek, Michigan, the province
of Mayor William van A. Bailey, ’35, where I ran the basement of
a branch of Interstate Department Stores under Herbert Silver, ’25.
In 1949, still in Battle Creek and longing for the rye. bread and
other amenities of New York (I can recall no other reason), I started
the town’s first fancy food shop with no education but with the
able assistance of my recently-acquired wife. Meeting both Post
Cereal executives and factory workers was most instructive and,
usually, enjoyable. |

In 1953 I returned to single-blessedness and to New York, where
I studied for a Master’s in history at Columbia. My essay purported
to tell about the “spontaneous unrehearsed draft” of Franklin
Roosevelt for a third nomination. The following year, I entered
Columbia’s School of Law, where I footnoted the history of the

’20s and ’30s for my young classmates. For imstance, they could not
understand Judge Learned Hand’s delicate description of the famous
gentleman-jockey Camel advertisement. Burton v. Crowell Publish-
ing Co., 82 F. 2d 154 (2d Cir. 1936) (libel).

For the last two years I have been on the staff of my old school,
Horace Mann. This year, in addition to library w ork, I have the
privilege of being a faculty adviser to the Photography and Political
Science Clubs. If at times I am a less-than-benevolent despot to the
boys it is occasioned by the belief that it is my role to help turn out
self-disciplined applicants for Harvard.

Upon looking back, I get the impression that this coupon-clipper
has done more worthwhile things as an unpaid volunteer. In a igs:
senatorial primary battle in Michigan my county was one of the
three to prefer John Martin of Grand Rapids, former Dartmouth
man and Rhodes scholar, over Postmaster General Summerticld’s

[79]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

boy, Charles Potter (now ex-senator). Then, at law school, the
dean’s report mentioned my work for the Legal Aid Society in
helping to prepare one of their infrequent appeals.

Whatever convictions I may hold are doubtless in the area of
politics. Among that few is the certainty that, although ethics are
indispensable, both medieval religion and sixteenth-century Puritan

morality are irrelevant to and positively hinder the solution of
present-day social problems.

“DAVID WILLIAM BAXTER

 

BORN: Oct. 23, 1912, Kenton, Ohio. parents: Richard Anton Baxter, Marion
Finley.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 193!—1932, 1936-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1935 (39).

marrigD: Catharine Temple, Aug. 31, 1937, New Lebanon, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Diana, Jan. 6, 1945; Barbara, April 17, 1946.
pep: Aug. 9, 1954, Wellesley, Mass.

wipow: Mrs. David W. Baxter, 94 Brook St., Wellesley, Mass.

DAVID WILLIAM BAXTER spent one year with our Class. He
returned to Harvard in 1936 and received an A.B. in 1939, as of
1935. Before the war he taught at the Cambridge School in Ken-
dall Green, Massachusetts, and at the Metairie Park Country Day
School in New Orleans. Since the war he had been a sales engineer
with the United-Carr Fastener Corporation in Cambridge. He was
a member of the corporation of the Belmont Hill School, president
of the Belmont Hill School Alumni Association and member of

the Forest Products Research Society. He was survived by his
wife and children.

[ 80 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CURTIS BEACH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 40 Vernon Drive, Pittsburgh 28, Pa.

OFFICE AppREss: Smithfield Congregational Church, 620 Smithfield St, Pitts-
burgh 22, Pa.

BorN: Feb. 9, 1914, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Reuel Williams Beach, ’o6, Ruth
Wolcott Stetson.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; S.1.8. (Boston Univ.), 19415
pu.p. (Univ. of Southern California), 1957.

MARRIED: Helen Stewart, June 30, 1941, Malden, Mass. cHILDREN: Stewart,
June 17, 1943, Miriam Stetson, Feb. 1, 1946; Ruth Anne, Aug. 18, 1949.

occupation: Minister, Congregational.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Pasadena Council of Churches, 1944; member,
board of directors, 1944-48, 1953-56, president, 1948, California Institute
of Technology YMCA, member, board of directors, Congregational Con-
ference of Southern California and the Southwest, 1943-44, 1956-57; presi-
dent, Pasadena Committee on Public Education, 1958.

MEMBER OF: Society of Biblical Literature and Exegesis; National Association
of Biblical Instructors.

PuBLIcaTIONS: The Gospel of Mark: Its Making and Meaning, Harper & Broth-
ers, New York, 1959; various articles in newspapers and magazines.

GRADUATING from Harvard in the midst of the depression, I
shared with many others the difficulty of finding a job. For three
years I worked for my dad at the Cosmos Press in Cambridge, try-
ing to learn the trade. Finally yielding to the persuasion of our
minister, Dr. Boynton Merrill, of the Second Church (Congrega-
tional) in Newton, Massachusetts, I decided to go into the ministry.
At his suggestion I attended the Boston University School of Theol-
ogy at its “old site on Beacon Hill (1938-41) and at the same time
worked as student assistant at the First Congregational Church in
Malden, under Dr, Roy L, Minich, Having “attended a Methodist
seminary to prepare for the C ongregational ministry » Pended up by

[8r]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

accepting a call to the First Unitarian Church in Middleboro, Massa-
chusetts, in the middle of my senior year.

After two years (in 1943) I was asked by the Neighborhood
Church of Pasadena, California, to become its assistant minister
under Dr. Theodore G, Soares. In 1945 Dr. Soares had a stroke; I
began preaching in his stead and was elected his successor. My six-
teen years at the Neighborhood Church were a delightful and
stimulating experience, Pasadena is an attractive community, with
a high level of culture and of civic pride. The church, which was
affliated with both the Congregational and Unitarian denomina-
tions, was liberal in theology and drew people of education and
progressive spirit, There was a great influx of population into
California during these years, and our church got its share. We laid
our emphasis on building a “family” church, with a particular stress
on religious education. As the church grew, we bought more prop-
erty and put up a splendid group of educational buildings, which
won national awards for their modern architecture. The latest of
these, a two-story Sunday school edifice, was named in memory of
our most distinguished member, Dr. Robert A. Millikan, Nobel
Prize winner in physics and president of Caltech.

In my free time I worked for the Ph.D. in New Testament at
the school of religion at the University of Southern California (now
the Southern California School of Religion in Claremont). Here I
studied under the able New Testament scholar, Dr. Eric Titus. My
dissertation offered some original ideas on the nature and purpose
of the earliest gospel. This has since been published by Harper
under the title, The Gospel of Mark: Its Making and Meaning. The
summer following my graduation (1957) I was asked to teach in the
university’s summer session,

In February, 1959, I received a call to my present post, the Smith-
field Congregational Church in Pittsburgh. This is a most unusual
and challenging experience. This is the oldest congregation in the
city and until 1924 was entirely German-speaking. It was established
by refugees from religious tyranny in Germany. It is the mother
of several other churches in the Pittsburgh area. In 1924 the whole
group joined the Congregational fellowship. The church has a fine
Gothic building and is located on Mellon Square in the heart of the
downtown section, With Pittsburgh now undergoing a “renais-
sance” and becoming a beautiful city, I think there is real promise

for this church of liberal religion in the midst of towering sky-
scrapers.

[ 82 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT HENRY BEAUDREAU

 

HOME appREss: Hosmer Street, R.F.D., Marlboro, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 186 Main St., Marlboro, Mass.

BorN: Nov. 19, 1912, Marlboro, Mass. parents: Raoul Henry Beaudreau, Sarah
V. Rogers.

PREPARED AT: Marlboro High School, Marlboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 19353 LL.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Elizavetha Sokoloff, Oct. 8, 1949, Belmont, Mass.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: City Solicitor, Marlboro, Mass. 1951-53; deputy chairman,
Republican State Committee, 1951-53; member, Marlboro Planning Board,
since 1952; U.S. Marshal, District of Massachusetts, 1953-56; member, board
of directors, Republican Club of Massachusetts.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Bar Association; Harvard Club of Boston; L’'Union
St. Jean de Baptiste d’Ameérique.

I ADDED the Harvard Law School in 1938 and upon graduation
necessary experience was obtained as a clerk in the Middlesex District
Attorney’s Office. In 1940, a very high number in the draft was
presented to me; we were not at war; the impending problems were
none too clear; the Army pay was modest; commissions were hard
to get; I sought out the F.B.I. who were looking for eager sleuths.
In 1942, we were at war; commissions were still hard to get; I had
done a stint of sleuthing in Washington, New Orleans and New
York; I enlisted as an apprentice seaman and finally emerged in the
spring of 1946 as a bored lieutenant, top floor, with a few traveling
ribbons and a bum back. When daily annoyances appear, I try to
mutter to myself, “Well, it’s better than the service.”

Returning to pick up a practice of law was somewhat slow at
first. Time went on with offices in Boston and Marlbore and some
dabbling in Republican state politics. In 1953 the Republicans were
in office both state and nation-wide, The Republicans hadn't passed

[ 83 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

out anything for twenty years and along came a presidential appoint-
ment as U.S. Marshal for the District of Massachusetts. I was some-
what excited, naive, and accepted the post. The foregoing language
is esoteric. However, the work did not prove very challenging,
television insisted on your riding a stallion and carrying two guns,
so I resigned in 1956 to seek the elective office of State Treasurer.
After a preliminary skirmish the nomination was obtained. In the
election that followed, the opposition was a Democrat by the name
of John F. Kennedy. We all hollered that he was not the distin-
guished Senator by that name but someone else with the same
moniker, which was true. However, the voters were indifferent to
the hollering and he won. 1 lost.

A trouble with the Republicans is that they have no party respon-
sibility comparable to the Democrats. They could also use a couple
of more pols of the Jim Farley variety.

I continued my general practice of law, confining my leg work
to the Marlboro office, which I am doing to this milepost. It is a
small but expanding city and lawyers do everything but replevy
cows, The greatest solace is being your own boss and leaving on
hot, sunny days to get a piece of the Lord’s free gift, the sun.

I can’t play an instrument nor can I sing a tune, so in 1949 I was
fortunate enough to merge with a voice major at the New England
Conservatory of Music by the name of Elizavetha Sokoloff. At the
moment, my wife, who speaks and understands the Russian language,
is keeping me alert with her “corrections” of the translator’s version
of what he says Khrushchev just said on his present tour of the
United States. She’s right, the translator is wrong. We hope to go
to Russia one of these days, after the State Department has a kiss
and make up era, and put her talent to work.

Our greatest satisfaction was building, during the year of our
marriage, our modest colonial home on an acre of dirt. We called
it “Achin’ Back Acre” in deference to my bum back. We built it

in the real sense of the word — except for the plumbing, plastering
and wiring. Never again — it’s too much work.

We hear yodels in the distance, now and then, of the next Slavic
or Mongolian advance. Take your pick. The Mongolians have
been in the wings for centuries and it may be that they want to get

on the world stage and play the deadly game. It is baffling. It’s
hard to tell who will be on our side this time — if it ever comes.

With all others, 1 am for peace, justice and, with the profession, for
a slightly higher scale of legal fees,

[ 84]

oe

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My statistics are meant to be clearer than my thoughts, Both are
prosaic. Albeit. I can still cast one vote.

ALFRED HERMAN BECK

 

HOME ADDRESS: Delaware Avenue, Liberty, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 69 S. Main St., Liberty, N.Y.

BORN: July 1, 1914, Liberty, N.Y. parents: Harry M. Beck, Fannie E. Silver-
man.

PREPARED AT: Liberty High School, Liberty, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; LL.B. (New York Law School),
1939.

MARRIED: Barbara M. Melnick, May 2, 1954, Passaic, N.J. CHILDREN: Harry
Martin, May 15, 1955; Jonathan Peter, June 22, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Justice of the Peace, town of Liberty, 1950-54; director, since
1952, counsel, since 1958, National Bank.of Liberty; director, since 1948,
past president, president, Liberty Maimonides Hospital; director, Sullivan
County Bar Association, since 1959; past president, Liberty Lions Club.

MEMBER OF: New York State and Sullivan County Bar Associations; varnous
clubs.

AFTER four months of my looking at this questionnaire and doing
nothing about it, my wife took matters in her own hands, and my
report as she thinks it should be starts as follows:

“The first nineteen years after graduation were dull, uninterest-
ing and uneventful until that w onderful moment when I met that
charming and intelligent creature who, after three short years on
my part and three long ones on hers, became my wife. ‘In those
dull years I practised law, traveled extensively under the auspices
of the U.S. Army, golfed, fished, skied, plav ed local politics and
otherwise led the miserable existence of a happy, carefree bachelor,
For our first anniversary my wife presented me with a son, Harry

[85]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Martin. For our second, she repeated the performance and Jona-
than Peter made us four. Deciding that the same gift year after
year was repetitious (but not monotonous), I now receive ties,
sport shirts and extra track for the boys’ electric train,”

So much for my wife.

I believe I am one of the few members of the Class who did not
pull up his roots and settle in new places. Shortly after having been
admitted to the bar, I returned to my home town to practise law,
where, except for my Army service, I have been ever since. Situated
in the heart of the country’s largest and most renowned summer
resort area not far from the New y ork metropolitan area, the setting
has produced a composite urban and country mode of living featur-
ing some of the more pleasant qualities of each. Likewise, the prac-
tice of law in this environment has been rewarding, not in the ma-
terial sense but in the feeling of accomplishment which comes with
a general practice embracing all phases of community life.

I read with interest about the many changes taking place at Har-

vard, I hope I shall be able to see them for myself, and my class-
mates, next June.

JOHN NICHOLAS BELKIN

 

HOME appRESS: 3506 Sawtelle Blvd., Los Angeles 34, Calif.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Diy. of Entomology, College of Agriculture, Univ. of Cali-
fornia, Los Angeles 24, Calif,

BORN: Oct. 24, 1913, St. Petersburg, Russia. parents: Nicholas Paul Belkin,
Inna Tardent.

prevarep at: Lincoln School, New York, N.Y.
YPARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-193}.

MargieD: Natalie Yantsin, 1938 cHitoReN; Nicholas J., Tanya.
OCCUPATION: Education. °
NO questionnaire received.

[ 86 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JACOB ALGERNON BELL

LAST KNOWN ADpRESS: 355 Norfolk St., Dorchester 24, Mass.

BoRN: July 15, 1913, Ukraine, Russia. parents: Isracl Bell, Anna Gordon.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935.

BELL has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since 1957.

WILLIAM DENNISTOUN BELL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 16 E. 68th St., New York 21, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Wm. C. Walker's Sons, 320 Fifth Ave, New York 1, N.Y.

BORN: Feb. 2, 1913, Pelham Manor, N.Y. parents: Dennistoun Mildeberger
Bell, Frances Agnes Dolan.

PREPARED AT: Allen-Stevenson School, New York, N.*

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932. DEGREE: a.B. (Syracuse Univ.), 1938.

MARRIED: Bettye Turner, Oct. 13, 1942, Sherman, Texas.

occupation: Licensed real estate broker, State of New York.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Beta Kappa Fraternity, 1935-36, owner and proprietor,
Deep Hollow Guest and Cattle Ranch, Montauk, Long Island, 1939-46;
president, Rodco Corporation of America, 1941-g2; member, Loft Rental
Conditions Committee, Real Fstate Board of New York Cry 1946-52.

MEMBER OF: St. Nicholas Society; University Club; Camp Fire Club of
America; Real Estate Board of New York; Texas Club of New York City;
Guild Hall, East Hampton, Long Island; East Hampton Historical Society,
lieutenant, U.S. Naval Reserve (ret.).

AS I think back over the last twenty-five veary [ remember that
wonderful motor trip to California in the summer of 1935, with Dr.
James Grainger, Harvard °34, which was highlighted by our climb-
ing the Washington Monument, step by step, ‘and the majaty of
Pike’s Peak at dawn. The followi ing sunimer the family toured what
is now known as Western Furope. Although we saw many in-
teresting things, the snow-capped peaks on the mountains of the

[87]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

REUEL ALLEN BENSON, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 255 Lawrence St., New Haven 11, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Southern New England Telephone Co., 227 Church St., New
Haven 6, Conn.

BORN: May 6, 1914, New York, N.Y. parents: Reuel Allen Benson, Rachel
Fish Burbank.

PREPARED AT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933. DEGREE: S.B. (Trinity Coll.), 1936.

MARRIED: Jayne S. Nevius, Oct. 28, 1937, Hartford, Conn. (divorced 1949);
Marie M. O’Brien, Feb. 21, 1950, Weston, Conn. (divorced 1957); Eliza-
beth R. Gifford, 1957. cHiLDREN: Reuel Allen, 3d, Nov. 19, 1939; Sabra and
Louisa (twins), May 5, 1944; Robert G., March 18, 1959.

occuPATION: General information manager, Public Relations Department, South-
ern New England Telephone Company.

OFFICES HELD: Numerous town offices and civic positions in New Haven and
nearby towns.

MY Harvard education was cut short because my activity on the
Crimson precluded the necessary attention to academic matters.
This journalistic activity was, however, the start of my lifetime
career. After graduating from Trinity College, I returned to Boston
for about a year to work on the Brookline and Roxbury Citizens
with Joe Boyd, 35. This led, in 1937, to a public relations job with
the telephone company here in New Haven, where I’ve been work-
ing ever since. My responsibilities have increased with the years and
I can truthfully say what few men can—that I’ve enjoyed my
work... and still do.

After two unsuccessful marriages, 1 married Betty Gifford in
1957. We'd known each other since college days and were prepared
to settle down to a nice, comfortable middle-aged life. But we sur-
prised our friends and families (not to mention ourselves!) by hav-
ing a son in 1959. To revert to diapers and bottles after all these

[ 90 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

years has been a struggle, but it’s well worth it. Betty’s twenry-
two-year-old daughter who lives in New Orleans, and my twenty-
year-old son who is with the Navy in the Pacific, have both visited
their new brother and have given him their tentative O.K.

We spend most of the year in a comfortable New Haven apart-
ment. But during the summer months we really live it up at a
delightful 150-acre farm in Roxbury, Connecticut — just an hour
from the office.

The questionnaire asks me to comment on my “convictions.”
They were once numerous and strong, on many topics. I’m glad to
report that they seem to mellow with the years; nothing seems quite

as open-and-shut to me as it once did. I only hope that my fading
convictions have been succeeded by wisdom.

JOHN WILLIAM BENYAMIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 813 20th St., S., Arlington, Va.

BORN: July 10, 1909, Rizaieh, Persia. Parents: Yosip Benyamin, Bershaw
D’Kaleta.

PREPARED AT: Novocherca, U.S.S.R.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1935.
UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Phillips Brooks Benyamin, ’40; Fred Ball Benyamin, ‘41.
OCCUPATION: Writer.

MY life since graduation has been uneventful, so I have nothing to
write, I am submitting the followi Ing statement merely because of
the good-natured insistence of those preparing our Tw enty -ftth

Anniversary Report. In 1935 T wanted to Harvardize the world.
It hasn’t been easy, but T haven't given up.

[91]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

JAMES ISRAEL BERKMAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 33 Bayview Ave., Great Neck, Long Island, N.Y.

oFFice appress: The Long Island Jewish Hospital, 270-05 76th Ave., New Hyde
Park, N.Y.

BORN: Nov. 14, 1913, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Joseph Berkman, Anna Wal-
lace,

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; A-M., 1936; M.D.
(New York Univ.), 1940.

MARRIED: .Harriet Noyer, Dec. 6, 1942, New York, N.Y. cHitpren: Anthony
Steven, April 4, 1944; Amy Beth, March 26, 1948.

occupation: Medicine; pathologist and chief, Department of Laboratories, The
Long Island Jewish Hospital.

MEMBER oF: American Association of Pathologists and Bacteriologists, College
of American Pathologists; International Academy of Pathology, New York
Pathological Society; Harvey Society; A.O.A.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on various medical topics in professional journals with
particular reference to kidney disease and vascular complications in diabetes.

IN 1936 I left Cambridge to attend the New York University Col-
lege of Medicine and received the M.D. degree in 1940. Internship
at Montefiore Hospital in New York followed, After six months,
further medical training at Bellevue Hospital was interrupted by
entrance on active duty as a first lieutenant in the Army Medical
Corps. The next four years were spent at various Medical Replace-
ment Training Centers in the United States and in the European
Theatre of Occupation as commanding officer of the 122d Medical
Battalion, 42d Infantry (“Rainbow”) Division. I was separated
from the Army asa lieutenant colonel in 1946, and after resumption
of residency training in pathology in the laboratory division of the
Montefiore Hospital in New York, served as assistant and associate
pathologist at that hospital.

[92]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In 1953 I came to The Long Island Jewish Hospital, then in the
building stage, as pathologist and chief of laboratories, where I have
been occupied since in the full-time practice of laboratory medicine,
teaching and research.

We — wife Harriet, son Tony and daughter Amy — live in nearby
Great Neck, where the house, garden, school and just growing
individually and together keep us busy.

ROBERT MORTON BERNSTEIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 34 Rye Rd., Rye, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pam Clock Co., Inc., New Rochelle, N.Y.

BORN: June 5, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: David Bernstein, Ruth Helborn.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 1935; M.B.A., 1937.

MARRIED: Jacqueline Wolf, July, 1941, Indianapolis, Ind. cHitpreX: James David,
Oct. 20, 1942; Ann, May 7, 1945; Jane, Dec. 31, 1947, David James, July 3.
1953-

HARVARD BROTHER: Arnold Jerome Bernstein, °32.

OccUPATION: President, Pam Clock Company.

[93]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

PRICE BERRIEN

 

HOME appress: Schuyler Meadows Club Road, Loudonville, N.Y.
OFFICE appREss: Anti-Corrosive Metal Products Co., Inc., Castleton-on-Hudson,

N.Y.

BORN: Oct. 20, 1913, Bronxville, N.Y. Parents: James Garfield Berrien, Gladys
Hawthorne Curtis.

PREPARED AT: Bronxville High School, Bronxville, N-Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934.

MarRieD: Carol Ward, Sept. 14, 1935, Port Chester, N.Y. cHitpren: acy,
Dec. 13, 1939; Susan Curtis, July 14, 1941.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and sales manager, Anti-Corrosive Metal Products
Company, Inc., manufacturers of industrial fasteners.

MEMBER OF: Schuyler Meadows Country Club; Tavern Club, Cleveland, Ohio;
Los Rancheros Visitadores, Santa Barbara, California.

IN somewhat less than enthusiastic response to the request that “the
Class wants to know all about my career, family, travels, hobbies,
war record, social, political, religious convictions,” I submit the
following information with the mingled emotions stemming from
ingrained diffidence to getting personal in public and a touch of
skepticism that it could possibly be of such general interest. The
subject matter is quite average, I suspect, except for some of the
more lurid glimpses and purple passages which are herewith deleted.

CAREER HISTORY —I have been a banker (junior grade),
merchant, advertiser, manufacturer and salesman. This varied ex-
perience has been challenging, developmental and stimulating. Its
pursuit entailed orientation and homemaking in New York, Los
Angeles, Cleveland and Loudonville.

FAMILY — My family has been and is a source of inspiration,
pleasure, concern, happiness and occasional dismay. Whose isn’t?

TRAVELS — I regret that I haven’t done very much outside of
the United States except at the behest of the Sceretary of the Navy.

[94]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I look forward to this exciting activity as one of the desserts of my
life.

HOBBIES — TI looked up Webster’s definition because I don’t dig
the “do-it-yourself” nailing, sawing, gluing cellar bit. Under this
heading, the dictionary includes “an ambling nag.” This I like. I
enjoy riding in the western deserts and mountains usually in the
company of pleasant Rancheros. Reading further in Webster, “a
subject to which one constantly reverts — favorite source of dis-
course, thought or effort.” With this leeway for my hobbies, I can
include: 1) all music — opera, symphony, etc.; 2) art — gallery visits
and modest gradual acquisition of a few items, 3) literature —
mostly novels selected by my omnivorous but discriminating taster,
Mrs. Berrien, 4) a modicum of gardening, outdoor and indoor; 5)
Jots of sun and ocean bathing with small amounts of golf, tennis
and, of course, cocktails.

WAR RECORD — I joined the Navy with my brother Curtis and
followed directly behind him owing to his alphabetical advantage,
through indoctrination at Quonset Point and then Air Combat In-
telligence School. An interesting billet in air support of amphibious
landings took me to North Africa, Sicily, Kwajalein, Peleliu, Leyte
and Iwo. Most successful and fortuitous landing was Narragansett
Beach, Rhode Island, for the last two summer months of the war.

SOCIAL, POLITICAL OR RELIGIOUS CONVICTIONS — I
lump these three together because they are all pretty pronounced as
far as I am concerned — certainly not tepid or “luke.” This is a
sensitive area and is better explored for general purposes in friendly
conversation. A safe, fair summary might come out somewhat hke

this — I consider myself on the conservative side but definitely not
conventional.

C95]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

JEAN ve BENNEVILLE BERTOLET

 

HOME appress: 1608 Hill Rd., Reading, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 603 Baer Bldg., Reading, Pa.

BORN: Dec. 5, 1913, Reading Pa. parents: Wellington Maybeury Bertolet, ’o4,
Helen Fletcher Jones.

PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 19353 LL.B., 1938.

MarRiED: Phoebe Pendleton Crosby, Sept. 3, 1938, Islesboro, Maine. cup:
Wellington Maybeury, 2d, July 23, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederick Jones Bertolet, ’32, LL.B., ’35.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, St. Joseph’s Hospital, Reading, Pa.; member, board of
directors, Visiting Nurse Association of Reading and Berks County; mem-
ber, board of directors and general counsel, Provident Federal Savings &
Loan Association, Reading, Pa. .

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Philadelphia and New York.

AFTER graduation from Harvard Law School in 1938, I married
(after an eight-year engagement) and embarked on the general
practice of law in my home town of Reading, Pennsylvania, in
partnership with my father, Wellington M. Bertolet, ’o4, and my
brother, Frederick J. Bertolet, ’32, both Harvard and Harvard Law
School men. Since my father’s death in 1958 and the retirement
from active practice of my brother Frederick to take up college
teaching, I have been practising alone, with emphasis on corpora-
tion, pipe-line condemnation and estate practice.

My nineteen-year-old son with engineering proclivities is a sopho-
more at Lehigh University. My wife and I have always been ardent
dog lovers and small game hunters, our kennel presently housing
two English springers, a beagle and a pacifistic basset hound, When

no gunning season is open, we shoot trap and skeet and walk the
fields and hills with our pack.

[96]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Early in 1943 I enlisted in the Army and drove a Sherman tank
in the 7o2d Tank Battalion at Camp Campbell, Kentucky, for a
year before going to the Judge Advocate General's Officer Can-
didate School at Ann Arbor, Michigan, from which I was com-
missioned in the spring of 1944. After a year of Staff Judge Ad-
vocate’s duties at the Eastern Signal Corps Training Center, Fort
Monmouth, New Jersey, I was ordered to the Philippines and thence,
after the Japanese surrender, to Tokyo for duty in the Law Division
of SCAP. Two tangible results of my army career —a reasonably
facile knowledge of Japanese as she is spoke, and my admission to
practice as an attorney and counsellor-at-law in all the Courts of
the Philippines, neither of which seems to enhance my reputation as
a lawyer in my Pennsylvania Dutch homeland.

Of all my treasured associations with Harvard, I most highly
prize a recent letter from President Pusey in recognition of. my
home town’s achievement in attaining 199. 6% of its quota and lead-

ing the entire country with 232% alumni participation in the Pro-
gram for Harvard College.

SAMUEL MACDONALD BICKNELL

  

HOME ADDRESS: 3050 Cridelle, Dallas, Texas.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 10600 Preston Rd., Dallas, Texas.

BORN: May 15, 1912, Singapore, S.S.. parents: John Warren Bicknell,‘
Florence Macdonald.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B, 1938; AM. (Univ. of Arizona), tava

MarRIED: Carol Rogers, Nov. 26, 1954, Dallasx, Texas. cuita: John Dee, Sept.
11, 1957.
OCCUPATION: Teacher.

(97 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

EUGENE THAYER BIGELOW

    

HOME ADDRESS: 1880 Meadow View Lane, Reno, Nev.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Head Office, First National Bank of Nevada, 206 N. Virginia
St., Reno, Nev. .

BoRN: March 19, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: Henry Forbes Bigelow, Susan
Thayer.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MarrigD: Natalie Corcoran, Jan. 15, 1941, Newton, Mass. (divorced 1953);
Marjorie Benson, Jan. 6, 1953, Fallon, Nev. cHiLpREN: Eugene Thayer, Jr.,
Oct. 22, 1941; Susan Thayer, Sept. 9, 1942; Natalie A., April 17, 1945; Alice
B., Feb. 22, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Henry Forbes Bigelow, Jr., ’20; Edward Livingston Bigelow,
21; Chandler Bigelow, ’24.

OccUPATION: Commercial banking; vice-president, loan production department,
First National Bank of Nevada.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Nevada Heart Association.

MEMBER OF: Prospector’s Club; Hidden Valley Country Club.

THE Wheel of Fortune — around it goes and where it stops no-
body knows — is for the birds in Nevada, as I discovered when I hit
the jackpot after coming to Reno. Resulting payoffs (not payola,
mind you) are not all taxable, either to Uncle or the commissioner
of the Silver State. Leading off the list of gains is residence in a _
state spurning income tax and stressing fun and frolic, fair weather
and the relaxed look. This starts off a chain reaction:
Glasses, the better with which to see it all;
A happy home, including bird-bath-sized swimming pool — not
kidney-shaped;
Too many additional pounds, entailing sporadic dicts and exer-
cise with gun and clubs;

Hunting for pheasant, duck and chukar (nothing to do with polo
chukkars but a tiny, too elusive fowl);

[ 98 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Trojan trudging of a golf course with spouse but managing a score
in the low eighties sans benefit of caddy or cart — spouse's
score so much more revoltingly better, frustration creates
hunger pangs cured only by gourmet meals which in turn lead
to renewed poundage to exercise and around we go.

Last gourmet cure whirled us off to a round of restaurants in
Paris and London —now being cured by austere asceticism of
bread and water while envying the secretarial coffee breaks at
First National Bank of Nevada and keeping spectacled eyes stu-
diously on stocks and bonds. This may lead to Lord knows what.
In other words, around and around. I'm currently brushing up on
my English in order to converse with the soon to arrive Inter-
national Vill Olympic visitors. (Note and warning: “No Vacancy”
sign ready to hang in prominent spot outside Bigelow homestead.)
Business travels entail state-wide coverage and “the recent nudity
controversy fractured our Bostonian aplomb, leaving us limp in
Las Vegas. I SURE HIT THE JACKPOT!

ALEXANDER HARVEY BILL, JR.

  

HOME ADDRESS: 803 36th Ave., N., Seattle 2, Wash.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1008 Summit Ave. Seattle 4, Wash.

BORN: July 14, 191g, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Alexander Harvey Bill, Marien
Cooper Edgerly.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Alass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1936. DEGREES: A.B, §Q35) AUD, 1939

MARRIED: Sarah Pendergast, November, 1945, Wellesley, Mass. caupars: Manon
Harvey, Sept. 20, 1946; Flizabeth Cameron, March 3, 1948. Susan Stark,
Dee. 9, 1950; Margaret Niles, Oct. 15, tas2y James Alexander, Aug. 2+,
1954; David Fdgerly, Dec. 12, 1956.

occuPaTION: Children’s surgeon,

[99]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

OFFICES HELD: Clinical associate in surgery, University of Washington Mcdical
School, since 1948; trustec, Washington State Heart Association, since
1955; member, exccutive committce and vice-chairman, Health and Wel-
fare Council, since 1957; director, United Good Neighbor Fund, Seattle,
since 1958; counsellor, Harvard Medical School Alumni Association, 1959;

chairman, executive committee, Surgical Section, American Academy of
Pediatrics, 1959.

MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons; American Medical Association;
American Board of Surgery (diplomate); Surgical Section, American
Academy of Pediatrics; Association for Colon Surgery; North Pacific
Surgical Association; North Pacific Pediatric Society; British Association of
Paediatric Surgeons (overseas member); Seattle Yacht Club, Seattle Tennis
Club; Mountaineers Association of Seattle.

puBLicaTions: “Methods for preservation and transplantation of arterial grafts.
Observations on arterial grafts in dogs. Report of transplantation of pre-
served arterial grafts in nine human cases” (with Robert E. Gross, E.
Converse Peirce, 2d), Surgery, Gynecology @ Obstetrics, June, 1949; “A
new concept of the cause of Hirschsprung’s disease, or congenital mega-
colon, with a new method of treatment by surgery,” Northwest Medicine,
May, 1950; “Failure of migration of the rectal opening as the cause for most

cases of imperforate anus” (with Robert J. Johnson), Surgery, Gynecology
& Obstetrics, July, 1958.

THE amount of activity that can be crammed into twenty-five years
begins to look rather staggering when one comes to winnow it down
to a few pages. The mileage covered on airplanes, trains, auto-
mobiles, jeeps, steamers, sailboats, and skis, as well as on foot, begins
to look almost stupendous. It makes one wonder if it might not have
been just as well to have cut out a good deal in the airplane and auto-
mobile and put in a good deal more on the sailboat and skis.

As a restful way of approaching medical school, the summer fol-
lowing college was spent partly on a bicycle and partly in a kyak
in different parts of Europe, in company at various times with
Dunbar, Sheu, Hunter and the late Dave Scannell. None of us felt
particularly oppressed at being faced with the imminent necessity
of carving out a career. In fact, I became so enthralled with one of
the smaller Alps that I missed the boat home and started medical
school a few days behind my confreres.

Four eventful years were devoted to absorbing medical lore in
the Harvard Medical School. It proved necessary to absorb con-
siderably more information there than on the north side of the
Charles River. Over-emphasis on book learning was relieved b
continuing to ski in the White Mountains, by a trip across the
Atlantic in a three-masted schooner loaded with Newfoundland

fish and bound for Lisbon in the summer of 1936, and by a delight-

[ 100 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ful field trip to study the health problems of Puerto Rico in the
summer of 1938. This last was in the company of Arthur Pier and
as a guest of José Gonzales of San Juan.

Graduation from medical school in 1939 presented one of life’s
recurring crises, namely, in what direction to proceed next. This
was solved by taking training in children’s diseases in New York
City and then converting this training tow ard a career in the surgery
of infancy and childhood. This step was accomplished in the Peter
Bent Brigham Hospital and the Children’s Hospital back in Boston.

Having completed approximately half of a surgical training in
December, 1942, I found myself launched on a rather erratic tour
of duty in the Army of the United States. The first part was under
the auspices of the ‘Transportation Corps. Here the main emphasis
lay in examining various parts of North Africa, Italy and some of
the less attractive ports of the eastern seaboard. By far the most
interesting part of the war was spent v with an Infantry regiment
through the British Isles, and then in the fighting in the Battle of
the Bulge, Alsace, Holland and Germany, until the Germans sur-
rendered.

I was married to Sarah Pendergast of Wellesley Hills in 1945 while
still in the Army. She has withstood the events of the intervening
years with remarkable fortitude and good humor and has done
somewhat more than her share toward producing a large brood
and raising them properly.

Following the war, two more years were spent in further train-
ing in children’s surgery. During that time I had the good fortune
to take part in the original research work in two interesting and
newly developing fields of surgery. These were in the surgery for
an inborn failure of function of the colon in some children, and in
the brand new field of blood vessel preservation and transplantation,
Interest in these fields and in various other problems of children’s
surgery has been carried on actively ever since.

In 1948 I transplanted my then small family of a wite and two
little daughters to Seattle, Ww ashington, Here we have been up until
the present moment. The past ten years in Seattle have been oc-
cupied in the problems common to everyone — trving to cope with
a growing family, a growing practice and growing professional and
community responsibilities. All of these seem to increase by geo-
metric progression and to reach a crescendo which looks at times a

bit silly,
The State of Washington has proved to be a good place to live

[ 101 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

and to practise. We now have a total of six children — four girls
and two boys, in that order. They all can ski, down to and including
the three-year-old (he is not so hot!). They all enjoy sailing in
our much prized sailboat, which is the second of two. This has
taken us, with and without children, up into the wonderful cruising
waters of British Columbia. Here, within 200 miles to the north of
us, there are islands like those in Maine, and fjords like those in
Norway — and the salmon fight for the honor of biting the hook!
(Who says fishermen exaggerate?) We live in a large old house
which we bought because my wife liked the New Eng:and “barn
red” which it was painted.

In addition to the time spent in doing the surgery which feeds us,
there are always more and more interesting problems in relation to
this type of surgery which open up as time and experience bring
them to the fore. The rather formidable distance from other medical
centers of the country seems to be shrinking through the use of the
airplane which allows us out here to maintain our contacts and
something approaching an up-to-date knowledge of surgery.

Recently I became a counsellor of the Harvard Medical School
Alumni Association with the pleasant duty of returning to Boston
several times a year. I have also had the pleasure of becoming
chairman of the group which represents the more than one hundred
surgeons in the country who devote themselves to children’s surgery.

It has been —and remains — interesting, and possibly more re-
warding than we deserve.

CARL LIVERMORE BILLMAN

 

HOME ADpRESS: 1601 Argonne PI, N.W., Washington, D.C.
oFFice Appress; United Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa, 1811 Q St., N.W., Wash-
ington g, D.C,

[ 102 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
BORN: June 23, 1913, Winchester, Mass. parents: Christopher Lewis Billman,
Lilian Livermore.
PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: a.B., magna cum laude, 1935; A.M., 1936.
UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Livermore Billman, ’40.

occupation: Educational organization, executive secretary, United Chapters of

Phi Beta Kappa.

HOWARD ELIOT BINDELL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 31 Bond St., Passaic, N.]J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Hoffman-La Roche, Inc., Nutley, N.J.

BORN: Oct. 26, 1913, McKeesport, Pa. parents: Joseph Bernard Bindell, Ruth
Friedland.

PREPARED AT: James Madison High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.

OccuUPATION: Manufacturing.

NO questionnaire returned.

CARL GEARY BINGHAM, JR.

 

HOME appress: 185 FE. Chestnut Se, Chicago ry, TIL

[ 103 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

BORN: Jan. 12, 1912, Chicago, Ill. parents: Carl Geary Bingham, Mary Norris
Simon,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1935.

marrieo: Nina Frean, Feb. 20, 1939, Riverside, Calif. cxitp: Penelope Irvine,
Feb. 2, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Norris Bingham, ’44.

OCCUPATION: Theatre.

JACK LAWRENCE BIRCHER

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Boonville, Ind.

BORN: Nov. 29, 1911, Harrisburg, Ill. parenrs: Loren Berkard Bircher, Iva Jane
Cook.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-32. DEGREES: a.B. (Evansville Coll.), 1958; S.mM. IN ED.
(Indiana Univ.), 1959.

MARRIED: Elsie Loraine Wasson, May 15, 1944, San Francisco, Calif.
occuPATION: Associate land investor and adult educator.

OFFICES HELD: Board member, and director, Lay Activities, Indiana Council of
Churches.

UNDER the heading “Education,” Time magazine, June 27, 1959,
reported that Bertram Wyle, Harvard Business School, ’59, was re-
acting negatively to the “Organization Man idea.” I did, too, some
twenty years ago but at that time for no philosophical reason.

I went from Harvard to a job as beginner in the Parent Execu-
tive Division of Sears, Roebuck & Company, Chicago, to military
service. Afterward, my wife convinced me that our future was not

in any large organization in a big city but instead in her small
home town of Boonville, Indiana. She may have been right!

Having established residence in Boonville and with nurture in the
techniques required (1) to option lands for mineral rights; (2)

[ 104]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to abstract land titles, (3) to drill and test for minerals; (4) to ac-
count for the results both good and bad, we have Icarned enough
to help keep the wolf from the door.

In time, we felt that there must be morc in life than this type of
work. I became active in the Protestant Church Councils in th’s
area. Then we were ready to make another major decision aside
from our earlier one to escape the “Organization Man idea.” We
discovered, together, the fact that if a man is a believer in God, he
must have a ministry to perform as well as a salary to earn. The
ministry need not be the source of the earned salary, we concluded.
I resolved to teach an adult religious education program on invita-
tion of church groups, not to accept any salary for this endeavor
and to continue our secular work in earnest but as a secondary
pursuit. Here is how we do it.

After heading an area program for the National Council of
Churches (I am an elder in the Presbyterian Church, U.S.A.), the
American Baptists trained me to direct an interdenominational pro-
gram for Missionary Cooperation. The (southern) Indiana Con-
ference and the Northwest Indiana Conference of the Methodist
Church have sponsored me in this program for several years. They
now permit me to write my own programs, to have them printed
(at their expense) and to teach annually adult representatives of
hundreds of churches. This is a non-salaried (my choice —not
theirs) job for six months or more each year. The remaining ume I
spent at our secular work.

Still we were not satisfied with the quality of my teaching.
Searching for a way to grow, I discovered the nearby Evansville
College offered courses in religion and philosophy which w ould
qualify a graduate (after additional on the job training) for the
Methodist ministry. I completed the work but it didn’t change my
idea of remaining a lay minister. The academic study did change
my ideas about other things.

Because of the new interest in education as an adult, I came to
realize my ignorance of the value of continued academic training
available to mature adults. I had ignored this part of living for the
greater part of the past twenty-five years. My decision was then to
become, in addition to other responsibilities, a ‘day student at Indiana
University where I have just earned a Master's degree. I shall con-

tinue at that university this fall (59) as a candidate for a Ph.D. in
Adult Education (Class of ’61). But to what end?

The National Council of Churches, Division of Life and Work,
[ 105 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Department of Stewardship and Benevolence has a place for me, not
as an “Organization Man” but as a teacher working out of Boon-
ville, Indiana, leading adults toward accepting a working concept of
the Priesthood of all believers, while I continue in the land business.

WALTER WILLIAM BIRGE, JR.

    

HOME AppREss: 495 Eastmoor Blvd., Columbus 9, Ohio.
OFFICE ADpREss: Ranco Inc., 6o1 W. Fifth Ave., Columbus 1, Ohio.

BoRN: May 21, 1913, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Walter William Birge, Mabelle
Claire Brown.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1935.

Marriep: Madeleine Black, Nov. 17, 1936, Baltimore, Md. (divorced 1940);
Dagmar Polakova, March 26, 1949, Prague, Czechoslovakia (divorced

1955); Mary Jane Heffelfinger, March 9, 1957, Minneapolis, Minn. cHILb:
Walter William, 3d, Oct. 12, 1938.

HARVARD SON: Walter William Birge, 3d, 61.

HARVARD BROTHER: Julius Birge, ’31.

occupation: Export manager, Ranco Inc., manufacturers of controls for re-
frigeration, air conditioning and other control devices.

MEMBER OF: Signet Club, Harvard Club of Central Ohio (chairman, Schools
Committee and treasurer); Import-Export Club of Columbus, National

Foreign Trade Council of New York; Columbus Town Meeting; Culture
Club of Columbus.

SINCE graduation my life has in general been one of movement,
involving change, no deep roots and occasional excitement. I was
pulled four ways in my senior year. Medicine, law, diplomacy and
business all held degrees of interest which waxed and waned with
changing moods and influences. My first job of private secretary
to the U.S. Ambassador to Argentina materialized by chance. I had

intended to apply to Magdalen College, Oxford, to study medicine
or law. Letters of recommendation were nceded and in his reply to

[ 106 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my request for such a letter, Ambassador Weddell suggested that
I come down to Buenos Aires to work for a year as his private
secretary instead. The offer seemed exciting at that time, so out
the window went the worthy plans of going to graduate school, and
this decision in retrospect, perhaps more than any other, changed
the course of a life. The pattern of Phase No. 1 ‘of my life so “far
began to take shape.

This phase, lasting from 1935 to 1955, involved very little busi-
ness and mostly government service overseas. There was a year’s
study at the London School of Economics, the highlights of which
time now seem to have been: Harold Laski’s lectures and rowing
No. 4 in the first boat of the Thames Rowing Club. That four-mile
race, Putney to Mortlake, was a vivid (and exhausting) experience.
There also took place (in 1936) my marriage to Madeleine Black
of Baltimore, and, after the London experience, more study (in
preparation for the foreign service exams) in Washington, D.C.,
at George Washington University.

The thirteen years in the foreign service of the State Department
brought, on the whole, exceptionally interesting assignments.
There were, for example, two of the war years (1942-44) in [stan-
bul, where my main job was to obtain information by various means
from German-occupied Hungary; and there were the three and
one-half postwar years (1945-49) in “Golden Prague.” There in
Bohemia was witnessed the inexorable march to power of the Com-
munist plotters; and there also I rowed on the First Czech Rowing
Club crew with a fine bunch of boys, most of whom have by now
escaped their homeland. There were trips to most provinces of
Bohemia, Moravia and Slovakia and not infrequent attendance at
large balls where polkas and waltzes vied with jazz and no one
ever seemed to get tired; during the war the Germans had not al-
lowed people to dance, so five years’ emotions and pent-up urge
were bursting forth. There was never any such thing as a Prague
girl who could not dance well. The days of Prague, “the city of a
hundred spires, will not be forgotten — neither the flaxen-haired
females nor the sad eyes of those stripped of their freedom and
possessions in 1948, nor the dull, set faces of the Factory Milina
doing the bidding of their Communist masters, nor the V Irava Qow-
ing beneath the 14th century-buile Charles Bridge. In Prague, too,
I met my second wife, Dagmar, and Jinxie Hetfeltinger whom I

married much later, in 1957, three months after a chance re-me ein
at a Russian party in New York,

[ 107 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

After Prague came two and a quarter years of semi-exile in Dakar
where leisure time was fairly evenly divided between tennis,
swimming by incredibly long beaches where the undertow was
treacherous, bridge and champagne receptions given by French
officials. I learned to have a great respect for most of the French
administrators; some of the U.S. consular officers suffered by com-
parison.

Upon leaving the foreign service in 1953, I served on a special
assignment in Munich as program director of the Voice of Free
Czechoslovakia, Radio Free Europe, where were gathered together
some hundreds of fine, decent, dedicated men and women determined
to do their part to keep alive the hope of freedom in the captive
nations of Central and Eastern Europe.

Phase No. 2 (as it appears now) of my life started four years ago
when I entered business, first in New York and then in Columbus,
Ohio, late in 1957. Some friends have asked if working in a manu-
facturing company in a midwestern city did not seem dull after
Turkey, West Africa or Germany. The answer is “No.” For the
first time I am sinking roots and feel that I belong to an American
community. I can see all the football games I want to see and I
can do a bit for Harvard as chairman of the Central Ohio Schools
Committee. But also, as export manager of a fine company, I still
travel a good deal and so far, within two years, have visited Europe
and South America, twice each, on business.

Because of the years of moving and tumult and some shoutings
spent out of the U.S., there is now perhaps a better appreciation
of the little things of America that are great, and there is certainly
a better understanding of what Harvard means to educated men all
over the world,

Ohio, in the heartland of America, is in many ways as much in
the front lines of the Cold War as at certain times were Istanbul
or Baghdad or Munich — and Ohio is only three hours’ flight from
Soldiers Field. |

[ 108 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LLEWELLYN DONOVAN BISBEE

 

- Mh me

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Millstone Farm, Water Gap, Pa.

BORN: April 1, 1913, Seven Hoaks, Conn. parents: P. S. Bisbee, Dolly Daisy
Donovan.

PREPARED AT: St. Mike's School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: OCC., 1935.

MaRRIED: Edith Torch, 1946, New York City (departed 1950); Tefta Archi-
medes, 1951, mid-Atlantic (issueless).

occuPaTION: Radish and mustard seed grower.

OFFICES HELD: President, Water Gap Radish & Mustard Seed Growers Associa-
tion; treasurer, Water Gap Grange, beadle, Water Gap Community
Church.

MEMBER OF: National Geographic Society; Links and Brook Clubs, New York
City; Somerset Club of Boston (non-resident); Book-of-the-Month Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Random Thoughts, Randum Howce, 1939; Gleanings, Haarpa,
1941, Fugitive Pieces, Hoet’n Miphlyn, 1945; Little Gusto, a Dog's Life,
Diddle Drown, 1950.

LOOKING back over the years, it is easy to remember vet difficult
to describe the peculiar feeling of exaltation which sw ept over me
that morning as | sat in the musty basement of the University, look-
ing down at the cherished sheet of neo-parchment in my hand —
my diploma, True, my name was misspelled (Busby), true, the
degree was not the one I had so ardently sought (A.B.) but rather
the slightly less valued OcC. Still, it was visible evidence to the
world that I was indeed and at last a Harvard man —a scholar of
parts and a gentleman of sorts. This was it, I told myself (I like to
think I coined the phrase), the culmination of four years of self-
denial and faithful toil. (Closing my eves, I can srill hear my friend
Rinehart, as he dropped around to my digs on warm spring evenness
when the sap ran freely and the ivy of Radclitte w hispered inviringly,
saying in his bancering way: “Come, Donny-boy, away with the

[ 109 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

budged, except into the nearby Seaman’s Rest, where we had a
glass or two and filled an early bed, The next morning, Tefta was
up and out betimes, and by the time I had finished tying my cravat
to my liking (I will not let down the bars), she was back with a
rather broken-down but still serviceable horse she had bartered for
with a junk dealer in the next block. For the ensuing four days we
jogged peacefully south by west, Tefta erect in the saddle, myself
comfortably perched on the pillion. (In later days, when friends
inquired how I had happened to come there, I would reply jestingly
that I had come “a-crupper”!) Finally, we trotted into the Water
Gap itself one sunny morning, and shortly after, Tefta spied the
farm we should have. Fortunately, it was indeed for sale, the farmer
having been recently widowed, but the price seemed somewhat
high. Finally, Tefta took the ignorant fellow out upon the land,
to show him how poor and rocky it was, leaving me to hold the
horse. Within an hour they were back, the farmer ruefully admit-
ting his error, and we settled for half his asking price! (He even
volunteered to stay on as our hired hand for room and board, but
I declined.)

The rest, as the man says, is history. The Delaware Water Gap
did indeed prove too rugged for olives and within three years the
last of the 1000 trees Tefta’s father had sent over to us (C.O.D.) had
died. We have long since made the changeover to radishes for the
market (which Tefta in her charming obstinacy insists on calling
“ted olives”) and mustard seed. This latter we grind in the old,
good way with our own mortar and pestle, put up in tiny jars and
sell to the tourists in the summer. (Any classmates in the vicinity
are assured of a warm welcome!)

Over the years, our little family has grown steadily. The year
after we settled down, Tefta’s father and mother arrived. Mother
Archimedes (as I call her) makes her own bed and in other small
ways is helpful around the house. Father Archimedes (as I call him)
has lumbago, but on occasional warm days is able to take a turn
with the pestle. The next year, Tefta’s brother Andros, a strapping
youth of thirty-two, joined us. He has a light tenor voice and plays
the lyre charmingly. The following year, it was her little sister

Elgin, who came to fill our house with sunny and sometimes vacant
laughter (frankly, I don’t think she has all her marbles), For a year,
no one else came, and I was beginning to feel almost unwanted, but
the next year Tefta’s grandmother and grandfather arrived, both
completely bedridden. Their fortitude as they lie in what used to

[ 118 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

be the guest room day in and day out, screaming for room service,
has been a constant source of inspiration to me (someday I may
even get sufficiently inspired to do something about it), Now at
this writing, we hear that Tefta’s aunt and uncle are planning to
come “tempest-tossed to us” and even my saucer is running over,
I wonder how many of this, my immediate family, I shall be allowed
to bring to Reunion next June.

But enough! I must get this in the post. I have felt obliged to
write at some length for two reasons: (1) I feel that my classmates
will be genuinely interested in the unusual life I have led since |
left Cambridge and are entitled to a full and frank account, (2) I
have noticed during the past year several items, purporting to be
about me, in the “Rather Personal” columns of our Class Newsletter,
placing me in outlandish places like Crete, Peru, Vietnam and
others. These are either the work of some impostor or, more likely
I should think, of some “witty” classmate whose sense of humor
has not developed beyond the sophomoric. The fact that for some
years | have been a “lost classmate” should not, I feel, entitle anvone

to hold me up for ridicule in even an intra-familia-ty pe of publica-
tion. This, then, sets the record straight. Dixi!

CRAWFORD BLAGDEN

 

HOME ADDRESS: Tuxedo Park, N.Y.

OFFICE AbpREss: Benton & Bowles, Inc, 666 Fifth Ave, New York 19 N.Y.

BORN: June 29, 1912, New York, N.Y, parents: Crawford Blagden, ‘o:, Mary
Hopkins.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groten, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931=1932.

MarRitp: Mary Kernochan, Feb. 3, 1014 New York, N.Y. catnrry: Craw ford

Jr. Mareh s, 1936; Elizabeth HL, Nov. 2, 1938) Frederic K. March ta 104%,
Samuel P,, Dec. 3, 1947.

[119]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

occuPATION; Advertising; vice-president and account supervisor, Benton &
Bowles, Inc.

orFices HELD: Member, Governing Committee, 1938-41, 1946-50, 1951-55, since
1957, chairman, 1952~55, since 1957, Tuxedo Club; trustee, Tuxedo Park
School, 1956-53, Tuxedo Board of Education, 1948-54, Tuxedo Library,

1955-57, Village of Tuxedo Park, since 1955; president, Tuxedo Volunteer
Fire Department, 1947-57.

MEMBER OF: Racquet and Tennis Club; Tuxedo Club; Edgartown Reading
Room,

LEAVING Cambridge at the end of our freshman year I started
work in the advertising business in January, 1933. In February,
1934, | was married. I] have been working at both ever since, except
for military service, 1942-45 (first lieutenant, 157th Infantry, 45th
Division, Silver Star, Bronze Star-V, Purple Heart, Presidential Unit
Citation). Since the war, family, business, local community af-
fairs, upland bird-hunting and bad golf have continued to fill a
perhaps unexciting but nevertheless most satisfactory life so that
it is difficult to realize that more than a quarter-century has gone
by since my short time at Harvard.

+ FRANCIS STANTON BLAKE, II

 

BoRN: May 11, 1912, Beverly Farms, Mass. parENTS: John Amory Lowell Blake,
‘or, Anne Lindsay.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1931~1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

prep: Dec. 13, 1947, Hollywood, Calif.

FRANCIS STANTON BLAKE, II, spent four years with our
Class. He was a resident of Eliot House and a member of the Hasty
Pudding-Institute of 1770 and Cercle Frangais. The only informa-
tion that the Secretary has on his activities since graduation is that

[ 120 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

he was a volunteer truck driver for Lady Reading’s organization in
England in 1941.

FRANK PAUL BLAND

 

HOME ADDRESS: 349 Granada Rd., West Palm Beach, Fla.

OFFICE apprEss: B. D. Cole, Inc., 1118 S. Olive Ave., West Palm Beach, Fla.

BORN: April 19, 1912, Catonsville, Md. parents: Richard Howard Bland, ’o2,
Mary Lillian Paul.

PREPARED AT: Gilman Country School, Baltimore, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Mary Briscoe Shepherd, Oct. 20, 1937, Baltimore, Md. (divorced
1951); Eunice D. Betlem, Nov. 2, 1951, Raleigh, N.C. cuipren: Mary
Briscoe, June 10, 1939; Diana Shepherd, July 14, 1942; Elizabeth Harper,
Dec. 25, 1953; Anne R., March 4, 1955; Susan P., Aug. 1, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Randolph Bland, °31.

occuPATION: Insurance agent.

SEVERAL months after graduation I started what I hoped would be
a successful banking career — as a runner, adding machine operator
and mail clerk — 8 a.M. to 6 P.M., six days a week, at $40.00 a month.
After eight months I was complimented highly on my work and
given a raise to $50.00 a month. Two davs later I resigned and
took a delightful two weeks’ trip by ship to Florida.

In March, 1936, I went to work for U.S, Fidelity & Guaranty
Company, a Baltimore casualty and surety company. After six
weeks’ training school I wor ked successiv ely as underwriter, special
agent, assistant manager in Raleigh, North Carolina, and manager
in Charleston, West V irginia, In the spring of 1956 I resigned from
the U.S. F. & G. and we moved to West Palm Beach, where I be-
came associated with an insurance agency.

From March, 1944, to April, 1946, TP served in the Navy in the

[ 121 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Classification Department, interviewing recruits, advising discharges
including mental misfits of their rights and benefits and otherwise
being essential in only Uncle Sam’s eyes. I did spend four hours at
sea on the Missouri in the Philadelphia Navy Yard.

As to social, religious and political convictions, I am a conserva-
tive Democrat who has always voted for a Republican for presi-
dent except one mistaken vote for Roosevelt in 1936, an Episco-
palian, and a confirmed Segregationist who believes that you can-
not by legislation or court decision make sudden great social changes.
I worry likewise about continued government far beyond income.

Life in this wonderful climate and beautiful spot is delightful
with a perfect wife and children. Future prospects appear excellent
here where hundreds of houses and large shopping centers occupy
what were fields only three years ago when we moved here. |
hope that old friends will come and see us when they come south
for a vacation or to live.

CHARLES PERRY BLISS

 

HOME aporEss: 123 Ivyhurst Rd., Buffalo 26, N.Y.

OFFICE apprEss: University of Buffalo, Buffalo 14, N.Y.

BORN: June 14, 1908, Vancouver, B.C., Canada. PareNTs: Cyril Pusey Bliss,
Mary Jane Isobel Bell.

PREPARED at: Lakewood High School, Lakewood, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. (Univ. of Buffalo), 1942; M.B.A.
(ibid.), 1950; PHD. (ibid.), 1953.

MarrieD: Louise Ramseyer, Jan, 19, 1935, Buffalo, N.Y. cuitpren: John R.,
Nov. 13, 1939; Lee, Aug. 9, 1943.

occuPATION: Professor of business organization and marketing, chairman of
department of marketing and department of retailing, University of
Buffalo.

OFFICES HELD: Member editorial board, Journal of Marketing; member advisory

[ 122 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

council of Consumer Counsel to the Governor of the State of New York,
1956-58; president, Buffalo chapter of American Association of Univer-
sity Professors, 1957; recipient Ford Foundation fellowship for 1950-61.
MEMBER OF: American Marketing Association; American Economic Associa-
tion; American Association of University Professors.
PUBLICATIONS: Articles for the Journal of Marketing.

ROBERT HYMAN BLOOMBERG

 

HOME ADDRESS: 13209 Dobbins PI., Los Angeles 49, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Trans-World Trade, 450 N. Beverly Drive, Beverly Hills,
Calif.

BORN: June 21, 1914, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Julius Bloomberg, Virginia
Hyman.

PREPARED AT: East High School, Cleveland, Ohio,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. cu laude, 1935; LLB. (Western
Reserve Univ.), 1938.

MARRIED: Mary Klopper, April 10, 1947, New York, N.Y. cuitpren: Fred
Robert, Nov. 27, 1950; Kathryn Mary, Oct. 30, 1952.

OccuUPATION: President, Trans-World Trade, exporters and importers of avia-
tion and electronic products.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, director, Montefiore Home for Aged, Cleveland,
Ohio, 1946-51; director, Jewish Community Centers, Cleveland, 1948-525
co-chairman, National Conference of Christians and Jews, Cleveland,
1950-51.

I GUESS that the passage of twenty-five years and two tours of

military service (private to lieutenant colonel, U.S. Air Force, World

War II and Korea, 1942-46, 1951-52) explain the transition from

the practice of law in Cleveland, Ohio, to the export of aviation

and electronic equipment from Los Angeles.

[123]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

JOSEPH DAVIS BOARDMAN

 

AbpRESS: 34 Brookhouse Drive, Plandome, N.Y.

BorN: May 5, 1913, Lynn, Mass. parents: Charles Henry Boardman, Edith
Davis.

PREPARED AT: Moses Brown School, Providence, R.1.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1935 (36).

NO questionnaire returned.

WILLIAM DORR BOARDMAN

    

HOME appress: North Conway, N.H.

Born: April 4, 1912, Auburn, N.Y. parents: Gerald Dorr Boardman, ’03, Eliza-
beth Devens,

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MarRieD: Elizabeth Blair, May 15, 1948, Ligonier, Pa. ciitoren: TF lizabeth
Devens, Feb. 27, 1950; Patricia Blair, Feb. 3, 1952.

OFFICES HELD: Director, treasurer, first vice-president, Eastern) Amateur Ski
Association, five years, president, Pennsylvania Ski Association, four years,
vice-chairman, Red Cross, Ligonicr, Pa. treasurer, Building Fund, St,
Michael's of the Valley Fpiscopal Church, Ligonier, Pa.

[ 124 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
MEMBER OF: North Conway Country Club, Ski Club Hochgebirg.

AFTER seven years with an insurance agency in Boston, including
some time also in Cleveland and Chicago, came the war and four
years with the Naval Air Reserve. My navy career with duty on
the USS Enterprise with a carrier squadron was highlighted by
being bombed, scared and often bored but never unimpressed with
the overall efficiency and effectiveness of the U.S. Navy.

It was an honor to be with some great men when life was at stake
and often the remembrance of their disregard for their lives has
put in accurate focus some of life’s lesser trials since then. The war
and the friends it provided was a great experience, At one point |
relieved Lieutenant G. Mennen Williams (the governor) of the
command of a swish rest center for carrier pilots in Honolulu. This
started a trend for me which steered me away from Boston and what
you might call “normal” business after the war.

Because of said stint at said rest center, Sam Collier, Yale "35, on
the cessation of hostilities tapped me to help rebuild and become
managing director of an island resort on the west coast of Florida.
Ever since, the years have shot by for me in the resort or recrea-
tional fields, with city pavements eschewed. Although the national
economy has not been appreciably shaken by these endeavors, life
has been interesting.

After two years of most pleasant and bachelorous (just coined)
work in Florida, a splendid offer came my wav from the Mellon
family of Pittsburgh to develop a ski area, handle real estate and
assist in the expansion of fabulous Rolling Rock Club in Ligonter
Valley, sixty miles east of the city. Then ‘followed ten of the most
_ wonderful years of mv life launched propitiously by marriage to
my secretary, Betsy Blair. As a secretary she made a much betrer
spouse.

Everything was great for ten years unal a nameless young man
from Boston called me, all starry-eyed and out of breath, on how
there were millions waiting for me in the White Mountains of New
Hampshire. I had been chosen from many to be the manager of
and to participate in the profits of a great new ski development. I
fell, we moved and fell again less thana Vear larer as the $300,000.00
Italian incomparable ski lift ran particularly fast In reverse. Hewes
of highly trained engineers moved in to redesion and rebuild“

thing” at vast per diem as T moved out te contemplate the besuties
of the Granite Strate.

[125 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Life here is great, basic and healthy. The people, mostly old
Yankee stock, appreciate basic values and are friendly and helpful
to an extraordinary degree. What is more, occasional trips to Bos-
ton and way stations have made me realize how much I have missed
so many old friends seldom seen since the war. Saw first Harvard
game since 1941 in the Stadium a week ago! It was good to see
Princeton properly whipped.

Although the outcome of recent promotional endeavors in New
Hampshire leaves our future somewhat in doubt, we are anxious to
remain in the East at least. In the meantime, we thrive on visits
from old friends who find the glorious mountain scenery a big
booster of the spirits.

NICHOLAS CLEAVELAND BODMAN

 

HOME apprEss: 440 Argyle Drive, Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: School of Languages, Foreign Service Institute, Dept. of State,
Washington 25, D.C.

BORN: July 27, 1913, Chicago, Ill. parenrs: Harold Cleaveland Bodman, 09,
Ysabel de Teresa y Miraud.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932. DEGREES: AB. (Yale Univ.), 1947; a.M. (ibid.),
1948; PHD. (ibid.), 1950.

MaRRIED: Frances Sorrel Wainwright, July 11, 1943, Honolulu, Hawaii. cam-
pren: Anne Sorrel, March 20, 1945; Richard Wainwright, Aug. 19, 1947.

occupation: Head, Department of Far Eastern Languages, School of Languages,
Foreign Service Institute, Department of State.

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1955, chairman, 1956-57, Nominating Committee, Ameri-
can Oriental Society; member, Advisory Committee, Harvard Modern
Language Association Project for Testing in Chinese, since 1958.

MEMBER OF: Linguistic Society of America; American Oriental Society; Asso-
ciation of Asian Studies.

pustications: “A Linguistic Study of the Shih Ming, Initials and Consonant

[ 126 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Clusters,” Harvard-Yenching Institute Studies XI, 1954, Spoken Amoy

Hokkien, published by authority of Federation of Malaya Government,
Kuala Lumpur, Vol. 1, 1954, Vol 2, 1958.

WHEN I left Harvard after my freshman year I thought for a
time that I would be returning in a year or so. As it happened,
many years were to pass before I took up academic studies again,
and when I did, it was to Yale that I turned.

While my classmates of ’35 were steadily working toward their
degrees, I first worked in a brokerage house, and in 1933 went to
Europe for a stay of more than a year, most of which was spent in
Florence where I attended the university. One of my most unfor-
gettable experiences was a summer of bicycling through Italy,
Germany and Austria, with a wonderful group of congenial com-
panions. After returning home and much job hunting, I settled
down for five years doing export work for a Chicago manufacturer.
Many of my evenings and Saturdays were spent in libraries reading
works on linguistics which had long been my chief interest.

A definite break with the past came when I entered upon active
naval duty in the fall of 1941. After a few months in Washington,
I left in January, 1942, for Pearl Harbor where I was assigned until
December, 1944. At a New Year’s Eve party I met Sorrel Wain-
wright. We were married in Honolulu seven months later, in July
of 1943. During the last year of the war, I served again in
Washington and our first child, Anne, was born. By that ume I
had decided to forswear the business world and go into teaching.
By the fall of 1945 I was a civilian again, and accepted as a junior
at Yale. Why Yale rather than Harvard? Because only at Yale
could I study intensively in both linguistics and Chinese, the pre-
cise combination of disciplines that I wanted and needed.

A junior of thirty-two and a freshman of eighteen are hardly the
same person. Needless to say we did not hire a baby-sitter so that
we could attend the junior prom! The few Harvard-Yale football
games we saw found me with divided loyalties. Financially the
going was hard, but generous scholarships and fellowships soon
came to eke out the G.I. Bill. Being active as a lieurenant com-
mander in the Reserves also helped bring in a little cash, It was a
time of accelerated programs, so by F ebruary of 1947, | had my first
sheepskin, At the end of another three and half years, L had what I
wanted, a Ph.D. in Chinese, During our New Haven phase we had
produced another child, our son Richard. In all, a very full and
rewarding period. When, in 1954, the Harvard-Yenching Institute

[127]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

published my doctoral dissertation, I felt that yet another link had
been forged in the unusual relationship I had to both Harvard and
Yale.

A few days after receiving my degree (or “union card” in the
cant of the profession), I started work at the Foreign Service In-
stitute, the training school for the Department of State and Foreign
Service, as a linguistic scientist in the School of Languages. Al-
most at once, I was assigned to work up an analysis and text in the
Amoy dialect which is of especial importance because it is spoken
by Taiwanese and a great many Overseas Chinese in Southeast
Asia. An outgrowth of this work was the invitation by the British
Colonial Office to spend a year in Malaya teaching Amoy there.
This was the height of the “Emergency” in Malaya, and it was
necessary to train civil service and police personnel in Amoy and
other Chinese dialects. The school was located at Cameron High-
lands, a very pleasant resort in the mountains, at an altitude of al-
most 5000 feet. We lived in a large villa called, of all things, the
White House! Despite the isolation of the place and the almost
constant rain we greatly enjoyed our year there (1951-52). To
travel to the plains it was necessary to go in convoy through the
jungles; once I had the experience of being with a group that was
attacked by the “bandits.” My textbook on Amoy appeared in 1954
and 1958, published by the Federation of Malaya Government.

We had been back in Washington for two and a half years when
another opportunity for living abroad came up. This time I was
sent by the Foreign Service Institute to set up and be the director
of a field school for teaching Mandarin Chinese to our foreign
service officer specialists in Chinese language and area studies.

The school was located in Taichung, a medium-sized town in
central Taiwan. Our stay there, between 1955 and 1957, was one
of the happiest periods of our life, The relationship between the
staff, students and local community was warm and informal. Per-
haps we now miss most the marvelous Chinese food we ate every
day at lunch and dinner. There ts nothing like it for variety. My
recreation there was to go on hikes and bicycle trips. The climate
and scenery are incomparable. On our travels to Formosa and
back, we were able to spend a few days in Japan, and I was able to
cover most of Southeast Asia on annual Icave. Business frequently
took me to Hong Kong to look in on our language program there.

On our return to Washington in 1957, I was put in charge of our

programs in Far Eastern languages and personally still teach Man-

[ 128 ]

 

{/

rT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

darin and Amoy. In the spring of 1959, I went out on a two-month
inspection trip of most of our language training programs in the
Far East. We now seem settled in our house in Alexandria, however,
and count our traveling days as over. Our children are fourteen and
twelve, and we all want to put down our roots. I have visited
Harvard a couple of times fairly recently as a member of a com-
mittee dealing with teaching and testing methods in Chinese Jan-
guage. ‘The usual domestic chores take a big piece of our home time.
I am no “do-it-yourselfer” except for unskilled labor in the garden
which I tolerate. At least one can think of something else while
mowing, weeding and clipping. I do try to keep up with my sub-
ject, and am doing research in various aspects of linguistics in
Chinese and the languages of the Far East, and I produce an occa-

sional paper, article or review. Otherwise, my chief hobby is
listening to records or FM.

HERMAN LEONARD BOGART

   
  

  
  

HOME appREss: 77 Homewood Ave., Allendale, N.J.

OFFICE appress: Allied Chemical Corp., 61 Broadway, New York 6, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 20, 1914, Brooklyn, N.Y. Parents: Leonard Hassam Bogart, Louise
Margaret Wedegartner.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MARRIED: Florence Whattam, May 17, 1939, Tranquility, N.J. cratoren: Roger
Allen, May 21, 1941; James Lawrence, Sept. 1, 1og4: Steven Richard, June
20, 1948.

occuPATION: Director of public relations, Allied Chemical Corporation,

MEMBER OF: Public Relations Society of America; Chemical Public Relanans
Association; Public Relations Advisory Committees, Manufacturing Chem
ists Association, Synthctie Organie Chemical Manufacturers: Awociation,
Drug, Chemical & Allied Trades Association.

PUBLICATIONS: The Chemical lndusery Faces Book, First Fulition cass.

[ 129]

 

Bes.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

RANDOLPH BOLLES, JR.

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Old North Road, Washington, Conn.

BORN: June 19, 1912, Bellport, N.Y. PARENTS: Randolph Bolles, Jeannette R.
Bursell.

PREPARED AT: Gunnery School, Washington, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Free-lance spec-investor (securities).

MEMBER OF: Appalachian Mountain Club; Connecticut Forest & Park Asso-
ciation; Lions Club; U.S. Eastern Amateur Ski Association.

AFTER Harvard, I headed hopefully forth into the world, and
made the trip over to Europe, there enthusiastically taking the usual
tours and seeing the required sights. Winding up in England in the
fall of ’35, it seemed as good an idea as any to go in for some further
broadening education, so I wound up studying for two years at
Fitzwilliam House, Cambridge University, concentrating in the
biological and other sciences. Among extracurricular activities were
several enjoyable trips to Switzerland where I rashly took up skiing
and mountaineering and, one winter, upheld the honor and prestige
of Cambridge as a defenceman on the Cambridge University Eskimo
Ice Hockey Club team (although there were no Eskimos on the
team, there actually was one Englishman! ).

During the years 1942-46, I served in the U.S. Army. After a
conducted tour of various continental camps, I was shipped over-
seas in 1944— got only the briefest glimpse of England, thence
into northern France, through Paris east to Sommesous, then, eventu-
ally, back to “gay” Paree and a stint of chair duty. In addition to
the usual jack-of-all-trades jobs, some of my more interesting occu-
pations in the service were medical laboratory technician, running
a sports center, French interpreter, authorizing foreign officers and

[ 130 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

civilians and war correspondents to buy uniforms. Original con-
clusions: army duty is a liberal education in itself —you meet and
work with a cross-section of the world which you might never
have had the privilege of contacting elsewhere, and you come to
learn that the average human being (in or out of the service) is a
pretty good sort of person.

Since the war | have tried my hand at translating German scien-
tific articles and eventually took up my present work: free-lance
spec-investing in securities (the “spec” indicating that the emphasis
is on speculating) which has proved stimulating.

Various sports and hobbies still indulged in are skiing, mountain-
eering and hiking, photography and mineral collecting.

I can think of no sage observations or profound philosophy of
life with which to conclude, except to “keep punching!”

FREDERICK pEWOLFE BOLMAN, JR.

 

HOME apprEss: President’s House, Franklin and Marshall College, Lancaster,
Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Franklin and Marshall College, Lancaster, Pa.

BORN: June 30, 1912, Leavenworth, Kan. parents: Frederick deWolfe Bolman,
95, Florence Louise Tullock.

PREPARED aT: The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: SB. 1935; BD. (Union Theological
Seminary), 1938; PH.D. (Columbia Univ.), 1942.

MarRiED: Ruth M., Stafford, March 7, 1947 (divorced 1957). cHipReEN: Alan
James, Feb. 13, 1944 (adopted); Florence Daphne, Dec. 7, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Education; president, Franklin and Marshall College. .

OFFICES HELD: Lecturer in philosophy, Barmard College and Columbia College.
1940-42; assistant professor of religion, Randolph-Macon Woman's Col-
lege, 1942-44; book editor, Journal of Philosophy, 1943-46; Visiting pro-
fessor of philosophy, Columbia University, 1944-46; associate in: Univer-

[130]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19365

sity Seminars, 1946-49; editor, Great Books Series, Simon and Schuster,
Inc., 1946-47; editorial consultant, Time, Inc., 1947-48; visiting lecturer in
philosophy, Princeton University, 1947-48, associate professor of philos-
ophy, assistant to the dean of division of general education, New York
University, 1948-51; president, Jamestown Community College, 1951-56;
president, Franklin and Marshall College, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Amcrican Philosophical Association, National Council on Religion
in Higher Education; Hamilton Club, Lancaster; University Club, James-
town, N.Y.

PUBLICATIONS: Schelling: The Ages of the World, 1942; articles and ‘reviews
for professional journals,

TO retrace steps from student days at Harvard College to the presi-
dency of another college is a trifle dismaying. Dismaying primarily
because I suspect no one really intends to go into college admistra-
tion— it just happens to him! At least, twenty-five years ago |]
could not have imagined my life as it is today.

Long before days at Harvard I had intended to go into research
in electrical engineering and therefore at college majored in mathe-
matics and minored in physics. Julian Coolidge, who was then head-
master of Lowell House as well as chairman of the department of
mathematics and, incidentally, a classmate at Harvard of my father,
was my wonderful tutor. Together we tracked down the “Helen
of geometers,” and I wrote my thesis lustily, if not brilliantly, on
the history and problems of the cycloid.

A glimpse of one set of apparently eternal verities led me after
considerable soul-searching and travels in Europe to give up the life
of science for that of philosophy and theology. On a highly ex-
perimental basis I proceeded to Union Theological Seminary in New
York City, where I found myself so absorbed that I completed work
for my Bachelor of Divinity degree. At the same time I began
graduate work in philosophy at Columbia University, where I soon
was to teach. While at Columbia I completed work for my Ph.D. in
philosophy.

Parenthetically let me say what may appear to be highly critical
of my undergraduate training: it was only in graduate schools that
I really received something akin to a liberal education, By liberal
I mean here at least an awareness of the variety of our western tra-
ditions, the development of some of our institutions and modes of
thought, a bit of the history of science and its methods, the profu-
sion of aspirations of men from the days of ancient Isracl and Greece

to today. T now look back at Harvard as only preparatory to such
liberal learning. Even work on a dissertation and volume for publi-

[ 132 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
cation — too often a dull and stultifying process — somchow gave
me more insight into the culture which ‘had produced me. I began
to understand in twentieth century terms the ancient dictum: know
thyself.

After teaching at Columbia and acting as chaplain of the uni-
versity for a brief period, I taught in a small woman's college in the
south only to return to Columbia to teach, mostly on the graduate
level, and to help organize one of the first of the Univ ersity Semi-
nars, a sort of post-post-graduate scholar’s delight composed of a
dozen or more professors of several disciplines, and one or two
chosen students.

It was in the late forties that I had a taste of .work in non-aca-
demic fields. While continuing some teaching responsibilities, I be-
came an editor at Simon & Schuster, publishers, attempting to gener-
ate a new series of classics in translation and subsequently I became
a consulting editor for Time, Inc., where I worked with the late
Russell Davenport and others upon a new magazine which, alas,
quietly died after we brought out a few issues “in the house.”

By that time I was at Princeton as a visiting professor — and, as
a loyal Harvard son, I can say that it was at Princeton that I was
laid low! For there I helped organize a very small portion of the
new curriculum and fell into my ” administrative life. The following
year I was invited to join the administration of one of the schools
of New York University, where I remained three vears before
tackling the job of building the first community college under State
University of New York, ‘then newly organized.

I had become intensely interested in the growth of the two-vear
college i in America and had made something of a study of this new
aspect of higher education. California had already builr sINty-nine
such colleges. A major study was under way in Florida to eventu-
ate the construction of several such colleges there. Interesting ex-
periments were going on at Boston University, the University of
Minnesota, and clsew here. Every vear saw the construction of new
community colleges. T wanted to see what IT could do in that field.

To build a college from scratch, as it were, is one of the most
exciting ventures | shall ever undertake. Within four vears we had
the college in Jamestown, New York, operating w ith sutticient
human and other resources to be accredited, In some stall measure

we helped set a pattern for the growth of community colleges
throughout the entire COUNTLY W hich will, T believe, in the coming

[ 133]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

decade enroll upward of a third of the entire undergraduate popu-
lation in this country.

After five years of effort in the field of the two-year college I
returned to my love: the four-year, liberal arts college. During the
three years that I have been at Franklin and Marshall College in
Lancaster, Pennsylvania, I have had a management survey made of
the instirution which resulted in the reorganization of the board,
administration, and business procedures of the college. Then,
following the pattern laid down by studies financed by the Ford
Foundation, [instituted a curriculum self-evaluation by the faculty,
during which three members of the faculty were released from their
teaching responsibilities for research for a year and a dozen con-
sulrants from other colleges and universities were brought to this
campus, In the fall of 1960 we shall have an entirely new curriculum.

Last fall I asked our board of trustees to meet for two days at
the Princeton Inn, where we had as consultants Dr. Harold W.
Dodds, former president of Princeton, and Mr, Laird Bell, former
chairman of the Board of Overseers at Harvard. In those two days
of meetings, with the help of research reports from several sources,
we decided to establish a small research office for this college in
order to develop long-range plans. We hope to adapt some of the
techniques used in industry and government to the advantage of the
small liberal arts college as it projects its work and resources for
the coming decade,

Obv iously one of the jobs of a college president is to raise money.
And so it is that I have begged and borrowed to erect new dormi-
tory facilities, an infirmary, etc. IT await with great interest Dr.
Dodds’ an: alvsis of the American college president: it is in this day
and age an extremely tough but also an extraordinarily exciting job.
Skilled manpower for the nation is our aim over all, anda first-rate,
small hberal arts college such as this should — and we do — prepare
a high percentage of its students for graduate and professional
schools. In some of our departments over seventy-five per cent
proceed to the Master’s and Ph.D. degrees elsewhere. Our reputation
in the sciences and in the pre-medical preparation of students is
nationally known. Only excellence in all programs will be worth
saving in the future, and we may hope that when and where such
excellence exists, financial support will be found. Our national
security and our cultural welfare depend in no small measure upon
the kind of job we do in our undergraduate colleges.

All work and no play dulls life, ‘and so an island retreat off the

[ 134 ]

perpen an Te F IF

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

coast of Maine plus traveling, plus hobbies, plus family life, while
unmentioned here are bright and typical pleasures with which to
balance life.

I suppose every one of us could say to himself, “I wish I had
the past twenty-five years to live over again so that I could do
more.” But middle age is the most wonderful part of life I have
yet struck. I trust that twenty-five years from now I shall say

exactly the same thing about old age. Long ago, when at New York
Univ ersity, I helped ore:

ganize one of the ear ly seminars on gerontol-
ogy. I shall one day — not far off — have a vital stake in the field!

KENNETH EDWARD BONNER

 

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 249 Gallivan Blvd., Dorchester 24, Mass.

BORN: July 15, 1909, Manchester, N.H. parents: Edward Joseph Bonner, Jane
Duncklee.

PREPARED AT; Manchester Central High School, Manchester, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.

BONNER has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since 1957

[ 135]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

FLETCHER VAN NOSTRAND BOORAEM

 

HOME abpREsS: 47 Oak St., Beverly Farms, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Communications Counselors, Inc., 2202 John Hancock Bldg,,
Boston, Mass.

BoRN: June 16, 1912, St. Paul, Minn. parents: Hendrik Booraem, Beatrice
Louise Fletcher.

PREPARED AT: Blake School, Minneapolis, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MarRieD: Louise Moulton, May 28, 1949, Bradford, Mass. cuitp: Ellen, Aug.
18, 1951.

~ occupation: Manager, Boston office, Communications Counselors, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Public Relations Society of America.

FOUR years as a lumberman in Minneapolis and two as a market
researcher in New York led to my acceptance of an Air Corps offer
to tour Australia, New Guinea and the Philippines f for most of three
years.

After the war, the Wall Street Journal allowed me to exercise
my curiosity about other people’s business for almost six years in
New York, Detroit and Washington. Since then, I have been trying
to put what I learned to good use as a public relations counselor in
Boston. Communications Counselors, Inc., is a public relations arm
of McCann-Erickson, Inc., nation-wide public relations counseling
organization.

Along the way I acquired two charming companions who
constantly confound me with their deftness in handling an obstrep-
erous male.

All in all, it has been a very enjoyable existence in which I shall
continue to indulge myself as long as possible,

[ 136 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ ROBERT REMINGTON BORDEN, JR.

 

BoRN: July 7, 1912, Fall River, Mass. parents: Robert Remington Borden, ’06,
Helen Shore.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.

MARRIED: Mary Ives, June, 1941. cuip: Robert, 1942.
DIED: Jan. 16, 1943, Winthrop, Mass.
wipow: Mrs. Robert R. Borden, 102 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

ROBERT REMINGTON BORDEN spent two years with our
Class. While an undergraduate he played freshman football and was
a member of the boxing team. He was also a member of Hasty
Pudding-Institute of 1770 and the Owl Club. After leaving college
he was a bookkeeper at the Durfee Trust Company in Fall Riv er,
Massachusetts, and later was employed in Boston. In September,
1941, he joined the National Guard as a private and by December,

1942, had risen to the rank of captain in the Coast Artillery Corps.
He was survived by his wife and son.

[ 137)

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

IGOR VLADIMIR ORANOVSKY BORODIN

 

BoRN: Oct. 15, 1913, Petrograd, Russia. pareNTs: Vladimir V. Oranovsky,
Nadine Bogatova.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935.

MarRIED: Mary Gertrude Sharkey, Jan. 23, 1937.

piep: Nov. 16, 1953, Newark, Del.

wipow: Mrs. Igor V. O. Borodin, Newark, Del.

AFTER graduation, Borodin spent a short time working in Widener
~ Library before joining the Rubber Gel Products Corporation, In
1937 he became a consultant to the West Company of Philadelphia,
later becoming chemical engineer in charge of all their latex develop-
ments. In 1941 he joined the duPont Company as production fore-
man in their Pigment Department and six years later became assistant
to the chief chemist as supervisor of the Analytical Laboratory at Edge
Moor and at the time of his death he was supervisor of the Pigment
Division. He was a member of the American Institute of Chemical
Engineers, American Society on Quality Control, the U.S. Power
Squadron, Harvard Club of Delaware and the University Club of
Wilmington. He was survived by his wife.

| 138 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

VROMAN SCHUYLER BORST

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2141 Niskayuna Drive, Schenectady 9, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mohawk National Bank, Schenectady 1, N.Y.

BORN: June 2, 1912, Amsterdam, N.Y. parents: Homer John Borst, ’og, Florence
Margaret Serviss.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MARRIED: Verelyn Eleanor Brown, June 5, 1937, Schenectady, N.Y. cHiz:
Schuyler Vroman, July 15, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and trust officer, Mohawk National Bank.

OFFICES HELD: Director, 1950-59, treasurer, 1952-55, Better Business Bureau;
vice-commander, Schenectady Yacht Club, 1950-51; director, since 19st,
vice-president, 1957-59, treasurer, since 1959, Y.\L-C.A.; treasurer, Mohawk-
Hudson Power Squadron, 1954-55; director, Pine Grove Dairy, Inc., since
1955, Mohawk National Bank, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Mohawk Club of Schenectady; Mohawk-Hudson Power Squadron,
Y.M.C.A.; Chamber of Commerce; Better Business Bureau; Albany Yacht
Club; National Retail Credit Association; Schenectady Museum Associa-
tion; American Institute of Banking.

[ 1390 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

FRANK MALING BOSWORTH, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 10 Hawthorne Way, Hartsdale, N.Y.
OFFICE AppREsS: 116 Kraft Ave., Bronxville, N.Y.

BORN: Oct. 29, 1913, Yonkers, N.Y. Parents: Frank Maling Bosworth, Florence
Dolder.

PREPARED AT: Greenwich High School, Greenwich, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: S$.B., 1935; LL.B. 1938.

MarRiED: Avalon A. Robertson, Sept. 14, 1940, Greenwich, Conn. CHILDREN:
Frank Maling, 3d, Feb. 13, 1946; Susan A., March 3, 1951.

occupation: Lawyer,

OFFICES HELD: Member, Town of Greenburgh Zoning Board of Appeals; mem-
ber, Board of Title Advisers, Security Title and Guaranty Company;
president, Rotary Club of Bronxville, Dads’ Club of Hartsdale.

AFTER three years in Harvard Law School I went to work in 1938
for the New York law firm of Curtis, Mallet-Prevost, Colt & Mosle
located at 63 Wall Street. I did not come out of the firm library for
three months and when I did I joined a small firm across the street.
There I was termed an “associate” and was permitted to carry papers
to the County Clerk’s office. By 1943 I had done some trial work,
had been married three years and considered myself a barrister
eminently qualified by age and experience to be commissioned an
officer in the branch of service of my choice, namely: The U.S.
Navy. After a short period of training I joined the Third Division
of the Army of the United States at Anzio Beach, Italy, as a rifle-
man replacement — rank of private.

Fight months later — election day 1944 to be exact—-and one
month before the Battle of the Bulge I returned to the United States
by air to spend the winter at Ann Arbor, Michigan, at Officers
School. I was commissioned in March, 1945, and sent to the Penta-
gon immediately, where I remained as assistant staff judge advocate
of the Military District of Washington until discharged in July,

[ 140 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT ”

1946. I prosecuted as trial judge advocate of the two General
Courts in the District of Columbia.

My most publicized assignment was handed me by the War De-
partment when I was appointed to defend the colonel and his wife
who had been accused of being responsible for the disappearance
of the Crown Jewels of the House of Hesse, reputedly found by a
sergeant while searching for champagne in the wine cellar of the
Kronberg Castle. My clients were whisked off unceremoniously
in the dark of night without benefit of counsel and I have not seen
them since. They were tried in Germany but were able to arrange
for counsel of their own choosing to follow them to Germany.

When I returned to civilian life I did so with two firm resolves.
The first was to get out of New York City which | detest, and the
second was to stay out of courtrooms, for which I had dev eloped a
similar distaste while prosecuting soldiers. Through plain luck and
a mutual acquaintance I developed an association with a bank in the
small village of Bronxville, New York. This association made it
possible for me to open my own law offices in Bronxville early in
1947. I have remained in the same place and have developed a general
practice which is still growing. I am said by a few to be somewhat
expert in real estate matters and as yet have not seen fit to deny it.

My office is eight miles from our home in Hartsdale, New Y ork,
where four of us live in the midst of four acres of woodland and
other greenery. We like Hartsdale so much that I also opened a
real estate and insurance office in Hartsdale. It was intended as an
annuity for the family and although my law practice leaves me little
time for it, it is growing. I shall be pleased, indeed, if someday the
“tail wags the dog. ”

Small communities are demanding and such things as the Rotary
Club, Dads’ Club and membership on a Zoning Board can hardly
be classified as hobbies. They are time-consuming and leave almost
no time for anything else. Some people can say “No” —T have
never been able to. The Dads’ Club is my favorite because it deals
only with the children of the neighborhood, This is my year as presi-
dent and we are prov iding dads to coach nearly seventy- five foorball,
basketball and baseball teams — both boy and. girl teams, all engaged
in league competition with neighborhood school areas, This is a
Jot harder than contributing a ‘few dollars to a community fund,

but a lot more fun. You can see the results, even though they are
not deductible.

My only regret at this writing is that our son, now fourteen, may

[ 141]

« HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

not be home in time to accompany us to Cambridge for our big
Reunion. He is living with friends of ours stationed by the U.S.
Department of State in Denmark. He attends a Danish school, likes
the Danish girls, watches Danish television and goes to school SIX

days a week. Home was never like that! NEITHER WAS HAR-
VARD.

JOHN pEROME BOURDON

 

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 121 Madison Ave., New York 16, N.Y.

BoRN: Oct. 21, 1911, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Rosario Charles Bourdon,
Esther Fisher.

PREPARED AT: Montgomery School, Wynnewood, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MaRRIED: Charlotte Heazlit, March 12, 1936, San Francisco, Calif. camp: Ronald
W., Aug. 31, 1937.

BOURDON has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since
1959.

ANGELO JOHN BOUTSELIS

 

appress: TUSAFG-JUSMMAT, APO 254, New York, N.Y,

[ 142 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Aug. 19, 1912, Lowell, Mass. parents: John Vretos Bourtselis, Panagiota
Economakos.

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.
occuPATION: Major, U.S. Army.

NO questionnaire returned.

CLAUDE JEAN BOVE

  

HOME ADpRESS: 31 Bennett Ave., New York 33, N.Y.
OFFICE AppRESS: Fordham School of Education, 30z Broadway, New York 7,

N.Y.

BoRN: July 13, 1913, Schenectady, N.Y. parents: John Bove, Josephine Miele.

PREPARED AT: Schenectady High School, Schenectady, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; aM. (Columbia Univ.), oso.

MaRRieD: Maristella de Panizza, Feb. 10, 1945, Rome, Italy (divorced 1935).
cHILD: Claudia, June 17, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Peter John White Bové, "29.

OCCUPATION: Assistant professor of economics, School of Fducation, Fordham
University.

MEMBER OF: American Economic Association; American Academy of Polincal
Science; American Academy of Political and Social Science.

GRADUATION, in 1935, gave to most of us a rather dismal start
in life after college. To me, the period of 1935 to tog: was one of
a slow up-hill clinb to find a suitable career in business, By rogs.
when I had just settled for a promising civil service future with the
Quartermaster Corps of the U.S, Government, my country devided
that in view of my strong atiliation with the Otticers Reserve C ‘Ot pS
Iwas more profitably needed in the armed forces. The most interest-
ing and exciting pare of my life, however, was just beginning with
the call to active duty, In very short ame TP wound up overseas

1942, in the African-F uropean “Pheatre, where Powas destained: to

{ 143 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 193§

remain, without recall, for four years and eight months. During
this time, however, I engaged in what turned out to be a variety
of very interesting activities. They included such duties as: interro-
gation of prisoners of war, counter-intelligence work, work with
the administration of the city of Rome in 1944, diplomatic escort
officer for Axis diplomats accredited to the Vatican, preparation of
war crimes trials, work in connection with the establishment of an
American G.I. University in Florence and, finally, civil affairs ad-
ministrator in occupied territory near Trieste.

I met my future wife in Rome in 1944 and after a brief courtship
we were married in Vatican City. The desire to return to civilian
life, however, brought on new problems in view of changed out-
looks and objectives in life, After working for a year (1946-47) as
a secretary to a textile corporation in New York City, the decision
was made to get a Master’s degree and, later, a Ph.D., with teaching
as the ultimate goal. After getting a Master’s degree from Columbia
in 1950, I received an appointment to Fordham University School
of Education, where I have been ever since. During this latter
period I have been combining teaching with intensive studying for
a Ph.D. in economics at Columbia, for which reason even a delay in
sending in this Class Report was necessary.

Like all of us, I have my problems but I do not consider them,
for the time being, as either overwhelming or unsurmountable. I
am usually a loyal Democrat (although I voted for Eisenhower); I
haven't changed my religion and I fervently believe that what this
country needs is, among other things, the return of five-cent beer,
bigger and better cigars and a drastic cut in all kinds of taxes.

JOHN ALDEN BOVEY, JR.

 

HOME appREss: 1122 22d St., S., Arlington 2, Va,

[ 144]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE AppREsS: Dept. of State, Washington, D.C.

BorN: April 17, 1913, Minneapolis, Minn, parents: John Alden Bovey, Mar-
garet Jackson.

PREPARED AT: Blake School, Minneapolis, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931~1935. DEGREES: a.B., magna cum laude, 1935, A.M. 1938.

MarRRIED: Marcia Peterson Palmer, July 31, 1943, Annapolis, Md. crip: Rosa-
mond Jackson, June 3, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frank Alden Bovey, 2d, ’4o.

occuPaTIon: Foreign Service officer; attending National War College, Wash-
ington, D.C.

OFFICES HELD: U.S. Naval Reserve, 1942-45, vice-consul at Rotterdam, 1946-49;
consul at Casablanca, 1949-54, member, US. Delegation, International

Court of Justice, summer 1952; deputy director, Office of Northern African
Affairs, 1957-59.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa, Foreign Service Association, Y.MLC.A.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles and short stories in Story, Twice A Year and Foreign
Service Journal.

AFTER leaving Harvard in 1935, I had a brief tour in public re-
lations and advertising with General Mills until 1937. I came back
to Harvard, took an A.M., and taught what was then English A
until the end of 1941. I spent most of my tour with the Navy
(1942-45) on shore, first in Halifax as a U.S. naval observer and
then at the Naval Academy in Annapolis as instructor.

In 1945 I joined the foreign service, serving at Rotterdam for
three years and at Casablanca from 1949 to 1954, with a brief inter-
lude in the summer of 1952, when I went to The Hague as a mem-
ber of the U.S. Delegation to the International Court of Justice
when that tribunal heard the case involving the treaty rights of the
United States in Morocco. From 1954 to 1959 I was stationed in
Washington, chiefly in the Department of State's Othce of North-
ern African Affairs, and in August, 1959, I was assigned to the
National War College.

[ 145]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

CHARLES FRANCIS BOWDEN

 

HOME AbDpRESS: 205 W. 57th St, New York 19, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bowden & Bullock, 137 W. 48th St., New York, N.Y.

BORN: Aug. 7, 1913, Somerville, Mass, PARENTS: John Joseph Bowden, Elizabeth
Donahue.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MARRIED: Paula Laurence, Feb. 22, 1953, Danbury, Conn.

OCCUPATION: Theatrical producer and director.

MEMBER OF: League of New York Theatres; Actor’s Equity.

I LEFT College in 1932 to join a stock company at New London,
New Hampshire, That September I arrived in New York City for
the first time and immediately was hired to appear with Orson
Welles in “Ten Million Ghosts” by Sidney Kingsley. After that
closed in four performances, I appeared in “The Eternal Road”
directed by the late Max Reinhardt, in support of Tallulah Bank-
head in “Antony and Cleopatra,” then I joined Maurice Evans for
two seasons appearing in “Hamlet” and “Henry IV,” then came a
national tour with Alfred Lunt and Lynn Fontanne in “The Tam-
ing of the Shrew.” On the production side my experience began
with the Lunts, with whom I remained for ten years as technical
director. For the Theatre Guild and John C. Wilson I was manag-
ing director of the Westport Country Playhouse for four seasons,
and with Philip Langner I owned and operated the New Parsons
Theatre in Hartford, Connecticut, and the Bahama Playhouse in
Nassau, On the personal side, I spent five years in the Army,
starting as private and emerging as a captain, and my wife is Paula
Laurence, the well-known actress-singer.

Since 1953, when I became a partner with H. Ridgely Bullock, Jr.,
and formed the producing firm of Bowden & Bullock, we have

[ 146 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

produced “At Home with Erhel Waters,” “Ruth Draper and
Her Company of Characters,” “AI in One,” “Fallen Angels,”

“Hotel Paradiso,” three national companies of “Auntie Mame.”

a national tour of “Romanoff and Juliet” starring Bert Lahr. The
majority of the above plays which Bowden & Bullock produced
were also directed by me. At the present moment we are produc-
ing “Caligula” by Albert Camus to open at the 54th Street Theatre
in New York City on February 16th, 1960. This will mark the
English-speaking premiere of any of Camus’ work. On our agenda
for the fall of 1960 we have two plays, “The Shitting Heart” and

“Come Spring,” both of which will premiere in Boston prior to
opening in New York.

E. FRANCIS BOWDITCH

  

HOME appRrEss: Rye Beach, N.H.

BORN: June q, 1912, Framingham, Mass. pareNts: John Perry Bowditch, ‘os,
Alice Bradford.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: AB. 1035.

MarRieD: Anna Mitchell Hale, Aug. 3, 1933, Rve Beach, N-HE crtpees: F.
Francis, Jr., May 6, 1936 (am. Nancy Harris, April zs, 1989); Susan Hale,
Oct. 11, 1937 (aa. David S. Badger, Aug. 16, 1938); Nathamel Hale, Sep
28, 1944; Elizabeth Davis Shoemaker, Nov. 22, 1037 CE became her guard
ian in 1952), GRANDCHILD: EF, Francis Bowditch, jd, New. 14, 19i9

HARVARD SON: E. Francis Bowditch, Jr. ‘60.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Bradford Bowditch, °3>.

OccuPATION: Education, to date; plan to enter mdustry.

OFFICES HELD: Coach, assistant teacher, Shady Ehil School, Cambrntae, Nf asa
chusetts, 1933-356; master, Milton Academy, Milton, Masachusctry rot
373 assistant dean of freshmen, Massachuserrs Insure af Technology.
1937-39; headmaster, Park School, Indianapoliy, Todiana, tyiv ots head-

[ 147 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

master, Lake Forest Academy, Lake Forest, Illinois, 1941-51; dean of
students, 1951-56, special adviser to the president, 1956-57, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology; administrative director, Research Society for
Creative Altruism, 1957-58, consultant, The Lexington School, Lexington,
Kentucky, 1958-59; director, New Lincoln School, New York, Sept. 1-
Nov. 20, 1959; formerly, president, Private Schools Association of Central
States and Mid-West Preparatory School Conference (athletics); chair-
man, National Preparatory School Committee (Religion in Private Schools)
and National Council of Independent Schools; trustee or director, Shady
Hill School, Cambridge, Massachusetts, Miss Hall’s School, Pittsfield,
Massachusetts, Thompson’s Academy, Boston, Institute for Direct Analysis,
Temple University (project in psychiatry), Harvard Alumni Association;
currently, vice-president, Sportsmanship Brotherhood, New York; chair-
man of governing board, Cooperative Bureau for Teachers, New York;
trustee, Milton Academy, Milton, Massachusetts, chairman, Class Com-
mittee, Harvard, 1935.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Beach Club, Rye Beach, New
Hampshire.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasionally published speeches.

BORN with a silver spoon in my mouth in a beautiful stone house
on a large dairy farm in Framingham, Massachusetts, I am told that
I jumped my first fence on horseback at the age of two or three,
seated on a special saddle in front of my dad. It was the first of
almost continuous thrills in the saddle until I was about fourteen.
There was time, of course, for coasting, shooting, skating, and all
the other pleasures and deviltries of living in the country in the lap
of luxury.

After failing my examinations for entrance the year before, I
entered Milton Academy in the seventh grade and had there six of
the happiest years of my life—and successful, too, although in
part compulsively so, as I look back. It was in those years that the
home in Framingham disappeared, the horses went, mother started
on many years of invalidism, and one form or another of family
tragedy seemed to occur at quite regular intervals,

As I entered Harvard, or shortly thereafter, the changes which
were wrought in my family were reflected in changes at college
(we were the first class in the Yard), and changes in the world at
large began, I guess, to bore into me unconsciously, As I look back
I blocked in most of the academic offerings at college, found much
in student government and similar activities, became happily en-
grossed in working my way through much of the last two years of
college by working with kids, spent many happy hours in Dunster
House with roommates Cutler, Goodhue and Howland, and gradu-

[ 148 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ated without much knowledge of what 1 was supposed to have
studied. In the meanwhile, although I had finished most of mv pre-
medical work, I met my bride at the Shady Hill School where we
were both working my senior year, couldn’t wait to get married,
and went into teaching.

From 1935 to 1956, my official record reads pretty much as a
fairy tale in education, but, underneath, a search of increasing in-
tensity was developing. Somehow education was not, as I saw it,
nourishing the growth of character and potential wisdom, was
literally crippling emotionally many of the best I knew, and some-
how traditional tools and methods were not working. Students
were in desperate need in the area of meaning and values. Some
of us developed intuitively ways and means of helping as We ex-
perimented with the new tools of psychiatry, projective testing, and
remedial reading, but the major issues were not being solved.

Meanwhile, I became convinced there were new frontiers which
had to be faced. In the summer of 19561 started a period of intensive
search which has only just ended and started to fall in place these
last few days before Christmas. As I look back, I realize that I felt
I had to find for myself the wderstanding and the capacity to com-
municate what I had learned and practised intuitively in the coun-
seling of students and in meeting administrative, organizational and
procedural problems which affected the welfare and growth of
students and faculty. In 1957 M.I-T, granted me a year's leave of
absence which I spent as administrative director of the Research
Society for Creative Altruism founded by Pitirim Sorokin of Har-
vard. During that year we ran a conference on “New Knowledge
in Human Values” and tried to raise funds for research, By the
summer of 1958 it became clear: (1) that a new frontier equally
vital to business, government and education was shaping up; and
(2) that the frontier could not be opened up until we improved
communication, initial research was further developed, and we were
able to relate preliminary findings to practical eperating situations.
Within the last few weeks the picces of the puzzle have begun to
fit together, communication has improved immeasurably, new: re-
search is being reported, and in almost every bsue of every modern
magazine the truth of our mid-twentieth century predic Ament 5
at long last being stated.

What does this all mean? As Tsee it, the nature and operiion of
meaning and value are becoming tractable to scientific analyaiy to
application to twentieth century conditions, and to wile comune:

[149]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

cation, Application to curriculum in education must await further
research and the training of personnel, but many concepts are ready
for trial in business or industry.

Thus, as the pressure of events requires we face the new reali-
ties of the technological world, the new tools seem miraculously at
hand. As Dr. F. L. Kunz, editor of Main Currents in Modern
Thought, wrote in the “News and Notes” section of the Novem-
ber, 1959, issue: “But if we do not soon begin to organize science
for meaning instead of for technology, the task put upon the indi-
vidual in A.D. 2000 will be impossible of performance. Thus a clear
choice is before us. We may formulate and use a publicly demon-
strable methodology available to reunite the humanities and the
science, or we may neglect this duty. . . .”

Having inflicted sacrifice and suffering on my family for three
and a half years of intensive and sometimes reckless search, it is
with a sense of relief that I feel free to drop the quest and to apply
what I have learned in industry while (hopefully) I fill the coffers
once more.

Our children have been both a challenge and a joy, and the privi-
lege of a second daughter whom we took on when she was fifteen
was as good for the family as | hope we have been for her. While
I grappled with the problems of other people’s children, my own
went through their share of ups and downs, from Phi Beta Kappa
at Smith to “the class baby flunking out of Harvard. (He graduates
at twenty-four this year, as we return, is quite proficient in the
operations of I.B.M. equipment, and has a young namesake to boot!)
At the younger end of the scale we have a young soccer player at
Milton who may make things tough for Yale before he gets through,
assuming, that is, he gets into Harvard! Through the years we have
enjoyed collecting shells in Florida, fishing in Canada, and, more
recently, learning something about the thrills of skiing.

As I return to our Twenty-fifth Anniversary Reunion, [ still
feel young — with a very full youth behind me. My true adoles-
cence as a member of the twentieth century came woefully late,
but as I start again, I do so with enthusiasm, with humble faith, and
deep gratitude to a wife who has stuck by me all the way, despite
great provocation,

[ 150]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HOWARD SPALDING BOWEN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1617 W. Flint Way, Fresno, Calif.

OFFICE appDRESS: Montgomery Ward & Co., San Luis Obispo, Calif.

BoRN: Nov. 24, 1912, Salt Lake City, Utah. parents: George Cleveland Bowen,
Alice Spalding.

PREPARED AT: Punahou Academy, Honolulu, Hawaii.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1935.

MarRigeD: Janice Dixie Kier, June 21, 1946, Eureka, Calif. cumpren: Craig
Spalding, May 15, 1948; Marilyn Alice, July 27, 1949; Diane Kay, April
22, 1952.

occuPATION: Mercantile business.

NO questionnaire returned.

+ BEVERLEY MUNFORD BOWIE

 

BORN: Dec. 5, 1914, Richmond, Va. parents: Walter Russell Bowie, ‘eg, Jean
Laverack.

PREPARED AT: Solebury School, New Hope, Pa,

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1931-1935. DEGREE: AB, magd cum lade. ors.

MarriED: Louise Boynton, rgyo, Balamore, Md. caupars: Peter, Sopa at

[rsr]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

1942; Sally, July 4, 1944; Jerry, July 10, 1947; Jonathan, Jan. 20, 1951;
another child.

HARVARD BROTHER: Walter Russell Bowie, Jr., 41.

piED: Nov. 15, 1958, Bethesda, Md.

wipow: Mrs. Beverley M. Bowie, 121 Martha’s Rd., Alexandria, Va.

BEVERLEY MUNFORD BOWIE was a resident of Lowell House,
editor of the Crinzson and editorial chairman of the Journal. He
held a Harvard College scholarship and was a member of the Signet
Society, After graduation he worked successively on a Colorado
ranch, as a rewrite man for the Havas News Agency in New York,
editor of Newsweek magazine, script writer for a radio program
and collaborator on a book called C.I.O.

During the war he served as a civilian and a naval officer with the
Office of Strategic Services in Washington and abroad. During
1943-44, he served as an OSS man in North Africa and Italy, and
from August, 1944, until February, 1945, was on a special intelli-
gence mission to Rumania. In 1945 he returned to Washington to
become acting chief of the OSS, Central European Section. He
was awarded the Bronze Star.

After the war he returned to the field of journalism, published
a novel and worked for Pathfinder magazine. Since 1951 he had
been associated with the National Geographic Magazine, of which
he was assistant editor at the time of his death.

He was survived by his wife and children.

JOSEPH MORTIMER BOYD

 

AppRESS: 152 Alexander St., Princeton, N.J.
BORN: Jan. 10, 1915, Chicago, Ill. parents: Stanley Mayo Boyd, Mary Homan.
PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

[152]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934.

MARRIED: Barbara Elizabeth Walker, May 21, 1938 (divorced 1959). CHILDREN:
Joseph Walker, Aug. 5, 1942; John Warwick, June 19, 1944.

occuPaTION: Advertising publisher, Collective Advertising, Inc.

DURING my undergraduate days on the staffs of the Cramson and
the Journal, | shared the view of a number of my colleagues that
the only unequivocally virtuous and dignified alumni activity per se
is fund-raising for the University. During the subsequent twenty-
five years, nothing has occurred to change my views on this subject;
therefore, I wish to use my allocated space in this Class Report for
the purpose of adding my own small voice to the large chorus of
Harvard’s loyal friends, both alumni and non-alumni, who are grate-
ful, as I am, that she lives and breathes with ever-renewed vigor in
her own traditional style.

My enthusiasm for Harvard began at a high level and has grown
steadily with the years, mainly, I think, because habits of indepen-
dent thinking which one takes for granted at Harvard one later finds
cannot be taken for granted in the world at large or even in other
academic environments.

Let us hope that Harvard’s many friends, including its alumni,
will continue always to provide, with no strings attached, the ma-
terial means necessary to keep Harvard, as admirably stated in its
current College catalogue, * ‘independent, self-governing and private.”

My son Joseph is now a senior at Pomfret School, Pomfret, Con-

necticut, and John is a sophomore at the Loomis School in Windsor,
Connecticut.

ALLSTON BOYER

 

HOME AppRESS: Wheatley Road, Brookville, N.Y.
OFFICE appREss; Room 5125, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N.Y.

[ 53]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935
BORN: May 27, 1912, Mount Kisco, N.Y. parents: Philip Boyer, ’08, Josephine
Bond Flagg.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1931-1933.

mMarrieD: Charlotte Young, July 21, 1934 (divorced); Louise Auchincloss,
July 3, 1947, New York, N.Y. cumpren: Charlotte, March 12, 1936 (m.
John Parkinson, 3d, '59, May 10, 1959); Edward H. Robbins, Jr., April
26, 1940 (stepson); Gordon A. Robbins, Jan. 14, 1942 (stepson).

HARVARD BROTHER: Philip Boyer, Jr., °33.

occupation: Administration of resort and conservation projects, primarily in
the Caribbean.

OFFICES HELD: Currently: president, Caneel Bay Plantation, Inc., Dorado Beach
Estates, Inc.; vice-president, Colonial Williamsburg, Inc., Williamsburg
Restoration, Inc.; treasurer, Jackson Hole Preserve, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Piping Rock Club; Antique Auto Club of America.

ALL my shortcomings can be attributed to the fact that I remained
at Harvard for only two years. Having disposed of my shortcom-
ings, I shall now dwell on my good points, Being a modest fellow,
this is going to be difficult. Perhaps my best point is that I happen
to be Sam Snead’s twin, he also having been born on May 27, 1912.
This probably accounts for my interest in golf. Sam plays just a
little better than I do, but then he gets more chance to practise.
Another good point is that I collect old cars. My dear wife would
not agree. It is too bulky a hobby for her. Three more good points:
I am shy, retiring and kind to dogs, but dogs tend to dominate me.
My admirers refer to me as the SEA WOLF, since I personally
drove the Japanese from the North Pacific and the Germans from
the South Atlantic, but I am friendly just the same up to a point.
Ah! Those were glorious days, especially the part by the Bath Club
pool in Miami Beach, Tony Dow, who spent his entire naval career
by this same pool, can attest to this. Having had the same wonder-
ful job for twenty-three years, I am known here as that plodding
old goat. They say it with a smile though. Way underneath they
love me because I never say no. This is my secret,

I certainly am looking forward to telling you classmates more
about myself later on. This is just a teaser.

[154]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FELWOOD DADMUN BOYNTON

  

HOME ADDRESS: 39 Stonehouse Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1 Wall St., New York 5, N.Y.

BORN: March 26, 1914, Arlington, Mass. parents: Herbert Freeman Boynton,
"11, Henrietta Whitney Dadmun.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., cu laude, 1935.

MmarRRiED: Margaret Pratt, Oct. 10, 1936, Scarsdale, N.Y. cur_p: Oren Kendall,
May 16, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Wilmot Boynton, 737; Rodney Boynton, “4:;
Thomas Whitney Boynton, ’43.

OCCUPATION: Investment banker.

OFFICES HELD: Commander, 1945-60, commandant’s local representative, 1947-51,
U.S. Naval Reserve; commodore, Shenvrock Yacht Club, 1955-60; member,
planning committee, Institute of Investment Banking, Wharton School of
Finance & Commerce, University of Pennsylvania, 1957-60, governor,
treasurer, Old Scarsdale Association, 1957-60; member, Scarsdale Safety
Council, 1958-60; chairman, public uclities committee, Investment Bankers
Association, 1959-60; member, Scarsdale Non-partisan Nominating Com-
mittee, 1960.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and Westchester: The Lunch Club,
New York, N.Y.; Shenorock Shore Club, Rye, N.Y4 New England
Society of New York; Naval Order of the United States; Bond Club of
New York; The Town Club, Scarsdale, N.Y.; Graduate School ef Ar
and Sciences, New York University.

DIVIDING a quarter-century into fifths may commend itvelf on

this occasion, so I shall bottle my history in such containers. Fire

there was the heady brew of strong beginnings and its dreams —
learning the financial business in New York, marrying the girl in

Scarsdale, and siring my son; the world was conquerable then, and

I was on the very top of it.
The second too was heav Vv proof bue with the corked tate of
war — the dislocation of family with wife and child) ininerane from

[iss]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Panama to Neah Bay, the burden of command from subchaser to
destroyer escort over a million miles of sea; this was a time of strain
and suspended living.

The third was new wine trying to fill old bottles in an attempt to
find the shortest way to catch up again — buying an old house and
trying to fit into a changed Scarsdale, starting a new firm and
trying to capture Wall Street from the top; this was a period for
learning lessons.

The fourth, with effervescence gone, demanded redistillation
into a stronger liquor—the necessity of starting all over again
working for someone else and trying to become re-established on
a firmer footing, but bringing as well the fun of renewing old
interests like sailing and founding a yacht club for the pleasure of
a son growing to grandeur; this was a season for reconstruction and
consolidation.

And now the fifth is nearly finished; it has turned into a blend to
suit me well with its flavor compounded of family contentment,
community participation and some business recognition. Even
though things have never been less certain, in the security of a home
made beloved by a still tolerant mate and a fine-grown son, there is
no place for regretting unfilled dreams and lost opportunities while
the promise persists of new ones still to come.

Thus what started in faith comes in the end to philosophy, As
my leisure hours are taken up in pursuit of this learning at New
York University, I find myself still growing and extending my
interests hoping that tomorrow will catch me wholly alive and pre-
pared to reach confidently for the new vintage waiting on the shelf.

[156]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD CHARLES BOYS

  

NP)

HOME ADDRESS: 1722 Cambridge Rd., Ann Arbor, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: English Dept., 2622 Haven Hall, University of Michigan, Ann
Arbor, Mich.

BORN: Nov. 12, 1912, Kalamazoo, Mich. parents: Charles Edward Bovs,
Myrtle Helen Ford.

PREPARED AT: University High School, Kalamazoo, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; PH.D. (Johns Hopkins Univ.),
1939.

MarriED: Elizabeth Russell Eaton (Radcliffe ’34), Jume 15, 1935, Cambridge,
Mass. cHiLprREN: Christopher Lovett, March 28, 1940; Nicholas Ford,
April 1, 1943; Jonathan Eaton, March 23, 1944; Susan Leonard, Dec. 23,
1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Floyd Eugene Boys, °28.

OCCUPATION: Professor of English, University of Michigan.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor-professor, University of Michigan, 1939-58, general
editor and co-founder, The Augustan Reprint Society, since 1946; national
director, Weodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, 1956-58.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association; Tudor and Stuart Club, Amen-
can Association of University Professors.

PUBLICATIONS: An edition of John Dvyer’s Grongar Hill (4726), Johns Hop-
kins University Press, Baltimore, 1941; Sir Richard Blackmore and tke
Wits, University of Michigan Press, 1949; Studies in the Literature of the
Augustan Age (in Honor of Arthur E, Case), editor, Ann Arbor, 1992;
about twenty-five articles, mostly in the Restoration and Eighteenth
Century.

MARRIED a few davs after Commencement on the neutral ground
of the Harvard C hapel, I began graduate work in English at Johns
Hopkins in the fall. There I had four years of excellent: training
in a small (25) graduate department, whose statf consisted of four
professors, one of them being Raymond D. Havens, my principal
mentor; after hours | investigated the wonderful bookshops, rextaur-
ants and markets of Baltimore, We lived part of the time in twa

[57]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

fine old buildings with “atmosphere,” with one particularly ap-
pealing year outside of town, near Elkridge, in a delightfully feudal,
rural setting. While waiting for me to finish, my wife taught at
the Calvert. School. On the side, our graduate department had a
basketball team that won the faculty-graduate league for the only
time in history. We disbanded after one year and rested on our
laurels.

Although the summers were largely spent in libraries or Maine,
we did manage a trip to England and Scotland where, for a while,
among other things, we followed Dr. Johnson’s route to Skye.
One summer we got to Honduras. Perhaps the high point of that
trip was an auto trek under moderately primitive conditions to
Tegucigalpa, ending in a flight in an Honduran Air Force plane to
the Pacific.

With the Doctor’s degree out of the way, in 1939 we moved to
Ann Arbor, where we have been ever since. Like most people in
the department, I have taught a little of everything, with concen-
tration on the eighteenth century. During the war I taught courses
here for the Navy and was in charge of an emergency “Basic Cur-
riculum” for the college. In 1949 I received the Henry Russel
Award, which is given “cach year to an instructor or assistant pro-
fessor in the university for research and teaching. A year later, on a
semester’s sabbatical, we spent the fall in Sargentville, Maine, from
which I commuted to Widener every other week. The old house
we had had no central heating and the only water available came
from a hand pump in the kitchen. Added excitement came from
a hurricane and the fact that the kids attended a two-room country
school.

Like so many college teachers who get tagged as ‘committee
men,” I have over the years spent many hours on such assignments.
A few, such as the college scholarships committee, the executive
committee of the college and the board of the graduate school,
though terribly time-consuming, have been extremely interesting,
while some others have been routine or a complete waste of time.
The most amusing job along these lines was acting as a “hooder” for
honorary degrees, which gave me a chance to see at close range
such people as Senator Fulbright, Madame Chiang Kai-shek, Ralph
Bunche and Dr. Salk. (The president explained that the qualifica-
tions for the job were to own a hood and be tall.) All of these

things, with the teaching, have convinced me that I like the excite-
ment of a big university.

[158]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

For some years I have been concerned in the affairs of the Wood-
row Wilson Fellowship Program which gives awards for first-year
graduate work to students interested in going into college teach-
ing. As a committee member for the Ohio-Michigan region and
twice as chairman for the region, I found myself becoming more
and more involved. In 1956, when the program had grown from
the original four awards at Princeton to 200 a year, supported by
the Carnegie and Rockefeller Foundations and the Association of
Graduate Schools, I became the national director. For three years
I was on leave from the university, taking over from Professor
Robert Goheen, the former director. At the end of my first year
in the job, the Ford Foundation gave us twenty-four and a half
million dollars (roughly five million a year for five years), the
first year of the generous grant we awarded 1100 fellowships.
Fascinating as the job was (though exacting), 1 wanted to return
to college teaching after my three-year commitment was up (two
as director), and in September of 1959, I did so.

Throughout the years I have taken part in civic affairs, as presi-
dent of the Citizens Council, the Ann Arbor Cooperative Society,
as a Boy Scout Commissioner and as an officer in the Dramatic
Arts Center. Several times I have helped the Democrats in elec-
tions, occasionally even with success.

JAMES HAROLD BRADDOCk

 

Bie DS RY: ER Sig A A

  

HOME appreEss: 461 Mountain Ave, North Caldwell, NJ.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Alexander & Alexander, Inc, 225 Broadway, New York +, N.Y.

BORN: Aug. §, 1914, Montclair, NJ) paaesrs: James Harold Braddock, "ia
Helena Hunziker.

PREPARED aT: Montclair High School, Montclair, N.J.
YEARS IN COLLEGE? 1931-1935. DEGREE: $B 1034,

[159]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

MarRieD: Priscilla M. Howes, Sept. 17, 1938, Montclair, N.J. CHILDREN: Sally
Sage, Dec. 2, 1940; Suzanne Whiton, May 22, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Consulting actuary.

OFFICES HELD: Co-chairman, United Fund Drive, North Caldwell, N.J.

MEMBER OF: Society of Actuaries (fellow); New Jersey Harvard Club; Colum-
bia University Executive Association.

MY conviction is that happiness in life arises largely from antici-
pation, in looking forward to an objective not yet reached. Thus,
it is difficult to look backward over the last twenty-five years. So
many nostalgic memories crowd the mind that to sort them out
seems almost impossible. But in summary, the years for me have
been happy and rewarding. My wife and two teen-age daughters
are attractive, personable and loving. My work as a consulting
actuary is most satisfying fun, How ‘lucky can you be?

Most people don’t know what an actuary is. For the record,
they are those fellows who die and then count themselves.

For the first 22% years after we graduated, I worked for the
New York Life Insurance Company. This is obviously too long.
During those years I] worked on practically all aspects of technical
insurance matters and management, ending as a second vice-presi-
dent. Shortly before leaving for more challenging pastures, I spent
six delightful and rewarding weeks at Arden House, attending the
Columbia Univ ersity Executive Program in Business Administra-
tion, I recommend it to all of you, at the risk of seeming disloyal
to the Harvard Business School, whose thirteen-week “retread”
course is of a similar nature. It was great to have Roy Wallace in
the same group.

For two years and three months, 1943-45, I was in the Navy,
with seventeen months at sea as a fighter director officer on destroy-
ers in the Pacific. I was probably the oldest ensign in the Navy,
saw much action and was awarded the Bronze Star. It was good to
get home.

Now I am engaged in consulting actuarial work, mostly having to
do with the design and installation of pension plans and _profit-
sharing plans. This requires dealing with people as well as things,
some traveling to meet with clients around the country and it is my
dish of tea,

At home, we play bridge, much tennis on our court during the
summer and an occasional late jam session with friends on a Satur-
day night. The trombone still works but requires a mute since my
embouchure is far from what it used to be. The neighbors are far

[ 160 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

enough away so that they can’t hear us and we feel free to play
loud if not good.

I suppose that we should be quite decrepit at this point, but I
don’t feel particularly old. My guess is that next June we'll have a
ball.

JOSEPH AUGUSTINE BRADLEY

 

HOME apprEss: 1108 North Shore Drive, Carlsbad, N. Mex.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 523 W. Fox, Carlsbad, N. Mex.

BORN: March 23, 1914, Lawrence, Mass. parents: Bernard Kerin Bradley, Mary
Cecelia Casey.

PREPARED aT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; MD. (Tufts Univ.), 1939.

MaRRIED: Marguerite Egerton, June 13, 1937, Chelsea, Mass. cuitpreN: Anne
Marie, Sept. 2, 1938; Mary Ellen, March 6, 1942; Bernard Kerin, 3d, Sept.
16, 1944; Joseph Augustine, Jr., Jan. 7, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon — private practice.

OFFICES HELD: Member executive board, Clover Hill Hospital, Lawrence.
Massachusetts, 1950-53; secretary, director, Carlsbad Memorial Hospital,
1954-57; director, Riverside Country Club, 1954-57

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; New Mexico Medical Society;
Massachusetts Medical Society; International College of Surgeons; Ameri-
can Legion; Carlsbad Duplicate Bridge Club.

IN June, 1953, with my wife and four children, I left New Fngland
to live on the Llanos Fstacados. We miss the flaming maples, ‘sigh-
ing pines, and fragrant autumn fires, but find compensation in our
bright sunny days and warm dry air. I still practise surgery, but
less strenuously. Our pleasures are home-made, a cook-out on the
patio, a few rubbers of bridge, and a midnight swim beneath a mil-
lion stars,

[ 161 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

To my sons I have given one piece of advice, Live as close as
you can to the frontiers of thought and space to lead an interesting

life.

D. CHADWICK BRAGGIOTTI

    

HOME apprEss: % R. Braggiotti, Shorehaven, East Norwalk, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Consulate General, Seville, Spain.

BORN: June 19, 1913, Florence, Italy. parents: Isidoro Braggiotti, Lily de
Pourtales Schlesinger.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MarrieD: Charo Tobar, Oct. 14, 1944, Quito, Ecuador. cHiLpren: Landa, Aug.
14, 1946; Francesca, April 7, 1948; Nina, Dec. 17, 1951; Guido Chadwick,
March 17, 1956; Lucy Beatrice, Nov. 16, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHER: Rama Albert Braggiotti, °33.

occupation: U.S. Foreign Service officer, American Consul General.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-consul, Riohacha, Colombia, 1942-43; Third Secretary,
American Embassy, Bogota, Colombia, 1943-44; War Department, Lon-
don, Paris, Berlin, 1944-45; special assistant to ambassador, American
Embassy, Warsaw, Poland, 1945-46; attaché, American Embassy, Buenos
Aires, Argentina, 1947-50; American Embassy, Brussels, Belgium, 1951-533
adviser, U.S. Mission to United Nations, 1953-55; Deputy Chief of Mis-
sion, American Embassy, San Salvador, 1955-56, Congressional liaison
officer, Department of State, 1956-57; American Consul General, Seville,
Spain, since 1957.

MEMBER OF: Varsity Club; Harvard Club of New York; Town and Tennis
Club; A.U.V.; Fox Club, etc.

ABOUT twenty of the twenty-five intervening years have been
spent as a Foreign Service officer of the United States with assign-
ments ranging as far south as Buenos Aires, Argentina; east behind
the Iron Curtain in Warsaw, Poland; and presently as American
Consul General in Seville, Spain. While serving in my second post

[ 162 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

at Bogota, Colombia, I had the great fortune of filling in at my am-
bassador’s dinner table for a distinguished guest who had become
ill and unable to attend, my dinner partner, who was then the
daughter of the FE cuadorian ambassador, has been my wife for the
past ” fifteen years. We have five children, each born in a different
country, which should be par for the course even in the Foreign
Service. Looking back on the golden days of 1931-35 (why is it
we never appreciate them until almost twenty-five vears later? 7), I
feel that the trip to Japan which our baseball team took in 1934 Was
perhaps the strongest influence of my undergraduate days, as I was
bitten by the Foreign Service bug when we were graciously enter-
tained by the then ambassador to Japan, Joseph C. Grew (Harvard
’oz). The years immediately after graduation were spent in a series
of jobs in the tough depression competition in New York City,
finally ending up as divisional export manager at the Vick Chemical
Company.

Looking back, I feel that one of the most important influences of
my life was working my wav through Andover Academy and also
at Harvard as it brought me in contact with a much wider variety
of boys and men and broadened my outlook on life. My w eight
remains the same as freshman year, but the diet is undoubtedly a
bit different (no more of those lovely Billings & Stover double
malteds). 1 have kept up tennis and won the singles championship

in Colombia and still play active doubles of the intense weekend
club variety.

"Fk EDWIN IDE BRAINARD

 

“om Dee, 28, 1912, Arhngton, Mass. parenrs: Fvercet Fdwin Brainard, Emile
de.

[ 163 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

PREPARED aT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; M.B.A., 1937-
MaRRIED: Virginia Davis, Sept. 11, 1937, Arlington, Mass. cHiLpREN: David
]., Feb. 1, 1940; Marilyn L., April 22, 1943; Carol A., June 24, 1949.

piED: Oct. 31, 1950, Arlington, Mass.
wipow: Mrs. Edwin I. Brainard, 19 Scott Rd., Belmont, Mass.

AFTER graduation from the Business School, Brainard became
associated with the United Shoe Machinery Corporation in Boston,
in their Research Division. Later he moved to their Goodyear
Department, then to Priorities Analysis and again to Research for
the war years. At the time of his death he was assistant to the man-
ager of the Goodyear Department.

He was a former member of the Belmont Tennis Club and was

active in Boy Scouts and church work. He was survived by his wife
and children.

PHILIP VAUGHAN BRAY

 

HOME appress: gor Via De La Paz, Pacific Palisades, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Tubular Rivet & Stud Co., Quincy, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 30, 1912, Newton, Mass. parents: Everett Newton Bray, 09,
Esther Ela Clapp.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935,

Married: Dorothy Brightman Gibbs, Oct. 8, 1938, Wareham, Mass. (divorced

1957); Elizabeth Barrett, Jan. 4, 1958. CHILDREN: Gibbs Vaughan, Dec. 19,
1940, Stephanie E., Sept. 18, 1958.

occupation: Branch sales manager, Tubular Rivet & Stud Company.
orFices HELD: Town Moderator and member, various committees, Town of

Rochester, 1947-48, member, 1947~52, Industrial Relations Committee, 1948;
Quincy Chamber of Commerce; various offices, Red Feather and Com-

munity Chest, 1946-51; treasurer, roth A.M.P., Harvard Business School,
[ 164 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
1946; director, Quincy Chapter, Red Cross, 1951; graduate assistant, Dale
Carnegie Institution.

MEMBER OF: Union Boat Club; Harvard Varsity Club; Harvard Club of Beston,
Pacific Palisades Civic League; Pacific Palisades Youth House (life mem-

ber); Pacific Palisades Auxiliary, Children’s Home Society, Sand & Sea
Club.

IN schooldays I watched the masses arriving for their Twenty-fifth
Reunion and thought, “My! What old-old men! One foot's slipped
and the other one’s twitching. This must be their last big fling.
The rest will be just downhill all the way.”

Now, suddenly, I’m one of those old-old men getting ready to
stagger back for my Twenty-fifth, trying to write my memoirs and
water the lawn at the same time — and it’s difficult. I don’t FEEL
old, and life is on an uphill swing. Anyway . . . to go back a few
days.

Upon graduation I entered the family business by wavy of the
basement. There, efforts to learn about manufacturing tubular
rivets and rivet machines were done under a six-foot ceiling. |
was 6 ft. 2 in. A few years later, when I was finally 5 ft. 11 in, 1
moved up into industrial relations. Many patient people had taught
me all they knew and my father’s attempts to curb my intensity
about things had brewed a final, well-spoken, “Dammit! Quit
putting in thumbtacks with a sledgehammer!”

There were a few times in the new position when a sledgehammer
would have been a fine thing. Time passes and one moves on. This
time to production planning, personnel, market research and cotfee
breaks. Perhaps a man’s job-status does not influence his personal
life but somewhere along here I was married and produced a son.
During this period life assumed a pattern identical with thousands
of others. Work, home, community affairs, friends, fights and per-
petually shingles for the roof.

Things might have continued for the next hundred vears this
way if the company had not had the bright idea of sending me
forth into a world of five states with a plane ticket in one hand and
a branch sales manager's plaque in the other. The very prospect
appalled me. Some months later a startling realization hit me. In
this position P'd found a quality called “zest,” which for motivation
beats mere duty all hollow. I began to do things. Like buying the
organ I'd always wanted and learning to play it, Those whe sv
my early practice lessons broke up my marriage are just trying to
be w itty and don’t listen to them, Occasionally two very nine

[ 165 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

people have almost a genius for bringing out the worst .
other — and so it was with us,
When the dust of divorce finally settled I determined ne
marry again. Women are fine... to look at. A wondert
and the pleasure of work; these were to be my future. Thre
\ater L met Elizabeth, Three months later we were married
conjoined to grow old gently and in quietude together. HA'
\mmediately the company sent me to the West Coast to de
HS potentialities, Just as suddenly the potentialities of marriag
came evident and in a brief seven months we found ourselves
ing at four pounds’ worth of baby who, on a clear day, could dr
out any twelve other babies you might pinch, The child is
couth but she’s marvelous.
So here 1 am, old man. Working seven days a week, bury
babies, picking the morning orange juice from a tree instead c
supermarket and going to the beach on Thanksgiving to cool

and to take time to realize what a thankful time this, my Twen
fatth, 1s going to be.

FORREST GODEREY von BRECHT

    

HOME AppRESS: 6 Forest Ridge, Clayton 5, Mo.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Brecht & Co.; Quick Part, Inc., 1173 Reco St., St.
worn: Dec, 23, 1913, Clayton, Mo, parents: Frank Alexander
Flavia ©, Lynch,

PREPARED at: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1920-1035. DEGREES: 8.B., 1935; BE. (Univ. 0!
Manaiep: Catharine Hewit Bull, Jan. 16, 1943, St. Louis,

Nov. 13, 19435 Ann, May 18, 1946, Barbara, March 3, 1950; Nancy»

Louis 26, Mo.
von Brecht,

{£ Missouri), 1946
Mo. cHILDREN: Key,

78, 1954,
waRvaan BrorutR: Corwin Hamilton von Brecht, ’29.

[ 166 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
occuPATION: President, Quick Part, Inc. manufacturers; engineer, management
consultant, owner, Brecht & Company.

OFFICES HELD: Manager, Manufacturing Engincering, 1946-55, Armament Pro-
duction, 1955-57, White-Rodgers Company.

MEMBER OF: National and Missouri Societies of Professional Engincers, Ameri-
can Institute of Industrial Engincers; Engineers’ Club of St. Louis; American
Society of Tool Engineers,

PUBLICATIONS: “Progressive Dies,” Chap. 11, American Society of Tool Engineers’
Die Design Handbook 1950.

AND as you learn, you will see all laws of engineering and physics
have a sameness of meaning and form.” Professor A. E. Norton
was talking to me as a very discouraged engineering student in his
office at Peirce Hall. Through the first few years of general con-
tract work in New England on bridges, reservoirs and sewers, some
of his meaning became apparent. Later as chief manufacturing engi-
neer of an electrical contro] manufacturer, this became even more
obvious as the laws of statics were blended with those of electricity
and dynamics and these in turn amplified in passing them to the
younger engineers.

The war ended with totally new concepts. A new branch of
science and industry had been founded with the introduction of
nucleonics. The bridge had been made between matter and energy.
With it came the importance of control either to produce atomic
energy or carry it to its target. For the control manufacturer it
meant a widening of engineering concepts and the thrill of watch-
ing the younger engineers actually using their professional knowl-
edge to arrive at solutions heretofore insolvable. The engineer, now
a professional, had fulfilled the ambitions and dreams of his prede-
cessors. A challenge remains to see how capably he can fultill his
social responsibilities and in this challenge a glimmer of the divine
purpose of knowledge and its use.

Fach of us fulfills this ditferently. For me it has meant the estab-
lishment of a manufacturing company for the manufacture of com-
ponents used by engineers and industry. It has meant the beginning
of a management consultant firm w ith the hope of assisting “others

The aid of a lovely wife, four girls and a wonderful mother-in-
law give time for such reflection, Physical needs are in part sup-
plied by working out on the tennis court and an occasional fall

tramp in field and wood with dog and gun. Esthetic needs have been
met by the design and eventual building of a home.

[ 167 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

THOMAS MATTHEW BREEN

 

HOME apprEss: 207 Wellington Rd., Garden City, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Suite 1100 E., 160 Broadway, New York 38, N.Y.

BORN: April 2, 1913, Brooklyn, N.Y. Parents: Matthew Thomas Breen,
Beatrice Moloney.

PREPARED AT: Brooklyn Preparatory School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933. DEGREES: LL.B. (Brooklyn Law School), 1939;
LL.M. (ibid.), 1940.

MarRiED: Helen Mary Huber, July 5, 1952, Richmond Hill, N.Y. cHILpREN:
Helen Mary, Oct. 8, 1953; Thomas, Feb. 29, 1956; Joan Beatrice, Nov. 11,

1959.

occuPpaTIon: Attorney.

MEMBER OF: Democratic Club of Garden City; American Bar Association,
New York County Lawyers Association, New York Plainuffs Trial
Lawyers Association; National Association of Claimants’ Compensation
Attorneys.

FIRST of all, I found out that a Harvard education afforded no
insulation against the Great Depression. Through hard work, I
succeeded in getting my law degree and passing the bar examina-
tion.

During World War II, I served in England and France. After
discharge from the Army in 1946, I began practising law. Most of
my work has dealt with accident cases, especially in the marine field.

Now I am a Long Island commuter. We have a pleasant home
in Garden City — it has to be nice after the rigors of traveling. My
elder girl is in the first grade at school. Her sister was born on
November, 11, 1959. I have one son— who was born in 1956—a
Leap Year baby.

We are concerned with the future of our children. Life does
not seem as strong as during the twenties or thirties. Perhaps we
were not as perceptive in our youth. Perhaps twenty-five years of

[ 168 j

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

living have made us more aware of the dangers and the shifting
opposition that confront the United States. It seems to me our
best hope is hard work and prayer.

- HENRY HODGE BREWSTER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2347 Tudor Drive, Cleveland Heights 6, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: School of Medicine, Western Reserve University, Cleveland,
Ohio; Hanna Pavilion, University Hospitals, Cleveland 6, Ohio.

BORN: Oct. 20, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: George Washington Wales Brew-
ster, 89, Ellen Wilson Hodge,

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREE: M.D. 1938.

MARRIED: Katharine Peabody, June 23, 1939, Milton, Mass. cuuprex: Rodman
Peabody, Aug. 15, 1942; Ellen Hodge, Aug. 16, 1946; Henry Hodge, Jr,
July 29, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Ledyard Brewster, °27, L1.B, °30; George Washing-
ton Wales Brewster, ’29, M.ARCH, 736.

OccUPATION: Psychiatry and psychoanalysis; assistant professor of psychiatry,
Western Reserve School of Medicine; instructor, Cleveland Psvchoanalvuc
‘Training Center.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, St. Michael's Church, Milton, Mass. 1932-345; seere-
tary, 1956-58, member, Educational Committee, Cleveland Psychoanalvuc
Training Center; member, Budget Committee, Amencan Psychoanal ue
Association, since 1957.

MEMBER OF: Kirtland Country Club; Cleveland Skiing Club; St. Andrew's
Lodge, Boston; American Psychoanalytic Association; Amencan Psyche
atric Association; American Psychosomatic Society; Amencan Medical

Association; Cleveland Academy of Medicine.

pusLications: “The Use of Ether in the Narcoanalysis of Patients with War
Neurosis,” New England Journal of Medicine, 1946; “The Grief Situation,”
chapter in Psychiatry and Religion, edited by Joshua L. Liebman, Boston,
Beacon Press, 1948; “Separation Reaction in Neurosis and Psy chosamaoe
Disease,” Psychosomatic Medicine, 1933, “Twin-like Behavier in: Noa-
Twins,” Psychosomatic Medicine, igs.

[ 169 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

JULES BRICKEN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3345 Adina Drive, Hollywood 28, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Revue Studios, Universal City, Calif.

BORN: Feb. 4, 1915, New York, N.Y. parents: Abraham Bricken, Bessie Buck.

PREPARED AT: Columbia Grammar School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

Marriep: Alene Erlanger, July 18, 1945, New York, N.Y. cupren: Charles,
July 16, 1947; Alexander, April 16, 1949.

occupaTION: Film director-producer.

OFFICES HELD: Television producer and/or director at: Columbia Pictures,
1949-53 (Cavalcade of America, The Ford Theatre, The Christophers) ;
Revue Productions, 1954 (The Ray Milland Show); Twentieth Century
Fox, 1955-56 (The Twentieth Century Fox Hour); United Artists, 1957
(directed feature film); Revue Productions, 1957-60 (G.E. Theatre, Lux
Theatre, Schlitz Playhouse, Alfred Hitchcock Show, Suspicion, River-
boat).

MEMBER OF: Screen Directors’ Guild; Television Producers’ Guild; Yale Drama
Alumni Association; Academy of Television Arts and Sciences; Harvard
Club of Southern California; Los Angeles County Museum, Cabrillo Beach
Yacht Club.

SINCE college my consuming interests have been film and theatre.
This has involved long apprenticeships in miscellaneous jobs and
the characteristic zigzagging of a show business career. The last
twenty-five years have blocked out as follows: about ten years in
New York and New England, three of which were spent at the
Yale Department of Drama, and the rest on Broadway; five years
in the Army Signal Corps during World War II, making special
purpose films; the last ten years in California and the film business.

I suppose all I ever wanted to do was to direct films because it was
a field that brought together all my interests — the visual arts,
photography, literature, music, and people. (How nice to make a
profession out of one’s hobbies!) As I look back, it was an easy

[172]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

thing to want and a hard thing to get. I found out that there was
no regular way to become a film director. The only profound
guidance I received was “to be a film director, all you have to do is
to be hired as one.” Well, for the last fiften years I have been direct-
ing. I am not sure that my work has achieved any distinction or
prominence, but I am sure that I have enjoyed doing it.

As a dyed-in-the-wool New Yorker, | must say that living in
California has its compensations. We have a crude but comfortable
seventy-year-old ranch house with, as my younger son puts it, “a
perfectly good garden,” and access to year-round sailing. (It :
sailing that has become the focal point of our family activi ity.) A
for hobbies, I still retain my old ones: books, photography, and
music, with my interest in books dominating the others as time goes
on.

As lam not given to philosophical observations, I hesitate to make
assertions about “values,” “ways of life,” etc., that I may have dis-
covered these last twenty- -five years. Because of my w ork, I have
spent as much time with the world of i imagination as with the real
world. In neither place did I ever find any black and white, hard
rule for a “way of life” or for achieving happiness. For me, contra-
diction, elusiveness, and gray areas predominate to the point where
pattern does not pertain and the matrix dissolves. So I have no
nugget of wisdom to share on this, our Twenty-fifth Anniv ersary
Reunion. At least, I like to tell myself that w hatever it is that I've
learned in twenty-five years, I cannot compress it into a nugget.

RALPH EBERHARD vox BRIESEN

 

HOME ADbRESS: go6s N. Richland Ct. Shorewood 1, Wis,
OFFICE ADDRESS; 13g VW. Wells St, Milwaukee 3, Wis.

(173 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

BORN: Jan. 6, 1915, Milwaukee, Wis. PARENTS: Ernst von Briesen, LL.B., ’03,
Camilla Bickler.

PREPARED AT: Shorewood High School, Milwaukee, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. Cu laude, 1935; LL.B. (Univ. of
Wisconsin), 1938.

MARRIED: Dorothy Clark, June 10, 1939, Racine, Wis. cHiLprEN: Richard, Feb.
16, 19413 Mary, July 28, 1943; Katherine, April 3, 1945; Ann, Jan. 26, 1949.

HARVARD SON: Richard von Briesen, ’63.

HARVARD BROTHER: Ernst Jacob von Briesen, ’29.

occupation: Attorney; partner, von Briesen & Redmond.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Wisconsin and Milwaukee Bar
Associations; president, Milwaukee Junior Bar Association, Child Care
Centers, Inc. Milwaukee Harvard Club; secretary, Home for Aged
Lutherans, Probate Section, Wisconsin Bar Association.

MEMBER OF: North Shore Community Concert Association (former president).

PUBLICATIONS: Law Review articles; article in Annals of American Society of
Political and Social Science.

NEVER did I think that I would be writing a Twenty-fifth Re-
union report when yet so young. The Twenty-fifth Reunioners
that were visible during our graduation time were much older.
But then they probably accomplished more in their twenty-five
years than I seem to have. Making a living seems to have occupied
an awful lot of time.

Fortunately, making a living as a lawyer has not been unpleasant.
I have been lucky to have as partners after my father’s death in
1943 my brother (Ernst J. von Briesen, ’29) and another con-
genial and able fellow. No two days in the practice are alike and
there is continual novelty of problems— and solutions. Mankind
hasn’t been bettered by any spectacular new law [ve developed,
but there have been satisfactions in helping people over rough
spots here and there, and in being a part, at least, in the great and
usually honorable profession.

A lawyer often has opportunities, or requests, to lend his talents
to church, professional and civil activities. Once in a while I think
Pve not done my part, but then again I wonder when [ll get time
to practise law. For quite a few years I have been secretary of the
Home for Aged Lutherans and have seen it develop from a custo-
dial institution into a very meaningful way of life, spiritually and
physically, for a growing number of elders. Church Council mem-
bership and legal work for various Lutheran agencies have been
forums for use of my legal training, too.

In bar activities, I have had satisfaction from helping to establish
one of the early Legal Referral Plans (a positive approach to the

[ 174 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

problem of people who listen to poor legal advice from bartenders
and others unauthorized, even if qualified, to dispense opinions)
and from helping to provide the state’s lawyers with improved
legal forms in probate practice, Besides conforming to the law
more exactly than the old, the new forms help us unautomated
workers to turn out the job a little faster and simpler. I've en-
joyed membership on local and state bar boards of directors.
Among various civil projects, I have been chairman of a Com-
munity Welfare Council committee that has struggled long with
a thorny problem related to handicapped children. I’ve taken my
turn as head of the local Harvard Club and have enjoyed several
meetings of the Associated Harvard Clubs. We sent some good
boys to Cambridge but those two other schools have lured their
share away from us, too.
Law School at the University of Wisconsin provided not only
a chance to learn, but also to meet my wife, Dorothy. Since she
holds a law degree, I thought my work would be cut in half. How-
ever, she contends that raising four children and being active in
various church and civic projects prevents her writing a brief or
drafting a will. At present, she is Wisconsin chairman of American
Field Service International Scholarships, a labor of love to foster
peace through greater understanding. In reality, this is practically
a full-time job and all of us, her family, are proud of her work.
The A.F.S. involvement came about because we had two
European high school youngsters live with us a year and subse-
quently had youngsters from all over the world for shorter stavs.
We visited some, and some traveled with us when we took our
family to Europe two years ago. The American Bar Association
convention in London was the immediate purpose for the trip and
from there we toured the Continent in a Volkswagen bus. Elaving
enjoyed a good deal of family camping all over the United States,
we decided to try it in Europe and were all rewarded with inter-
esting experiences and a low budget. Dick, now a freshman at
Harvard, and the three girls (down to age eight) were most en-
thusiastic about the trip — repayment enough to Dorothy and me.
With a son writing letters from Cambridge, my interest in’ Hare

vard is being rekindled — and Tam looking forward to the Reunion
with great anticipation,

[175]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

CLEMENT ALDEN BRIGGS

  

HOME ApbREss: Marshall Street, Duxbury, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hall’s Corner, Duxbury, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 26, 1913, Plymouth, Mass. parents: Elmer LeRoy Briggs, Susan
Beatrice Miner.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: §.B., 1935; LL.B. (Boston Uniy.).

MARRIED: Marion Elizabeth Shipley, April 9, 1941 (divorced 1950); Helen Dean
Blackler, Nov. 21, 1951. CHILDREN: Susan Shipley, Jan. 26, 1944; John
Sheldon, Dec. 27, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Mendall Briggs, ’37, LL.B., ’40.

OCCUPATION: Attorney. :

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Old Colony Harvard Club; Duxbury
Yacht Club; Kiwanis Club of Duxbury; Massachusetts Bar Association;
Boston University Law School Association; Middlesex Club; Duxbury
Grange; Massachusetts Society of Mayflower Descendants; Duxbury
Rural and Historical Society; Marshfield Agricultural and Horticultural
Society.

I WAS fortunate enough upon graduation from law school to open

a small office for private practice in the town of Duxbury (often

called “the gem of the South Shore”), in Massachusetts, In all fair-

ness, credit for the choice of location should go to my father, a far
wiser man than I, who had spent his life as a lawyer and judge in
this vicinity.

For over twenty years now, mine has been the only law office in
this charming New England town which has remained so far com-
pletely residential in character, largely through the foresight of a
few persons who carefully planned and zoned the town as growth
came to it.

It has been a great source of satisfaction to be able to help fellow
townsmen with such of their varied problems as have required

[176 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

legal assistance, and at the same time in a small way contribute to
the orderly growth of an historic town preserving always, as far
as possible, its traditions and charm.

The golf course is located within a half-mile of my office, and
when things get too hectic and confused, and the telephone rings
between every other word of dictation, I take my nine iron and
go down to the fifth green, where I chip a dozen balls in the general
direction thereof before returning to my desk and more of the
same.

Believe me, a country practice is not a five- or six- hour-a-day job
simply because I live two minutes from my work, but rather a
twenty-four- -hour-a-day job, since all the people who live and work
in town expect to find me during the day, and all those who com-
mute and work out of town expect to find me nights and weekends.
All the same, I love it, and if I had my life to live over I would do
the same thing — practise law in Duxbury.

The great disappointment of my life is not to have my two
wonderful children living with me and enjoy with them their: grow-
ing up and their daily life and routine. However, they live with
their mother in nearby Hingham, and the children join me nearly
every week for dinner, entertainment, recreation or a trip of one
sort or another. John is already planning a career as an architect,
and — who knows — maybe Harvard.

JOSEPH LISTER BRODRICK

poser us Po RGU oe TOA SE

CT

inc ar nice tance atl

TELA pipes enigma SE cn to pgp
o
Be
oT ab Cha tha

  

HOME appress: Bown 98, Lucerne Mines, Pa, 37g S. River Sc, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

OFFICE aporess: U.S. Dept. of Labor, 1g N. Main Se, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

BORN: March 12, 1ott, Lubach, Austria, Parents: Joseph Brodrick, Anna
Tomasin.,

(177 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

PREPARED AT: Collinwood High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933, 1935-1937. DEGREE: S.B., cuz? laude, 1935 (38).

Marrigep: Anne M. Nibus, Indiana, Pa, (divorced 1946). CHILDREN: Carl, 1938
(died May, 1943); Thomas, 1939.

occupaTion: Field representative, U.S. Department of Labor.

MEMBER OF: Elks; Toastmasters International of Wilkes-Barre; Harvard Club
of Northeastern Pennsylvania.

I HAVE no success story to write about. I was defeated in war —
taken prisoner in 1944 by the Germans in the Battle of the Bulge
(Waterloo to me). I was divorced from my spouse in 1946 and
left to wander the life of a bachelor ever since. Then I ended up
as a government employee with the relatively small pay that goes
with government employment. The grass still looks greener on the
other side of the fence.

Sometimes I almost feel sorry for myself, as the government does
not pay much. But the work does provide variety, and lots of va-
riety. Quite a contrast to my previous position with a coal minin
company where I saw, heard and talked nothing but coal day after
day, month after month, My present job as field representative of
the U.S. Department of Labor has all the variety for which one
could ask. There is also a matter of security in government employ-
ment in the federal civil service. One day my stockbroker cautioned
me against leaning too heavily on investments where potential gains
were attractive but where the risks of loss were also great. It was
very comforting to be able to tell him I didn’t need to worry too
much about security. If a crash comes along, and if I get wiped out
in the process —I won't starve. So much for being a slave of the
government.

Needless to say, graduation from Harvard College was the most
important event in my life up to that time. After that, nothing of
great importance happened in my life until I found myself under
enemy fire at close quarters just before the liberation of Paris.
Served in the 28th Infantry Division, U.S. Army and was wounded
and got captured alive in the Battle of the Bulge on December 17,

1944. Spent the next five months as an unwelcome and ill-fed guest
of the enemy behind a barbed wire fence in Germany, where I
rapidly went down from my normal 160 pounds to about one hun-
dred pounds and remained the next four months at the latter figure
(rather skinny figure, I would say), until the end of the war. I

came back alive, but a divorce made me a war casualty ¢ anyway, at
least in the marital sense.

[178]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I have been living the irresponsible life of a bachelor ever since.
That state of affairs has its advantages. Fnough said. Hobbies —
music and coin collecting.

ROBERT SOMERS BROOKINGS, II

  

é “ aad
4 » ¢
6 eh.
ipo
-.
N ‘ 5 Fem,
, }
= /

HOME ADDRESS: 5111 Watson St. N.W., Washington 16, D.C

OFFICE ADDRESS: Headquarters Taiwan Base Command, APO 63. San Francisco,
Calif.

BORN: June 27, 1912, Redlands, Calif. parexts: Walter Du Bois Brookings, ‘9s.
Marian Kinney.

PREPARED AT: Episcopal High School, Alexandria, Va.; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 1935; M.Ba. (Univ. of Pennsylvania),
1938.

MARRIED: Virginia Sargent, Mav 16, 1945, Alexandria, Va.

HARVARD BROTHER: WValter Du Bois Brookings, Jr., "37.

OCCUPATION: Captain, U.S. Navy; present: assignment, commander, Taiwan
Base Command, with headquarters at Taipei, Taiwan,

OFFICES HELD: Assistant in dealer relations department, Johns- Manville Corpora-
tion, New York City, 1938-40; active duty, US. Navy, rgyo-4s. com
mander, USS Craven, 1945-46, administrations and operanons officer,
Bikini Scientific Resurvey Expedition, tgyr, executive officer, Naval
Ordnance Plant, Alexandria, Va. togt-4o: operations and training orhser,
Naval Group Joint Military Mission for Aid co Turkey, Ankara, Purkey,
1949-52; commander, USS Gainard, 1952-54. Operations omcer, staff of
commander, Destrover Flotilla Six, rgsg-s¢: US. naval attache, Amencan
Embassy, accredited to Sourh Vietnany Cambodia and Laos rye 38,
commander, USS Fore Snelling, vas8-59, commander, Tarwan Raise Com-
mand, Fapei, Taiwan, since rgsg.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Army-Navy Country Club, Aciog-
ton, Virginia.

IN accordance with the tradinoen of che dav, L followed my facher

[ 179 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

to get back to the United States for the Reunion, and intend to
make every effort to do so.

Such a peripatetic life might seem exhausting even for a family
with no children, and I must admit we do long for a spell of settled
living in the United States; but it has brought us a host of fascinating
experiences and interesting friends. Overseas posts in critical re-
gions of the world where large U.S. military and economic aid pro-
grams are in progress have entailed official and social contacts with
many U.S. and foreign military, diplomatic and government officials.
In addition to official travel we have taken many side trips on our
own to such places as Kashmir, Hong Kong, Kyoto, Java, Tasmania,
Aegean Islands, Victoria Falls to mention a few. And in connec-
tion with my sea duty, my wife frequently “followed the fleet”
from port to port when my ship was operating in the Mediterranean.

Looking back, my career so far would appear to be a combina-
tion of inclination and circumstances, Harvard and Navy. In any
case, its greatest reward for me has been the opportunity to play a
small part in some of the most challenging politico-military situa-
tions being faced by the United States today.

ALEXANDER BROWN

 

HOME ApbRESS: 22 Bernard Lane, Waban 68, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 73 Newbury St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: March 16, 1914, Boston, Mass, parents: Barney Brown, Ada Soroker.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1936. DEGREE: AB. 1935 (36).

MaRRIED: Laura Appleton, Aug. 12, 1942, Boston, Mass. cHiLp: Barry, Oct. 20,

1946.
occuPaTion: President, Barry Builders, Inc.; treasurer, Laura Appleton Interiors,

Inc,

[ 182 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

orrices HELD: Member, C.J.A. Drive, 1957-58, chairman, Furniture Division,
Heart Fund Campaign, 1957-58.
MEMBER OF: Sidney Hill Country Club; Pine Brook Country Club.

IT hardly seems possible that twenty-five years have elapsed since
that memorable day that the sheepskin so urgently strived for from
matriculation to graduation was duly awarded. As a matter of fact
the last twenty-five years as a graduate surely seem to have passed
with greater alacrity than the undergraduate four.

I imagine that the first ten years after graduation were typical
with most of us, as represented by job hunting, marriage and serv-
ice in one of the military organizations. My case history shows that
in August of 1942 I took unto myself a wife, with whom I enjoyed
four months of bliss prior to entering the U.S. Coast Guard. In
March of 1943 I was assigned to the Coast Guard Academy in New
London for reserve officers’ training. In June of 1943, I was gradu-
ated from the Academy and assigned, as commanding officer, to the
Coast Guard Cutter 83477. Pending her commissioning I returned
to the Academy until September 4th, where I saw duty as an in-
structor in small boat handling. After fourteen months’ duty
aboard the cutter, | was relieved of this duty and assigned to the
U.S. Army F.S. 282, a 176’ freight and supply ship with duty in
the Pacific. In November of 1945, after five months as a patient in
the U.S. Naval Hospital in Long Beach, California, I returned to
take up married life with my bride of four months.

The last fifteen years have produced many changes, all for the
better. On October 20, 1946, my son Barry was born and one
year later we purchased our first home in Newton. Five years
later we added a dog to keep our son company and then purchased
a large home in the older section of Waban, so that the dog would
have room to live with us. In 1953, after fourteen years’ association
with my brother in business, we sold our stores and ] was without
gainful employment.

During the years that I was in service and up to 1953, my wife
had gathered quite a reputation in the field of interior design.
Under her maiden name of Laura Appleton she had formed her
own company which was incorporated in 1949. For want of keep-
ing busy I entered the firm in 1953 and proceeded to develop a
hitherto unrecognized liking for the arts as applied to residential
and commercial interior design. At the present time, after six years’
association with my wife in this field, I can truly say that 1 like
what Pm doing. Since I have participated activ ely in this firm,

[ 183 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

we have enlarged the scope of our activities, and today I believe
that we represent the foremost firm of our type in this area.

And so to the present. It is just two weeks since my son was con-
firmed in the traditional Hebrew manner, and having been given
his desire, that being a sailboat of the “Firefly” class, we have all
settled down to the short wait till June, at which time we three
hope to “reune” with classmates and friends of yesteryear. See
you then.

FRANCIS HOLT BROWN

 

HOME ApprEss: 1007 Yorkshire St., Grosse Pointe, Mich.

OFFicE apprEss: Comptroller’s Staff, Chrysler Corp., 341 Massachusetts Ave.,
Detroit 31, Mich.

BORN: June 1, 1913, Grand Rapids, Mich. parents: Francis Eugene Brown,
Mary Nelson,

PREPARED AT: South High School, Grand Rapids, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MARRIED: Bertha Mae Hart, Dec. 14, 1936, Grand Rapids, Mich. CHILDREN:
James F., Oct. 11, 1940; Thomas H., Oct, 20, 1944; Nancy L., March 13,
1946.

occuPaTION: Accounting.

NO questionnaire returned.

[ 184 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HERBERT JAMES BROWN

TERN SERS oe,

Lata hee ag
Bee

Na CIR TG Be Bt ig Airs REBT

  

HOME ADDRESS: 17 Greenwood Rd., Natick, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Anderson-Nichols & Co., 150 Causeway St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 30, 1912, Lynn, Mass. parents: James H. Brown, Josephine Egan.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MARRIED. CHILDREN: Two. GRANDCHILDREN: Two.

occupation: General partner, Anderson-Nichols & Company; responsible for
Division of Management Production Industrial Systems and Procedures;
registered professional engineer, Massachusetts.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Profile Electronics, Inc., Concord, New Hampshire.

MEMBER OF: Framingham Country Club.

HosBiEs: Music — golf.

KENNETH WRIGHT BROWN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 106 Foster St., Cambridge 38, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Godfrey L. Cabor, Inc., 125 High St, Boston ra, Mass.

BORN: July to, 1912, Reading, Mass. parents: Arthur Harrison Brown, Nelle
Abigail Kenney.

PREPARED aT: Newton Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

[ 185 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 19353; LL.B., 1938.

MaRRIED: Mary Virginia Nelms, June 12, 1944, Norfolk, Va. cup: Kendra
Ann Brown, July 15, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Freeman Brown, 2d, ’36,
occupation: Chief patent counsel, Godfrey L. Cabot, Inc.
OFFICES HELD: Chairman, standing committee, First Unitarian Church, Cam-

bridge, 1954-57; director, Cambridge Y.M.C.A., 1955-57; director, United
Prison Association, since 1952.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; American Patent Law Association;
Boston Bar Association; Boston Patent Law Association; Harvard Clubs
of Boston and New York, Eastern Yacht Club; Cambridge Boat Club;
Society of Former Special Agents of the F.B.L, Inc.

puBLications: “The Patent Process,” Rubber Age.

LIFE consists of many episodes separated by much living. These
may be pleasant or unpleasant, stimulating or depressing, but what-
ever they are they supply color to the monochrome of existence.
As every novelist knows, almost any desired picture may be drawn
of a subject by appropriate selection of events and their effect
upon him. As this is not a novel, I shall content myself with facts
pertinent to my progress through the working world and leave to
the later writing of my memoirs the more personal aspects of my
life.

HARVARD LAW SCHOOL, LL.B., 1938. How much memory
these words evoke! Three years in the pursuit of professional train-
ing, the stimulus of disputation with trained legal minds, the bore-
dom of digesting thousands of court decisions, the discouragements
and small triumphs in seeking to master the incredible complexities
of many years of judicial pronouncements subtly mutating with
sociological progress, the receipt of a degree implying competence
to resolve all of the legal problems of mankind,

GENERAL LAW PRACTICE, 1938-1942 — in which time one
quickly learned how little one really knew about the law and the
complexities of human affairs. Yet this was a valuable time in
which the tools of the trade were cast, forged and tempered. Many,
perforce, were returned to the crucible for remelting and remold-
ing but gradually the tools became keener and retained their cutting
edges for longer periods of use. Many a will, contract and bill of
complaint and many a case for trial went into the forging and sharp-
ening of the tools of the trade. Also included was some dabbling
in politics, though only as a worker, never as a candidate for office.

F.B.1., 1942-1945. These were the war years when so many of
us, often for the first time, were uprooted from our accustomed

[ 186 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

lives and activities. For me, this was a fascinating introduction to
interstatial living. I cannot say that I personally ‘apprehended any
spies or saboteurs, as most of them had already been caught by my
fellow agents before my arrival on the scene. It is rew arding to
know, however, that my presence had some useful effect. Addition-
ally the experience was extremely valuable, and rew arding in its
by-products, as in my wanderings about the country I acquired a
wife in Virginia and a daughter in Oklahoma.

GENERAL PRACTICE, 1946-1947. The less said about this
period the better. It was a time of rampant post-war neurosis from
which I did not altogether escape. It was likewise a time of restless-
ness and readjustment, aggravated by the beginning of the creeping
inflation.

THE PROMISED LAND, 1948-. Opportunity knocked and I
let him in. Without previous experience in the field I became the
first house patent counsel of Godfrey L. Cabot, Inc., a long-estab-
lished Boston-based chemical company then principally engaged
in the manufacture of carbon black, This unlikely marriage turned
out to be a very happy one for me and presumably satisfactory to
the company since I am still there after twelve years of continuous
service. The patent department, of which I am the head, now con-
sists of four of us plus a large stable of outside patent attorneys and
agents scattered throughout the United States and some thirty
foreign countries. By reason of our extensive foreign operations 1
have become something of a commuter to Europe, which commu-
tation will probably increase as a result of our numerous hcensing
and manufacturing ventures abroad plus litigation in several coun-
tries. As a result of my licensing experience I have been invited to
lecture on several occasions at seminars of the American Manage-
ment Association.

While it was a long time coming, the perfect job, from my point
of view, finally appeared. With it have come many satisfactions and
some of the good material things of life, including a summer home
at Marblehead. For release of the i inevitable and currently popular
tensions of life I have my handmade kvack in which to take to sea.

So at the risk of tempting fate I can sav that life is good. Mav it
continue so for all of us.

[ 187]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

tT ROGER DUDLEY BROWN

 

BoRN: Feb. 19, 1911, Malden, Mass. ParENTs: Howard Dudley Brown, ’96,
Phebe Steere.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1035. DEGREE: S.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Dorothy Bullens. cHtLpREN: David Dudley; Richard Steere.

prep: March 27, 1944, Camp Lee, Va.
wipow: Mrs. Roger D. Brown, 254 Porter St., Melrose, Mass.

AFTER graduation Brown spent two years as a salesman for the
American Mutual Liability Insurance Company in Lancaster, Penn-
sylvania. He then became associated with the Berger Manufactur-
ing Company, a division of Republic Steel Corporation. In De-
cember, 1943, he entered the service as a private and was stationed
at Camp Lee, Virginia, at the time of his death. He was survived
by his wife and two sons.

RICHARD JOHN BRY

  
 

    
  

     

wn
S ne ‘» |

  
 

at

~ oo {|
\

I

8 LAAT REN ITI eT Tee

eee

sty

&

 

-_
@ye

HOME appress; 146 Four Brooks Rd., Stamford, Conn.

[ 188 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rosewood Fabrics, Inc., 1410 Broadway, New York, N.Y,

BoRN: Sept. 7, 1914, New York, N.Y. parents: Louis Bry, Mae Gertrude
Speyer.

PREPARED AT: Barnard School for Boys, Riverdale, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. Cum laude, 1935.

MarRieD: Betty Ann Reiffel, Feb. 6, 1949, New York, N.Y. cHitpres: Ellen
Jane, Feb. 13, 19§15 William 1, Jan. 8, 1955; John David Louis, July 7,
1958.

occuPATION: Textile salesman, New England, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania
and Maryland territories, for Rosewood Fabrics, Inc., manufacturers of
synthetic fabrics for men’s wear.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

1 GRADUATED from Harvard reasonably well-grounded in Middle
English, thanks to Jere Whiting, but with only the foggiest notion
of how to survive in the business world. Two facts, however, were
painfully obvious, It is pleasant to eat, and clothes cost money.
Like it or lump it, I had to earn a living.

At school I had concentrated in English plus publicity work for
the Harvard Dramatic Club. In a vague sort of way, I felt that I
wanted to write, just what I wasn’t sure, but newspaper work
seemed a logical point of departure. Logical to me, that is. The
New York newspapers thought differently.

With the sharp edge of the depression at their throats and one
paper after another floundering, editors seemed more concerned
with firing, than hiring, writers. Openings for cub reporters in the
big dailies were non-existent, so my choice was narrowed.

“The Brooklyn Daily Eagle” was willing to hire me as an assist-
ant in circulation (viz.—to ring doorbells). This I couldn't swal-
low . . . Then the editor of Retailing, a Fairchild trade publication
covering home furnishings, offered me a reporting-rewrite job under
the furniture editor. Salary; eighteen dollars a week. [ took it.

Retailing in those days was a weekly with a Thursday evening
deadline. Once I had caught the swing ‘of the work, I found that 1
could gather the news of the market, type my stories and lay out
the furniture section with ease in a couple of days. The balance of
the time went into browsing the Fourth Avenue book stalls and
writing short stories in the reading room of the Forty-second Street
Public Library. One of these ultimately Was published by Esyurre.

At the end of two years I had adv anced to furniture editor and
twenty-four dollars a weck. Because the rest of the statf earned
between forty dollars and sixty dollars (not bad in 1937), and did
identical work, [I felt slightly underpaid, Also, T was more than a

[ 189 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ALDEN BRYAN

 

HOME apbpRESS: Jeffersonville, Vt., Rocky Neck, Gloucester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Windridge Farms, Jeffersonville, Vt.,; The Bryan Gallery,
Gloucester, Mass.

BORN: May 3, 1913, Carthage, Mo. parents: Millard Bryan, Pauline Kirke.

PREPARED AT: Joplin High School, Joplin, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1031-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1035.

MarrieD: Mary Taylor Lewis. cuitp: Alden Taylor, Feb. 5, 1937.

HARVARD SON: Alden Taylor Bryan, ’62.

HARVARD BROTHER: Kirke Bryan, 728, LL.B., 732.

occupaTION: Artist; owner, Windridge Farms Enterprises.

MEMBER OF: Grand Central Art Gallery; North Shore Art Association; Guild
of Boston Artists; Rockport Art Association; Copley Society of Boston;
Salmagundi Club of New York.

In autumn, when the

Leaves are brown,

Take pen and ink

And write it down.

— Through The Looking Glass.

Thus we are exhorted by the chairman of the Class Report to face
this “autumnal task” now and set down, without further delay, the
facts and facets of our lives.

Well, we who have perhaps not quite reached the autumn of our
lives are certainly beginning to feel that chill wind breathing down
our necks, and what with all this crimson printing matter flooding my
mail box — R.F.D.—I am, alas, convinced that the Twenty-fifth
Anniversary is actually upon us,

“Where shall I begin,
please your majesty?”
he asked. “Begin at the
beginning,” the King

[ 194 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

said, gravely, “and go
on till you come to the
end: then stop.”

To make a beginning, perhaps like many of the Class, I reach for
the last, the 'wentieth Anniversary Report, to see what others
have been doing and possibly get an idea on how to start.

But what do I find? The first thing is that here, only twenty
years after, nearly ten percent of us are dead! This melancholy
approach will never do. What next? I leaf through the Report
looking for the names of classmates which are now household
words throughout the land. I look long. Where find a Marquand
or a Dos Passos? Where a J. P. Morgan or a Winthrop Aldrich?
I don’t run across a Bernstein or a Pusey or a Conant. Where are
the Paul Dudley Whites? The politicians, like an Adams or a
Roosevelt? Have we no poets? No Eliots or E. E. Cummings? Is
there not one class name which has nudged beyond some recogni-
tion in his limited field or community and on into the vocabulary
of the nation? Perhaps this Twenty -fifth Anniversary Report will
reveal that we have many of the above Harvard worthies in our
Class.

“Come, tell me how you
live,” I cried,
“and what it is you do!”

Yes, the Report Chairman wants to know what each of us has
been doing. My profession is painting. I have painted mv share of
bad pictures — which I hope by now have all been destroved — I
have painted those perhaps not so bad which by good fortune in
public exhibitions have been awarded some dozen prizes by “juries
of our peers.” Also, it has been one of my good fortunes to be
married to a top woman painter and during the summers we have
for many years operated the Bryan Gallery i in Gloucester, Massa-
chusetts, where our work is shown. I have spent several summers
teaching. A month in Cornwall or Portugal or Alaska to get m2-
terial is not unusual for us. Nearly every year a week in Quebee
City while it is still deep in snow.

Come, there’s half my plan
done now! How puzzling all
these changes are! ['m never
sure what I am going to be,
from one minute to another!
“Art is long and life is short” as they say and T seem to have made

{195 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

boats is manifest mostly by a merciless assault upon the hull and
interior of the beloved object with tools and scrapers and paint,
and the contemplation and installation of motors, electronic and
navigational gear and equipment beyond all reason. Long hours of
fitting and arranging, installing and re-installing seem to bring no
cure. Probably the only known cure is amputation of the vessel
from the owner and complete financial breakdown so that he can-
not acquire another. It has been known to happen.

Thus grew the tale of Wonderland:

Thus slowly, one by one,

Its quaint events were hammered out —

And now the tale is done.

Finally, we who have very little to report about our accomplish-
ments must be allowed to expatiate a bit upon some of the ideas
which churn about inside, our anticipations — what we think.

I hope I shall live to see the day when science has conquered
and abolished the television antenna as it did the radio aerial.

I cannot imagine ticket lines to the moon being any longer than
they have been for the North Pole.

In art, as in music, I may or may not live long enough to see the
political and religious forces which now govern these fields over-
come.

I do not expect to find any absorbing novels among the best
sellers in the foreseeable future. I am not at all against having
“sex” brought out in the open — if that is what they think they are
doing. And I have always been in favor of calling a spade a spade.
But it doesn’t have to be called a “lousy, dirty spade!”

My dear! I really must geta
thinner pencil. J can’t manage
this one a bit; it writes all
manner of things I don’t intend —

The “aloha” shirt is as much an anathema to me as the fish-tail
fenders on the automobile. In fact, it is my considered opinion
that men, all men, look foolish indeed in sport clothes and that,
curiously enough, women look their best in them.

The destructive forces which are bringing the new dark age
have all but finished with poetry, practically had their way with
music and the arts, have torpedoed but not yet sunk architecture
(except at Harvard), have done considerable damage to literature
and would destroy the theatre if a way could be devised to force
the public to pay for performances it really didn’t like.

[ 198 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My loyalty to Harvard does not prevent having mixed feelings,
About Quincy House, alluded to above, I see nothing to do but
tear it down and start over. I seriously considered restricting my
gift to the Program to that end but thought better of it. A student
should feel as snug and as much like studying in Quincy House
as in a hospital, whose sterile and antiseptic interior it so closely
resembles.

I would like to see Harvard open to the future presidents of this
country as it has been in the past. And to the new leaders of our
important enterprises, At the present time these young men can be
found mostly in the small colleges in New England and elsewhere
for many of them haven’t the grades to get into Harvard. I have no
fear that we shall lose our prestige among scholars. Far from it’
But if the building of this country is to continue, it will be done
as it was in the past — with scholars, but not by them.

I feel most fortunate that my son was admitted to Harvard and
is there now. But considering the changing policy of admittance,

unless we pick up some additional brains along the wav, this will
be the end.

“Ts that all?” Alice timidly
asked. “That’s all,” said

Humpty Dumpty. “Goodbye.”

DANIEL JOSEPH BUCKLEY, JR.

 

HOME avpreEss: 38 Old Colony Rd., Arlington 74, Mass.
OFFICE appRESS: 661 Massachusetts Ave, Arlington, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 20, 1914, Arlington, Mass. PARENTS: Daniel Joseph Buckley, Ange!
R. Curcio.

PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: a.B., Ctom Laude, 193s. Uw, rQi®

[ 199 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

marriep: Ann T. DeCourcey, July 12, 1941, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:

Jane, Oct. 26, 1942; Charles D., Jan. 23, 1945; Stephen R., Sept. 15, 1948.
occuPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Selectman, Town of Arlington; director, Arlington Cooperative
Bank, Cambridge Bar Association; member, Arlington Management Com-

mittee, Harvard Trust Company; corporator, Arlington Five Cents Say-
ings Bank.
MEMBER OF: Boston Bar Association; Knights of Columbus.

AFTER sitting with pen poised for several minutes and realizing
I had nothing earth-shattering to write about by way of extraor-
dinary exploits or unusual experiences, either on the heroic or
tragic side, I concluded that my contribution to the Class Report
had best be a thumb-nail sketch of my doings over the last twenty-
five years.

Following college came three years at Harvard Law School and
then four years working for a law firm in Boston. During that
period I married Ann DeCourcey of Cambridge in July of 1941.
We have three fine children, Jane, seventeen, Charles, fourteen, and
Stephen, eleven. .

In November, 1942, on invitation of the President, I went into
the Army as a limited service military policeman. A year later I
entered Officers Candidate Schoo] and emerged as a second lieu-
tenant in the Medical Administrative Corps. Following service as
assistant registrar and registrar in army hospitals, I was separated
as a first lieutenant in February of 1946.

After another six months with my original employer, I came out
to Arlington, my hometown, first as an associate of an older lawyer,
and for the last ten years, in my own office. It is a one-man affair
and keeps me busy far too many hours of the day.

Most recently, I have become one of the Selectmen of the Town
and have found it an interesting but frustrating experience, the
frustration being occasioned by the ever-mounting cost of govern-
ment for which there is no apparent cure.

Presently, I find myself a moderately healthy, middle-aged man
with a happy home life, mainly concerned about the future of my
children (the competition to get into a good college and the cost
of education having become a grim thing), “mildly regretful that
I had not gone into a line of endeavor less ‘time-consuming and
more financially rewarding, vaguely uneasy about where the present

undue emphasis on technocracy is leading us, but on the whole
without major complaint.

[ 200 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DONALD ALMON BULLARD

 

HOME appREss: 189 Sutton Manor, New Rochelle, N.Y.

OFFICE appREss: Institute of International Education, 1 E. 67th St., New York,
N.Y.

porN: March 9g, 1913, Elmira, N.Y. parents: Charles Frederick Bullard, Eliza-
beth Campbell.

PREPARED AT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1031-1935. DEGREES: A.B, 1935; AM. (Univ. of Chicago),

1942.

MaRRIED: Berthe de Tournemire, Aug. 26, 1937, St. Jean, France (died June 28,
1958). CHILDREN: George Philip, June 30, 1938, John James, March 6, 1941;
Charles Frederick, 3d, June 19, 1942; Frances Marie, Jan. 6, 1944; Mary
Theresa, Sept. 30, 1950.

OccuPATION: Director, Department of Information, Institute of International
Education (information, public relations).

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Clarion Music Foundation, since 1957; director, America-
Italy Society, since 1959; treasurer, Council on Student Travel, 1958-60.

MEMBER OF: Vergilian Society; Friends of U.N.L.A. (Unione Nazionale per la
Lotta contro l’analfabetismo).

AFTER graduation I taught at the Choate School until 1938 in the
French department. From 1938 to 1942, I did graduate work at
the University of Chicago in romance languages and licerature, and
was research assistant and occasional instructor there. Spent the
summers of 1935, 1936 and 1937 in a courtship which culminated
in my marriage to Berthe de Tournemire at St. Jean-St. Germaine,
France, on August 26, 1937.

In 1942 I went to Georgetown University as instructor in the
modern language department and at the School of Foreign Service.
In 1943 I joined the research and analysis branch of OSS to work
on intelligence data about Italy. This work was combined with a
miniature suburban farm in Maryland, where we achieved a large
garden and barnyard with milk goats, chickens, rabbits, turkeys,

[ 201 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

geese, etc. In 1945 I spent eleven months doing political reporting
from Italy for OSS. In 1946 I was briefly with UNRRA’s office of
country missions working on Italian matters and helping to organ-
ize relicf missions to Byelorussia and the Ukraine. In 1946 I joined
the State Department, UNESCO Relations Staff, where we acted
as secretariat for the National Commission for UNESCO and for
the United States delegations to UNESCO conferences. In 1948
we went to the American Embassy in Rome, where as cultural
affairs officer I helped to develop the Fulbright program and other
exchanges between Italy and the United States. Our youngest,
Mary, was born in Rome in 1950, Holy Year, and was baptized in
St. Peter’s. Our boys were subjected to a succession of govern-
esses, tutors, Italian schools and French boarding schools, from the
effects of which they will probably never recover. Our educational
problems were the main factor in our decision to come back to
America and to the Institute of International Education, where I
have worked since 1954.

We live in New Rochelle, where the main attraction is our neigh-
borhood beach and boathouse. Sailing is our boys’ principal pastime.
As often as finances permit, we spend summers in France in the
country house near Tours which was left to us by wife’s family,
and from which she was married. Our incomparable wife and
mother died from cancer on June 28, 1958, after nearly two years
illness. Fortunately our children are old enough to have been
formed by her love and character. Our eldest, who was not thought
to be “Harvard material,” is in his last year at William and Mary.
This, as it turns out, is all Harvard’s loss.

JASON OLIVER BURACK

 

HOME Appress; Alvin Drive, Norwalk, Conn.

[ 202 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: 3 West Ave., South Norwalk, Conn.

BORN: Sept. 21, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: Abraham Burack, Sarah Nadell.
PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1935; Mo. (Tufts
Coll.), 1939.

MarRieD: Ruth Markell, June 23, 1938, Boston, Mass. caitpreN: David Abraham,
Sept. 5, 1940; Jonathan Elihu, Oct. 24, 1942.
OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Member, senior attending staff, Norwalk Hospital; member of

board, Norwalk Chapter, American Red Cross, Norwalk Family Service
Bureau.

MEMBER OF: Norwalk and Fairfield County Medical Societies.

AFTER medical school, marriage and internship I entered the
practice of medicine in Norwalk. I was separated from my young
practice and growing family for service with the 78th Infantry
Division for two years in Europe. Following the war I took some
extra training in cardiology at Columbia and the Montefiore Hos-
pital. Since then I have been engaged in the practice of internal
medicine in Norwalk.

My spare moments have been devoted to community activities,
gardening and boating. My main efforts at the moment are directed
to providing tuition for my elder son who is a sophomore at Swarth-
more and my younger son who will enter college next year.

THOMAS MARTIN BURKE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 58 Starin Ave., Buffalo 14, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Burke & Burke, 1031 Marine Trust Bldg. Butfalo 3, N.Y,

BORN: May 27, 1914, Buffalo, N.Y. parents: Thomas C. Burke, Georgia Holm-
wood.

PREPARED AT; Canisius High School, Buffalo, N.Y,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: a.B., Cun laude, 1935, Lt-e. (Vale Univ.
1938.

[ 203 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

MaRRIED: Margaret E. Heery, Nov. 9, 1940, New Haven, Conn. (separated).
CHILDREN: Thomas Martin, Jr., Dec. 28, 1941; Peter J., Nov. 9, 1944; Mar-
garet E., March 15, 1946.

occupation: Partner, Burke & Burke, attorneys; legal assistant, New York
State Board of Law Examiners.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, member board of trustees, St. Mary’s School for the
Deaf, since 1950; secretary, member board of managers, Society for the
Protection of Destitute Roman Catholic Children at the City of Buffalo,
since 1950; treasurer, Erie County Bar Association, 1957-58; director,
Harvard Club of Buffalo, 1957-60.

MEMBER OF: New York State Bar Association; Erie County Bar Association;
Buffalo Club; Harvard Club of Buffalo.

SINCE graduation:

1935-38: Three enjoyable years at Yale Law School.

1938-40: Admitted to New York bar (1938) and became clerk
in Buffalo law office of Burke & Desmond, attorneys (father,
Thomas C. Burke, and Charles S. Desmond, now Chief Judge, New
York Court of Appeals).

1940-50: Partner, Burke & Burke, attorneys, with father.

1949- : Part-time assistant to New York State Board of Law
Examiners; ’35 sons at law school, please note: will be glad to make
sure that you, too, flunk.

1950-53: Practised law alone.

1953- : Partner, Burke & Burke, with brother, Laurence E.
Burke.

Have been a practising lawyer in a very small office since 1938.
Although the life is very pleasant, it appears that the age of speciali-
zation is here in law, as in almost all other fields, and the “general
practitioner” is losing out to the large firms. Have lived in Buffalo
all my life and still enjoy it— even the rough winters. Live in the
city with my three children, now all teenagers; have refused to
become a suburbanite, although we do have a summer home in
Canada, on Lake Erie only ten miles from downtown Buffalo (one-
half hour daily commuting), where the children specialize in water-
skiing and I specialize in doing nothing.

After twenty-five years as I look back I sometimes feel that I
have lost ground every year. In 1935 I had the great asset of a Har-
vard A.B. with few, if any, liabilities or responsibilities, today each

one of my few assets appears heavily mortgaged with liabilities and
responsibilities.

[ 204 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARRY BENJAMIN BURLEY, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 173 Border St., Cohasset, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Insulated Wire & Cable Co. 65 Bay St., Boston 25,

Mass.
BORN: Feb. 13, 1912, Brookline, Mass. parents: Harry Benjamin Burley, Louise
Wells.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MARRIED: 1932 (divorced 1936); Phyllis Lishon, March 2, 1930, Newton, Mass.
CHILDREN: Harry Benjamin, 3d, July 15, 1933; Louise Wells, Feb. 2, 1942;
Dexter Lishon, Feb. 18, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Maxwell Burley, ’29.

occuPaTION: Director, treasurer, general manager, Boston Insulated Wire &
Cable Company and Boston Insulated Wire International, Boston, director,
treasurer, Boston Insulated Wire & Cable Company, Ltd. Hamilton,
Ontario, Canada, manufacturers of electric wires and cables.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Cohasset Planning Board, 1945-47; corporator, Dor-
chester Savings Bank, since 1954; member, Nuclear Energy Committee,
National Association of Manufacturers, since 1957.

MEMBER oF: World Trade Center of New England; New England Council,
Associated Industries of Massachusetts; Boston Chamber of Commerce;
Cohasset Yacht Club; Cohasset Historical Society; Boston Museum of Fine
Arts; Boston Museum of Science.

IT should be explained that no scholastic achievement but a year's
credit from M.I.T. where I had gone directly from prep school en-
abled me to get a head start in the salt mines. However, I briefly
gave up my twelve dollars weekly earnings to return for the Bible-
Shakespeare exam and to get a degree with my classmates. FNtra-
curricular activities in those early years out included divorce, skiing
and the pursuit of something or other which was never classined.

BUSINESS: Fortunately life in the wire factory had definite

continuity and working with men, machines and materials was

[ 205 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

something tangible, especially tangible sweeping floors and em pty-
ing coal cars. After several years of having worked up to being
prat boy I was sent out to see the country through the innocent
eves of the saleslamb. Those were still depression years and the
ensuing slaughter, if not curing my wanderlust, inspired me to the
extent of returning to Boston, finding a lovely bride and settling
down in Cohasset, our present home.

The basic function of our company being the development and
manufacture of special purpose cables, the war years brought the
great pressure of military demands. That era and the whole decade
were devoted to mounting the electrified wire entanglements of
production, Which function of manufacturing I might describe
as being a treadmill, whereon Sammy either runs or, falling back,
plunges through an open chute into a job as production consultant.
Before I had chronic bunions I learned this inspiring fact and, know-
ing that it will not go beyond my classmates, am happy here to
reveal it.

The last ten years therefore have been spent very productively
and interestingly in general and financial management and my tired
feet are kept under the desk where they should be. Being of the
suspicion, however, that this idyllic picture might be marred by
being enclosed in a pine box, I have felt it a family obligation to
keep somewhat on the move. Two enabling factors in this situa-
tion are the requirements of our plant in Canada and the establish-
ment last year of our international company to engage in reciprocal
sales agreements with European cable manufacturers. —Two recent
trips abroad on this account have been very satisfactory, but results
have brought much more import than export.

OTHERWISE: Traveling, beyond these business needs, has been
a part of our family activity the past ten years. There have been
ski safaris with the children each Christmas to Canada, New Hamp-
shire or Colorado, Again at spring vacation are trips to Bermuda
or skiing. Although the children have been off various times at
camp, we are all mostly content to spend our summers at home in
Cohasset. We are very fond of our modern house which we built
here beside the water, with tennis, swimming, privac and what
real estate people would spoil by calling “easy outdoor living.” The
yacht club is near and sailing popular with our young, but Phyllis
and I have given up racing and summer cruising. I also gave up
summer vacations some years ago and instead we take off each
winter or spring, sometimes mixed with children or business. We

| 206 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have had especial interest in the Caribbean with its fascinating is-
lands and history, but after six visits we are still looking for that
enchanted isle. This year we have chartered a schooner and shall
look for our hideaway among the Grenadines, Twenty-five years
ago we were searching for something. Today we are still looking.
It’s just the perspective that’s changed.

FRANCIS HARDON BURR

oS cok e

UES o 5

» be f
, we Ke;

 

HOME ADDRESS: 568 Bay Rd., Hamilton, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: Ropes, Gray, Best, Coolidge & Rugg, 50 Federal St., Boston 10,
Mass.

BORN: July 21, 1914, Nahant, Mass. parents: Isaac Tucker Burr, 06, Evelyn
Forbes Thayer.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: aB., ct laude, 1935, LLB., 1938.

MARRIED: Nancy Blagden Pell, March 24, 1951, Hamilton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Nancy C. Pell, May 21, 1940, and Alice N. Pell, Nov. 11, 1og7 (step-
daughters); Samuel Heman, Sept. 26, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Isaac Tucker Burr, 3d, 39; John Thayer Burr, “4:; Carleton
Burr, ’43.

occupation: Lawyer, partner, Ropes, Grav, Best, Coolidge & Rugg.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Massachusetts Society for Prevention of Cruelty to
Children, since 1940; member of board of managers and secretary, Adams
House, since 1941; trustee and secretary, Industrial School for’ Crippled
Children, since 1947; director, Children’s Mission to Children, since 1047;
director, Harvard Alumni Association, 1931-54; trustee and member of
executive committee, Massachusetts Foundation, since 1ggi; director, Old
Colony Trust Company, since 1952; director, Boston Legal Aid Society,
since 1952; trustee, Humane Society of the Commonwealth ef Massachu-
setts, since 1952; trustee, since 1953, member of board of invesemenc, sine
1959, Massachusetts Savings Bank; fellow, Harvard College, since rosy.
director, American Employers’ Fire Insurance Company and Fmphovers

[ 207 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935-

Fire Insurance Company, since 1957; trustee, Employers’ Group Asso-
ciates, since 1957; director, State Street Investment Corporation, since
1957; director, American Airlines, Inc., since 1958; secretary, United
States Churchill Foundation, since 1959; chairman, individual gifts divi-
sion, 1960 Boston United Fund Campaign.

MEMBER OF: American Law Institute; Boston Bar Association; Tavern Club;
Somerset Club; Myopia Hunt Club; Harvard Club of the North Shore;
Harvard Club of New York.

UNDER the efficient and relentless prodding of the Class Report
Committee, I am finally shamed into autobiography. The difficulty
is — and I am sure it is one shared by many of my classmates — that
what has seemed to me to be a life full of interest and excitement,
harassing at times but never boring, turns on paper into something
dull, humdrum and pedestrian. .

At any rate, after graduation I spent three more years in Cam-
bridge at the Law School where I worked harder than I had at
college but nowhere near as hard as I should have. After that and
a trip to Europe, which was to be the last for twenty years, I went
to work for the Boston law firm of Ropes, Gray, Best, Coolidge &
Rugg. Three years later Pearl Harbor came up, and I found my-
self an air combat intelligence officer in the Navy. I spent a year
in the Aleutians and two more with air groups and carriers, mostly
in the western Pacific. I was also a Navy lawyer for a while in
Chicago and Washington. In early 1946 I was released to inactive
duty and went back to my old job.

I am a business lawyer, which is an interesting and often hectic
profession. The problems are diverse, often complex and usually
urgent, at least to the people involved.

As for my personal life, in 1951, after being a bachelor for thirty-
seven years, I did one of the few intelligent things I have ever done
and got married. We have three children, a freshman at Radcliffe,
a daughter in the seventh grade, and a son in the third. We live in
an old, large, drafty and comfortable house on a hill in Hamilton,
a small town north of Boston which used to be entirely rural but is,
alas, no longer.

In 1954 1 became a Fellow of Harvard College, and I hope in
the course of time to learn something about education at the college
level, at least in its economic and administrative aspects. In what
remains of my time, I am trying to learn something about the opera-
tions of various companies and charitable organizations.

I like to sail and to travel and we have done some but not enough
of both and hope to do much more. If I have as much undeserved

[ 208 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

good luck in the next twenty-five years as I have had in the past, I
shall be an unbearable old bore at our Fiftieth Anniversary Reunion.

MILTON IRVING BYER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 35 Lincoln Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y.

OFFICE appREss: Country Housekeeper, Inc., 35 Lincoln Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y.

BorN: April 9, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: Simon Jacob Byer, Beatrice Cline.

PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1935; 11.B. 1938.

MARRIED: Lucille Sylvester, Nov. 4, 1942, New York, N.Y. cHiprex: Margaret
Ann, Dec. 19, 1945; Janet Sylvester, June 22, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Owner and manager, Country Housekeeper, Inc, home cleaning
service.

PRACTISED law for one year, 1938-39. In hosiery business untl
World War II. Served in Coast Guard from July, 1942, to April,
1946. Two years in Greenland Patrol, mostly as port liaison officer.
Ended as deck license examiner in New York. In clothing manu-
facturing and selling hosiery until 1953.

Passed New York bar in 1953 but became interested in the lack
of domestic help and the possibilities in setting up a home cleaning
service. We bought a home in Westchester and started Country
Housekeeper, Inc., which is still growing and keeping me busy.

Working, a fine family and comfortable home, reading, movies
and TV keep me happy and contented.

[ 209 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ARTHUR DENYS CADMAN

 

HOME appress: Apt. 5-B, 1115 Fifth Ave., New York 28, N.Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Gulf Oil Corp., 680 Fifth Ave., New York rg, N.Y.

BORN: June 1, 1911, Birmingham, England. parents: Sir John Cadman, Lilian
Harrigin.

PREPARED AT: Harrow School, London, England.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.

Marrigp: Cary Baker, Dec. 28, 1933, Houston, Tex. CHILDREN:. Anne, June 24,
1935 (9. John McC. Lawrence, Sept. 14, 1957); Mary Betty, Aug. 31,
1937 (a2. Robert A. Calvin, Sept. 27, 1958); John Denys, Jan. 28, 1941; Cary,
March 11, 1045; David Baker, Nov. 13, 1948. GRANDCHILDREN: Edward
Burke Lawrence, April 7, 1959; Robert Denys Calvin, Jan. 3, 1960.

occuPATION: Executive representative, Gulf Oil Corporation — responsible to
the president and executive in Pittsburgh; liaison with London, Paris,
Rome, Madrid, and Washington, D.C.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of governors, Bishop Strachan School, Toronto,
1941-45, 1953-57; regional chairman, Welfare Federation of Montreal,
1948-49; chairman, Montreal Y.M.C.A. Campaign, 1950; rector’s warden,
Grace Church on the Hill, Toronto, 1955-56; division chairman, Toronto
United Fund Campaign, 1956-57.

MEMBER OF: Links Club, New York; St. James’s Club, Montreal; The Toronto
Club; Toronto Golf Club; Badminton & Racquet Club, Toronto; Inter-
American Council, Asia Society, New York.

WHEN an irresistible force meets an immovable object — the
force being love and the object being the administrative staff of
Harvard University — something has to give. This was the dilemma
that confronted me at the end of my sophomore year as I struggled
to figure out a way to cram my two final years into one, and thus
catch up with my bride-to-be, Miss Cary Baker, a transfer from
Rice Institute in Texas, finishing her junior year at Wellesley. My
problem was created by the fact that I had delayed my entrance

[ 210 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

into Harvard for a year to gain experience working in the oilfields
of East Texas at the time of the fabulous 1930 boom.

In the summer of 1933; I made the momentous decision (one
which I can say with all sincerity I have never regretted) to forego
my sheepskin and seek the hand of my Texas bride. During those
depression years | well recall my early days as a service station at-
tendant for the Standard Oil of New Jersey, and the long list of
attributes that you were supposed to possess to be worthy of such
a lofty position in the company. Once over the telephone, I gota
little rough with some clerk in accounting. “Mind your attitude.”
he said, to which I inquired, “Where in the black book of instruc-
tions does it say that you have to have one?”

My next job was one of wearing out shoe leather in downtown
Newark, trying to sell motor oil to a bunch of small trucking con-
cerns. Then, one happy day for me, one of the industrial salesmen
who called on the smokestack trade broke his arm and I was selected
to be his chauffeur. This gave me an insight into the wide variety
of uses for oils and greases in industrial processing and, not long
thereafter, I was chosen as one of the company’s young hopefuls to
attend a five-months course in lubrication engineering at 26 Broad-
way. Having received my diploma, I was immediately stationed in
the northwest part of New Jersey as a qualified salesman; with a vast
territory, and, as my business card indicated, the undisputed nght
to experiment with the customer’s complex network of industrial
machinery in the application of my newly acquired knowledge in
the field of lubrication.

Being in a remote area of New Jersey, my failures seldom reached
the head office. My successes were diligently recorded in my hand-
written daily reports. Since the latter “far outweighed the former.
I was promoted, in 1937, to the high post of manager, lubrication
sales, with the company’s subsidiary in Mexico, the Huasteca Pe-
troleum. With my salary doubled and a company car (an A Model
Ford), my friends all said I had “arrived” in foreign service! A
little over a year spent in the land of mamana, under a precarious
political regime and the growing power of Toledano and his oil-
workers’ union, was brought to an abrupt hale with the Mevican
Government’s expropriation decree of March, 1938.

With one New Jersey daughter and a Mexican daughter (the
beginnings of a family that was later to be known as Cadmania) we
trekked north across the Rio Grande for a brief sojourn in New
York in preparation for an even more hazardous assignment, which

[ 211 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

never actually materialized, with the company’s affiliate in Ro-
mania. Our packing cases and crates were already marked with
the word “Bucharest” when Hitler’s troops started to march on
Czechoslovakia. Three months of indecision were followed by an
offer to join the ranks of the marketing department of New Jersey’s
subsidiary, Imperial Oil, in Toronto, Canada.

The long and tense war years were spent in charge of Imperial’s
lubrication sales engineering department, This called for frequent
and extended travel across Canada’s northland from the Atlantic
coast defenses to the forests of British Columbia, up the Alaska
Highway to the government operated refinery at White Horse, to
Norman Wells in the Northwest Territories and to the unsuccess-
ful pilot plant in the sands of Athabaska at Fort McMurray.

It was during these years that I served on the parent company’s
committee on standards for lubricants, meeting once a month in
New York City. By this means we strove to figure ways and means
to modify the quality of oils and greases for civilian use in Canada
in order to step up the quality and volume of available products to
satisfy the increasing demands of the military. This was particularly
acute in the field of aviation lubricants and high octane fuels for
Canada’s Commonwealth Air Training Program.

At the close of the war, I accepted a position with British Ameri-
can Oil, at that time Canada’s largest independent oil company, as
eastern regional sales manager. This has been referred to by some
as the golden era of my career in marketing since it was a time of
great capital expansion, the opening of new outlets, and a steady
increase in sales of all petroleum products. It was indeed gratifying
to be a part of this growth in a French Canadian atmosphere and
the cosmopolitan city of Montreal.

From La Belle Province de Quebec, we moved back in 1951 to
Canada’s financial center, the Queen City of Toronto. Here, after
a year with increased responsibilities in the sales field, I was
jettisoned into a new role, for which I was ill-prepared, as manager
of the company’s employee relations department. This was on the

eve of what turned out to be a decade of pressure from the labor
unions the like of which we had not known before.

In 1956 British American Oil merged with Canadian Gulf, a sub-
sidiary of the Gulf Oil Corporation, and this necessitated frequent
visits to Pittsburgh, during the course of which I was in close con-

tact with the employee relations group of our new parent company.
In 1958 I was asked to join the ranks of Gulf and help in the open-

[ 212]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing up of a new uptown office in New York City, and to serve as
their executive representative. This is the position I presently hold
with the corporation.

As I look back over the past quarter century, I feel that we have
been richly blessed in our five lovely children and now in the
year we have been given added joy in our two grandsons. And so,
life continues and I strive as always, first, in all things to be a partial
architect instead of a passive victim, and, second, to keep the needle
on the bathroom scales from going beyond the one-seventy-five
pound mark!

CULLISON CADY

 

‘HOME ADDRESS: 4903 Aurora Drive, Kensington, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Highway Users Conference, 966 National Press Bldg.
Washington 4, D.C.

BORN: Feb. 3, 1914, Manila, P.I. parents: Frank Coleman Cady, M.P.H, "373
Winifred Cullison.

PREPARED AT: Jamaica High School, Jamaica, Long Island, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934, 1935-1936. DEGREE: A.B., cum Laude, 1935 (37).

MARRIED: Doris Christine Gardner, April 12, 1942, Washington, D.C. cnttoaen:
Frank Cullison, May 3, 1944; William Gardner, March 25, 1949.

occuPaTion: Art director and manager of visual production, National Highway
Users Conference, Washington, D.C.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-commander, Post 59, American Legion (D.C. Department).
secretary-treasurer, Road Gang, Highway Club, Washington.

MEMBER OF: National Society of Art Directors,

PUBLICATIONS: Feature articles, book and theatrical reviews in’ HWasbragea
Post, Highway Highlights Magazine.

IN college my concentration was in the ficld of English hrerature,
and in those days, I had the somewhat unoriginal thought of be-
coming a writer. It was merely in passing that [TE alse directed an

[ 213]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

occasional genuflection at the field of art-—— having taken some
courses in college and at the Phillip’s Gallery and the Corcoran
Art School in Washington.

However — or is it “of course” — it worked out just the other
way around. Even before the war, in those remote days when I
worked for the Office of Indian Affairs and for the National Dental
Hygiene Association, I found myself practising more and more
art and design and less writing. Save for military service from
1942 to 1946—and for some of that time, come to recall it — this
has continued to be increasingly the case.

Since my return from the war, I have worked in Washington for
the National Highway Users Conference. NHUC is an industry-
supported, non-profit organization with a field staff and state affili-
ates that has been serving the highway transportation industries
since 1932. In general, I handle the Conference’s visual and pub-
lishing problems, written copy has become somewhat secondary
in my activities. Perhaps I can best describe my job as a sort of
built-in ad agency generally covering an interesting variety of edi-
torial art problems. The fact that I have been with the Conference
since 1946 is witness to my contentment both in my work and with
my associates.

I guess a word about the military is in order. Although gradu-
ating from Officers Candidate School at Fort Belvoir, Virginia, in
1942 and being commissioned in the Corps of Engineers, since
1943 I have been connected with military government. I saw over-
seas service both in the Caribbean and ETO. The bulk of my com-
bat duty was with a division of the First French Army. Between
my junior and senior years at Harvard, I studied at the Alliance
Frangaise and the Sorbonne in Paris, All this proved its usefulness
when I saw service in France and North Africa. I have kept up my
military service in the Army Reserve. At present, I am assigned as
civilian supply officer to a Civil Affairs Area, Headquarters Staff,
in the grade of lieutenant colonel.

Although not a native of Washington, D.C., I almost feel like
one. My home has been here since 1931. In 1942 I married Doris
Christine Gardner who is a native. My wife has been in business
since before we met, and you can take it on much better authority
than mine, that she is a very knowing gal about insurance.

The years, of course, have brought us our problems and our
rewards. Highest on the list of the latter are our children. We
have two fine boys, fifteen and ten. The elder one is building up

[214]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

an outstanding scholastic record, while the younger gives promise
of becoming somebody’s good guard or tackle in a few years.

Aside from an occasional flyer into painting “on my own” and
the usual puttering about the house and yard, my big hobby is
boating on the Chesapeake, nor am I alone in this since all the
family are also aficionados.

As I write this, I am happy to report that our family is in fine
health. We enjoy the proximity of our respective parents and, of
course, the associations of years’ standing.

Whereas we are registered Republicans, I am afraid that our po-
litical as well as our religious allegiances are somewhat more on
the tenuous side than our times seem to require. Although mv
devotions to Harvard activities have also been a bit sketchy, we

are looking forward to the Twenty-fifth Reunion next Commence-
ment with the keenest interest and enthusiasm.

WILLIAM GEORGE CAHAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 209 E. 6:d St, New York 21, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 444 E. 68th St.. New York a1, N.Y.

BoRN: Aug. 2, 1914, New York, N.Y. parents: Samuel George Cahan, Flora
Gomperts.

TRANSFERRED FROM: New York University, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935. DEGREES: S.B., 1935; M.D. (Columbia Univ.), rosa
MARRIED: Mary Arnold Sykes, Dec, 22, 1952. CHILDREN: Christopher, resi.
Anthony, Feb. 21, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon — interested in surgery, research and teaching of cancer
particularly lung cancer.

OFFICES HELD: Thoracic consultant, Strang Cancer Prevention Clinic, since rose.
assistant attending surgeon, 1ys50-59, associate attending surgeon, since Jul
1, 1959, Thoracic Service, Memorial Hospital; secretary, New York Cancer

[215 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Society, 1955-58; assistant professor of Clinical Surgery, Cornell University
Medical College, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Coffee House Club, New York City; various medical societies.

PUBLICATIONS: Neck Dissection, 1951; Radical Pneurmonectomy, 1951; Radical
Lobectomy, 1959; chapters in books on cancer; article on radioactive fall-
out,

NO comment.

JOSHUA BINION CAHN

 

HOME Appress: 161 E. 79th St., New York, N.Y.; Lee Avenue, East Hampton,
N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cahn, Schwartzreich & Mathias, 22 FE. goth St. New York 16,
N.Y,

Born: Feb, 11, 1915, New York, N.Y. parents: Edward Cahn, Martha Binion.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; LL.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1938.

MARRIED: Peggy Masback, April 8, 1945, New York, N.Y. cxitpren: Deborah
Binion, July 29, 1947; Nicholas Eddy, Oct. 27, 1948; Martha Binion, Sept.
255 1957+

occuPATION: Lawyer; partner, Cahn, Schwartzreich & Mathias.

OFFICES HELD: Founder, formerly chairman, Junior Division, United Jewish
Appeal; formerly director, National Refugee Service; formerly director
and chairman, executive committee, Wiltwyck School; director, Inter-
national Graphic Arts Society; counsel to various non-profit fine arts
organizations.

MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York; Harvard Club of
New York.

PuBLicaTions: “Copyright in Works of Art”; “Death, Taxes and the Artist.”

IT seems to me that what has happened is less important than what

we have learned in twenty-five years. We are all deeply interested

in comparing experiences but let’s compare our conclusions too.
Experiences: After law school and five years of apprenticeship

[ 216 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

working in a law office, came seven years of practising law alone
and now we are rounding out ten years of work in a partnership. |
have traveled, for business, pleasure and some politics, to Euro
the West Indies, Canada and Mexico several times, to North Africa
and through forty-seven states. Still curious, I look forward, with
no immediate expectations, to South America and Red China.

The plastic arts, not as creator, but as observer, minor collector
and counsellor to artists and art organizations have been a dee
source of satisfaction to me. I like to look at pictures, to talk to
artists and to try to help artistic “causes” such as increasing public
interest in prints, getting American paintings and sculpture into
the United Nations headquarters and improving the artist’s eco-
nomic position. Traveling — geographically and through various
milieus — may help to avoid provincialism. At any rate, it’s fun.

My wife and I have three children — they are still young and we
all have more challenges ahead of us than those w hich have already
been met with greater or less success.

Conclusions: Many years ago my mother told me she wished
that she were a lawyer: ““ ‘You | get to mind everybody’s business.”
The general practice of law embraces, mixes w ith and is affected
by almost every aspect of human behavior. The law is what you
make it, at the same time intense and reflective, exciting and sooth-
ing, human and impersonal, full of joys and disappointments, fas-
cinating and dull. I am glad to be a practising lawyer, fortunate to
be a general practitioner and happy to try to mind other people's
business as best I can. Sometimes there is the added thrill of doing
a good job and even of doing good.

But the most important experiences and conclusions of the last
twenty-five years stem from human relations and, more particu-
larly, family life. We must do the world’s work, including volun-
tary, public-spirited, political and charitable work, to earn a living,
to satisfy our consciences and to achieve the sense of accomplish-
ment our souls crave. However, the trials and triumphs of living
and growing up with wife and children seem to me more Important
to the inner life of man than his more public activities.

We all struggle to “relate” to other people, as the jargonists say.
To get to know and understand another human being and to have
him (or her) know you seem to me the most difficult tasks of hte,
but one which richly rewards every bit of etfort put into it. To
know a child may be even more difficult,

Our children, of course, need their parents, Family hfe does at

(217)

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

least as much for adults, however, as for children. Its tasks and
annoyances as well as its joys and comforts fulfill our needs as
creatures — domestic animals.

There are some for whom fulfillment can only come through
great accomplishments. If they achieve their ambitions, the world
may gain but too often they, their wives and children lose. Those
of us who have not achieved greatness should be thankful that
we have not done any worse with our work, our lives and our

families and we should try to do a little better with all three here-
after. We still have some time.

EDWIN EARL CALVIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3551 Shade Rd. Akron 13, Ohio.

OFFICE ADpRESs: Board of Education of Wadsworth City School District, Wads-
worth, Ohio.

porn: April 7, 1912, Medford, Mass. PARENTS: Edwin Calvin, Margaret Ann

Donahue.

PREPARED AT: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.; Phillips Academy, Andover,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: S.B., 1935; S.B. IN ED, (Kent State Univ.),
1955.

Marriep: Eleanor Gorham Barnard (Radcliffe '36), March 6, 1936, Andover,
Mass, CHILDREN: James Barnard, Oct. 15, 1943; Margaret Middleton, Feb.
26, 1953 (died Feb. 28, 1953); David William, Dec. 30, 1954.

occuPaTion: Education; guidance counselor.

OFFICES HELD: President, Rotary Club of Wadsworth, 1948-49, Wadsworth City
Teachers Association, 1957-58; secretary, Harvard Club of Akron, 1951-53;
member, board of directors, Bearfoot Sole Co., Wadsworth, since 1953.

MEMBER OF: National and Ohio Education Associations, Rotary Club; Great

Books; Bath Community Church.
AFTER nineteen years in industry — sixteen and a half in rubber

[ 218]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

(soles and heels) following brief encounters with soap, textiles and

carpets — I resigned my position as vice-president in charge of per-

sonnel at the Bearfoot Sole Company, Wadsworth, Ohio, to be-

come a full-time student, a candidate for an S.B. in education at
Kent State University which is within commuting distance of my
home. Thus in the fall of 1955 I made a radical change in vocation
— to that of a high school teacher of English and psychology with
some counseling. This year, my fifth in education, I am a full-time
guidance counselor and I find the work rewarding and challenging.
After one summer at the Harvard Summer School, I switched to
Western Reserve University in Cleveland, where I shall receive my
Master’s degree in June of 1960. I sometimes wonder what I should
have done had I continued my program at Harvard Summer School:
commuting between Cape Cod and Cambridge by train was bad
enough, but how would a commuter fare sans trains? This semester
(fall) I am taking courses at two different universities in order to
reach my goal by June, 1960.

Of my two sons, David, five years old, is at home and Jim, six-
teen, is a junior at Tabor Academy, Marion, Massachusetts. Now
then, if Harvard will arrange an examination in Russian (for the
foreign language requirement) it is possible that my elder son will
be Harvard Class of 1965. If David heads in the same direction, it ap-
pears that his graduation from Harvard will coincide with my first
Social Security check! As for my wife: as I write this on Colum-
bus Day of 1959, I am reminded that twenty-seven years ago today
I met her at a Unitarian Church (the one in Harvard Square) dance.
I consider that one of the luckiest days of my life, even though
from that time on I had to cope with the nickname, “the Radcliffe
Coed.”

On the matter of travel, even with a two to three months’ vaca-
tion, we find it impossible to head for any place other than Barnsta-
ble, Massachusetts. (Cape Cod Chamber of Commerce, please
note.) This past summer, seven of us, mostly family, chartered
Harvardman Tim Coggeshall’s thirty-foor sloop for a week's cruise
up the coast from Barnstable Harbor to Maine and back across the
bay to Provincetown, then through the Cape Cod Canal. This we
found so enjoyable that we shall probably make it part of the
summer tradition on the Cape. The balance of our Cape summer
consists of sailing, swimming, bicycling, picnicking, reading and
just plain loafing.

One important phase of guidance counseling is the indentitication

[219]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

of superior students. I am pleased to be able to report that of these
identified superior students, there are in Cambridge one junior and
one sophomore from my school, if there are not one or two enter-
ing next fall, it will not be due to lack of effort and encouragement
on my part!

An important aspect of my hopes and plans for the future is a
desire to move back to New England. Note to educators in the
East: Guidance Counselor, anyone?

ROBERT LIVINGSTON CAMMANN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Seneca St., Rye, N.Y.

OFFICE abpREss: Wellman Operating Corp., 111 W. goth St., New York 18, N.Y.

Born: March 15, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: Edward Crary Cammann,
Helena Van Kortlandt.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MarriED: Priscilla Cranstoun, March 3, 1945, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Cortlandt, April 6, 1946, Carola, Jan. 5, 1949; Marjorie, June 14, 1952.
occupaTion: Director and president, Wellman Operating Corporation; real

estate and business brokerage, textiles, printing, textile engineering.
OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, 1957, executive vice-president, 1958, Wellman
Operating Corporation; vice-president, 1950-55, president, 1956, Manhattan
Storage & Warehouse Company; trustee, New York Dispensary, 1946-48.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Apawamis and Manursing Island
Clubs, Rye, N.Y.; Sharon Country Club, Sharon, Conn.

THE request for the story of my life has brought a realization that
it has been free from outstanding adventure. However, as I re-

view my life I find that I have consistently enjoyed it and found
it interesting.

My post-school career commenced early as earning a living
seemed a most advisable pastime in the early thirties, Banking and

[ 220]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

then real estate occupied my working hours during the first eight
or nine years. Then war clouds and the appeal of aviation drew
me into airport management and to South America and Africa. A
commission in the Naval Reserve resulted from being with Pan
American and this led to a desk in Navy’s Bureau of Personnel in
Washington, D.C.

About this time an extremely attractive redheaded Spar termi-
nated my bachelor days.

All this experience plus ten years subsequently spent in the mov-
ing business prepared me for my present occupation which is not
exclusively banking, real estate, aviation or warehousing. How-
‘ ever, buying and selling of businesses, real estate and finance do enter
into it.

Some people probably plan their course but mine has been some-
what guided by circumstances and there seems to be a pattern to
it. My leisure time has been mostly occupied of late enjoying a
cabin in the woods of northern Connecticut, a frequent convivial

gathering and trying to keep in the “groove” which the golf pro
tells me about.

JOHN JAMES CANAVAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 604 Norwood Drive, Westfield, N.J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Stavid Engineering Inc. U.S. Highway 22, Plainteld, NJ.

BORN: Aug. 3, 1912, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Frederick Canavan, Mary
Farrell.

PREPARED AT: Whitman High School, Whitman, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MARRIED: Katherine Blakeman, Dec. 22, 1946, Cambridge, Mass. cniup: John
Frederick, Oct. 4, 1951.
OCCUPATION: Engineer.

NO questionnaire returned.

[221]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

+ FELIX CANDIS

 

porN: April 24, 1912, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: George J. Candis, Catherine
Katribanon.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.

piep: Sept. 15, 1933, Boston, Mass.

FELIX CANDIS died at the beginning of our junior year.

WILLIAM JOSEPH CANTELMO

 

HOME abpRESS: 1021 Union St., Rockland, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 434 Union St., Rockland, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 4, 1913, Newark, N.J. parents: Frank Cantelmo, Florence G.
Sachtleben.

PREPARED aT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1935; LL.B. (Boston
Coll.), 1949.

MarrieD: Virginia Garrity, Sept. 28, 1954, Newton, Mass. CHILDREN: Mary M.,
July 11, 1955; Andrea, June 5, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

[ 222 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Zoning Board of Appeals, Rockland, Mass.
MEMBER OF: Old Colony Harvard Club,

MY career since leaving college has not been distinguished by any
very noteworthy achievements. After four years in the Army I
went to work as a claims adjuster, which job I held for sev eral
years. I am now practising law in my own office, Politically, 1 am
a conservative and feel that too much government is bad for any
country. My wife is an articulate ex-schoolteacher and a confirmed
Democrat and, as a result, political discussions in our home are apt
to be both lively and emotional, sometimes even verging on the
hysterical, although we have never reached the point of coming to
blows.

Insofar as Harvard is concerned I find myself deeply disturbed
by the stand taken by the authorities on the matter of lovalty oaths
and so-called subversive activities. To take an oath of allegiance
and loyalty to one’s country seems to me to be such a basically
proper and traditional matter that I am completely puzzled over the
furious rumpus raised over this matter.

The decision not to accept the federal aid to students because of
the loyalty oath requirement seemed to me to show an arbitrary
disregard of those possible applicants for loans who might well con-
sider the taking of such an oath proper and not in the least repug-
nant. Such a position, further, seemed to me to be completely in-
consistent with a serious concern with individual freedom of
thought and choice. Such public reaction as I have been able to
observe seems to indicate a suspicion of the real motivation of the
University authorities.

The stand of the University in other cases seems to indicate that
questions of subversive activities are considered to be private mat-
ters between the University and the parties involved. The instinc-
tive feeling of the average person, I believe, is that school and its
teachers should be above suspicion and no amount of theoretical
discussion about freedom of speech and thought will banish that belief.

My concern arises from the fear that the University authorities
have failed to grasp the depth of the feelings of the vast majority
of our citizens in respect to these matters. A univ ersity like Har-
vard is a semi-public institution and owes a duty of trust to the
community in which it is allowed to exist. The status of its teach-
ers is of concern to that community and rightly so, For that reason
the arbitrary attitude of the Univ ersity authorities i insuch questions
seems to me to pose a real threat to the welfare of the Univ enity

[ 223]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

if continued over a long period since it could well alienate man

who might otherwise prove to be its friends. | sincerely feel that
this condition should be a matter of deep concern to all graduates of
the University.

ELIOT DANIEL CANTER

 

HOME apprEss: 87 Beverly Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Canter Construction Co., 185 Corey Rd., Boston 46, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 8, 1914, Boston, Mass. paRENTS: James Jacob Canter, ’o9, Ida Levin.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B. IN ENG., cum laude, 1935.

MarRiED: Blanche Helene Goldberger, Oct. 12, 1944, Providence, R.I. CHILDREN:
Jane Helen, Jan. 2, 1947; Jonathan David, June 17, 1948; Elizabeth Ann,
Dec. 13, 1950; Sally Jacqueline, Dec. 7, 1954.

occuPATION: Building contractor and registered professional engineer; presi-
dent, Canter Construction Company, Eliot Construction & Equipment
Corporation, Eliot Realty Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, member, executive committee, New England
Section, Harvard Engineering Society, 1938-44; Class Agent, 1940-50;
member, Class Committee, 1950-55; trustee, Congregation Kehillath Israel,
since 1953; treasurer, Massachusetts Bay Lodge, B’nai B'rith, since 1958,
Massachusetts Chapter, Associated General Contractors of America, since
1959.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston, Shawmut Lodge, A.F, & A.M.

WITH our Twenty-fifth at hand, it seems to me that some pleasant
nostalgic spirit pervades the scene. I recall attending my father’s
Twenty-fifth Reunion before my graduation and on that occasion
I sensed the very special significance to him of that particular Re-
union. Since 1935 I have been looking forward to 1960 as a mile-
stone — a time to pause, even though briefly, in the midst of all the
hustle and bustle of everyday living —to reminisce over the events

[ 224 ]

2§5TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and accomplishments of the quarter of a century that was conclud-
ing and to look forward expectantly and to prepare hopefully for
the years yet to come—in the midst of a truly fantastic and
amazing scientific age.

These twenty-five years literally have sped by —certainly an
indication of a busy life, with many experiences, mostly pleasant.
I believe I was one of the last, if not the last, B.S.CE. graduates
from the Harvard Engineering School. Ever since, I have been
called upon frequently to defend and explain my selection, and I
have endeavored to do my best to substantiate this choice. In retro-
spect, Harvard Engineering training was outstanding in its emphasis
on fundamentals — and the additional opportunity afforded me to
take many varied courses in the College. I considered this combina-
tion of scientific and liberal education as ideal for this era, and not
easy to match. Perhaps realization of the potential benefits of the
resources and facilities available at Harvard will direct future efforts
in this direction.

Upon graduation I became associated with my father in the con-
struction business which he started in 1919. Except for four vears
during World War II, as engineer with Army Ordnance, I con-
tinued in our construction operations, assuming the presidency of
our company when my father passed away seven years ago.

I have found construction to be a most interesting and absorbing
field of endeavor. Every day brings new problems to solve and
many decisions to make. Every project brings contact with dif-
ferent industries, processes, operations, all of which contribute to
sustaining interest while increasing knowledge—and earning a
living.

Today a contractor is concerned with many diverse business de-
mands, the actual building and engineering phases becoming seem-
ingly incidental. But in spite of all these time requirements, there
is a definite satisfaction and pride in watching a building grow up
out of the ground into a finished facility to serve industry or the
community. We perform all types of building, specializing in
heavy reinforced concrete and masonry construction. We build
for industrial concerns, educational, medical and research institu-
tions.

I have always thought that occupational happiness is predicated
to a great extent upon similar spirit at home. The vear 1944. marked
by my marriage to Blanche (Wellesley °42), brought the beginning
of a wonderful married life. We have been blessed w ith four love! NV

[ 225 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

children: Janie, Jonny, Betty and Sally. We spend considerable
time with them — going places and doing things together. We are
very sympathetic — perhaps too much so — to their small everyday
problems — which to them are anything but small. However, we
enjoy being close to them and watching them grow up.

Although Blanche and I enjoy traveling, our busy household al-
lows only relatively short trips, usually without advance planning.
During recent winters we have been fortunate to have had pleasant
though brief visits to the Coast, Mexico and the Caribbean. In the
summers we have our cottage directly on a beautiful beach on the
South Shore. I manage to swim every day in the summer and |
continue several times a week at a nearby indoor pool during the
balance of the year. This is one of the ways I try to keep in trim.
Then there are the usual athletic sessions with the children where I
try to be more scientific and less active. In general, the other mem-
bers of our family could be considered athletically inclined —
Blanche for golf; Janie and Betty for tennis and skating, Jonny for
baseball, football and skating; and little Sally for special consulta-
tion and advice.

For years four of us have witnessed the Harvard football con-
tests, which have become more interesting with each passing season,
climaxed of course with the Yale victory recently. I enjoy playing
bridge for quieter relaxation. Blanche is one of the few who under-
stand my system dependent only incidentally upon point count.
Further available time is consumed with many charitable or com-
munity activities and technical or industry meetings.

These passing years have brought on increasing awareness of the
inestimable value of my Harvard association. I am thankful for the
pleasant prologue. I hope for an equally pleasant epilogue with
good health for all. For now, I await June and The Event.

[ 226 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE CANTOR

 

ADDRESS: 310 33d St., Newport Beach, Calif.

BORN: Oct. 15, 1913, Bennington, Vt. Parents: Barney Cantor, Essie Salter.
PREPARED AT: Bennington High School, Bennington, Vt.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. C17 laude, 1933; LL.B. 1939.
OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

NO questionnaire returned,

ENRICO CAPPUCCI

 

HOME ADDRESS: 176 Orient Ave., East Boston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 18 Meridian St., East Boston, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 12, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Daniel Cappucet, Anme Amoko.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MarRRIED: Virginia C. Meaney, Nov. 21, 1942, Boston, Mass. cuirores: Ennee,
Jr. 1943; Robert, 19453 John, 10436; Patty Anne, 1948 Mary Ann, 1932.

OCCUPATION; Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Massachusetts House of Representatives, r9a~qk

MEMBER OF: Knights of Columbus; Massachusetts Transit Club; Bostun Bar
Association, University Club.

{ 227]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

WHEN I left school I went to work as a longshoreman. Studied
nights. Entered politics and held office for twelve consecutive
years in the Massachusetts House of Representatives, during which
time I attended Suffolk Law School and passed the bar. Specialize
in transportation work and as a labor consultant. Have also special-
ized in legislative research.

JOHN CHARLES CARDONA

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 75 N. Broadway, Nyack, N.Y.

BORN: Oct. 2, 1913, Boston, Mass. parRENTS: Charles Cardona, Josephine Mar-
tina,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 1935; M.D, (New York Medical
Coll.), 1939.

MarrieD: Mary Katherine Looser, Aug. 8, 1942, Nyack, N.Y. cHitpren: George
Charles, May 15, 1943; Joanne Marie, May 1, 1948, Mary Katherine, Aug.
20, 1952; John Charles, Nov. 14, 1955.

occupaTion: Physician in private practice; associate professor in clinical
otolaryngology, New York University Post-graduate Medical School.

OFFICES HELD: Associate surgeon, University Hospital, since 1949; attending
surgeon, Bellevue Hospital, since 1949; consultant, New York State
Rehabilitation Hospital, since 1951; consultant, Summit Park Sanitarium,

since 1953; director of otolaryngology, since 1955, chairman of medical
staff, since 1959, Nyack Hospital.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Otolaryngology (fellow); American College
of Surgeons (fellow); American Academy of Ophthalmology and Otolaryn-
gology (fellow); New York Laryngological and Otological Society;
American Medical Association; Rockland County Medical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: “Management of Acute Corrosive Esophagitis,” American Jour-
nal of Surgery, 1957.

THE invitation to present an autobiography of the past twenty-
five years came as somewhat of a shock — not so much the chore

[ 228 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of writing an autobiography but the realization that twenty-five
years have passed is the shocker. Yet, it surely seems in the dim
and distant past that I left Harvard proudly with my diploma, sure
that I had acquired almost all the knowledge in the ‘world.

Unfortunately (although happily), I was bitten with the desire
to enter medicine. So with my newly acquired A.B. and my vast
knowledge I planned to tear quickly — so I thought — through
medical school, and enter the practice of medicine. Fifteen years
later, after many, many weary hours of study and training, inter-
rupted by a four-year hiatus of travel and boredom i in the Armny,
I finally became self-supporting.

The four difficult but exciting years in medical school, which
made my toils at Harvard seem like a leisurely vacation, ended with
an M.D. degree in 1939. Then on into interne training, in the course
of which World War II began. In May, 1942, 1 entered the armed
forces (the Army). This period of my life, while medically sterile,
provided me with the following: an extensive tour of many little
islands throughout the Pacific Ocean which are not on the usual
Cook’s Tour itinerary; an ability to write letters and regulations,
Army style —an ability which had to be acquired quickly when
I was made commanding surgeon of an Army camp; a wife; and,
in 1942, my first son.

After leaving the Army i in 1946 I returned to continue my inter-
rupted medical training. At this time I started post-graduate work
at New York University and Bellevue Hospital in the specialty of
ear, nose and throat. In 1949 I joined the teaching staff of the
New York University Post-graduate Medical School on a full-
time basis. The position combined teaching, research, and clinical
work, as well as being administrative assistant to the director of the
department. This experience at the crossroads of one of the great
medical centers of the country Was exciting, absorbing, and satis-
fying. But, like all positions in universities, not very remunerative.

In fairness to my red-headed — but patient — w ife, and my grow-
ing family, it became necessary in 1953 to expand my private prac-
tice and reduce my more interesting academic activities, a compro-
mise which many men have had to face. My position at the Uni-
versity since then has been on a part-time basis bur still ece upies
many hours of each week.

As can be seen, the major portion of these years has been spent
in getting ready to work, and then in the scramble of “gerring.”
The last few years have been spent in try ing to combine the deure

[ 229 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

of continuing to make a good living with the search for satisfaction
in one’s profession which can best be found in the academic life,
and still to have enough time left over to enjoy my wonderful
family. So that between the demands of an extremely active prac-
tice, my continued work in teaching, and a family which now num-
bers four very active children, the words “leisure time” are only
something I read about in magazines.

No college could teach what experience and life can glean. As
one who tries to teach others, the passing on of experiences is a diffi-
cult and at times almost hopeless task. In this sense then, no college
can do more than to prepare one to think and appreciate and evalu-
ate the experiences that are to come. More and more as the years
pass it becomes evident to me that it is in the accomplishment of
these objectives that Harvard excelled; and that this training was far
more important in softening the road that lay ahead than that
small store of book-knowledge of which I was once so proud,

ROBERT OLMSTEAD CARLETON

 

HOME abpREss: Calle Francisco Aruz 4, Urb. Valencia, Rio Piedras, Puerto
Rico.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Puerto Rico Planning Board, Bureau of Economics & Statistics,
Santurce 29, Puerto Rico.

BORN: Jan. 28, 1914, Brooklyn, N.Y. parents: Chester Robert Carleton, ’06,
Emma Christine Brombacher.

PREPARED aT: Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1935; a.M. (New
School for Social Research), 1949; a.m. (Columbia Univ.), 1952.

marrigp: Zaida Luz Carreras Davila, Dec. 29, 1957, Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico.

occupation: Economist (population, labor force, and migration analyst);
government planning.

[ 230 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
MEMBER OF: American Sociological Society; American Statistical Association,
Population Association of America.

PUBLICATIONS: Occupational Mobility in the United States, 1930-1960 (with A,
J. Jaffe), King’s Crown Press, New York, 1954; “Modern History vs. God's
Plan,” The Catholic World, January, 1953, pp. 276-281.

THE first twenty-five years of my life after leaving Harvard — if
all that be considered is how they compare with my expectations
at the time of graduation — must be counted as years of disa
pointment. Although my aspirations were vague and indefinite,
they were scarcely modest. I nourished the conviction that in some
way or another I was going to set the world on fire. As it turned
out, performance fell short of expectations. In order to be able to
live at peace with myself, I have had to make a painful downward
adjustment of my expectations. Now at long last I am living an
unspectacular but useful life in which there is much to be satisfied
with and — as I grow more mellow with age — less to be dissatistied
with.

Upon completion of my academic training I was singularly ill-
equipped for assuming adult responsibilities in the outside world.
Without realizing it, I had over-trained as a student in the sense
of having permitted stellar academic performance to become an
end in itself instead of a preparation for the roles I should play in
the adult phase of my life. At the same time, a speech impediment
about which I was extremely sensitive confused the issue, prevent-
ing me from understanding the real nature of my difficulty. Mv
attempts to earn a living and to develop a career for myself “during
the period following g oraduation and up to our entry into W orld
War II were on the whole naive, inept and half-hearted. And
given the absence of an adequate financial basis, the possibility of
serious relations with the other sex leading to marriage was ex-
tremely remote.

Most of my activity during these vears was intellectual. I felt at
home in this area as a consequence of my training as a student. Al-
ready —even before graduation—I had joined the Cathohe
Church in a step that signified for me emancipation and independence
from the forces that had guided me to the threshhold of adulthood.

Further gestures of intellectual defiance were to take place after
leaving Harvard. Without abandoning my allegiance to Cathoh-
cism, I became active in left-wing politics, after which I became
interested in Freud and entered psychoanalyne trearment. While
the simultaneous embracing of Christ, Marx and Freud undoubtedly

[231]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19356

was finished in mid-1955, I had secured the position with the Puerto
Rico Planning Board as population, migration and labor force ana-
lyst at which I am still employed. While my salary is small com-
pared with Stateside levels for similar employment, the work is
more interesting. As many others have also noted, because of its
smallness and its dynamic political leadership, Puerto Rico resembles
in many ways a social laboratory in which one can readily recog-
nize and achieve satisfaction from his own contributions. |

Of recent years my interest in intellectual speculation and contro-
versy in the realm of religion, philosophy and politics has dimin-
ished considerably It is not altogether clear in my mind why this
should be so. However, I have not renounced any of the allegiances
to which I had previously committed myself.

Zaida and 1 got married on December 29, 1956. Zaida subse-
quently got a scholarship which enabled her to study for her M.A.
in economics, and is now working as an economist for the Eco-
nomic Development Administration —the Puerto Rican govern-
ment agency which places most of those big advertisements you
see in the Stateside newspapers and magazines. We have no family
as yet. This is the next item on our agenda. In all probability it
will provide the first news item I shall report for the second twenty-
five years after graduation. Don’t look behind you, fellow class-
mates; someone who got off to a very slow start is following in
your footsteps!

EDWARD CATON CARMAN

 

HOME appRESs: 6009 Kenwood Drive, Nashville 12, Tenn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Avco Corp., Nashville 1, Tenn,

BORN: March 9, 1914, Springfield, Mass. parents: Ernest Westervelt Carman,
’08, Jessie B. Caton.

[ 234 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1935-

MARRIED: Dorothy Tobey, Aug. 28, 1937, Plymouth, N-H. cutores: Edward
Caton, Jr., March 16, 1941; Peter Tobey, Nov. 8, 1942; Finest Westervelt,
2d, Oct. 31, 1945; David Colby, June 3, 1950.

HARVARD SON: Edward Caton Carman, Jr., ’63

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Westervelt Carman, °34; James Russell Carman, ‘so.

occupation: Manufacturing, director of business development, Avco Corpora-
tion.

OFFICES HELD: Member, National Association of Purchasing Agents, 1945-48
member, Materials Committee, 1952-59, Department of Commerce Ad-

visory Committee, 1954-55, Farm Equipment Institute, president, Board
of Education, Celina, Ohio, 1954-59.

MEMBER OF: Nashville Chamber of Commerce, Nashville Management Club;
American Management Association; Saguaro Ski Club, Tucson, Anz.
(charter member); Parent Teachers Association; Northmoor Golf Club.

TWENTY-FIVE years in 1500 words or less — what a task! The
joys and sorrows; the great hopes; the failures and frustrations, the
successes; the people and places! To do the task justice is beyond
my scope. English “A” is too far behind me. I hope the Class Re-
port Chairman will settle for chronology illuminated by comments
and reminiscences. On that basis, here we go.

In 1935 I had wanted to teach but, nevertheless, jobs being
scarce, I was entered in Harvard Law School, much to my father’s
pleasure, since he is a lawyer. Fate stepped in late in August, how-
ever, in the guise of a chance to teach at Evans School in Tucson,
Arizona, a ranch school with all the glamorous activities associated
with such a place. It must have been the “fringe benefits” that
counted; the pay was only $800 a year plus board and room.

That might explain a transcontinental trip which I remember
well. I was with an Evans School associate, tooling an old Chevrolet
over the road and sleeping out where night found us. Leaving the
Chevrolet in New Jersey, I took the tube to Manhattan and a hotel,
lugging my bed roll and other gear, and carrying John Reed’s Ten
Days That Shook the World. It's a wonder they gave me a ream
without cash in advance. 7

But, it was a wonderful four years I spent at Evans School.
Arizona is a long way for a Massachusetts man to meet a girl from
New Hampshire. We managed it all right, however, and were

married a year later, in 1937, at Plymouth, New Hampshire. “There-
after, we spent two more years at Fvans School.

By this time I had discov ered that TE really wasn’t interested m
teaching. I expect IT had drifted that way in the firse place monks

[ 235]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

E doubt, however, if many people realize how wide the differ-
ences in ability are when you get to the high school level. Diverse
programs are a must, even the inclusion of some courses referred
to as frills, There is danger, of course, that the good student, not
adequately motivated at home, who should be taking the “solid”
subjects, may drift into a general or commercial program just be-
cause it is easier, This is an area of great attrition in the utilization
of our abilities as a nation, The solution lies in testing and counsel-
ing to guide each student into a program which will develop his
abilities to their full potential. Money ear marked for counseling
in the public schools will be well spent.

The quality of education depends in the final analysis, however,
on what a community wants and what kind of board members it
elects. The current public awareness of educational problems,
therefore, insures progress. President Conant’s work for the Carne-
gie Foundation is a great contribution toward understanding the
problems of the American high school and the possible solutions.
His book, The American High School Today, which is available
in a paper-bound edition, should be read by all who are interested
in education, both professionals and non-professionals.

How much this community really meant to us we found out
when we left, through the touching and overwhelming expressions
of so many friends and acquaintances.

And now Tennessee since mid-1959. I hope our new friends are
patient. It is going to take time for us to endorse without reserva-
tion country ham, black-eyed peas, grits and turnip greens.

Although Tennessee is Democratic, the state is essentially con-
servative in fiscal and social matters (Senator Kefauver excepted).
Twenty years ago, in a more radical mood, I am sure I would have
found Tennessee's political climate frustrating, but understanding
grows with the years, and with it, in my case, conservatism.

To one who has spent ten years dealing with farming and agri-
culture economics, Tennessee points up an important aspect of the
farm problem. While there is an increasing diversity in Tennessee
farming and while there are well-managed and profitable farms,
especially in the western delta cotton lands, nevertheless, one can’t
help being struck by the agricultural poverty around us here in
mid-Tennessce, The federal programs aimed at kceping people
on these marginal farnis are wrong. We should be developing
means of getting them off the farms and into other employment,
because we cant possibly stop the trend toward larger farms and

[ 238 ]

PP Ce LL LL AA TO

set popyetryerionane

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

increased mechanization. In the Corn Belt the movement off the
farm has been smooth and easy because of employment opportuni-
ties in a widespread industrial complex. In Tennessee, in contrast,
the employment opportunities are concentrated in a few urban
areas. The efforts of the Department of Agriculture to assist the
low income farmer in developing other sources of income and in
making the transition to non-farm employment warrant our sup-
port.

This is not a story of outstanding achievement nor of high ad-
venture. We are simply an ordinary American family and our
story is really in the family — four boys aged nine to nineteen. We
are proud of them. Ted, Jr., is a freshman at Harvard. Besides be-
ing a good student, he has a keen interest in mountain climbing and
other sports. Pete is a senior at Montgomery Bell Academy in
Nashville. He is a football player, with a long-standing interest
in electronics and some substantial accomplishments in that field.
Our two younger boys— Ernie and David — claim that football
is the only thing they like about school. I don’t really believe this,
however. They do much too well in class.

We'll be in Cambridge next June!

DONALD SCOTT CARMICHAEL

 

HOME appreEss: County Line Road, Hunting Valley Village, Chagrin Falls,
Ohio.
OFFICE AppRESS: The Stouffer Corp., 1375 Euclid Ave., Cleveland 15, Ohio,

BORN: Feb, 19, 1912, Toledo, Ohio. parents: Grey Thornton Carmichael, Fdna
Farle Jaite.

PREPARED AT: Lakewood High School, Lakewood, Ohio,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREFS: A.B, 1935(36); Lia. (Univ. of Michi-
gan), to42.

[239]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Marriep: Mary Dickinson, Mav 28, 1ggo, Gates Mills, Ohio. compren: Mary
Brooke, June 9, 1949; Pamela Hastings, May 5, 1951.

occupation; — Vice-president — general counsel,
restaurants, foods, management food services.

orrices HELD: Jumor warden, 1955-57, Vestryman, 1959, St. Christopher's By-
The-River (Fpiscopal),; member, Committee on Conference Center,
Episcopal Diocese of Ohio, 1957, member, 1957-58, chairman, since 1958,
board of trustees, Cuvahoga County Hospital, member, Advisory Com-
mittee on Development, Baldwin-Wallace College, 1957; member of
corporation, Fenn College, 1958, first vice-chairman, Cuyahoga County
Charter Commission, 1958-59, member, Cuyahoga County Democratic
Executive Committee, since 1958, member, Mayor’s Committee for County
Home Rule Charter; member, Governor's Advisory Committee on Indus-
trial and Economic Development (appointed November, 1959); member,
Special Gifts Division, Corporate Gifts Division, Science Fund Drive,
1959, Visiting Committee, School of Law, Western Reserve University;
first. vice-president, Greater Cleveland Safety Council, 1959; president,
Urban League, 1960; trustee and secretary, Vernon Stouffer Foundation.

MEMBER OF: Union Club, Cleveland; Chagrin Valley Hunt Club, Gates Mills,
Ohio; Harvard Club of New York, American, Ohio and Cleveland Bar
Associations; Cleveland Advertising Club; Cleveland City Club; Harvard
Club of Cleveland (past president).

pusLications: F.D.R. Colummist, 1947.

The Stouffer Corporation,

IT is not easy to hold up a mirror for your classmates twenty-five
vears after the launching. However, not long ago a newspaperman
introduced me as “a strange combination of country squire, lawyer,
businessman and Democrat.” He also classed me as a ‘‘Do-gooder
who gets things done.” I suppose that, as in the case of the ice-
bergs, this tells a certain percentage of the story.

‘Twenty-five years away from Cambridge, there are a few things
which are of considerable importance to me. First, there is my
wife Mary and my daughters, Brooke and Pam. We love country
living in a white clapboard farm house surrounded by out-buildings,
ponds, woods and meadows. We are interested in many things as a
family — books, walking, skating, riding and traveling. “Two ponies,
two cockers and two cats complete the family circle.

Secondly, is the Episcopal Church and the Book of Common
Prayer which is my and my family’s means of communicating with
God.

Thirdly, are my tics with Harvard and the tolerance, independ-
ence and factual basis for action and decision that I learned there.

Fourthly, is the law because it encompasses the whole scope of
inan’s life ina free society and because | have had the privilege of

[ 240 ]

enero

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

making my living these twenty-five years in the law and the fields
related closely thereto.

Finally, there is the Democratic Party which has given me an
opportunity to express my faith in the two-party system, the virility
of which is vital to the successful continuance of our democracy.
Moreover, I became a Democrat while I was at Harvard based upon
what I learned from history and my studies while concentrating in
government. | believe that the Democratic Party has throughout
the history of this nation more consistently represented the hopes
and aims of a majority of our people.

As a captive lawyer in a corporation, I concern myself with
numerous matters of public affairs— civic, health, welfare and
governmental committees and boards at the city and state levels. I
have spent considerable time with governmental problems result-
ing from the exploding metropolis. I also have a concern and de-
sire to do something constructive about political interest and action
by those Americans whose work days fall within the framework of
a corporation. | believe that the last twenty-five years have found
too many corporate employees political consumers rather than po-
litical producers. Certainly, the future of this nation will require
the participation in the democratic processes of all of its citizens
and not just a part of them, In serving on numerous boards and
committees which have a common malady of indecision and in-
action, my constant objective is to achieve decision and action.

While it is fun to take a quick look back, I am much more inter-
ested in the next twenty-five years. It is reasonable to assume that
I shall pursue the course I am now on, but it is my hope to do so
with more wisdom, tolerance and understanding, with which I hope
graying hair and the years will in some small measure endow me.

[ 241 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

% CHARLES EDWIN CARR

 

Bors: Nov. 6, 1912, Malden, Mass. parents: Patrick Henry Carr, Mary Carr.
Prepare aT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1935. DEGREES: A.B., stemrma cum laude, 1935; A.M., 1938.
DIED: Jan. 19, 1941, Waltham, Mass.

CHARLES EDWIN CARR graduated with our Class and won
Phi Beta Kappa honors in his junior year. After graduation he went
to Europe on a Sheldon Travelling Scholarship and studied and
taught in Munich. In 1936 he returned to Harvard as a graduate
student, receiving an A.M. degree in 1938. He served as an English
instructor for two years and was a proctor and freshman adviser.
At one time he was Olympic winter sports correspondent for the
London Times and New York Times. He was survived by his
mother and two brothers.

JAMES AUGUSTUS CARR, JR.

 

How atemess: 37 Pond View Ave. Jamaica Plain yo, Mass.
omc anmyss: Norfolk-Ply mouth Superior Court, Dedham, Mass,

[ 242 ]

pares eRe mee TTT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: June 12, 1913, Boston, Mass, parents: James Augustus Carr, Elizabeth
J. F. Collins.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935 (36); 8.M IN 8.8. (Boston Univ.),
1941.

mMarRiED: Dorothy R. O'Connor, Sept. 27, 1941, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Maureen G., Jan. 6, 1943; Deborah J., May 24, 1945; Joanne F., March 19,
1947-

occuPaTION: Chief probation officer, Superior Court for Norfolk and Plym-
outh Counties.

OFFICES HELD: President, Jamaica Plain Neighborhood House, since 1945; vice-
president, Massachusetts Probation Officers Association, 1960.

MEMBER OF: National Probation Association; New England Conference of
Criminology; Massachusetts Correction Workers.

FOLLOWING graduation I attended the Boston University School
of Social Work and received the degree of S.M. in S.S. in 1941.
During 1935-36, I was an agent for the Massachusetts Society for
the Prevention of Cruelty to Children and for the next three years
served as court representative for the Massachusetts Division of
Child Guardianship in juvenile court hearings throughout the state.
From 1939 to 1943 and again during 1946-47, I was attached to the
USS. District Court for Massachusetts as U.S_ probation officer. In
May of 1947, I was appointed chief probation officer of the Superior
Court in Norfolk and Plymouth Counties. On August 1, 1943, I
was commissioned in the U.S. Navy and discharged as a lieutenant
senior grade, in July, 1946. Most of my wartime efforts were con-
fined to assignments in the Corrective Service Division, at so-called
stateside hot spots.

I have continued to maintain interest in community activities and
have participated in most of the money-raising campaigns of the
Greater Boston Community Fund. The delicate art of politics has
always intrigued me and in a passive fashion I continue to enjoy it.
As to my leisure time, for the most part this has been devoted to
dear old Cape Cod where, with my wife and family, life always
seems to me a little bit more complete.

[ 243 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

JAMES FRANCIS CARTY

 

HOME aporess: 447 North Dover, LaGrange Park, III.
OFFICE abpress: Container Corp. of America, 1301 W. 35th St., Chicago, TIL.

BorS: Oct. 28, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: James Patrick Carty, Helen G.
Shea.

prepareD aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; M.B.A., 1937.

MarrigD: Melba Krahenbuhl, April 3, 1943, South Orange, N.J. CHILDREN:
David J. April 5, 1936; Jeffrey W., Dec. 21, 1948; Dennis D., May 16,
1952.

Harvard BROTHERS: John Joseph Carty, 42; Arthur Gerard Carty, '42.

occupation: General manager, Chicago Carton Division, Container Corpora-
tion of America.

OFFICES HELD: Various offices, Community Chest, Larchmont and Mamaroneck,
N.Y., 1947-58, American Red Cross, Westchester, 1956-57; member, board
of governors and vice-president, University Club of Mamaroneck, 1954-
57; committeeman, Folding Paper Box Association of America, 1956-57.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Business School Club of New York, University Club of
Mamaroneck; Tamarack Club, Greenwich, Conn,

TWENTY-FIVE years into two pages! How characteristic of
our era of pressure and compression, concentrated and digested
food and reading! For Henry James, impossible! For us, it’s easy!
These things almost inev itably break down into two categories:
Family and Non-Family, Let's ‘take the Non-Family first. Glanc-
ing back, there are three distinct slices, which might be identified
by who was paying the tab. Directly after Business School, went
with Colgate-Palmolive for five years, working my way up, down
or sideways (depending upon your industrial prejudice) through
Various accounting departments into the advertising department.
This scemed a fit time to go off to war, and fittingly, one came
along at just about that time, Came up with the Navy and the
Mediterrancan ... saw Bob Haley and a couple of other familiars,

[ 244 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

but these admitted thrills not really worth the trip. In terms of

ersonal evolution (admittedly not outstanding raison de guerre),
whole military experience probably worth a month . . . took three
and a half years.

Very fortunate postwar to join Container Corporation of Amer-
ica, the Harvard of the packaging business (temporarily being run
by Yale men, lo these twenty-five years), for my first venture into
industrial sales. Felt good on me, comfortable, liked the bottom-
less New York market. After some seven years, made sales man-
ager, national accounts, New York-based and all went well. This
year, transferred to friendly midwest (never did get back to Bos-
ton, did I?) as general manager, Chicago Carton Division, with re-
sponsibilities over production, accounting, etc., as well as sales.
Stimulating, complicated, interesting.

Now, as to family category. You all remember the much-pub-
licized advice of MIT Professor Rogers as to what to do with the
boss’s daughter? I’m sure I did better by marrying his secretary,
though I can’t quite understand how I end up all these years later
typing my own reunion notes. We have had all kinds of good
fortune in our family life, with our three boys not yet old enough
to be juvenile delinquents.

So, here we now sit at our Twenty-fifth. When I saw the senility
of the Twenty-fifth Reunion Class when we were in college, I not
only thought I couldn’t possibly live long enough to be that old;
I didn’t even want to. But we certainly appear and feel youthful,
don’t we? Come now, of course we do. At this stage of life, I am
quite content with the past tw enty-five years in every way. How
much credit for this goes to Harvard .. . any? W ho knows? The
only scientific basis for judgment would be to do it all over again
without going to Harvard and sce if life turned out about “the
same. But I think I can admit some debts without being far from
the fact. One: Avenucs of interest and curiosity were opened, and
I have never since feared pursuing these avenues. This was the
theme of President Lowell's address to us as freshmen, and may
have been the most important address of the four years. It was
for me!! Two: Adoption of generally liberal attitudes. This is
an environment for which Harvard is justly renowned. The de-
velopment of these attitudes certainly makes possible the artain-
ment of the “fuller life” and “growth” as so well dey cloped by the
late Professor Richard Cabor. Third: The whole experience of
four years at Harvard. This includes Fine Arts and football, beer-

[ 245 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

drinking and bridge, bull sessions and Brahms and all the other
trivia that go to make up a very stimulating experience, although
ar that time the custom was to retain an air of studied indifference.
After twenty-five vears, I trust it will not be considered gauche to
express a restrained enthusiasm for the whole affair.

GEORGE CARY, JR.

 

HOME ApprEss: 1448 Benedict Canyon Rd., Beverly Hills, Calif.

orFice appress: Hollingsworth & Co., 606 S. Hill St., Los Angeles, Calif.
Bor: April 2, 1911, Buffalo, N.Y. parests: George Cary, °83, Allithea Birge.
preparen aT: Se. George's School, Newport, R.L.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-193 }3-
marziep: Leslie Patricia Koch, Aug. 17, 1951, Santa Barbara, Calif. cHitp:

Allithea Scephanie, Aug. 12, 1937 (by previous marriage).
occuPaTION: Real estate.

NO questionnaire returned,

FRANK JOHN CASALE

 

Home atamess: Bog N, Doheny Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.

[ 244 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

orFice AppREsS: Lock Hardware & Supply Co., 815 E. Washington Bivd., Los
Angeles, Calif.

BORN: Sept. 15, 1909, New Britain, Conn, parents: Gerardo Casale, Catherine
Salvia.

PREPARED AT: Vermont Academy, Saxton’s River, Vt.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

mMarkizD: Constance Blakely, Aug. 15, 1942, San Marino, Calif.

occuPaTION: Part owner and director, Lock Hardware & Supply Company,
wholesale hardware distributors.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1953, president, 1954, Builders Hardware Club of
Southern California; chairman, Scholarship Committee, 1956-58, director,
Harvard Club of Southern California.

FOR two years after graduation, I did some substitute teaching,
was supervisor of N.Y.A. activities in New Britain, Connecticut,
and did some miscellaneous brokerage selling of electrical appliances.
In 1937 I went to work as a salesman for the Eagle Lock Company
of Terryville, Connecticut, calling on industrial accounts in New
England until the fall of 1939, at which time I was transferred to
the west coast. Working out of Los Angeles prewar and out of
San Francisco after the war, I had the eight far-western states as
my sales territory. For three of the war years I worked in the execu-
tive offices of my company in Chicago and in Terryville, in the
purchasing and sales departments.

In October of 1947, I purchased an interest in Lock Hardware &
Supply Company of Los Angeles, with which company I have been
actively associated ever since, as secretary-treasurer and sales man-
ager. Ours is a wholesale hardware business catering to the needs
of the locksmith trade and to the security needs of industrial, insti-
tutional and governmental agencies.

In 1942, I married Constance Blakely, a native of Michigan, in
San Marino, California, My wife is a graduate of Michigan State
and of the Prince School of Boston, and was active in personnel
management at the time of our marriage. We have no children,
but do make much of our dachshund, Jingle Bells von Buster.

For the last ten years I have been active in the Builders Hardware
Club of Southern California, having served in that time as treasurer
and then president. Also, in recent years, I have taken an active part
in Harvard Club activities and am at present serving on the board
of directors. An especially gratifying experience was serving as
chairman of our club’s Scholarship Committee for two years.

Until recent years our travels were confined to the United
States, but during the last four years we have taken trips to Alaska

[ 247 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

and to parts of Europe, Mexico and Guatemala. Two years ago we
spent eighteen days in Italy where one of the highlights of our stay
in Rome was a Sunday spent with Guglielmo “Bill” Serafini, with
whom “Rico” Cappucci and I roomed in 55 Matthews during our
freshman year. Bill transferred to the University of Rome, then
went to medical school and is now chief surgeon at the hospital at
Cirta della Pieve. According to Bill, the Italians still look to the
United States for leadership and guidance not only in medicine, but
in most other fields, in spite of the Sputniks.

I play an occasional game of golf, but my chief weekend activity
is sharing my wife's interest in gardening. This naturally has a
threefold benefit: it gives me a workout of sorts, it saves me some
money and it pleases my wife.

We hope to be in Cambridge in June. Best wishes to all of 1935.

RICHARD THOMAS CASSIDY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 17 Tedesco St., Marblehead, Mass.
orrice appress: Classical and High School, Salem, Mass.

BORN: May 9, 1915, Salem, Mass. PareNts: Richard Joseph Cassidy, Mary
Ellen Rose.

PREPARED aT: Marblehead High School, Marblehead, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: a.B., cunt laude, 1935; ED.M. (Boston
Univ.). 1940.

Marairp: Marjorie Ellen Kiernan, June 28, 1941, Marblehead, Mass. CHILDREN:
Richard Peter, May 24, 1942; James Thomas, May 26, 1947.

occupation: Head, Modern Language and Latin Department, Classical and
High School, Salem, Mass.

membre or; Modern Language Association; American Association of Teachers
uf Spanish and Portuguese, Massachusetts and Salem Teachers Associations.

UPON graduation I went to the Manlius School, Manlius, New
York, where I was employed as a teacher of Spanish and inciden-

[ 248 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tally an intramural coach of football, hockey and tennis, While
there I became acquainted with a young officer (now Major Gen-
eral William Verbeck) serving as professor of military science and
tactics who encouraged and guided me to obtaining a commission
as second lieutenant in the Military Intelligence Reserve.

In June, 1938, I left the Manlius School for a position as teacher
of Spanish and French at Classical and High School, Salem, Massa-
chusetts, where I began to work in the fall of 1938. While at Man-
lius I had taken one summer of study at Harvard Graduate School
of Education. After that summer I transferred my credits to Bos-
ton University, from which I received my Master of Education
degree in the summer of rgqo. I spent the summer of 1939 in Paris,
studying all aspects of French life, language, etc.

On February 3, 1941, I was called to duty in the Army as a Re-
serve second lieutenant in Military Intelligence. My first post was
the arsenal at Springfield, Massachusetts, known as the Springfield
Armory. In October, 1942, I received orders to proceed to Rio
de Janeiro, Brazil, where I was assigned as assistant military attache
in the U.S. Embassy. Fortunately, my orders allowed me to be ac-
companied by my family, which at that time consisted of my wife
Marjorie and a five-month-old son, Richard Peter. Much of my
work in Rio was concerned with the training and preparation of
the Brazilian Expeditionary Force, which saw action under the
USS. Fifth Army in the latter stages of World War II.

In November, 1945, I returned to the States on orders to be re-
turned to civilian status, which I finally attained on April 16, 1946,
after an enforced stay in the Fort Devens Hospital for repairs. I
was discharged with the rank of major. Since discharge I have re-
mained active in the Army Reserve, in which I presently hold the
rank of lieutenant colonel, Military Intelligence, USAR.

Happy was I to return to my former teaching position at Salem
Classical and High School. The head of my department resigned
and I was appointed to fill that position effective September 1, 1946.

A second son, James Thomas, was born to us on May 26, 1947.
Since then, Marjorie and I have been especially interested in rais-

ing our boys —and other than that our life has been comparatively
uneventful.

[ 249 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

HENRY FRANCIS CATE, JR.

   

M
hd ue )
HOME appress: South Station Street, Duxbury, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Keystone Co. of Boston, 50 Congress St., Boston 9, Mass.

BorN: Oct. 9, 1910, Newton, Mass. parents: Henry Francis Cate, Lillian 1.
Bowen.

PREPARED AT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935.

Marriep: Carolyn Elizabeth Young, April 6, 1940, Newton, Mass.

occuPpaTion: Vice-president, Keystone Company of Boston, national distributor
of investment company (mutual fund) shares; sales management and
administration.

OFFICES HELD: President, director, Henry F, Cate, Inc., since 1945; chairman,
board of ushers, Second Church (Congregational) of Newton, 1953-56;
trustee, Berkshire School, since 1954, vice-president, director, Keystone
Company of Boston, since 1955.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club (Brookline); Brae Burn Country Club; Dux-
bury Yacht Club, Harvard Club of Boston; Old Colony Harvard Club,
Harvard Varsity Club; Down Town Club, Veteran Motor Car Club of
America, Rolls-Royce Club, Dalhousie Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Cornerstone
Lodge F. & A.M.; New England Genealogical Society, The Bostonian
Society; Ticker Tape Trust.

JUST a quarter century ago — back in 1935, to be exact — Bliss
Perry was writing his reminiscences, having completed an illustrious
career of some forty years of teaching at Williams, Princeton, and
Harvard, not to mention ten distinguished years as editor of the
Atlantic Monthly, \n the final chapter of And Gladly Teach, he
opens with these wonderful words of allegory:
“Just below the Burnet Efill Rapids on the Southwest Miramichi,
the river quicts and broadens into a great pool which we call ‘the
Pond.’ Jf one has taken his canoe at the B ridve, tw enty miles up-
stream, he has found plenty of rough water before he reaches the
head of the Burne Pill Rapids, and these, the most dangerous on

[250 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the river, call for a coolness and skill beyond the reach of the

amateur. As the guide takes the last plunging slope at the foot

of the rapids, he swings sharply to the left, and all at once there is
silence and smooth water and an easy landing place, for this is
the Pond.”

No, at twenty-five years out of college I have not yet reached
“the Pond,” but I like to think I can see it on the horizon. Once
there, as Mr. Perry expresses it, there is TIME. TIME to do the
things one wants to do all his life but never can fit into the busy
whirl of a life devoted largely to coping with the continuing per-
sonal economic problem. TIME in sufficiency for family, for
friends, for travel, for service to the community, TIME for the
pursuit of the many interests in which most of us can only dabble
as we tumble along at breakneck speed in the swift waters upstream.
Yes, I like to think I am in sight of “the Pond”; close enough to
see it not as a place of inactivity and stagnation but as a place where
new activities begin.

But to return from allegory and philosophy to reality, mine has

been primarily a “business” life these twenty-five years and per-
sonally rewarding on all counts. Briefly, my business efforts have
been directed toward trying to sell something to someone. In
retrospect, pre-Commencement jobs in banking and brokerage ap-
pear to have influenced me little, as right after college — except for
a summer in Europe with classmates ‘Prouty, Lincoln and Bray —
I entered and spent a few hectic months in the retail store business.
The crisis came when I was forced by a lady customer to model a
magenta bathrobe on the street in front of the store. (She wanted
to see how it looked in the daylight!) A decade in the insurance busi-
ness followed, my experience ranging from fire, casualty and lite
to group and pensions.

Following the war the grass looked greener in a small manufactur-
ing company where I accepted an invitation to be vice-president
for sales. A lack of enthusiasm for selling silverware made acute
by management’s inability to meet the payroll after a few short
months led me out of this venture and into my present assoclation
eleven years ago, It was at this point, I feel, my long “apprentice-
ship” came to an end and my lifetime business career beyan. Ina

sense it Was a return to my first love which I spurned many years
before.

Contact with the many informed and suimularing people one
meets in the world of finance is a great privilege. The investment

[251]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

company (mutual fund) business, my particular segment of the
occupational classification called “Finance,” is one of the growth
industries of the century — steadily expanding, never dull, filled
with challenges and excitements. Travel up and down the length
and breadth of the land talking mostly with people who have a
finger on the heartbeat of America is a wonderful business experi-
ence; yet it whets the appetite to go back again, to stay longer, to
see what a place and the people who live there are really like un-
hurried by the pressure of a business schedule. Secondary business
interests have contributed their own challenges and rewards, not
to mention their headaches. Together they have combined to make
for a full and brimming business life since 1935.

After business TIME has been devoted to church and its work,
to the local hospital and community chest, on occasion; to prepara-
tory school — the greatest single outside influence for good in my
younger life — and to some of the many other worthy causes which
so urgently need the generosity of time fully as much as money.

Next, TIME for play. A game of golf, cruising whenever possible,
an auction — coins or antiques, upland game and ducks in season,
a few days skiing, or a week in Bermuda, perhaps, all crowded in
as TIME permits.

For twenty of the past twenty-five years I have had the help,
understanding, encouragement and constant companionship of a
wonderful wife whose talents far outshine any I shall ever possess.
She has suffered through much with me and still does, I guess.

Our Class Report contains, I am sure, stories more fascinating
than mine. In order for me to acquire an experience which will
merit the interest, if not the fascination, of even the most friendly
reader, 1 must beg a bit more TIME — another twenty-five years,
perhaps!

[252 ]

ame ot

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HENRY ROBERT CHALKO

 

LAST KNOWN appress: Forestville, Bristol, Conn.

BORN: June 26, 1914, Newington, Conn. parents: Stanley Chalko, Helen
Marce.

PREPARED aT: Plainville High School, Plainville, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1935.

CHALKO has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since 1954.

ALBERT JULIUS CHAMRIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 49 Wentworth St., Dorchester 24, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Collector’s Office, City Hall Annex, Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 20, 1913, Chelsea, Mass. parents: Joseph Chamrin, Jennie Addison.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., ¢172 laude, 1935.

MarRIED: Irene Kaitz, Dec. 24, 1937, Boston, Mass. cuitp: Steven, May 13, 1940.
OCCUPATION: Tax Collector, .City of Boston, Massachusetts.

I AM having a busy time working and at the same time trying to get
a little enjoyment out of life. My main hobby is music and piano

[ 253 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

plaving. I have been a leader of dance orchestras in leading hotels
and country clubs in Boston and vicinity. I have played quite a
few college proms at Harvard, such as student house dances and
Hasty Pudding affairs.

My second hobby is travel, such as going to Prince Edward
Island, Quebec, Montreal, Miami, and Nantucket. My life has not
been very spectacular or exciting, but [I have a lovely wife and a
wonderful son — Steven is at present a student at Boston University
College of Industrial Technology and also one of the best pianists
in Boston — and I think my marriage has been successful.

In reference to politics ‘and social convictions, my motto in life

is “live and let live,” or the old French cliché “‘laissez-faire.” All I
can say in conclusion is that I sincerely wish all members of our
Class of 1935 the best of health, luck and prosperity.

JOHN SAMUEL CHAPIN

 

KOME ADDRESS: 209 E. 66th St., New York 21, N.Y.

Boas: Dec. 30, 1913, Erie, Pa. parents: Albert Arlo Chapin, Florence Ham-
berger.

TRANSFERRED FROM: University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.

VEARS §N COLLEGE: 1933-1935. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1935; B.A. (Univ. of
Oxford), 1937; aM. (Harvard Univ.), 1939.

UN MARRIED,

oocupaTiON: Writer.

puBiacaTions: The Book of Catholic Quotations, Farrar, Straus & Cudahy,
1956, Cross and Crescent: A Shore History of the Crusades, Doubleday,
tyfo, An Encyclopedia of the Popes and the Papacy, Farrar, Straus
& Cudahy and Burs Oates & Washbourne, 1960; numerous translations
from French, German and Italian.

AFTER graduation the following two years were spent at Uni-
versity College, Oxford (B.A. 1937). T then entered the Gradu-

[ 254]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ate School at Harvard and obtained an A.M. in medieval history
and political science in 1939. In 1941 I entered government serv-
ice and remained with the government until 1951, first with a
special intelligence unit in the Library of Congress, then with the
Central European Division of the Office of Political Affairs and
finally with the Foreign Service in Warsaw, Salzburg and Vienna.
I have resided in New York since 1952 and have been engaged in
various types of writing and editorial work.

JOHN JOSEPH CHAPITIS

  

ADDRESS: 121 Spruce St., Rumford, Maine.

BorN: April 30, 1912, Rumford, Maine. parents: William Samson Chapitis,
Mary Kruseinskas.

PREPARED AT: Stephens High School, Rumford, Maine.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-10933.

NO questionnaire returned.

ame

. * .
pfs At ast
ah forte 5%
Do ee

  

HOME appress: 1439 Mill Hill Terrace, Southport, Conn,

[255]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ore aportss: Dickie-Raymond, Inc, 225 Park Ave. New York, N.Y.

poas: Dec. 2, 1912, Detroit, Mich, parents: Harlen Monroe Chapman, Helen
Sappington Matthews,

parPaneD aT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLFGE: 1931-1932. DEGREE: Sa. (Trinity Coll.), 1935.

marriep: Corinne Beckwith, 1936 (divorced 1937); Margaret Latimer, 1948.
cuitpreN: Harlen Monroe, 3d, July 24, 1937; Phyllis B., Sept. 22, 1939;
Judith L., July 29, 1952.

occupation: Advertising; account executive, Dickie-Raymond, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Psi Upsilon; Sales Executive Club; Sales Promotion Executives
Association; Sasquanaug Association of Southport; U.S. Naval Institute.

ONE robin does not a spring make, but one year at Harvard cer-
tainly fetches a pile of mail, Veritas variety. Vl be in Cambridge
for my son’s graduation — June, 1960 — from M.1.T.; so it should
be possible to join in a chorus or two for “Auld Lang Syne.”

JACK CHARTOFF

 

HOME aporess: 68 American Legion Hwy., Dorchester 24, Mass.
OFFICE appress: 73 Tremont Sc, Boston 8, Mass.

Boas: Nov. 28, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Elias Chartoff, Anna Levy.
paepareD at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLELE: 1931-1934; 1935-1936. DEGREE: A.B. 1935(37).
UN MARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

THIAVE run the gamut: journalism, service with the federal govern-
ment, and law. | am still living the Life of Riley — summer on the
Cape and winter in Florida. I do a lot of swimming and love sports
and outdoor activities, It is pleasing to hear of those of my class-
mates with large families. God bless them all, and their contribu-
tion ty fair Harvard. Asin our first Report, Pam still unhicched. My

[256]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

wagon has found no star. My problem, if any, is that I get along too
well with the fair sex.

In our first Report, I wrote that, with one-half of the world in
dictatorship and the other half on a banana peel, I might have to
settle for a banana peel. Right now, the way mankind is nursing
the atom, and the way the rockets are roaring, it seems I might
settle for a nice shelter in Arizona. And, dear Lord, when the sky-
rockets have fallen, send a long shovel to dig out.

ALEXANDER JOSEPH CHASE

 

HOME ApprEss: 6 Alhambra Rd., Wellesley 81, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 Post Office Sq., Boston, Mass.
BORN: Dec. 12, 1905, Boston, Mass. parENTs: William Chase, Alice Daniels.
PREPARED AT: Boston High School of Commerce, Boston, Mass.
DEGREES: B.C.S. (Northeastern Univ.), 1928; M.8.4. (Boston Univ.), 1931; ADJ-A.
(Harvard Univ.), 1935.
MarRiED: Edith M. Thompson, April 5, 1936, Brookline, Mass, cHiLpreN:
Donald Alexander, Oct. 10, 1937; Margaret Louise, Aug. 23, 1951.
OccUPATION: Certified public accountant; manager, Arthur Young & Company.
OFFICES HELD: Auditor, 1938-41, treasurer, 1942-44, Wellesley Congregational
Church; past master, Wellesley Lodge, AF. & A.M, 1950; trustee, Welles-
ley Masonic Lodge, since 1958, member, Educational Committee, Massa-
chusetts Society of Certified Public Accountants, since 1958.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Socicty of Certified Public Accountants; American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants; Wellesley Masonic Lodge.

I SHALL never forget my first desire to be an alumnus of Harvard
College! When I graduated from Boston High School of Com-
merce in 1923, I felt then that I] should pursue a business education
and major in accounting. With this objective in mind, | went to
work with the then well known investment and banking firm of
Lee, Higginson & Company, to State Street, Boston, and went to

[ 257]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

school nights. This firm was 99% Harvard and, of necessity there-
fore, it was imbued with all the fine and great traditions that Har-
vard enjoys. Under such conditions, therefore, it wasn’t long be-
fore I began to feel the importance of having a degree from that insti-
tution if I ever wanted to make the grade to the top, and particu-
larly if I was to work in Boston! Thus motivated, my first five-
year plan, so to speak, was first to complete my business education
and then tackle my cultural education at Harvard. Thus, where
important accomplishments came after graduation for most of my
classmates, certain of my goals preceded my graduation from Har-
vard in 1935. In 1929, I was one of nine who were fortunate to pass
successfully (all subjects of) the Massachusetts C.P.A. examination
and in 1931 I received my Master of Business Administration de-
gree from Boston University.

In 1938 I became interested in Masonry. The experiences and as-
sociations while I was an officer of Wellesley Masonic Lodge from
1942 to 1950 are unforgettable and the effects will be long endur-
ing! I cannot help but feel that it helped my desire to round out
my academic background. It gave me something additional that
only Masonry can give. The culmination of it all was my becom-
ing a Past Master and the instillation within me of a rich religious
sense of values and a deep appreciation and feeling for the other
man.

The progress of our son Don at Annapolis during the years from
1955 until his graduation with an S.B. degree and a commission in
1959 was another milestone in our life. Literally, we, too, sweated
the program during those four years. Don is now serving as an
ensign aboard the USS Allen M. Sumner —DD692.

My work as a professional accountant is time-absorbing! ‘The
continual pressure of jobs, both old and new,.and the rigid require-
ments inherent with this profession make one wonder, at times,
why anyone continues to stay in it as long as I have. However, it
is an interesting profession for it calls upon all your intellect and
resourcefulness and there is a great deal of traveling. I strongly
recommend public accounting as an ideal training ground for all
young men graduating from college who aspire to those lofty
heights which spell success.

However, my greatest pleasure centers around my immediate
family consisting of my better half, Edith, our son Don, twenty-
two, and our young daughter Peggy, eight years of age. With
Peggy, we are reliving the years we went through with Don, and I

[ 258 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

must say it helps one to forget the bitterness and strife which
exist in this mixed- -up world of ours.

My hobbies, like those of all people who are too busy, are limited,
During the summer months I like to create or do physically things
with my own hands at our summer home in Boothbay Harbor,
Maine. It is now five years since we built our summer home, and
each year I have enjoyed improving its appearance and its value.
Yes, I like to orient myself during the few precious moments |
might have during the winter months and plan my projects for the
coming summer at Boothbay Harbor. What a place—to relax
and forget everything at will!

TIMOTHY CHENEY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 180 Mountain Rd., West Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE aDpRESS: Julius Hartt College of Music, University of Hartford, Hart-
ford, Conn.

BORN: July 4, 1913, Madison, Conn. Parents: Howell Cheney, Anne Bunce.

PREPARED AT: Kingswood School, Hartford, Conn.; Milton Academy, Milton,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933. DEGREE: a.B. (Yale Univ.), 19365 M.F.A. (Prince-
ton Univ.), 1943.

MarRIED: Alice Dunham Rowley, 1941. CHILDREN: Three girls; one boy.

OCCUPATION: Assistant professor of music, Julius Hartt College of Music.

AFTER leaving Harvard, attended New England Conservatory
of Music, Boston, one year, 1934. Yale College (here I graduated),
Class of 1936, A.B., major in music. Juilliard Graduate School,
New York City, 1936-39 (no degree; I believe I have some sort of
certificate). While at Juilliard I studied composition with Fred-
erick Jacobi.

Princeton University — my first job — instructor in the Music

[ 259 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Departinent, conductor of the Glee Club. While at Princeton I did
work for an ALF.A. (Master of Fine Arts) in music. I studied with
Roger Sessions. I was at Princeton from 1939 to 1943, receiving
the degree in ’43.

I receive appeals for money from all these institutions. There
are, on the average, two or three pieces of mail a week. Of course,
they are not all appeals for money. But mostly they involve it.

U.S. Army, 1943-46. I entered as an enlisted man through the
draft. Went to O.C.S. and attained the exalted or lowly rank of
first lieutenant, shortly before my discharge. I was never where
the bullets were bouncing. In 1945 I was en route to Okinawa when
the war ended. We stopped at Oahu and I never got any further.

A year of education again: New England Conservatory of
Music, Boston. To work again: Julius Hartt College of Music of
the University of Hartford, 1947. I am as of this date, December,
1959, still there. Since we are now part of this newly-formed uni-
versity, academic ranks have been instituted. I am an assistant pro-
fessor. No one knows what this means; it might mean an artist and
then again it might not. :

In 1941 1 married Alice Dunham Rowley. We have four chil-
dren — three girls and a boy. The oldest is seventeen, the youngest
(the boy) nine.

I have been asked to state the meaning of this wandering pro-
gression southwards from Boston through New Haven to Prince-
ton. Harvard was a deliberate choice on my part, but I began to
do badly, became disorganized and got out. Hence the move to
the New England Conservatory of Music in Boston. Then I began
to feel and to be persuaded that my general education should be
continued and I had the chance to have piano lessons with a famous
teacher, Josef Lhevinne in New York. I transferred to Yale where
my father and brothers and uncles and cousins had matriculated
(is that the right word?) and I went weekly to New York for my
piano lessons. Mr. Lhevinne was on the whole rather relieved
when I entered the Juilliard as a prospective composer rather than
a pianist. Princeton again was a matter of choice and luck in get-
ting a job. I often wonder why I did not continue wandering
south. I might have reached Patagonia by this time and could ex-
patiate on education in the Americas with authority.

I have left out of this biography all the most interesting mistakes
and misinterpretations of the inward man. The readers might be
titivated or edified; who could say? What has come of all this edu-

[ 260 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

cation? I am tempted to say, “Nothing.” But it would not be an
answer. I have learned to speak as much of the truth as I wish;
and I have published a book of poems. After all that education in
music — a book of poems. But let us suppose for a moment that J]
had continued wandering south, stopping here and there, say
Tuskegee, Miami, Mexico City, Buenos Aires and Tierra del
Fuego, think of the listings: Class of this or that year — dues now
due. No, I could never afford it.

KUO YU CHENG

 

ADDRESS: 5326 N.W. 17th Ave., Miami, Fla.

BORN: Aug. 12, 1913, Djocja, Java. parents: Tung Heng Cheng, Tjiork Prina
Nio.

PREPARED AT: Java High School, Java.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932. DEGREE: S.B. (Massachusetts Inst. of Technology),

1935.
OCCUPATION: Engineer.

NO questionnaire returned.

[ 261 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

IRVING SHOEMAKER CHENOWETH

 

ADDRESS: 201 S. Main St., Eureka, Il.

BORN: Jan. 6, 1914, Philadelphia, Pa. Parents: Irving Shoemaker Chenoweth,
Nellie Dickinson.

PREPARED AT: Eureka High School, Eureka, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935.

occuPaTION: Mercantile business.

NO questionnaire returned.

CHARLES RICHARDS CHERINGTON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 94 Brattle St., Cambridge, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 213 Littauer Center, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: July 14, 1913, Montclair, N.J. parents: Paul Terry Cherington, Marie
Louise Richards.

prepareD aT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1935; LL.B., 1938;
PH.D., 1944.

Maxniep: Mary M. Wright, June 24, 1936, Concord, Mass. cHiLprEN: Joel
Richards, Nov. 27, 1941; Reed, March §, 1943; Davis, July 2, 1944.

[ 262 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: Paul Whiton Cherington, ’4o.
occUPATION: Professor of government, Harvard University.

AFTER graduation from the Law School I joined a Boston law firm,
but at the end of my first year of practice decided that my real
interest lay in political science and teaching. Accordingly, | re-
turned to Harvard to get my Ph.D. in government. Except for a
brief stint during the war with the Bureau of the Budget in Wash-
ington, I have been teaching in Cambridge ever since. I have en-
joyed immensely lecturing to and tutoring undergraduates.

Special fields of interest for me have been in transportation, gov-
ernment regulation of industry, and in state and local government.
In connection with the last I served with pleasure on the Planning
Board in Concord, Massachusetts, and lost ignominiously i ina school
committee election. I have not, however, given up hope. Someday
I shall run for political office in Vermont.

I have done a good deal of consulting in the transportation field,
ie., railroads, serving such diverse masters as Patrick McGinnis
while he was president of the New Haven (a colorful interlude
during which I was fabulously paid for advice mostly ignored), the
desperate commuters of Swampscott and the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts and its Old Colony problems.

I am also interested in the fate of Metropolitan Boston, not only
in connection with its transportation problems but with its aesthetic
and political future. I was a member of a team which worked up
a prize-winning plan for the development of Boston but nothing
ever came of this. Mine is the gloomy view of what is happening
to our cities and suburbs.

After fifteen years of commuting from Concord we returned to
Cambridge and settled for noisy Brattle Street and a retreat on
every possible weekend to our great love, our farm in Calais, Ver-
mont. Of course we have only exchanged the problems of suburbia
for those of trying not to lose money on a farm in outer exurbia.
Our built-in labor force of three teen-age sons demands the most
modern machinery to work with and somehow ev ery time we go
into a cash crop the bottom drops out of the market. It has happened
with potatoes, hens and pigs. But we're still selling hay and wood,
working hard and having fun. Someday we may just give up the
crops and .the struggle to keep brush out of the hay fields and sit
back and enjoy the birds and view of the mountains. This probably
ought to be the fate of a hill farm anyway.

[ 263 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

My social, political and religious convictions can be covered in
one sentence —I am an Independent and I love a debate.

JAMES ANDREAS CHRISTENSON

 

HOME aporess: P.O. Box 545, Salt Lake City 10, Utah.

OFFICE ADpRESs: Caldwell, Richards & Sorensen, Inc., 961 Folsom Ave., Salt
Lake City, Utah.

BorN: Feb. 1, 1914, Holyoke, Mass. parents: James Andreas Christenson, May
Frances Sullivan.

PREPARED AT: Concord High School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: a.B., cum laude, 1935; PH.D, (Duke
Univ.), 1939.

MarRiED: Frances Bond, May 19, 1936, Durham, N.C. (divorced 1954); Jean

Marie Freiburg, Dec. 29, 1956, Los Angeles, Calif. cuitp: Robert Allan,
May 29, 1958.
OccUPATION: Highway designer.

HAVING majored in philosophy as an undergraduate, it was some-
what startling to receive an assistantship in psychology at Duke.
Went on to the doctorate and hospital practice of clinical psychol-
ogy until the war years, Enlisted in the Air Force for cadet classi-
fication and research, Overseas to France with a general hospital
and ended running the post exchange, teaching at a G.I. university
in England and writing orientation pamphlets in Germany.

After the war, I endured the frustrations of governmental red
tape in a psychiatric clinic until the sense of accomplishment was
overweighed. Took advanced training with a psychiatrist in Ari-
zona (discovery of “the West”), turning to surveying for subsist-
ence. Tried private practice in California until the travel bug hit.
Engincering is always in demand anywhere, so it is supporting our
travels. Next stop possibly South America or Asia.

[ 264 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

It took me about twenty years after graduation to arrive at a
leisurely approach to life. “This does not imply passive recreation,
however. Active interests continue in the political scene and world
affairs, science, mathematics and music. Rather than view the
present scene with alarm, I am gradually formulating a standpoint
which may some day result ina play, novel or technical presentation.

Jean and I are very happy with Bobby, enjoying his development
and suffering with his ills. Having taken the time for leisure, I find
a real reward in being able to share time with my family. It is
still true that child-rearing is the test of personal values, and we are
making our stand toward the future on a basis that we hope will be
more viable than the current mass default of responsibility.

YUEH-HUA CHUNG

 

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 127 Mt. Auburn St., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 20, 1913, Tientsin, China. parents: Shih Ming Chung, ‘oo, Ming
Yi Wang.

PREPARED AT: Tientsin Grammar School, Tientsin, China.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1935.

CHUNG has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since 1938.

[ 265 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

PHILIP FANSHAWE CLAPP

 

HOME aporEss: Box 102-D, Route 1, Annapolis, Md.
OFFICE aporess: U.S. \Weather Bureau, Dept. of Commerce, Suitland, Md.

BorN: April 4, 1912, Cambridge, Mass. parents: James Ford Clapp, Leonora
Fanshawe.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; s.M. (Massachu-
setts Inst. of Technology), 1940; Fil. Lic. (Univ. of Stockholm), 1952.
marriep: Evelyn Patricia McMahon, June 1, 1939, Washington, D.C. cHILpren:

Anne Fanshawe, Feb. 2, 1941; John McMahon, April 5, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Ford Clapp, Jr., ’31, M-ARCH., °35.

occupaTIoN: Meteorologist, research supervisor, Extended Forecast Section,
US. Weather Bureau.

oFFices HELD: Meteorological editor, Transactions of the American Geophysical
Union, 1947-51; associate editor, American Meteorological Society, since
1957; member, board of directors, since 1955, president, 1957, Cape St.
John Citizens’ Association, Inc.

MEMBER OF: American Geophysical Union; American Meteorological Society;
South River Hampton Fleet (commodore, 1958).

PUBLICATIONS: Several publications in various books and journals, such as:
Bulletin, Journal and Compendium of the American Meteorological
Society; Transactions of the American Geophysical Union; Tellus of the

Swedish Geophysical Society; McGraw-Hill Encyclopedia of Science and

Technolony (to be published).

SINCE graduation from Harvard, where I majored in physics and
mathematics, most of my carcer has been with the U.S. Weather
Bureau, as forecaster and researcher. My decision to enter the field
of meteorology stems directly from a suggestion by my faculty
adviser at Harvard who urged me to look into the then revolution-
ary new treatment of that subject offered by the graduate school
at MLLT.

My carcer with the government brought me to Washington, D.C.

{ 266 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in 1937, and [I have lived in or near this city practically ever
since. In Washington I met my future wife, Evelyn, and we were
married here in 1939. Our daughter Anne is now a sophomore at
Wilson College in Chambersburg, Pennsylvania, and our son John
(Harvard ’66, he hopes) is also a sophomore, but in Annapolis
High School.

Fortunately, my wife and family share my love for nature and
the out-of-doors. My wife hails from Leadville, 10,000 feet high
in the Colorado Rockies, where she enjoyed horseback riding in the
mountains, However, since moving to the crowded and automo-
bile-infested eastern seaboard, she has found my own hobby of
water sports much safer, and she and the rest of the familv share

my favorite sport of sailing.

My occupation during the war was neither a dramatic nor a
dangerous one. Although for a time I was classified A-1, I never
saw military service, probably because a few days after Pearl Har-
bor I was transferred from my station in Kansas City to Washing-
ton, where I assisted in the preparation of forecasts for convoy op-
erations, This was in the s special field of extended and long-range
weather forecasting, in which I have majored ever since.

One of the many highlights of my career was a trip to Sweden
with my family (1951-52), learning to apply those infernal high-
speed electronic computers to meteorological problems.

Just what the second half of my professional and private life will
be like I do not know. My family and I have grown deep roots in
this suburb of Annapolis, where our smull ~ house-in-the-woods
overlooks the beautiful South River and Chesapeake Bay. Perhaps
the years following our Twenty-fifth Reunion w ill bring some
changes, but I hope it w ill not lead to a move from this area.

[ 267 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

+ ELLIOTT WESTON CLARK

 

BORN: July 8, 1912, Somerville, Mass. parents: Herbert Edwin Clark, Frema
Ford.

PREPARED aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

pieD: Killed in the line of duty, May 21, 1944, at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii.

ELLIOTT WESTON CLARK spent one year with our Class. In
1942 he entered service as a second class hospital apprentice and
was stationed at Newport Naval Hospital and at Camp Endicott
before going overseas. He was serving on an LST with a medical
unit assigned to a Navy construction battalion when he was killed
in an ammunition explosion at Pearl Harbor. He was survived by
his mother.

NATHANIEL THAYER CLARK

    

HOME appress: Twinfields, Farm Street, Dover, Mass.
orrice apoxess: R. M. Bradley & Co., 622 Hammond St, Chestnut Hill, Mass.

Boas: Dec, 8, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: John Dudley Clark, '03, Cornelia
Thayer Andrew.

[ 268 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass. '

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935. DEGREE: S.B. (Trinity Coll.), 1934.

MarRiED: Jane McKay Frost, Oct. 15, 1937, Wellesley, Mass. cHILDREN: Jane
McKay, Dec. 20, 1939; Cornelia Van Rensselaer, May 31, 1943; Mary
Ryerson, March 14, 1945; April Frost, April 9, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Dudley Clark, Jr., ’27; Forrester Andrew Clark, ‘29,
George Oliver Clark, 2d, ’31.

occuPATION: Residential real estate broker.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, State Hospital Trustees Association, trustee and
chairman, Medfield State Hospital; corporator, Warren Insututon For
Savings; chairman of board, Medfield Foundation, Inc.; treasurer, governor
and visiting commissioner and regional supervisor for New England, US.
Pony Clubs, Inc.; Master of the Norfolk Hunt Club; former treasurer,
Ellis Memorial & Eldredge House, Inc., Frost Cooked Foods, Inc.

MEMBER OF: State Hospital Trustees Association, St. Anthony Club of New
York; Somerset Club; United Steeplechase & Hunts Association, American
Fox Hound Club; Massachusetts Horticultural Society (life member),
Dedham Country & Polo Club.

UPON leaving Harvard, Kidder, Peabody & Company undertook
to initiate me into the mysteries of investment banking, later send-
ing me to the Harvard Business School for a brief course in the
interpretation of financial statements. After two years, and finding
myself on the brink of matrimony, I sought to improve my eco-
nomic status by becoming an officer of New England Fund. I con-
tinued with it until entering the Navy in 1942. It was during my
years at Kidder, Peabody that I started working for charitable or-
ganizations and this habit has remained with me.

Early in 1942 I was commissioned lieutenant (j.g.) A(V)S, and with
serious misgivings as to my abilities as a w ater-borne (or land-
based) warrior went to Quonset Point for indoctrination. Having
survived those two months with no worse effects than a good case
of pneumonia, I was assigned to the Air Operational Training
Command in Jacksonville, Florida. After two and a half months
there with little to do, I was permanently assigned to the Naval Aur
Station at Melbourne, Florida, as personnel officer. Here [ remained
happily for about two and a half years performing all sorts of odd
duties including drilling TARM ACS, ov ersecing the station orches-
tra, shuffling new ly-commissioned Naval Academy graduates about,
flying around the command trying to figure w ays of spending wel-
fare money for the greatest benetit and comfort of the station pers
sonnel, while at the same time doing my best to administer the affairs
of the personnel department in order to get fighter pilots trained as
fast as possible, In February, 1945, 1 was ordered to the Logisties

[ 269 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Staff of the Aircraft Seventh Fleet which was then located in the
Admiralty Islands. When all of the fighting was over in the Philip-
pines, this Staff was moved to Sangley Point where I remained for
about six months administering about 23,000 enlisted personnel,
Manila was almost completely wrecked and I have a hankering to
go back there now and see what it looks like since the reconstruc-
tion.

Upon my return to civilian life in early November of that year,
I who had always been an untraveled homebody decided that |
enjoyed traveling and started traveling about the U.S.A. and have
kept traveling each year since. I accepted a job as treasurer of a
frozen-cooked food company, later becoming general manager. The
public at that time was skeptical of all new companies making frozen
foods and this company for want of proper financing finally was
dissolved. My experiences with this outfit have stood me in good
stead since.

Having always loved the country and feeling that land has a cer-
tain permanence about it, I decided to go into the residential real
estate business. It was a break for me that R. M. Bradley & Com-
pany, Inc., was looking for someone at just this time to cover the
area in which I live, so eagerly I joined this firm and have no regrets.
The business allows me enough time to pursue my hobbies which
include my family, horses, fox-hunting, tennis, gardening, charities
and travel.

My wife enjoys horses and is an expert horsewoman, so we have
shared many enjoyable experiences together in this field. We have
ridden together in local hunter shows, at one time owned hackney
ponies and even tried raising a couple of thoroughbreds of our own
breeding. We have fox-hunted and drag-hunted since before we
were married. In 1940 I was elected Master of the Norfolk Hunt
and, when I went into the service, my wife carried on for me, be-
coming Joint-Master with me after the war. Soon we found that
three young children and my business demanded more of our time,
so I took six years off from the Mastership, returning to it in 1953.

In 1952 I took over the children’s division of the Norfolk Hunt
and, realizing that there was a need in this country for something
akin to the British Pony Clubs, joined with six other people from
other parts of the country who shared my opinion and formed the
U.S. Pony Clubs. I was elected treasurer and have served in this
capacity since. Having also been made regional supervisor for New
England and a visiting commissioner, I find that I have to travel a

[ 270 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

great deal about the country helping with the formation of new
clubs, testing children and helping to iron out complications in all
corners of the land. The organization now numbers some eighty-
odd-member clubs with a membership of some 4,o00 children,
spreading from Maine to California, as far north as Oregon and as
far south as Texas and Alabama. While there is no financial re-
ward for my efforts, the satisfaction of working with children and
horses is reward enough. My three older children ride well and
enjoy it, which adds to our pleasure in this hobby.

Our travels have taken us to Europe, Jamaica, Bermuda (several
times), Tobago, Trinidad, Panama, Guatemala, California, dude
ranching in Wyoming, New Mexico, Arizona, South Carolina, Can-
ada and various parts of the South for fox-hunting. I spend as much
time as possible developing the grounds and woods of our place in
Dover and play as much tennis as time and energy permit.

As for my views on national and world affairs, I think that the
Republican party still gives us the best form of government, that
inflation must stop somewhere, that we shall not have an atomic
war, and feel that the great resurgence back to church and religion
will prove to be the salvation of us all.

SAMUEL ROGERS CLARKE

   

HOME ADDRESS: 733 Ocean Ave., New London, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: P.Q. Box 15, U.S. Naval Submarine Base, New London, Conn.

BORN: Dec, 2, 1911, New York, N.Y. parents: Rogers Henry Clarke, ‘06, Janet
Thomson Carter,

PREPARED AT: ‘he Gunnery School, Washington, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES! A.B, 1935; LLB, cu daude (St Law-
rence Univ.), 1941.

MARRIED: Bernadine Cook, March, 1934, Winchendon, Mass. (divorced 1942);

[271 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Jean Frances Angus, Sept. 21, 1943, New York, N.Y. cHiLDREN: Janet
Beach, May 5, 1935 (a. Robert Gilmor, Jr., 57, Nov. 22, 1958); Deborah
Angus, Sept. 29, 1944; Samuel Rogers, Jr., Aug. 21, 1947; George Thom-
son, Dec. 15, 1950.

OccuPATION: Captain, U.S. Navy —law specialist; legal officer, U.S. Naval

Submarine Base, New London, Conn.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; Phi Delta Phi; Philonomic Society.
AFTER graduation I spent three relatively unproductive years in
the search for a line of endeavor which would give me satisfaction
in every sense of the word. I then went back to book larnin’, got
a law degree and found what I had been looking for. I was admitted
to practise law in New York and became associated with the ad-
miralty Jaw firm of Kirlin, Campbell, Keating, Hickox & McGrann,
I was deeply interested in my work and life looked rosy indeed.
Then came the fishbowl and World War II. I was commissioned in
the naval reserve and assigned in the usual manner to duties un-
related to my experience and training. [| looked forward to the
end of the war and to a resumption of my law practice. This was
not to be, at Jeast not in the sense that I had envisioned. With the
war still in progress, I was unexpectedly assigned to legal duties
which brought me under the general cognizance of the Judge Ad-
vocate General of the Navy. I still am. In 1946 I transferred to
the regular Navy as a law specialist and in the course of time have
been promoted to the rank of captain. My Navy career has been
both rewarding and a source of deep satisfaction. It has given me
the opportunity to be of service to my country and to my fellow
man — my clients have included seamen and admirals. It has taken
me throughout this land, to Hawaii, Guam and other islands in the
Pacific and into the Far East where I participated in the occupation
of Japan and the Korean “police action.” I have seen a lot, learned
a lot, been to a lot of places and met a lot of interesting persons and
peoples — and there’s more to go.

I met the girl who is now my wife in Savannah, Georgia, while
on duty at Tybee Island. We were two New Yorkers in a “foreign”
land. ‘That she consented to marry me is the greatest thing that has
happened in my life. We have been blessed with three wonderful
children, a girl and two boys, who with college to look forward to
are all enthusiastic Harvard rooters— Exhibit “A” —their first
Harvard-Yale game this fall at New Haven! I am also very proud
of another daughter born just before graduation in May, 1935 (Class

daby?), She graduated cam laude from Radcliffe in 1957; married

[272 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Bob Gilmor, Harvard '57, in November, 1958. She is about to
make me a grandfather. I need say no more!

Hobbies? Golf — proficiency far outweighed by enthusiasm.
Convictions? I am an Episcopalian convinced of the need for close
cooperation between God and man in these turbulent times — with
implicit faith that man is not yet quite ready to destroy himself.
I am politically independent but opposed to the split ticket. I view
life as a privilege and myself many times blessed.

RICHARD NORRIS CLATTENBURG

 

HOME ADDRESS: 228 Radnor-Chester Rd., Radnor, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pennsylvania Railroad Co., 1138 6 Penn Center Plaza, Phila-
delphia, Pa.

BORN: July 1, 1915, Wilmington, Del. parents: Albert Edwin Clattenburg,
Cornelia Lynah Norris.

PREPARED AT: Episcopal Academy, Overbrook, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1935; LLB. (Univ. of
Pennsylvania), 1938.

MARRIED: Henrietta Riggs Battle, June 10, 1939, Devon, Pa, cHitpren: Susan
Pinckney, Nov. 21, 1942; Julie Archer, Oct. 29, 1945; Mary Norris, Sept.
21, 1948 (died Sept. 21, 1948); Richard Norris, Jr., July 20, 1950.

occuPATION: Assistant general counsel, Pennsylvania Railroad Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and American Bar
Associations; Merion Cricket Club.

IN the fall of 1935, I entered the University of Pennsylvania Law
School, worked hard, and did poorly. Early the next year I met my
future wife, was too busy dating her to do much studying, and my
marks improved tremendously. Graduating with the depression
class of °38, I turned to Washington for work ‘and was sent to Harris-
burg, Pennsylvania, as a PWA law clerk. After five months, that
proved a dead end, I couldn’t get more pay from Uncle till I be-

[ 273 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

came a member of the bar, and that required several months of
wastebasket emptying in a law office — U.S, wastebaskets didn’t
count. So back I came to Philadelphia, worked in a small law office
and was admitted to the bar, and then in June, 1939, was married
and joined the Pennsylvania Railroad’s legal department.

Marriage and job have been the constant factors in my life ever
since, the former affected by children and the latter by promotions,
with the inevitable increase in responsibility at home and at work.
The war passed me by, first as an essential worker and finally as
4-F. My work has been almost entirely with labor law. In 1939,
legal problems in the railroad labor field were only beginning to
assume their present importance, so railroad labor law and I have
grown middle-aged together. New problems still show up every
day and I have been fortunate enough to have two recent arguments
in the U.S. Supreme Court. The litigation, administrative work,
national and PRR arbitration and emergency board work have been
varied and interesting. To do labor work on behalf of a corpora-
tion often is frustrating, or has been for the past twenty years, but
the present reaction against the “what's good for labor unions is
good for the country” theory began to show up in the courts some
time ago.

Nikki (my wife) and I are essentially homebodies (avoiding most
extracurricular activities) and are very happy together and with our
children. Not that we don’t have the usual problems with the
young, between the pressure the schools now put on students in an
effort to get them into college, and the demands of the teen-agers
for complete emancipation. Thoreau’s “quiet desperation” obviously
refers only to the childless — my roars are heard for miles. Major
hobbies Nikki and I share are gardening, tennis and attempting to
paint rooms in our Victorian mansion. We go to Squam Lake, New
Hampshire, in the summer, and hope to travel when children and
job permit and before our arthritic days arrive.

My views of the world are generally well-fixed, although not
militant. They represent generally elements of the teaching I have
respected, from parents and others, together with the judgments
reached from my own experience. They are therefore mostly what
now appears to be termed conservative rather than reactionary. M
contact with Harvard has been almost constant through the Phila-
delphia Harvard Club and the luncheon table there, where even an

undergraduate would feel at home since the discussions range from
anatomy to Zoroastrianism.

[ 274 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

It is hard to believe that next June will be twenty-five years after
our Commencement, but happy and busy years go fast. We may
miss the Reunion — Susie graduates that week and family ties are
strong — but our thoughts will be with the Class.

ROBERT VINCENT CLEARY

 

LAST KNOWN aporess: New Dublin Hotel, Dublin, Ga.

BORN: Oct. 20, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: John Henry Cleary, Margaret
Gunn.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1935; M.D. 1939.
MarRIED: Margaret T. O'Leary, 1946, Malden, Mass.
occuPaATION: Medicine.

CLEARY has been carried as a “Jost” man on our records since 1958.

DELAVAN CARLOS CLOS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 329 F 73d St. Newport News, Va.

OFFICE appRESS: Othce of the Comprroller, TCTTC, Fort Fustis, Va.

BORN: June 20, 1914, New York, N.Y. parents: Jean Henri Clos, Maria Seidel.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

[275 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., ¢0t712 laude, 1935.

MARRIED: Divorced 1949.
OCCUPATION: Government service.

NO questionnaire returned.

MATTHEW COBB

 

HOME ADbREss: 270 Kings Point Rd., Great Neck, N.Y.
BoRN: Jan. 6, 1912, Washington, D.C. parents: Richard Cobb, ’92, Sarah Ellis.

" PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934.
markieD: Dorothy Hinds, 1947. cuitpreN: Nan; Tobe; Sarah.

OCCUPATION: Teacher; artist.

TWENTY-FIVE errant Merry Christmases to each of my good
old friends who happen on this writing. May their years ahead be

many and full!

DEAN EDMUND COGSWELL

   

18 Cedar St., Wenham, Mass,
[ 276 |

HOME ADDRESS:

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE AppREss: New England Mutual Life Insurance Co., 501 Boylston St.,

Boston 17, Mass.

eorN: Feb. 22, 1914, Salem, Mass. parents: Edmund Strong Cogswell, ’06
Lydia Russell Lochman.

PREPARED aT: Beverly High School, Beverly, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; 8M. (Mass. Inst. of Tech-

nology), 1951.
MaRRIED: Mary Louise Batchelder, July 29, 1942, Vallejo, Calif. cxmpren:

Mary Gage, Nov. 1, 1949; Betsey Batchelder, Jan. 13, 1951; Sarah Louise,
July 7, 1952; Patricia Lochman, Oct. 4, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Gage Cogswell, '39.

OCCUPATION: Assistant secretary, director of personnel, New England Mutual
Life Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, personnel administration committee, Life Office
Management Association, 1956-58; DDGM, Grand Lodge of Masons in
Massachusetts, 1956-58, chairman, Wenham Republican Town Committee,
since 19§6; various offices, First Church in Wenham, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Society of Sloan Fellows; Essex Lodge, A.F. & A.M., Salem,
Mass.; Wenham Planning Board, Wenham Republican Town Committee,
Essex County Club, Manchester, Mass.

UPON graduation, I joined New England Mutual Life Insurance
Company, the same company my father joined on his graduation
from Harvard thirty-nine years before. I took the job because my -
father (who was no longer there) had a high opinion of the com-
pany — and, more important, the officers of New England Life
had an equally high opinion of him. High enough to give his son
a job, when some thousands of depression-stricken work hunters
were panting at the doors. Much to my surprise, I found the life
insurance business exciting and not the hidebound, prosaic paper
factory that I had imagined. I liked the company, and they put up
with me until September, 1940, when I enlisted in the Army as a
private. If World War II had not come my further career would
have had to change; at least, I would not have dared go back to my
old job. The company management thought I was crazy. They
were wrong for the right reasons, or vice versa.

Joining the 211th CA (AA), I discovered comrades in arms and
classmates S. H. Farnum and D. T. V. Huntoon. D,.T.V. was the
genius among the maniacs, served his year gracefully, got out and
joined the Navy (complete with stripes), Farnum and I stayed in
olive drab and crossed each other’s paths once or twice a year until
VE Day. Meetings with Sayward were always good for my morale,
because he would open each such encounter with “Dean, I heard
you had been killed.” This is very good for a soldier's esprit. It
suggests, in an indirect way, that the greeter believes you have been

[277]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

living dangerously and may even have been put in for a Medal of
Honor.

In 1942, before reports got going around about my decease, I
married Mary Louise Batchelder, a girl from my home town, whom
I had loved since I was a freshman and she a lass of ten. Mary’s
father got top marks for this; he paid out for 9,000 miles of travel
at first-class rates for her as she traipsed back and forth between
Massachusetts and California, making up her mind. I have some-
times claimed that she finally married me so that her good Yankee
father would not have to admit that he had ever laid down money
on a dead horse.

Once married, I took off on soldierly adventures that took me
eventually to the ETO, premature obituaries, and reunions with
Farnum. During the process of winning the war, General Eisen-
hower gave me a promotion or two right in the face of the West
Point Protective Association. A man of such perspicacity and cour-
age deserves to be President, and this probably led to my present
chairmanship of the Wenham Republican Town Committee. That,
and the fact that I was late for a meeting.

The war over, I returned to Mary, Wenham, and New England
Life. Found the insurance business to be as exciting as ever. It is
highly competitive while highly ethical. Any other good company
will lift your eye teeth —in a moral sort of way —if you even
permit a quiver of the lip. Once you get the business, the acquired
policyholder becomes an owner and he knows it —in a quiet but
firm sort of way.

In the fall of 1948, we finally took a honeymoon — spent six
weeks in Switzerland; and while we had been childless for six years
at that point, we got back from the honeymoon and had daughters
in 1949, 1951, 1952, and 1954, Which is why my neighbors call our
oldest girl “Heide.”

In 1950, I went to M.I.T. for a year as a Sloan Fellow, following
a trail that Gardner Barker had blazed some thirteen years before.
The difference between us is that no company has considered me
to be presidential timber. Also, none of my colleagues at Tech
had ever been to Harvard, and they couldn’t have cared less, nor
did they need to. If I ever had any conceit about my college, it was
lost then, In the process, my horizons got broadened, which may
have been good for me but has been hard on the Class Fund.

After M.LT. I became director of personnel, the position I now
hold. The good part of this job is the contact I have with all sorts

[ 278 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of people within and without the company; the tough part is the
involvement in other people’s crises, frustrations, and catastrophes.
It seems to me that most people bear up well in the face of catastro-
phes, but became inordinately upset by the minor set-backs in life.
We appear to have acquired standards which lead us to measure
our own achievement on the basis of how much better we have done
than the other fellow in terms of salary, title, size of office, owner-
ship of cars, houses, beautiful women, etc., ad infinitum. My father
once told me that his happiness depended on having a family to
love and support, and a job that he enjoyed which was worth doing,
in association with people who had mutual liking and respect for
one another. I believe that he learned from Harvard and from life
a philosophy that would help most of us. This gives me something
to work on for the Fiftieth Anniversary Report.

AARON ARTHUR COHEN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 18644 Clark St., Tarzana, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Veterans Administration Hospital, San Fernando, Calif.

BORN: Jan. 22, 1915, Long Branch, N.J. parents: Hyman Cohen, Sarah
Rucznik.

PREPARED AT: Long Branch Senior High School, Long Branch, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1935; MD. (Johns
Hopkins Univ.), 1939.

MARRIED: Elisabeth A. Hilton, Oct. 9, 1941, Los Angeles, Calif. (died Oct. 14,
1957); Beatrice B. Levy, Dec. 25, 1958, Los Angeles, Calif. cHitpREN:
Sharon Elisabeth, July 25, 1944; Albert Hilton, April ro, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Physician, Veterans Administration Hospital.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American College of Physicians;
American College of Chest Physicians; American Trudeau Society.
PUBLICATIONS: “Bronchial asthma in pulmonary tuberculosis,” American Review

of Tuberculosis, 1947; “Effect of mecholyl on vital capacity of patients

[ 279 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

with endobronchial tuberculosis,” with M. C. D'Amour, Diseases of the
Chest, “Combined hypersensitivity reaction to sodium para-aminosalicylate
and associated antibacterial drug concurrently administered,” with S. H.
Lawrence, damals of luternal Medicine, 1957, “Displacement of nitrogen
from normal human lungs during oxygen breathing,” with Allan Heming-
wav and Claire Hemingway, Journal of Clinical Investigation, 1958,
“Standardization of the pulmonary nitrogen clearance test using older
normal men,” with Allan Hemingway and Claire Hemingway, Journal
of Laboratory and Clinical Medicine, 1959.

GRADUATION from Harvard was followed by four years at the
medical school at Johns Hopkins. This exposure, as I recall, did
not fill me with much practical knowledge nor a clear sense of di-
rection, but it did leave me with a lasting interest in medical re-
search, Climax of medical school graduation was followed by anti-
climax of frustration while I put in time at Saranac Lake battling
a personal case of The Great White Plague. There I learned what an
interesting disease tuberculosis is, and how not to take the cure.
Among many fascinating people in that place | found my future
wife. I spent the war years alternately treating other people and
being treated myself, in such places as Los Angeles, Denver, Min-
neapolis and Rochester, Minnesota.

Before the end of the war I anticipated the mass westward mi-
gration and decided that henceforth I belonged in the Los Angeles
area, I tried private practice, was dissatisfied, took a residency in
internal medicine twelve years after medical school graduation,
passed the Board of Internal Medicine exam before it became as
difficult as it seems to be now, and became a full-time physician with
the Veterans Administration, back in the field of lung diseases.

After years of illness, my wife died in 1957, leaving two chil-
dren. I have been remarried since a year ago and am rebuilding per-
sonal and family relationships with the help of an understanding,
patient and tireless mate. For me the good life means a happy
family, interesting work and reasonably good health.

{ 280 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANCIS KERWICK COLF

 

HOME ADDRESS: 9840 Big Creek Pkwy., Strongsville 36, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ohio Turnpike Commission.

BorRN: Dec. 4, 1913, Washington, D.C, parents: William E. Cole, Agnes Casey.
PREPARED AT: Georgetown Preparatory School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 19353 LL.B., 1938.

MarRieD: Helen Ronald West. cHmpren: Carolyn Suzanne, Dec. 2, 1947;

Edward, Dec. 6, 1950.
occuPATION: Assistant general counsel, Ohio Turnpike Commission,

I RETURNED in due course to pursue the study of law at Harvard,
which went along reasonably auspiciously, and graduated in 1938.
I spent the next three years in Columbus, Ohio, in practice with an
excellent, established, and relatively venerable law ver, learning to
translate theory into practice. Off to the Army in August, 1941,
doing investigative work for a considerable time, tempered later on
with some activity along somewhat more military lines, including
a brief period as a parachutist.

After some time spent abroad with Uncle Sam, followed by a
visit to Lake Truman with my spouse, nee Helen Ronald West, 1
settled down to practise law again in Columbus. I supplemented
practice ranging from patents to rape and beyond with some teach-
ing in the evenings. Then followed four years of public service in
issuing (and refusing to issue) permits for all typCScofteperestab-
lishments for the state of Ohio; contributed so gloriously to the
administrative finesse and legal processes of the division of the liquor
control department over w hich I presided for four years that further
improvement seemed unlikely, so I decided that my talents would
be more useful elsewhere.

Observing that civilization could not have reached its current
height without contracts, I resolved to make my next contribution

[ 281 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

to the law governing that subject. Accordingly, I became chief con-
tract attorney for the Ohio Turnpike Commission on January 1,
1953, just prior to the construction of the Ohio Turnpike. Thus |
came to act as legal midwife to more contracts than I care to think
about and then helped to close the eyes of all but a very few who
are now having their final spasms in court. I’m now assistant general
counsel to the commission and understand I am being considered
for the degree of AAE (Almost An Engineer).

Present habitat Strongsville, Ohio, a delightfully vacant but rap-
idly growing community near Cleveland where many people do it
for themselves and the rest of us wish we could find someone to do it
for us. Two children: Carolyn, twelve years old last December 2;
Edward, nine on December 6 — Ronnie and [ having our birthdays
on December 4. Reasonably active in both civic and cultural direc-
tions. Final item: I didn’t succumb to TV until a few months ago;
like to play chess, sometimes — anybody interested?

+ WALTER COBB COLEMAN

   

  
  

[Ny Y it

fib.

Born: Nov. 16, 1913, Santa Barbara, Calif. parents: Joseph Griswold Coleman,
’o3, Agnes Almy (Mrs. Samuel W. Morris). -

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931~1934.

MARRIED: Barbara Stanley, 1938. cup: Barbara Stanley,

piep: Killed in the line of duty, Oct. 24, 1942, Ciudad Trujillo, Dominican
Republic.

WALTER COBB COLEMAN spent three years with our Class.

While an undergraduate he was a member of the freshman and

varsity soccer teams and Adams House tennis team. He was a mem-

ber of Hasty Pudding-Institute of 1770, Iroquois Club and the Fly

[ 282 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Club. After leaving college he worked as an assistant purser on
Grace Line ships until called to active service as a lieutenant (j.g.)
in the U.S. Naval Reserve. He was serving as assistant naval attaché
for air at the U.S. Legation at Ciudad Trujillo, when he was killed
in a plane crash while on an official mission. He was survived by his
wife and daughter.

CHARLES COLINS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 9125 Verree Rd., Philadelphia 11, Pa.

BoRN: April 1, 1914, Lynn, Mass. parents: James Colins, Sulia Skipatare.

PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; M.B.A., 1937.

MARRIED: Florence Gardner, Dec. 28, 1938, Lynn, Mass. CHILDREN: Julie Reid,
June 1, 1943; James Gardner, June 9, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Manufacturers’ representative.

OFFICES HELD: Sales manager, Pennsylvania Box & Lumber Co., Philadelphia,
1945-49; district sales manager, Sessions Clock Co., 1956-58.

MEMBER OF: Lions Club; Society of Packaging Engineers.

MY business connections since graduation from Harvard Business
School have been: Bird & Son, Inc., East Walpole, Massachusetts,
1938-43; Pennsylvania Box & Lumber Company, Philadelphia,
1943-49; Dewey & Almy Chemical Company, Cambridge, Massa-
chusetts, 1949-52; H. P. Smith Paper Company, Chicago, Illinois,
1952-56, Sessions Clock Company, Forestville, Connecticut, 1956-
58; Glamorene, Inc., Clifton, New Jersey, 1958-59. I am now trying
to start my own manufacturers’ representative agency, In politics,
I am a strong Republican.

[ 283 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

THOMAS CLEATON COLLIER

   

HOME ADDRESS: 9408 Worth Ave., Silver Spring, Md.

BORN: Feb. 18, 1913, Portsmouth, Va. parents: William Bell Collier, Jr., Susan
Dill Cleaton.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933, 1934-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1935 (36).
UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Bell Collier, 3d, ’34.
OCCUPATION: Naval architect; retired.

AS Time magazine, January, 1932, put it: “Tom Collier left Harvard
after two years, took up and gave up the study of law, got into the
publishing business. He caused his irascible father a great deal of
trouble, particularly when he went to live with a chirrupy little
magazine illustrator named Daisy Sage. When Daisy Sage goes
abroad to study art, Tom falls under the spell of a luscious siren,
Cecilia Henry, who lures the dazzled young man into marriage.

“The lights in Tom’s living room are lowered. A small table for
two has been set intimately, with a small rosy lamp and a bottle of
bubbly. Never has the siren been more seductive than now, when
she tries to woo her husband out of his dark mood which is running
to ironic quotations.

“Leaving her door invitingly ajar, Mrs. Collier retires. Unknown
to the siren, Tom Collier is about to leave. On the mantel he places
a check. Then he claps his hat on his head, stalks to the door. ‘I am
going back to my wife,’ decides Tom, meaning, as is by this time clear,
Daisy.”

This is all the fiction of Philip Barry in “The Animal Kingdom”
but at various times the role of Cecilia Henry was played by Lora
Baxter on the stage, Myrna Loy and Alexis Smith on the screen and
Wendy Barrie on radio. Tom Collier opened the RKO Roxy

[ 284 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Theatre, December, 1932, in Rockefeller Center which was ulti-
mately closed and torn down when the Firestone Orchestra left
NBC for ABC.

In reality, Tom Collier returned to Harvard in 1934, after a one-
year sabbatical, during his brother William Bell Collier’s senior
year. In 1936 he followed his brother to the Bethlehem Shipbuild-
ing Corporation in Quincy. Here he worked on calculations for
the flight deck structure of the USS Wasp CV 7, leaving in Janu-
ary, 1938, for eighteen years’ service at the Bureau of Ships, Navy
Department, from which he retired because of physical disability
at the end of 1955. He has a patent pending with six other inventors
of record for the gun ordnance system now used on latest destroyer
and aircraft carrier-type vessels. His military service was limited
to the two years of Naval Reserve Officers’ Training Corps, Harvard
Unit, 1931-33.

Since retirement, Tom Collier has spent occasional days at the
Library of Congress in genealogical research. The Colliers descend
from Reverend Peter Collier, minister of Hungar’s Parish, North-
ampton County, Virginia, by his wife, the widow Anne Mason
(Kendall). Her son, William Kendall and daughter, Anne Kendall,
married Sorrowful Margaret Custis and Henry Custis, aunt and
uncle of Daniel Parke Custis, first husband of Martha Dandridge,
who married second George Washington. The lineage runs: Rev-
erend Peter, Peter, Kendall, Peter, George, William Bell Collier,
Senior, Junior and Third, and the latter’s brother Thomas. George
Collier of St. Louis was the grandfather of George Collier Hitch-
cock, Harvard Law 1891-93, and the great-grandfather of William
Bell Collier, 3d, Thomas Cleaton Collier, Richard Collier Beckett,
William Sowden Sims, Ethan Allen Hitchcock Sims and Ethan Al-
len Hitchcock Shepley, all of Harvard College or graduate schools.
Maternally, we find Wiliam Bell Collier, 3d, Harvard ’34, and
Thomas Cleaton Collier, Harvard 35, descended from Richard
Washington of Surry County, Virginia, through the Lanier, Thacker
and Cleaton families, making William and Thomas fourth cousins
(sixth removed) from Martha Dandridge’s second husband, George

Washington, and in-law kin to her first husband, Daniel Parke
Custis.

[ 285 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

LEO COLMAN
(formerly Leo Cohen)

 

FE I EI
}
+
“pot
a 4
ee
5k lille alte. ‘ae

HOME ADDRESS: 914 Westholme Ave., Los Angeles 25, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 215 W’. Fifth St., Los Angeles 13, Calif.

BORN: Nov. 8, 1914, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Morris Cohen, Minnie Epstein.

PREPARED aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935.

MARRIED: Esther Whitman, Nov. 28, 1937, Boston, Mass.

occupation: Manufacturers’ representative; western factory representative for
Plainville Stock Company, selling precious jewelry through wholesale
distributors from Dallas to Hawaii.

MEMBER OF: Menorah Lodge No. 623, F. & A-M.; Los Angeles Consistory,
Orient of California, 32d degree; Al Malaikah Temple, A-A-O.M.S. of Los
Angeles, Calif. Shrine, Saints & Sinners of Los Angeles, Western Jewelers
Manufacturers Representative Association, Los Angeles 24 Karat Club.

HAROLD SIMSON CONE

   

x
Home apoaess: a Sherbrooke Rd., Scarsdale, NLY.
bon: Jan. 28, 1g12, New York, N.Y. panests: Bernard Milton Cone, Elaine
Wolf.

[ 246 |

2§5TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

prePARED AT: Greensboro High School, Greensboro, NC.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. strma cum laude, 1935.

marriepD: Madeleine Carabo, April 25, 1944, New York, N.Y. cHipres: John
Oliver, April 8, 1945; Claribel, 2d, Sept. 1, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Concert pianist.

DURING my undergraduate years at Harvard, because I was a
transfer student from the Univ ersity of North Carolina, I perhaps
missed some of that feeling of solid identification with one class,
such as is felt more strongly by those who begin and end their col-
lege career with the same group. None of this seems to matter
very much now, and I look back upon all aspects of my Harvard
experience with affection.

During recent years I have been more active than ever before in
my professional musical activities, having plunged into the career
of a concertizing pianist. A quick trip around the world a few years
ago, with solo piano recitals in such exotic places as Taipei, Hong
Kong and Bangkok, seems to have given me the taste for playing be-
fore many and varied audiences, and this last vear found me outside
the United States on concert tours nearly six months out of the
twelve. I achieved this in a number of separate trips so as not to be
away from my family (in Scarsdale, New York) too long at a time.

Some of the high spots included my appearances as soloist with
symphony orchestras in London, Madrid, Barcelona, Palma de Mal-
lorca and Mexico City. I considered it a special treat to give a solo
recital before a good-sized audience in the cell of the monastery in
Valldemosa (Mallorca) where Chopin lived in 1838, and on the
program I included compositions which Chopin had created while
living there. More recently in Mevico, I toured some of the jungle
towns of Veracruz (state), where I found the audiences highly
eager and marvelously receptive.

This is not to say that I have been neglecting the United States:

I have been play ing in New York City at least once each year for
many years, and in each of the past four summer seasons I have ap-
peared as piano soloist with orchestra at the Lewisohn Stadium.

[ 287 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

FDWARD MARKS COOK

 

HOME ApoRESS: 15 Parkinson St., Needham g2, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Northeastern University, Boston, Mass.

BORN: Mav 13, 1914, Arlington, Mass. parents: Stanley Edward Cook, ’o4,
Esther Babcock.

PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1935; A.M. (Boston
Univ.), 1947.

marrieD: Della Vivian Edison, Nov. 14, 1942, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Edward Marks, Jr, April 21, 1944, Vivian Elizabeth, March 23, 1946,
David Spencer, May 14, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Associate professor of mathematics, Northeastern University.

OFFICES HELD: Member of council, Association of Teachers of Mathematics in
New England, 1952-56; chairman, room scheduling and arrangements for
annual meeting, National Council of Teachers of Mathematics, 1955.

MEMBER OF: Association of Teachers of Mathematics in New England; Mathe-
matical Association of America; National Council of Teachers of Mathe-
matics, Russell Lodge, Norfolk Lodge, A.F. & A.M.,; Massachusetts Track
and Field Officials Association.

SINCE I have noted most of the important events of job-changing,
war research service, house-changing, etc., in previous Reports, there
is little to report along those lines. We are in the same house as in
the last Report, with the same members of the family. The changes
are in size of children and in material possessions accumulated in the
home — mostly just collected. My father (Stanley E., ’o4) still lives
with us.

College teaching, church committee work, track meet officiating
are the order of business and they take my time away from my
family. Teaching at a coopcrative-work college is satisfying, but
continually besct with crises, such as final examinations and final
grades every ten weeks, then a change of students and courses ready
for the next ten-weck term. Sabbaticals will come after retirement.

[ 288 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

We have a very active local Congregational Church with a huge
church school of 1400 children. We have been building new church
buildings, the latest a new chapel, with all the accompanying prob-
lems. I have been serving as Deacon for three years, this past year
as chairman of the eighteen-man board. I have also j just served on
a committee to revise our administrative and pastoral set-up, and
am now on the pastoral committee, and on a church survey com-
mittee to look over our present operations and make plans to serve
our local congregation and our denomination much more effectively.
The problems of these positions have raised crises and deadlines to
keep me hopping, and have delayed this Report.

I look back on a full and active life, with many pleasant memories
and cherished experiences. I look around me at home at a family

of which I am very proud. I consider that my greatest single
achievement in life was the choice of my wife. I'm sure that only
my inefficient use of time and effort has kept us from greater things.

JOHN PHILLIPS COOLIDGE

 

HOME appress: 24 Gray Gardens West, Cambridge 38, \lass.

OFFICE appReEss: Fogg Museum, Harvard University, Cambridge 38 Mass.

BORN: Dec. 16, 1913, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Julian Lowell Coolidge, ‘gs.
Theresa Reynolds.

PREPARED aT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B, Mgrs Clam lantde, tors; AM. (New
York Univ.), 1938; prio. Cibid.), 1948.

MarRiED: Mary Elizabeth Welch, May 2s, 1935. Cambridge, Mass. cititb:
Mary Elizabeth, March 15, 1936 Ga, William Bradford Warren, Aug. 4
1954). GRANDOMIEDREN: Joha Coohdge Warren, May ta, toss. Sarah Rob.
bins Warren, Jan. 4. tas.

HakvaRD nRoTER: Archibald Cary Coolidge, °27.

OCCUPATION: Professor; muscum director.

[ 289 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935
OFFICES HELD: Professor of Fine Arts, Harvard; director, Fogg Art Museum,
since 1948.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Arts and Sciences; College Art Associa-
tion; Society of Architectural Historians.
pusLicaTions: Mill and Mansion, 1943.

A FEW days before graduation I married Mary Elizabeth Welch
and have lived happily ever after. More and more happily, in fact,
for we were lucky enough to have a daughter, Mary Elizabeth, the
following spring. She married William Bradford Warren (Harvard
’55, Harvard Law School ’s58) when even younger than we had been,
so now we are the inordinately proud grandparents of John Cool-
idge Warren (Harvard ’77?) and Sarah Robbins Warren. Each
addition has proved more fun than the last, although nothing makes
one more vividly aware of the passing of twenty-five years. Thank
God that early morning bottle is now such an occasional ordeal.

Professionally, too, I have been most fortunate. A year at Colum-
bia University convinced me I was no architect, so I transferred to
the Institute of Fine Arts, New York University. There, after an
extended course of study, I received my Ph.D. I do not regret a
moment of my graduate work. The most taxing and least reward-
ing stretch in academic life seems to me the years spent on the
bottom rungs of the teaching ladder. The more time one devotes to
research in graduate school, the less time is wasted later as an in-
structor or assistant professor — or so I found.

Actually, I had hardly started teaching before I was offered the
directorship of the Fogg Museum, and the last dozen years have
been devoted to administration. The besetting problem, as in so
much of American education since the war, has been finances. Try-
ing to avoid a deficit, or keeping it to a minimum, has proved a
Sisyphean task. This institutional poverty can become all-absorb-
ing and as uncreative a preoccupation for the administrator as
health is for the hypochondriac.

Fortunately there is too much going on to permit such self-in-
dulgence. Harvard has by far the greatest opportunities in the Fine
Arts of any university in the world — twenty-one quasi-independ-
ent units specializing in this field, including four art museums. All
are changing, most are booming, a new one is now being created,
and another one has just been offered to the University. Merely
cooperating with the other growing entities is a full-time challenge.
Meantime, we ourselves are expanding, Half or more of our senior
staff have been appointed during the past decade, Extraordinary

[ 290 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

works of art are being presented to our collections at an unprece-
dented rate. Indeed, the only thing which is growing as rapidly
as our opportunities to serve is the demand for our services. It all
makes for an exhilarating, if frantic life.

+ ROLAND COOPER

 

BORN: Noy. 15, 1913, Quincy, Mass. parents: Martin William Cooper, Alice
Silver.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; LL.B., 1938.

piED: Killed in action, October, 1944, in Pacific area.

ROLAND COOPER spent four years with our Class. While at
college he served on the staff of the Lawzpoon for two years and
was a member of the editorial board of the Journal during his
junior year. After receiving his LL.B. degree he worked as an at-
torney for the Office of Price Administration in Washington. In
February, 1942, he enrolled in the Navy as an ensign and served
as communications officer at Floyd Bennett Air Field and as gunnery
officer aboard a destroyer i in the Atlantic area. He was killed in
action while serving as a lieutenant and gunnery officer in the Pacific
area. He was survived by his father and a sister.

[291]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

LAWRENCE EDWARD CORCORAN

 

HOME appRESS: 146 George St., Arlington, Mass.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Corcoran, Fay & O'Connell, 89 State St., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: April 30, 1913, Boston, Mass. ParENTS: Frederick Lawrence Corcoran,
Julia F. Haley.

PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; LL.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Lucille Mackesey, Aug. 14, 1948, Lynn, Mass. cHiLpReN: Lawrence
Edward, Jr., Jan. 24, 1950; Mary Ellen, Sept. 18, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Town Meeting member, since 1935, moderator, since 1956, Town
of Arlington; State chairman, American Bar Association, 1948-50, delegate,
Democratic National Conventions, 1952, 1956; vice-president, Massachusetts
Civic League, 1952-59; president, Friends of the Framingham Reformatory,
1955-59.

MEMBER oF: American, Massachusetts and Boston Bar Associations, Harvard
Law School Association; American Academy of Political and Social Sci-
ence; Social Service League; Commissioners’ Staff, Boy Scouts of America;
Elks; Knights of Columbus.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on law and town and state government in professional
journals.

THE twenty-five years since Commencement have been about
equally divided between my career as a lawyer and various ventures,
some successful and some unsuccessful, into the political life of my
town, state and national governments.

On the town level I was elected a Town Meeting member in
Arlington while I was a senior in the College and continued in that
position until I was elected moderator in 1956 and re-elected this
year. I was the original sponsor of a committee which led to the
enactment of a Town Manager system in Arlington which, in spite
of its critics, is the best form of municipal administration of any
town or city with a population of over twenty thousand.

[ 292 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

On the state level I have been a delegate to every Democratic
State Convention since 1940 and counsel for the Democratic State
Committee from 1945 to 1949, and moderator of the Yankee Net-
work Forum, 1947-53.

I became interested in the serious prison and parole program as
a result of the attempted purge of Dr. Miriam Van Waters as super-
intendent of the Women’s Reformatory in Framingham, and acted
as the legislative counsel for five years and as president for the last
four years of a group of citizens dedicated to the responsible ad-
ministration of the prison system in Massachusetts.

As a result of my experience with state government I am
convinced that representative government demands an unusual de-
gree of public education, and what is more important, individual
legislators who not only understand the many problems of state
government, but also have the necessary courage to vote for un-
popular remedies.

On the national level I was delegate to the Democratic National
Convention in 1952 and 1956, and hope to be a delegate in 1960 and
trust that Senator John F. Kennedy of Massachusetts, will be the
standard bearer of the Democratic Party.

In 1956 I was the Democratic nominee for Congress in the Fifth
Massachusetts District when I attempted the almost impossible task
of displacing the “veteran” Congresswoman Edith Nourse Rogers.
My chances depended practically on her demise before election
day, but even that slight chance was zealously guarded by the “cap-
tive ptess,” especially in Lowell and Woburn, where I had to buy
release space for my candidacy, which proved the point of my
college thesis, “The Press and Politics,” that a candidate for high
political office must either own a TV station or an important news-
paper or be the “paper candidate” of an entrenched political ma-
chine if he hopes to be elected.

On the lighter side of life, I enjoy greatly, however limited, va-
cations at Cape Cod and Maine with my wife and small, but ex-
tremely active, children, especially Larry, Jr. who is a left-handed
ball player. I play golf with the Bench and Bar Golf League with
classmates Ed Crane and Jim Dixon, and occasionally with my
doctor and classmate, Bill McCarty.

When Brown plays Harvard at football, I find myself on the
Brown side of the ficld as a guest of my brother-in-law, Paul F.

[ 293 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Mackesey, graduate manager of athletics at Brown, but I can take
no further credit for the fact that Harvard has lost to Brown for
the last six vears,

NATHAN CORNBLATT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 239 Ward St., Newton Center 59, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Sunny Rose Super Market, Attleboro, Mass.
BorN: Nov. 21, 1914, Boston, Mass, parents: Harry Samuel Cornblatt, Sarah

Sobell.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933, 1934-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1935(36); M.B.A., 1938.

marriED: Ruth Elenore Freedman, Jan. 23, 1944, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
Mare Sumner, March 6, 1946; Andrew Paul and Bruce Alan (twins), June
20, 1950; James Lee, Feb. 16, 1955.

occuPATION: Owner and operator, Sunny Rose Super Market.

MEMBER OF: Everett E, Benton Masonic Lodge; Attleboro Chamber of Com-
merce.

AFTER getting my A.B. degree I decided to spend another two
years at the Harvard Business School. Having received my M.B.A.
degree in 1938, I went to work for a chain super market opera-
tion which was located in the Boston area. I was married in 1944.
By 1950, I had added three children to my family and had also
progressed to buyer and merchandise manager for my company.
During this same period I] moved to my present home in Newton
Center. My family, which consisted of three boys (two of them
being twins) was growing up at the same time. In 1954, I went
into business for myself by taking over one of the larger units of
the chain in Attleboro, Massachusetts. I have been there ever since,
trying to get established firmly in a very competitive business.
Since then there has been the addition of another son to my family

[ 294 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and I am now the “proud” father of four boys ranging in age from
five to fourteen.

In the last year I have become actively interested in foreign im-
ports. I have recently returned from a trip to F urope to get this
new venture rolling along. I haven’t had much time for hobbies
since I spend most of my time earning a living for my now substan-
tial family. I still love sports, as a spectator of course, and attend
all sports events whenever possible. At one time I took a flyer at
golf, but had to give it up due to a ruptured disc back condition
with which I have been struggling since 1939.

My future still has some uncertainties, but with my new import
venture picking up, 1 am looking forward to much more travel
throughout the world, which has always been one of my ambitions.

JOHN CORNELL

 

ADDRESS: 110 Beard Ave., Buffalo, N.Y.

BORN: Dec. 1, 1913, Buffalo, N.Y. parents: Douglas Cornell, Gwendolyn
Fletcher.

PREPARED AT: Park School, Snyder, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B, magna cum laude, 1935.

NO questionnaire returned.

[ 295]

HARVARD CLASS OF 193§

JOHN CYRUS CORT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 64 N. Crescent Circuit, Brighton 35, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Newspaper Guild of Greater Boston, go Boylston St., Boston,
Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 3, 1913, Woodmere, Long Island, N.Y. Parents: Ambrose Cort,
Lydia Rebecca Painter.

PREPARED aT: Taft School, Watertown, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1935.

marrieD: Helen Florence Haye, Aug. 17, 1946, Baldwinsville, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Barbara Somers, July 25, 1947; Nicholas Painter, March 9, 1949; Paul
Frederick and Rebecca Helen (twins), Feb. 6, 1950; Lydia Haye, Aug. 3,
1952; Mary Elizabeth, Sept. 2, 1953; Alice Murray, Jan. 27, 1955; David,
Sept. 26, 1957; Susan Rachel, April 23, 1958.

occupation: Union official; executive secretary, Newspaper Guild of Greater
Boston, AFL-CIO; free lance writer.

OFFICES HELD: Executive secretary, Association of Catholic Trade Unionists,
1937-38; associate and contributing editor, The Commonweal, 1938-59;
member, executive board, Catholic Labor Guild of Boston, 1952-59; mem-
ber, executive committee, 1954-58, president, since 1959, Massachusetts
State CIO Council, member, State Board, Massachusetts ADA, since 1954;
member, Democratic Ward and City Committees of Boston, since 1956;
commodore, Tiller Club, Community Boating Club of Boston, 1957; mem-
ber, board of directors, National Catholic Social Action Conference, since
1957, Catholic Family Counseling Service of Boston, since 1958; chairman,
Boston ADA, 1957-58; vice-president, Massachusetts Labor Council, AFL-
CIO, since 1959; member, executive committee, Greater Boston Labor
Council, AFL-CIO, since 1959.

MeMBER OF: Brookline Bird Club; Benedictine Oblates of Portsmouth Priory.

puBLICATIONS: About 500 articles in various publications, including The Com-
monweal, The Catholic Worker, The Catholic Digest. The Nation, The
Progressive, The Sign, The Labor Leader, Today, etc,

THE most noteworthy thing that happened to me while I was an un-
dergraduate was my conversion to Catholicism, When I told a Har-

[ 296 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

vard professor's wife that I had been converted while at Harvard,
her reaction was, “Tow positively bizarre!”

The most newsworthy thing that has happened to me since grad-
uation is another conversion, only a Jittle less bizarre, a conversion
to the labor movement. ‘hese two conversions have shaped most
of my life since then, including the third most newsworthy and per-
haps the most bizarre dev elopment of all, namely, our nine children.

After graduation I worked for a year ona w eckly paper in Brook-
line that was started and staffed almost exclusively by Harvard
men, including two classmates, Joe Boyd and Ed Greene. At this
point I fancied myself as a playw right who was simply picking up
experience and material. The experience and material were all
right (Boyd was a natural), but the play was lousy. Later I tried a
novel, but that was no less a turkey than the play.

In July of 1936, I joined the staff of a newspaper and reform
movement in New York called The Catholic Worker which had
been founded a few years before, in the depth of the depression,
by a latter-day saint named Dorothy Day and an original French-
man named Peter Maurin. During the next few vears I covered
labor news for the paper, helped run a sizeable breadline and a small
home for homeless men, was one of the founders of a lively organi-
zation known as the Association of Catholic Trade Unionists, got
involved in strikes, union organizing campaigns, fights for civil
liberties in Jersey City and battles with capitalists, Communists
and racketeers in New York. These were among the most stimulat-
ing years of my life. Almost too stimulating. I contracted a good
case of TB in 1938 and spent over five vears of the next tw elve on
my back, shuttling in and out of TB sanatoria, curing and relaps-
ing, relapsing and curing. But this too was highly educational. I
began, I think, to learn something about patience.

When I was able to work, I put in stints as a ficld organizer for
the Garment Workers, as associate editor of The Commonweal and
as managing editor of a Catholic labor paper published by the
ACTU. Since 1950 I have been executive secretary (a fancy ttle
for business agent) of the Boston local of the New Spaper Guild,
an AFL-CIO union of newspaper men and women. Sometimes |
find myself talking to Harvard men across the bargaining table.
And sometimes even Efarvard is not enough of a common bond be-
tween us.

I have often wondered why it is that we cannot seem to devise
another kind of table, not to replace the bargaining table bur to

[ 297 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

supplement and counteract it, a table that would be more round
than rectangular and which would bring labor, management and
government together to discuss those things that they have in com-
mon. For a change.

Hobbies have been sailboat-racing, occasional recorder-playing,
and time was when I spent a good deal of time bird-watching.

Lately I have had to give this up for hose-grinding 2 and children-
watching.

In the last few years I have caught the political virus and expect
that I shall be running for some ‘political office for the next few
years, on the Democratic ticket, until I am either elected or dis-
couraged enough to give it up. In 1958 I was defeated for state
representative from Ward 22 of Boston, but came close enough to
be more encouraged than discouraged.

This political kick is merely one more trial for my long-suffering
wife, still remarkably cheerful after nine children in fourteen years.
I am bracing myself for the jokes at Reunion, but this is a small
price to pay for the wonder and joy of having them, for which,
and for all our blessings, may God be thanked and praised.

CHARLES PETER COSTELLO
(formerly Charles Peter Kostarelos)

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1982 Commonwealth Ave., Brighton, Mass.

OFFICE Appress: Reservoir Provision & Liquor Co., 1924 Beacon St., Brighton,
Mass.

BORN: Oct. 12, 1912, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Peter Kostarelos, Stavrula Nellos.

prepareD at: High School of Commerce, English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934, 1936-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1935 (37).
UNMARRIED,

HARVARD BROTHER: James Costello, 37, M.B.A., 41.

[ 298 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Buyer and manager, liquor department, Reservoir Provision &
Liquor Company; real estate broker.
MEMBER OF: American Hellenic Educational Patriotic Association.

I WAS born of Greek Orthodox parents within the shadow of the
Paul Revere House and have abided by the customs, traditions and
religious principles of my parents. I have had a modest success in
business and real estate.

During the war I was assigned to secret work for the Navy which
permitted an implementation of the great desire I had acquired in
Cambridge to travel. Frequent traveling throughout various parts
of the world permitted me to broaden what might be described as
my main hobby and my major theoretical pre-occupation, namely,
that of an armchair political scientist. The national and international
scene provided an excellent laboratory for the consuming interest
I had acquired at the College for the study of the essentials of po-
litical, social and economic organization. These field studies led
gradually to the conviction that practical participation in the affairs
of government was the only way to insure the maintenance of our
way of life.

Since the national and international arenas of political life were
too broad for me as an individual to participate in, I followed the
lead given by corporations in the Commonwealth of Masachusetts,
such as G.E. and Westinghouse, and went to work actively in re-
cent years to elect candidates for local and statewide office. My
most recent political efforts were to make an initial try for public
office as a candidate for the Boston City Council. Although not
elected, the results for a non-machine candidate were gratifying and
prompted me to continue as a candidate in 1960.

But my entry into the political scene was not wholly unsuccess-
ful, for I had endorsed John Collins for mayor of Boston before

the primary election and Boston won a tremendous victory by his
election.

[ 299 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

WILLIAM DUDLEY COTTON, Jr.

 

HOME ADpRESS: 244 Newbury St., Boston 16, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: University Travel Co., 18 Brattle St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

BORN: June 20, 1912, Boston, Mass. Parents: William Dudley Cotton, ’97,
Hester Sherman.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1935.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Sherman Page Cotton, ’38.

occupation: Travel agent.

MEMBER OF: Western Writers of America.

PUBLICATIONS: Dusty Spurs, New York, 1957; Raiders of Red Gap, New York,
1958; The Night Was Made For Murder, New York, 1959; approximately
fifty short magazine novels and stories.

A FEW years back I had to furnish a short sketch of myself to a
magazine that was running a suspense story of mine. As there was
no obligation to stick to facts, the paragraphs I cooked up made
me quite a colorful character.

Right now, I realize that an imaginative approach wouldn’t be
dignified for one who is about to reveal to his classmates whatever
became of him during the last twenty-five years. (Which reminds
me. Whatever became of Sonja Henie?) My classmates will want
the stark, unvarnished truth, which can hardly help being dull. But
what Harvard man would settle for less than the truth?

In my first report, I’d embarked on a life in the travel business with
University Travel Company in Harvard Square. This report finds
me in the travel business with University Travel Company in
Harvard Square. To be sure, my office has moved from Massachu-
setts Avenue to Brattle Street to, just lately, 1 Story Street which
all indicates a form of progress, at least geographically, Instead of
handing out tickets over the counter, I now spend most of my time

[ 300 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

on publicity. That means describing the delights of Paris in travel
folders and calling printers nasty names.

However, there have been intervals when Ive strayed from the
Square to other places and things. The longest absence was hardly
voluntary. I began my army life by freezing i in Bangor, Maine, as
a private-no-class driver of a ten-wheeler in the winter of ’ 42. It
ended as a rather listless captain sweating out the days — not figura-
tively —in the mudflats of Southern Iran. My military career was
undistinguished, but I must add that in Bandar Shapur it was hardly
possible to be anything else. We did manage to get some lend-
lease turned over to the Russians, who we found were rather diffi-
cult to work with in those days. Our social life consisted of culti-
vating a taste for Persian vodka. In a way, I suppose, we contributed
to the Allied cause.

Off and on, I put in a few years with other travel companies, most
notably Thomas Cook & Son, where it developed after a while that
neither Thomas nor I really cared much about each other.

Intertwined with formal employment have been periods when
I’ve taken off on my own to do some writing. This writing disease
is something I had even before I turned out themes for Mr. Hersev,
and sometimes it gets so bad I can’t do anything about it. At first,
no one but me cared. Later, I began making fairly steady sales to
the pulps, mostly westerns, but never quite enough to live on com-
fortably. Of course, the pulps died (perhaps I helped kill them).
Since then I’ve managed a few novels but I never was able to master
the technique of holding down a job and getting much writing out
at the same time. So when I’m solvent I take a leave of absence to
get the writing bug temporarily quicted. This is fun, but the time
comes when I’m broke and so I go back to the security of the regu-
lar paycheck. Fortunately, at Univ ersity Travel, the boss knows
I’m unbalanced (as most of us in the travel business are) and so he
makes the necessary allowances.

Well, anyway, this is the story of my first twenty-five vears out
of Harvard, but if I hadn't felt I must stick to the facts...

{ 301 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ROBERT REMINGTON COVELL

SETS ETITER Tee gan ste

 

  

te amit 8

HOME ADDRESS: 133 Washington St., Newport, R.I.
OFFICE aDpRESS: Welte-Whalon Organ Co., 86 Washington St., Newport, RI.

BORN: Jan. 14, 1913, Newport, R.I. Parents: William Walton Covell, Elizabeth
Bentley Greene.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935 (36).

MARRIED: Virginia Frances Galvin, Aug. 24, 1940, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Marion Galvin, Sept. 11, 1941, Catherine Goddard, Aug. 2, 1943; Ruth
Remington, Sept. 22, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: William King Covell, ’28.

occuPATION: Pipe-organ rebuilding.

MEMBER OF: American Guild of Organists.

THE real wisdom behind the advice of the late President Lowell —
to the effect that we should choose our college courses and spend
our college years in preparation for the various exigencies of life
itself rather than in one narrow field of learning — is perhaps well
demonstrated by the four unrelated occupations in which I have
rather modestly supported myself and my family during the past
twenty-five years. For seven years I basked in the glamor of the —
head offices of the National Broadcasting Company, where I pounded
a typewriter writing scripts for the announcers on non-commercial
musical programs and collected printed information about music of
all kinds. The next four years were spent teaching physics and
mathematics in the three largest boys’ prep schools in Rhode Island.
These were the years of World War II, and although I took and
passed a pre-induction physical, I was never inducted into the
services, partly because math-teaching was considered one of the
essential occupations. |
On Christmas Eve, 1946, I suddenly found myself the subject of
Dun & Bradstreet’s curiosity when I launched a business venture

[ 302 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and opened a small retail store selling luggage and leather goods.

With the purchase of two second-hand leather-sewing machines

and other tools, I soon afterward added a complete repairing service

to my retail facilities. Ihe psychology involved in having people
come to me either for merchandise or for services which I alone
could supply to the community, combined with the pride in having
launched a new business enterprise all on my own — without help
from my own or my wife’s family — made the eight and a half
years during which I operated the Lighthouse Luggage and Leather
Company the brightest period of my post-college years; and in
another community of equal purchasing power but without the
competition of the insidious Ships’ Service Store on the Naval Base,
the store might well have continued to prosper.

As our children grew older, the need for an increased and more
regular income became more insistent, and so I took the initiative of
closing the store in 1955. Three months later I joined the staff of the
Welte-Whalon Organ Company, once again in a new occupation,
and during the past three years I have had. many reasons to be proud
of the only pipe- -organ company in Rhode Island which has a full-
sized factory of its own. During the first year I shared in the labors
of unpacking and sorting the contents of nineteen large wooden crates
containing the separate pipes and mechanisms of a three-manual pipe
organ made in France, which was assembled and installed in a new
private residence in New Canaan, Connecticut. The following year
we were hired by the Department of Music and Applied Arts of
Boston University to move several studio and practice organs from
its former home on Blagden Street (behind the Boston Public
Library) to the present building on Commonwealth Avenue just
west of the Cottage Farms bridge. The care and quality of our work
led to two extra jobs of the same kind, including the moving of the
celebrated instrument formerly in the Busch-Reisinger Museum from
which E. Power Biggs played most of his Sunday morning organ
recitals on the C.B.S. radio network for over sixteen years.

My personal life would serve to refute the notion that a Protes-
tant-Catholic marriage is not likely to be a happy one; and of all
the members both of my own family and of my wife's family,
I believe our marriage is easily the happiest, with my children en-
joying the advantages of the only group of schools and colleges
which still stick to “the same fundamentals in education and main-
tain the same standards which prevailed when we were preparing
for college a generation ago. Of all the extra-curricular activities

[ 303 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

of college years, the only one which I have continued steadily with
few interruptions is that which is associated with the Harvard Glee
Club; it was through singing that I met my wife when we were
both members of the Schola Cantorum of New York, and it is by
singing that I achieved the only minor claim to distinction — having
sung in public performances in Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony under
five different well-known conductors (names on request! ).

+ JOHN CHEEVER COWDIN, JR.

 

BORN: June 4, 1913, San Francisco, Calif. PARENTS: John Cheever Cowdin,
Florence Hopkins.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

pieD: Nov. 6, 1946, Nassau, Bahama Islands.

JOHN CHEEVER COWDIN, JR., received an A.B. degree with
our Class. While at college he was a member of the freshman polo
team, J.V. Polo 1933, Flying Club, Hasty Pudding-Institute of
1770, D.K.E., and Signet Society. The Secretary has no informa-
tion concerning his activities after he left college. Cowdin was
survived by his parents.

L 304 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DONALD ALBERT CRAFTS

 

apprEss: % Dr. John T. Finkenstaedt, 14 North Woods Rd. Manhasset, Long
Island, N.Y.

Born: Dec. 18, 1913, West Roxbury, Mass. parents: George Bliss Crafts,
Margaret Donahoe.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1935.

NO questionnaire returned.

EDWARD ALFRED CRANE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 219 Grove St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Finn & Crane, 60 Srate St, Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 15, 1914, Cambridge, Alass. paxewrs: Timothy Crane, Mary Dorney.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1931-193§. DEGREE: AB, MAID CLON lute, 1QhS.

Marrikp: Mary F. Buckley, Nov. 24, 1949, Cambndge, Mass. cainars: Daruel,
Oct. 13, 1950; Kevin, March 14, 19s2; Maureen, Aug. 28 rosa, Michsel
April 12, 1955; Kathleen, Oct. 30, 1956; Fileen, July at, tase.

HARVARD BROTHER: Timothy Francis Crane, °33.

[ 305 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

occupation: Attorney at law.

oFFIces HELD: Cambridge City Councillor, 1939-59 (except 40 months’ military
service); director, Harvard Trust Company, 1945-59, Columbian Coopera-

tive Bank, 1946-59; mayor of Cambridge, 1950-51; director, Cambridge
Bar Association.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Political Science; Cambridge Lodge,
B.P.O.E. (honorary lifetime),

PUBLICATIONS: “The Law and Practice of Proportional Representation.”

STILL active in the political arena, my story must necessarily be
brief and topical. For the past twenty-two years, except forty
months of CLC. service in World War II and a term as mayor of
Cambridge (1950-51; retired to promote another Harvardman), I
have occupied a chair in the Cambridge City Council with tempo-
rary residence at Park Bench No. 6, Cambridge Common, where
there are no telephones or Western Union boys. The most contro-
versial quote used for and against me is, “As Harvard and M.LT.
grow, so grows the City of Cambridge.”

During this political generation, indisputably, I have seen Harvard
established as the world’s No. : Liberal Arts Center and M.I.T. at-
tain equal rank among the world’s technical and scientific institu-
tions... all in six square miles which is Cambridge, Massachu-
setts. My sworn duty has been to keep this most heterogeneous
city in balance.

Meanwhile, I have labored as a bank, probate and tort practitioner
at 6o State Street, Boston, with comfortable homes at Fresh Pond
abutting the golf course and Annisquam adjacent to sandy beach
and dock facilities.

I have been spared a dear mother (aged eighty-seven), acquired
a lovely wife and six healthy children (three, three for balance).

Reflective picture: my father walking from the East Boston Cu-
nard dock to a Waltham farm with two Irish pennies in his pocket.
God bless America, Harvard and the voters of Cambridge.

I am happy for the success of my classmates, particularly the lo-
cal government majors: Hon. William Bailey, Battle Creek, Michi-
gan, and Hon. John Ivers, Meriden, Connecticut,

God willing, I can dare afford to reminisce at my fiftieth anni-
versary.

[ 306 ]

caret ett TE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM CHAMBERS CRAWFORD

 

HOME ADDRESS: 209 Prospect St., East Orange, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 494 Broad St., Newark, N.J.

BORN: June 2, 1913, Orange, N.J. parents: Gustavus C. Crawford, ’o4, Geor-
gina V. Urquhart.

PREPARED AT: Carteret Academy, Orange, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: $.B., clam laude, 1935.

MaRRIED: Eugenia Irmingard Arnold-Hardt, Nov. 27, 1950, Long Island, N.Y.
cHILD: Joyce Elizabeth, April 25, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Stuart Crawford, ’30.

OCCUPATION: Insurance broker — owner of agency; also associate, Charles Wil-

liam Benfield, Inc., New York, N.Y.
OFFICES HELD: Member, board of governors, Harvard Business School Club of

Northern New Jersey, 1958-60.
MEMBER OF: Glen Ridge Country Club; Harvard Club of New York; German-

Austrian Alpine Club, Bad Télz, Bavaria, Section.

BEFORE engaging in my present occupation, I was in the banking
business in New York City for eight years. During World War II.
I was in the Army from January, 1942, to June, 1946; served in the
Pacific theatre.

[ 307 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

* BRENTON WELLES CREELMAN

 

porN: Aug 3, 1912, Winsted, Conn.. parents: George Willis Creelman, ’96,

Helen Douglas.
PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Winsted, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.
MaRRIED: Flizabeth Rollins.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Douglas Creelman, °31.

piep: Killed in action, Nov. 18, 1944, off the coast of Italy.

WHILE at college Creelman was a member of the Lowell House
squash, baseball and tennis teams and in 1933 he was an editor on
the Crimson. After graduation he worked as a reporter for the
Reading (Pa.) Times for about a year and then taught at the Borden-
town Military Institute and later at Bancroft School in Worcester
and Eaglebrook School in Deerfield, Massachusetts. In December,
1942, he entered service as an ensign in the Navy and attended
training schools at Dartmouth, Princeton and at Melville, Rhode
Island. In 1943 he was assigned to overseas duty and was com-
manding officer of a PT boat from that time until his death. In

March, 1944, he became a lieutenant (j.g.).
He was survived by his wife.

[ 308 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ HOMER CROCKER

 

BORN: June 1, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: Richard Whitney Crocker, Con-

stance Homer.
PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.
prep: Nov. 25, 1934, Middletown, Conn.

‘ HOMER CROCKER spent two years with our Class and had been

attending evening classes at Northeastern University law school.
He died as the result of 3 injuries received in an automobile accident.

He was survived by his parents.

ROBERT IRVIN CUMMIN

 

HOME appress: 11t N, Spring Mill Rd., Villanova, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wellington Management Co, 1630 Locust St, Philadelphia, Pa.

BoRN: March 17, 1913, Dayton, Ohio, parents: Gaylord Church Cumma,
Hazel Fdith Carr.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: AB, 1935.

( 309 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

MARRIED: Katharine Dana Hewitt, Aug. 23, 1941, North Stonington, Conn.
CHILDREN: Jane Hewitt, Nov. 8, 1944; Ann Gaylord, July 12, 1947; Katha-
rine Dana, Nov. 9, 1951; Ellen Church, June 14, 1955.

occupaTIoN: Investment manager; member, Investment Committee, Wellington
Fund and Wellington Equity Fund.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of governors, New York Young Republican
Club, 1938-39; member, Greenwich Council, Boy Scouts of America,
1941-50; trustee, Historical Society of Greenwich, 1953-58; director, Birds-
boro Steel Foundry & Machine Company, 1954-58, Greenwich Gas Com-
pany, 1954-58, Whiting Milk Company, 1955-58, president, Forecasters
Club, 1958-59.

MEMBER oF: Athenaeum of Philadelphia; Franklin Institute, Radnor Historical
Society; Forecasters Club; Harvard Clubs of New York and Philadelphia;
Society of Security Analysts, Wadawanuck Club.

GRADUATION day, 1935, I left Massachusetts for Greenwich,
Connecticut, and on July fifth started work in Wall Street as a run-
ner for Reynolds & Company. The next several years were spent
with Reynolds & Company, learning the brokerage, investment
banking and investment advisory business. Married in 1941 and be-
gan housekeeping.

When World War II came along, I fought with great determina-
tion but had to go anyhow — into the Naval Reserve. Having ex-
hibited most of the qualities of a naval officer, including the neces-
sary seniority, I ended up a lieutenant commander. First daughter
born in Banana River, Florida.

Then back to Greenwich and Wall Street, where I became head
of the research department at Reynolds & Company. Another
daughter. Moved to Old Greenwich. In 1951 I became investment
manager for the Bulova Watch Company, looking after the Em-
ployees’ Retirement Fund and other financial matters. Another
daughter. To keep up with some of the Fund’s investments, I served
as director of several corporations, scattered from Pennsylvania to
Massachusetts, This gave me experience in coping with the dis-
similar (and similar) problems of the heavy machinery, small tool,
gas utility and milk business. The watch industry has its problems
too; watches are hard to sell and hard to make. Meanwhile a fourth
daughter.

Late in 1958 I was called to Philadelphia to serve on the invest-
ment committee of the Wellington Fund and the Wellington Equity
Fund. These mutual funds between them have over a billion-dollar
asset value and justify my making what seems to be a permanent de-
cision in favor of investment management as against corporation

management. Managing funds is in many ways like running a busi-

[ 310 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ness; you try to direct capital to its most efficient use. Unlike most
businesses, however, investment management happens fast, and the
results are unfortunately immediately visible to one and all. [ like
it and recommend it to the young as a career.

My family and I now live on the Main Line, twelve miles outside
Philadelphia. Our house is mid-1920's pink masonry Holly wood-
Mediterranean in style and is not yet known as Cummin’s Pink
Elephant. Inside, the furnishings follow: the early American pat-
tern — colonial furniture, with a sprinkling of books, children’s
shoes and accessories on the floor. Four children are in four schools

this year, but that’s life in the suburbs.

ROBERT LINCOLN CUMMINGS, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: Cold Spring Harbor, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New York Airways, LaGuardia Field, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 10, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Robert Lincoln Cummings, Leila
Reppenhagen.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Dorcas Oakley Ferris, Mav 11, 1940, Lawrence, Long Island, N.Y.
CHILDREN: Dorcas Oakley, Aug. 6, 1941; Lila, Oct. 29, 1944; Robert Lincoln,
3d, June 6, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Air transportation — president and director, New York Airways.

FOLLOWING graduation from college and prior to being married
in the spring of 1940, I went to the Law School (but did not gradu-
ate), traveled extensively, and held various odd jobs. Elowever, im-
mediately on getting married, I went to work for Pan American
Airways, and continued with that company through the war years,
working under contract to the U.S. Corps of Engineers on the con-
struction of airports and related facilities in Europe, Africa, the

[311]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Azores, South and Central America. Between 1948 and 1951, I was
employed by the United States government, working on the in-
dustrial rehabilitation phase of the Marshall Plan. For this period,
my family (which by this time consisted of one wife, two daughters,
and one son) lived in Paris. Since returning to New York, I have
been in my present occupation.

As far as concerns politics and my general feelings about the
condition of the world, I think of myself as an independent. I have
continued to travel a great deal here and abroad, and in fact, with
my wife and elder daughter, have just returned from a most stimu-
lating business trip which included Japan, Formosa, Hong Kong,
Bangkok and Cambodia.

ROGER SUMNER CURTIS

  

appreEss: R.F.D. 5, Penn Yan, N.Y.

porN: April 8, 1912, Ardmore, Pa, pareNTs: Samuel Philip Curtis, Louise
Sumner.

PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

occuPATION: Engineering.

NO questionnaire returned.

[ 312]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT BRADLEY CUTLER

 

HOME apprEss: 190 Marlborough St., Boston 16, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cutler Designs, 190 Marlborough St., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 8, 1913, Dover, Mass, parents: Roger Wilson Cutler, ’11, Leslie
Bradley.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; B.ARCH., 1939.

MaRRIED: Marion Lawrence, April 15, 1939, Groton, Mass. (divorced 1944);
Claire Demmer, Nov. 24, 1945, San Francisco, Calif. cutpren: Camilla,
June 17, 1940; Robert Bradley, Jr., Dec. 4, 1941, J. Christopher, Aug. 29,
1946, L. Bradley, June 25, 1948.

HARVARD SON: Robert Bradley Cutler, Jr., ’63.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Roger Wilson Cutler, ’37, LL.B., "40; Eric Cutler, ’40; Joseph
Clark Bradley, ’39 (adopted brother).

OccUPATION: Designer; registered architect, instructor, Boston Architectural
Center; design consultant, Museum of Science.

PuBLications: “The Weatherscope,” a map on which plastic weather symbols
may be moved about to assist in forecasting and teaching meteorology.

SINCE the Twentieth Report I parted company with Wentworth
Institute and moved in town to the Back Bay, just ahead of the re-
versal of flight to suburbia. At the moment, am enjoying some
worthwhile architectural commissions and working most of the
time at the Museum of Science.

[ 313]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

JOHN HOWARD DAHLGREN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 302 Kennedy Ave., San Antonio 9, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Morrison, Dittmar, Dahlgren & Kaine, 304 Milam Bldg., San
Antonio 5, Texas.

BORN: Nov. 29, 1913, Bartlesville, Okla, Parents: Paul Fridthjof Dahlgren,
Mary MacMahon.

PREPARED AT: New Mexico Military Institute, Roswell, N. Mex.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1935; 11.B. (Oklahoma
Univ.), 1939.

MarRieD: Lucile Yarborough. cyitpren: Paul F., 2d, aged ten; Maggi, aged
two,

OccUPATION: Oil and gas attorney; partner in the law firm of Morrison, Ditt-
mar, Dahlgren & Kaine.

AFTER graduation from law school I went to work for an oil
company at its San Antonio, Texas, office. Shortly thereafter I
was drafted by Uncle Sam and remained in the Army until dis-
charged as a lieutenant colonel F.A. after the conclusion of the
war. I went back to work for an oil company and drilling company
in San Antonio until it sold out; then joined the law firm of Mor-
rison, Dittmar, Dahlgren & Kaine as a partner, where I have been
ever since.

[314]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES WHITNEY DALL, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 5010 Baltimore Ave., Washington 16, D.C.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Office of the General Counsel, Dept. of the Navy, Washing-

ton 25, D.C.
BoRN: March 21, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: Charles Whimey Dall, ’os,

Emily Marshall Maurice.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; LLB., 1938.

MaRRIED: Ruth Asire Knowlton, Aug. 28, 1954, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Eben Asire Knowlton, Nov. 19, 1933 (7. Rosamond Ann Ross, June 25,
1955); Jonathan Knowlton, Feb. 22, 1937. GraxpcHitp: Eben Douglas

Knowlton, Aug. 19, 1957.
HARVARD BROTHER: Stewart Maurice Dall, 738
OCCUPATION: Lawyer; assistant counsel, Procurement, Bureau of Ships, Depart-

ment of the Navy.
MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York; Harvard Clubs
of New York and Washington, D.C.; Corcoran Gallery of Art, Wash-

ington, D.C.
THE two pictures above should be worth, according to the Chinese
saying, a thousand words apiece, Considering the subject, I doubt
it. Though the difference in hairline is obvious, they fail to show
the waistline as still the same and cannot relate that the years have
brought me (not necessarily in the following order):

A Profession: The Harvard Law School ‘confirmed my inclina-
tion for the law and provided a welcome three more years in the
edifying atmosphere of Boston. A summer’s clerkship in Mfan-
chester, New Hampshire, indicated that for me the canyons of New
York offered more opportunity for legal and golden talents than
the granite hills of New England. How ever, seven years (inter-
rupted by over five years of military service) of corporate and
antitrust practice with a Wall Street firm, plus commuting for three

[315]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

hours daily, proved more than enough, and the Korean War brought
about a switch to Washington and government service in 1951.
Now, you couldn’t get me to go back. I have developed a specialty
in Navy procurement surprisingly broad in its ramifications, and a
competence in that field that comports with my Puritan conscience.
More important is the intangible satisfaction of public service which
outweighs its occasional frustrations and modest salary. :

War Service: Peacetime fun and games with Squadron A, rorst
Cavalry, N.Y.N.G., ended in January, 1941, when the President
(U.S., not Harvard) “reporting great trust and confidence” in me
handed out a pair of gold bars and said I was a field artilleryman.
Anyway, I became one, first with the 1o5th F.A. Battalion, 27th
Division, later with the 164th F.A. Battalion, goth Division. Train-
ing in Alabama, guarding powerhouses in California, just after
Pearl Harbor, and holding down the Hawaiian Islands, served as
a long prelude to amphibious island-hopping in the Pacific, princi-
pally the Gilbert Islands, Guadalcanal, New Britain, Luzon, Leyte
and Mindanao. This resulted in webbed feet and a certain adept-
ness at loading my battalion on short notice into anything that
floated and at directing 105 howitzer fire close to our perimeters.
But not too close (except once), as my job was up with the infan-
try, not back with the guns. I came out with the usual “fruit
salad,” six overseas stripes, a captaincy, a tropical bug (good for a
year in hospitals) and a sense, despite the awful boredom of it all,
of having stood up, been counted and been there.

A wife and family: Marriage made my many bachelor years seem
inconsequential and had the added advantage of a ready-made family
of two fine boys (even if they both went to Yale), so I by-passed
the diaper and PTA stage and caught up with the earlier starters in
our Class. Ruth and I enjoy our home and our children and have
the usual concerns and pride in both areas. The routine of our
household has recently been delightfully discombobulated by a
small grandson returning from two years in Germany. We can
gladly stand more. Our house and our hearts are expandible.

Appreciation: Interests stimulated by Harvard have continued
to grow, foremost being my appreciation of Harvard itself. Intellect-
ual curiosity — the search for truth —to which Harvard opened
the doors, has given me a greater tolerance and understanding, I
hope, with the passing years of the human, economic and cultural
forces that shape our lives today. Peace — it’s wonderful, but you

always have to work for it and sometimes fight for it, The islands

[ 316 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of Maine, the Adirondack lakes appeal and restore more than ever
with each vacation. Luckily, my mother and father are still in good
health. Thanks to Ruth, my enjoyment of painting expands; she
can even make me see what some of this contemporary stuff has
to say. Ditto for music aided by our hi-fi system built by the eldest
boy. History and biography continue to provide special ‘satisfaction
but make me realize how little of note I have accomplished. Who
but Ruth and I care whether the drains are plug ged up, the roses
sprayed, or the crabgrass conquered? (It isn’t, but there’s always
next spring.) After twenty-five, June, 1960, promises for us a
Harvard Reunion and a Yale graduation.

THOMAS LYNDE DAMMANN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1917 Soledad Ave., La Jolla, Calif.

OFFICE appREss: Chicago Sun-Times Syndicate, Chicago 11, Hl.

BorN: April 10, 1913, Winnetka, Ill, parents: John Francis Damman, Isabel
Adair Lynde.

PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka. Il.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: AB., 1935 (36).

MaRRIED: Harle Garth, Jan. 26, 1938, La Jolla, Calif. centprex: Thomas
Lynde, Jr., April 10, 1940; Tyrrell, Aug. 14, 1942; Harle Adair, Dee. 20,
1949.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Francis Dammann, Jr, "39; Peter Adair Dammann,
"41,

OCCUPATION: Newspaper columnist, under contract to Field Enterprises and
Chicago Sun-Times Syndicate.

OFFICES HELD: Reporter, City News Bureau of Chicago, 1935~57, Nashville
Tennessean and Chicago Daily News, 1938; business editor, Harttord
Newsdaily, March, 1940; reporter, San Francesco Chronicle, rayo-4s
editor, OWT Overseas Branch, San) Francisco, togi-4s; chairman, San
Diego County Association of Soil Conservation Districts, 1ysa-s4i. member,
board of directors, Mission Soil Conservation District, Fallbrook, Calf,

[317]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

national convention chairman, National Association of Soil Conservation
Districts, 1954, manager, San Diego County Presidential Campaign (Ste-
venson), 1956, member, San Diego County (1956-59), California State
(1956-58) Democratic Central Committee; chairman, San Diego County
Democratic Finance Committee, 1956-59.

MEMBER OF: (at various times) University Club of Chicago; Press Club of San
Francisco; La Jolla Beach and Tennis Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Newspaper columns, stories and other trivia.

THE request to knock out a few words covering the past twenty-
five years finds me and my partner of twenty-two years in Istanbul
about to take off on a two-month journey to Indonesia via Iran,
Pakistan, Afghanistan, India, Burma, Thailand, Hong Kong and
Malaya. This is somewhat typical of the life of adventure which
has been mine since leaving Cambridge in the summer of 1935, a life
which has seen me as a newspaper reporter, foreign correspondent,
Hollywood publicist, dirt farmer (Dr. Francis D. Moore can attest
to that), Democratic politician and, finally, once again a foreign
correspondent.

Following graduation and with the printer’s ink of the Crimson
still coursing in my veins, I went to Chicago to discuss job possibili-
ties on the Bloomington (Illinois) Pantagraph with one of its own-
ers, Adlai Stevenson. Despite the fact that he discouraged me inso-
far as the job was concerned, I developed a quick admiration for
him which has never ceased to grow during the intervening years.

I began my career as a cub reporter — sixteen dollars a week,
sans expenses, six ten-hour days—at the City News Bureau of
Chicago, still one of the greatest training schools in the profession.
In 1937 I took off for Europe to write for a travel magazine and the
late Chicago Times. In the course of this venture I stopped off in
a Munich pension, where three lovely Stanford coeds were also
residing. I possessed a beat-up but roomy Ford, so quite naturally
the girls suggested joining forces with me. After several months of
pleasant travel, I ended up married to one of them. It was a costly
procedure involving a recrossing of the Atlantic and a flight to Cali-
fornia, but I got the best of the bargain, for my beautiful Harle has
supplied me with a stimulating life, two beautiful, talented daughters
and a strapping, thought-provoking son, and has become my col-
laborator and strictest editor to boot. (We write, under the double
by-line, “By Tom and Harle Dammann,” a semi-political “grass-

roots” column from various parts of the world.)

In 1938, after short stints on the Chicago Daily News and the
Nashville Tennessean, we returned to Europe to write a weckly

[ 318]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

column for twenty-six leading metropolitan newspapers, The out-
break of war found us in Slovakia heading into Poland with a Ger-
man army of some 250,000 men (we were the only foreign corre-
spondents to go into Poland at that time, as far as we know). Late
in 1939, we sailed from Italy for home, having escaped out throuch
Rumania and the Black Sea to Turkey and. Greece. We arrived
home in time for the safe arrival of our son.

Followed then a few months on the ill-fated Hartford Newsdaily,
of which we were part-owners, and then a job on the Sun Francisco
Chronicle. After Pearl Harbor, I became an editor of psychological
warfare radio broadcasts with the Overseas Branch of OWT, San
Francisco. Perhaps the most memorable experience with OWT was
serving as one of those in charge of the visiting European and
Asiatic press at the United Nations Conference, in which position
I was able to observe at first hand Governor Stevenson's unique
abilities as an organizer and spokesman for our Government.

At war’s end we moved to Hollywood to make our fortune in the
motion picture business as publicists — and, incidentally, padded
our pocket-book a little as Pacific Coast correspondents of the Trnres
of London. But, by 1951, we had had it. The hysteria brought on
by the witch hunts, plus the irritating w himsy of the publicity
business, not to mention smog, were too much for our sensitive
souls. We sold the comfortable home we had built in Beverly Hills
and bought a 150-acre farm near Fallbrook, California.

There we raised onions, vegetables and cattle and were able to
give our growing youngsters a useful education. I also participated
actively in the work of the National and California Associations of
Soil Conservation Districts, and Democratic politics. In the latter
capacity, I became a member of the San Diego County and Strate
Central Committees, managed the 1956 Stevenson campaign in San
Diego County, and worked actively for Governor Pat Brown and
Senator Clair Engle in 1958.

Farming is surely one of the pleasantest ways to exist. But it
takes a lot more capital than a newspaperman and publicist can
amass, and after a while, the women folk began complaining about
spending money on tractors and the barn instead of on the house
and feminine gewgaws. Mine struck, In February last year we sold
out at a nice profit, thank vou. Immediately we signed a contract
to write a twice-weekly column for Marshall Field's Chic ara S1n-
Times Syndicate, boughe ourselves a V olkswagen Mic robus, and
set forth on our global trip. During the first six months of it we

[ 319]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

drove some eighteen thousand miles and flew another six thousand
through Europe, behind the Iron Curtain, around the Eastern Med-
iterranean and across North Africa. We will finish it all in time to
attend the Twenty-Fifth, which will be a family reunion as well,
‘since our daughters, now in school in Switzerland, and our son,
with the Army Engineers at Fort Benning, will join us.

After the Reunion we head to Los Angeles for the Democratic
Convention. Our travels and foreign experiences have convinced
us that in this age of the life and death struggle between Commu-
nism and Democracy, the most important qualification for the
Presidency of the United States is a thorough understanding of
the world about us. A few goodwill visits are not sufficient quali-
fications. We accompanied Vice-President Nixon to Siberia last
summer. He handled himself ably, but we could not learn then —
any more than we had in the past — whether he had truly observed,
thought, and formulated an attitude or policy. In contrast, Gover-
nor Rockefeller has voiced some positive conclusions for action
based on considerable research. Unfortunately, he has counted him-
self out of the race.

On the Democratic side, Governor Stevenson and Congressman
Bowles are eminently qualified. They have the knowledge and ex-
perience and have defined policies of action which will serve us and
the world well, if they are executed. We know where they stand.
Moreover, both are among the most highly respected Americans
in the foreign offices on either side of the Iron Curtain. We hope
enough Americans will agree to put one or the other in the White
House in 1961.

JOHN PHILBRICK DANFORTH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 373 Crestwood Ave, Wadsworth, Ohio.

[ 320 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: Babcock & Wilcox Co., Van Buren Avenue, Barberton, Ohio.

porN: May 31, 1915, Cleveland, Ohio. parexts: Raymond Hewes Danforth,
Dora Philbrick Woodberry.

PREPARED AT: Hawken School, South Euclid, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: 8.B., cum laude, 1935, $.M., 1937.

MARRIED: Eleanor Weston, Scpt. 6, 1941, Ww est Newton, Mass. CHILDREN: Ray-
mond Hewes, Nov. 24, 1944; Thomas Weston, May 17, 1948; Sally This-

sell, Jan. 27, 1953.
occuPATION: Manager, Tabulating Section, Accounting Department, Boiler

Division, Babcock & Wilcox Company.

OFFICES HELD: Editor, Bulletin, Harvard Engineering Society, 1943-45; deacon,
1950-52, elder, 1954-56, 1958-60, president of consistory, 1954-35, Trinity
Evangelical & Reformed Church, Wadsworth, Ohio, chairman, Troop
Committee, Troop 404, Boy Scouts of America, Wadsworth, Ohio, since

1950.
MEMBER OF: National Machine Accountants Association, Harvard Engineering
Society; Professional Men’s Toastmasters Club.

AFTER graduation I spent two years absorbing more engineering
formulae blended with business administration theory, before try-
ing to apply all my knowledge to earning a living,

In twenty-two years with Babcock & Ww ilcox in a variety of
positions and locations, I have come to the conclusion that these
detailed formulae and theories are relatively unimportant. The most
important ability which I acquired at Harvard was some facility in
recognizing salient facts and thinking from these facts. This has
been so important to me that I wish there Were some wav of making
young people in school and college realize the basic need of the
ability to think.

As manager of a growing tabulating organization which is spread-
ing rapidly into general data processing, l continually wish there
were more people, in and out of this type of work, w ho would fol-
low IBM’s slogan, “Think!” In spite of all the jokes about this, all
of us would do well to use it as a guide.

There is not sufficient space here to brag adequately about my
family. Suffice it to say that my w ife is a very fine person who ts
active in church and community affairs. Our three children provide
us with continual reasons for a string of mixed emotions, including
anger, frustration, humor and pride.

Our family is up to its ears In Boy Scouting, Thave been active in
Scout leadership in Cubs, Scouts and F xplorers as our bovs went
through each stage for the past nine vears, My wife has heen a den
mother six years and our daughter, aged seven, is the bese girl Cub
Scout in the neighborhood.

[ 321]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

I have taken an active part in the life of our church, serving as
deacon, elder and president of consistory. During part of this time
we have raised funds and built a much-needed educational unit for
the church. I wonder whether this has ever been done without
strongly divided opinions within the congregation and the ensu-
ing headaches.

Although these activities take only a brief space to mention, they
seem to take a lot of time away from my hobbies of woodworking
and beekeeping. Maybe time will permit me to readjust my schedule
and allow for more of the Jess strenuous items in the future.

NEVIN EARLE DANNER

 

HOME aAppREss: 823 E. Chandler Ave., Evansville, Ind.

OFFICE appREss: Evansville Council of Churches, 203 Y.M.C.A. Bldg., Evans-
ville 8, Ind.

BORN: Oct. 2, 1914, Glenville, Pa. parents: William Daniel Danner, Sallie
Baker Miller.

PREPARED AT: Spring Grove High School, Spring Grove, Pa.; York Collegiate
Institute, York, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 1935; B.D. (Theological Seminary
of the Evangelical and Reformed Church).

MarRiED: Marjorie Birdelle Harms, Feb. 18, 1937, Washington, D.C. CHILDREN:
Bryant Craig, Nov. 18, 1937; William Dwight, Aug. 14, 1940; Katharine
Sydney, Jan. 24, 1943; John David, Nov. 5, 1947.

HARVARD sons: Bryant Craig Danner, ’59; William Dwight Danner, ’62.

OCCUPATION: Executive secretary, Evansville Council of Churches.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Indiana Council of Churches, 1951-
60; chairman, Family and Child Care Division, 1952-56, president, 1956-
57, Welfare Council of Vanderburgh County, Indiana, 1952-56; member,
board of managers, Department of Evangelism, National Council of
Churches, 1954-57.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Chicago; American Management Association.

[ 322 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DANIEL ABNER DAVIS

 

HOME appress: 47 E. 87th St., New York 28, N.Y.

OFFICE ADpREss: American Viscose Corp., 350 Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y.

BORN: March 4, 1912, Morristown, N.J. parents: Frank Hamilton Davis, ’o7,
Elizabeth Clark.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-193}.

MarrRigED: Alice E, Ellsworth, 1933, New York, N.Y. (divorced 1944), Catharine
Whitcomb, 1946, New York, N.Y. (divorced 1951); Alida Davis, 1953,
New York, N.Y. cuHitpren: Daniel Abner, Jr., July 31, 1934; Michael
Hamilton, Sept. 1, 1936; David Draper (Jay), Aug. 15, 1944.

occupation: Merchandising and product development.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club,

WHEN I left college I went to work on a ranch in New Smyrna,
Florida. There I coached a boy’s school in crew and was a general
tanch-hand. After one year of this, I came back to New Y ork and
went to work in a subsidiary steamship line of the United Fruit
Company. I was in the general agent's office and we shipped oranges
and grapefruit from Florida to New York. After ten years of this,
I left to go into a training course in the American Viscose Corpora-
tion.

The war broke out when I was thus occupied, and I went into
the Navy Port Director’s office in New York, where we set up
the convoys. I left this work to go aboard a destroyer covering the
Atlantic, Mediterranean and Pacific areas, eventually ending up in
Japan as a first licutenant. At the war's end, I rejoined American
Viscose, where I am now located in the merchandising and product
development department, Our office is in the Empire State Building.

I have three sons by my first marriage, the oldest of whom s
finishing up at Trinity College in Hartford, after doing his stint
in the Navy. The second graduated from Yale and is now in the

( 323]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Navy. The third is still in preparatory school. I have been happily
married to my present wife, Alida, for six years and we live in
New York with a weekend place in Litchfield, Connecticut.

DOMINUS CALDWELL DAVIS

 

HOME appress: 5 Ardmore Ct., Wood Acres, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Vision, Inc., Room 803, National Press Bldg., Washington 4,
D.C,

BORN: Sept. 15, 1909, Pangasinan, Philippine Islands. parents: Ira Lee Davis,
Victorina Gonzalez.

PREPARED AT: Lake Forest Academy, Lake Forest, Ul.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.

marriep: Rosemary Brush, Jan. 19, 1936, Scarborough-on-Hudson, N.Y. cHIL-
prEN: Victoria Louise, March 1, 1948, Douglas Lindsey, Feb. 23, 1951;
Leila Caldwell, Aug. 31, 1952.

occupation: Advertising and public relations.

SOME people may call it wanderlust. I am not sure; but it may be
a search for a way of life. Ever since I left home in Manila in 1929,
I seem to have traveled constantly — sometimes with a firm destina-
tion and purpose, often without destination or timetable.

Late in 1958, after celebrating Christmas on board ship, my wife,
three children and a Pekinese dog came home from the Far East
where we had spent ten eventful years. We came home with good
intentions of settling down. We even thought of buying our first
home. However, although twelve months have gone by, we do
not scem to have made any progress in that direction, Somehow,
we keep putting off last year’s plans to settle down in one commun-
ity. Could this mean that we are ready for another trip? Perhaps
it does, At any rate, we have — wittingly or unwittingly — avoided
doing anything that would prevent us, the entire family, from pack-

[ 324]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing and traveling again on short notice. 1 am presently handling
publicity for the Washington Home Rule Committee, a lobby group
which 1s attempting to restore self-gov ernment to the residents of
Washington, D.C.

I have had so many addresses since I left Harvard, it would be
difficult to list them all now. From Cambridge, I wandered to South
America for a few weeks and then returned to New York City. 1
was writing news programs for a radio station in White Plains, New
York, when the Pearl Harbor report came over the press wires.
There followed fifteen months in the Pentagon in Washington,
more than two years in the Army w ith overseas service in the
Southwest Pacific, Japan and Korea, and back to civies in New
York City which I claim as my legal residence.

New York City, following the w ar, did not seem to hold the
same fascination it did during those first few years after college. I
tried several jobs before deciding on a change of scenery. Early
in 1949, with my wife and one-year-old daughter, I boarded ‘a
freighter in Brooklyn and headed for Manila. The vears that fol-
lowed were crowded with interesting work, with golf, tennis and
swimming, with fascinating trips and with gaiety and sunshine in the
Philippines and Indonesia. Two more children were added to the
family, both born in Manila,

On our way home from Indonesia, where I served a tour of duty
with the United States technical and economic assistance mission,
we took what was meant to be our last fling at global sightseeing.
We spent four delightful weeks in Italv. Now we are “ready to
settle down, we said, as the ship sailed into harbor, past the Statue
of Liberty.

A year has gone by and our housekeeping effects are stall un-
packed and in storage. What has happened to last year’s resolutions
to settle down? They seem to have paled into insignificance as we
wonder when we shall be moving again. Where to? I haven't the
slightest idea but [ can hardly wait to pack scutfed suitcases and
trunks.

Having three children and one Pekingese does not seem to make
travel more difficult than the day we boarded that freighter 1 In 1949
when there were only three of us. In facet, it is much mere fun now
that there are six of us.

When President Lowell greeted the Clas of ?35 in: Memorial
Hall, he said it was not the purpose of Harvard College to train us
ro become lawyers, doctors, brokers, journalists, bankers and so on,

[ 325 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Her primary purpose, he added, was to equip Harvard men with
the ability to get the most out of life wherever they may go and

whatever they may do. I am happy to report that Harvard did
that for me.

THOMAS JEFFERSON DAVIS, JR.

 

HOME AporEss: 812 Irwin Drive, Hillsborough, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 600 California St., San Francisco 8, Calif.

BORN: Oct. 23, 1912, Cincinnati, Ohio. parents: Thomas Jefferson Davis, Jane
Brown.

PREPARED at: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 19353; LL.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Nancy Whitman, June 18, 1935; Hamilton, Mass. (divorced 1954)3
Marian Miller, San Francisco, Calif. cuitprEN: Nancy Wayne, June 8,
1938 (7. Ralph Hudson Plumb, Jr.); Diana Chatfield, April 16, 1940,

Virginia Jane, July 4, 1945; Cynthia Linda, June 5, 1947; Christiana Folger,
Nov. 17, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lawrence Laird Davis, ’38.

OccUPATION: Vice-president, Kern County Land Company.

OFFICE apprEss: Director, Squaw Valley Development Corporation, Squaw
Valley, Calif., director and first president, International Hospitality

Center, San Francisco; trustee, World Affairs Council of Northern Cali-
fornia, San Francisco.

MEMBER OF: University Club of San Francisco; Burlingame Country Club,
Burlingame, Calif.

A QUARTER century since we graduated — this is staggering!
But I still cannot feel the maturity required to pen my Memoirs —

even for a more or less captive readership, The so-called biographi-
cal data run as follows:

After Law School and then law practice in Boston, in the summer
of 1941, I joined the legal staff of what eventually became the War

[ 326 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Production Board. The next moves were to India two summers
later as 2 member of our Lend-Lease Mission, and then into the
Army and O.S.5. the following spring to run guerrilla operations
in Burma and China until war’s end. Final rank, captain; Bronze
Star Medal.

After a year with the National Labor Relations Board in San
Francisco I left the law and joined Kern County Land Company
where I have spent the past twelve years concerned with oil, cattle,
farming and water, and expansion recently into electronics and
automotive parts. That completes the “career history,” except to
say that in 1952 I attended the Advanced Management Course at
the business school of a local university where Harvard is referred
to as the “Stanford of the East’!

On the civic side — the major interest appears to be international
relations, in addition to such matters as Community Chest and fund
drives for Harvard and St. Mark’s School. I have served for several
years as a trustee of World Affairs Council of Northern California,
and as first president and director of the International Hospitality
Center here. The latter is concerned with taking care of student
and adult “non-tourist” visitors from overseas. They come to and
through San Francisco in great numbers under such sponsorship as
Fulbright Fellowships and need assistance of various types and
an Opportunity to see American home life from the inside. In the
fall of 1959 I spent three months in Burma at the invitation of the
Burmese government to consult on business and economic matters.

In the family way the record equals Eddie Cantor's — five
daughters. But a second marriage (to Marian Miller of San Fran-
cisco) brought three stepsons; so the old baseball mitt has come back
out of the storage room.

Hobbies continue unchanged — horses (for riding, not betting);
then golf (a confirmed hook keeps my handicap trom dropping be-
low fourteen for very long); doubles tennis (strong advocate of the
lob); music (eight chords on the ukelele and four on the banjo);
and reading (comic strips to economics).

As to “social, political or religious convictions” —T have no
message for which my classmates should wait breathlessly, My main
impression is that the world really i is not going to pot and that these
days are just as good as “the good old, etc.” when a bortle of beer
cost a nickel.

I do feel strongly that the social, political and economic structure
of the United States provides the greatest opportunities for per

[ 327]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

sonal development and fulfillment ever available to mankind. The
essential ingredient for preserving and enlarging this condition, in
my opinion, is a constantly improving level of education in both
arts and sciences. And [ want, therefore, to do what I can to sup-
por the earnest endeavors at Harvard to provide sound leadership
in this process of improvement.

I also believe some means should be found to enable businessmen
with the education we so fortunately received to serve on a part-
time basis, or from time to time, in the local or national government,
and to participate more fully in political activity. But as I have not
been able to discover a satisfactory solution to these two problems
for myself, I surely cannot offer any suggestions of general applica-
tion.

An integrated philosophy of value judgments on the great issues
of life seems as difficult to formulate with finality as it did upon
first entering the Yard. But I still find pleasure in contemplating
the eternal questions posed in classes and bull sessions there.

And though I can’t imagine where the twenty-five years have
gone, I know it has been a great experience living them. The pages
of the calendar flip over with an annually increasing rate of speed.
About the only consolation in the dizzying acceleration is that be-
fore you can say “Jack Robinson,” or some equally irrelevant phrase
—Tll be enjoying our Reunion.

NORMAN BENJAMIN DAVISON

 

HOME appRress: P.O, Box 2038, Cristobal, Canal Zone,
OFFICE ADDRESS: Panama Canal Co., Commissary Div., Cristobal, Canal Zone.

BORN: July 28, 19:3, Malden, Mass, PARENTS: Joseph Smith Davison, Ruth
Saltzman, .

[ 328 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: $.B., magna cum laude, 1935.

MARRIED: R. Alvera Lord, June 20, 1936, Falls City, Nebr. cHipren: Barry
Lord, Nov. 7, 1939; Marvel Joyce, Dec. 3, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Supervisory accountant.

NO questionnaire returned.

JACOB WHITE DAVISSON

 

HOME apprEss: Bishop Bay Drive, Niantic, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Y% Charles Pfizer & Co., Inc., Groton, Conn.

BORN: Feb. 20, 1913, Chicago, Ill. parents: Edwin Guy Davisson, Effie Aileen
White.

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., ¢10 laude, 1935.

MARRIED: Marion Aletta Harris, June 27, 1942, Brooklyn, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Edwin Guy, June 21, 1944; Robert Bruce, June 22, 1947; Peter Dwight,
Oct. 4, 1948.

OccUPATION: Research microbiology.

OFFICES HELD: Various offices in Scouting, PTA and medical fund drives.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Scientific publications and patents in the fields of antibiotics
and steroids.

AFTER college I spent two and a half years in Chicago as a food
chemist in the confectionery business. An abortive essay into sales
finally led, through Professor Jones, to a job in the Garrett wineries
and a profession in microbiology. Four years there gave me a taste
for good sherry, an abiding fondness for New York and a good-
looking wife whose patience is yet not quite exhausted. A war-
time job in mold enzymes in Detroit lasted a year and then back
to Brooklyn and my present job with Pfizer. Thirteen vears in

[ 329 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Brooklyn were suddenly broken by an assignment to fermentation
research at Groton, Connecticut, where this story ends.

We both firmly hope that the next time one of these is written
there will be no changes except the passing years.

LAURENS DAVIS DAWES

 

HOME ADDRESS: 6236 Knoll Drive, Minneapolis, Minn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Munsingwear, Inc., 718 Glenwood Ave., Minneapolis 5, Minn.

BoRN: Oct. 21, 1913, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Chester Laurens Dawes, Anna
Davis.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H. ,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; M.B.A., 1937.

marriep: Ruth Johnston, Dec. 4, 1937, Yardley, Pa. cutLpren: Laurens Davis,
Jr., Aug. 16, 1941; Robert C., Sept. 6, 1946; Steven J., Dec. 4, 1947.

OccUPATION: Executive vice-president, Munsingwear, Inc., manufacturers of
men’s, women’s, boys’ and girls’ underwear, sleepwear, sportswear and

hosiery.

OFFICES HELD: President, Controllers Institute of America, 1949-503 director-
board of governors, Interlachen Country Club, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club of Minneapolis; Controller’s Institute of America;
Minneapolis Athletic Club; Interlachen Country Club.

UPON my graduation from Harvard Business School I took a job
in the accounting department of Marshall Field & Company in Chi-
cago. After nine months I accepted a job at Munsingwear, Inc., as
an accountant. Since 1938 I have been continuously employed in
this company except for a lengthy interval provided by World
War Il. I was called into the service in April, 1941, and was as-
signed to combat transports. I had received my commission as a
naval reserve officer at Harvard College. During the war I partici-
pated in eight very active invasions including such interesting little
scuffles as Attu, Tarawa, Kwajalein, New Guinea, Guam, Iwo Jima

[ 330 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and Okinawa. During the course of these operations I picked us
the Silver Star medal for gallantry in action.

Upon my return from the service I again took up my work a
Munsingwear and have thoroughly enjoyed my work and the prog
ress which the company has shown. I do considerable traveling ir
the course of business as we have eighteen factories and country.
wide distribution.

At present my wife and family are very comfortably situated ir
a very nice house in the suburbs of Minneapolis. I have taken ur
such hobbies as golf, fishing, hunting and gardening with particular
emphasis on roses. I still maintain rather conservative traits as 2
result of my New England ancestry and business connections, I
was very pleased to take a small part in the recent fund drive for
Harvard. We have an active Harvard Club as well as a Harvard
Business School organization in Minneapolis. I look forward with

great interest to our Twenty-fifth.

WILLIAM DYER DEARSTYNE

 

HOME apprEss: 307 S. Manning Blvd., Albany, N.Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Albany Hardware & Iron Co., Albany, N.Y.

BORN: July 30, 1912, Albany, N.Y. parents: William Chester Dearstyne, Mil-
dred Bell,

PREPARED AT: Albany Academy, Albany, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931~1932.

MarrigD: Jane Beilby, Sept. 12, 1936, Albany, N.Y. citoren: Willam Dver,
Jr., Aug. 14, 1940; Jane Beilby, Nov. 15, 1944; John Bell, Jan. as, aggr.

OCCUPATION: President and sales manager, Albany Hardware & Iron Company,

wholesale distributors of hardware, housewares, apphances, sporting goods,
etc.

[331]

Lo

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

OFFICES HELD: Director, National Wholesale Hardware Association, Albany
Hospital for Incurables; trustee, Mechanics & Farmers Savings Bank of
Albany.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Albany; Rotary Club of Albany.

LEWIS AMORY DEBLOIS, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 25 W. Elm St, Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Seabury Press, 1 Fawcett Pl., Greenwich, Conn.

BORN: Nov. 11, 1911, Wilmington, Del. parents: Lewis Amory DeBlois, ’99,
Jeannette Howard Weldin.

PREPARED AT: Storm King School, Cornwall-on-Hudson, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1935.

MarrieD: Florence Agnes Girouard, Oct. 27, 1941, Montreal, P.Q., Canada.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Seabury Press, religious publishing house.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Protestant Church-Owned Publishers’ Association,
1957-60; vice-president, Greenwich Choral Society, 1958-60.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Accountants; Association of Harvard
Chemists; Greenwich Choral Society; Church Club of New York; Harvard
Clubs of Chicago (1949-52), Newark (1954-56) and New York (1957-60).

HOW odd perhaps that with renewal each winter of my member-
ship in the Association of Harvard Chemists must occasionally go
an apology for having strayed so remotely from an active career
in industrial chemistry as to have become financial vice-president of
a religious publishing house! Somehow or other the transition be-
gan back in the depression when a neophyte like myself with only
an A.B, to his name (even the Ph.D.’s were having trouble) was
fortunate in that summer of 1935 to find any job, and I became a
spinning doffer in a textile plant. Later there followed a year of
bona fide chemistry. Then came the day when the need for chemi-
cal cost control forced the duPont Company to decide they could
“teach accounting to a chemist faster than chemistry to an account-

[ 332 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
ant,” and thus was launched my schizophrenic career of trouble-

shooting i in divided fields.

The orderliness and clear thinking of scientific training stood me
in good stead, aided and abetted, of course, by additional study in
the adopted field of accounting. As one trouble-shooting job pro-
gressed to another, I drifted farther away from the test tube and
ever deeper into the realms of debits and credits, inventory turn-
overs and financial controls, always managing to land with installa-
tions or projects that were newly-formed and hence having many
an operational and fiscal problem. The result: a modest accumula-

tion of know-how in getting business off to good financial starts.
Remember that recession of the fall of 19377 The duPont Com-
pany’s twenty-four-hour-a-day process made rayon until the last
square foot of storage space — even in cafeteria and power house —
was gone; then the heavy denier plant was shut down and yours
truly was laid off. My checkered trail leads from rayon in Rich-
mond, Virginia, to socks and swim suits in Bennington, Vermont.
After the socks and swim suits went into an unexpected 77-B reor-
ganization (one can learn more from a company on the verge of
bankruptcy than from a blue chip corporation sailing only a placid
sea!), there next came electric subsidiaries to be audited in New
York State, from Albany to Buffalo, Malone to Saratoga
Niagara Hudson Power Corporation will always hold the warm-

est spot in my heart because it was through my association with
them that I came to meet my wife. They had put me in charge of
the first audit of a Canadian subsidiary in Cornwall, Ontario, and a
Saturday date in June led to a whirlwind courtship with a lovely
Montreal girl and marriage in late October just before Pearl Harbor.
We still laugh about my having “married in my late twenties” — ac-
tually it was three weeks before my thirtieth birthd ay. So the trail
leads on now from electric companies (I had been hired to use mv
chemical background in auditing their affiliated gas plants with coke
by-products, but it never worked out that way) to being drafted into

the Army in the spring of 1943. While waiting to be assigned to
Officers Candidate School, I spent nine months guarding Nazi
prisoners-of-war (also intelligence work) in Rockford, IHlinois. A

vivid incident of that period was giving emergency first aid to a

Nisei, who had his foot taken off by a tractor-combine on a potato

- farm where we were working the Afrika Cor
One day I was ordered to New York City in full field pack with
a mysterious telephone number to contact. As it turned out, a mem-

{ 333]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ber of the Counter Intelligence Corps knew of my split-background
in chemistry and accounting, and therewith I disappeared into the
Manhattan Project to help design a system of keeping track of the
uranium that got processed eventually into the three atomic bombs
for Alamogordo, Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Our little accountabil-
ity project is sometimes jokingly referred to, but not by historians,
as the Battle of Fifth Avenue. From A-bombs the trail leads back
to accounting again, this time in New York City for General Foods

roducts, later to a controllership of their dog food division in
Kankakee, Illinois. Debby and I made a lot of friends in Hlinois,
got into a lot of activities—far too many it seems to us now in
retrospect. One such short-lived activity cropped out of a cock-
tail party, at which the loss of the timpanist to the local symphony
orchestra was so tellingly bewailed that I succumbed to learning

the timpani in three months to help save the Christmas concert (fel-

low-clarinetists of the Harvard Band, please forgive this act of de-

fection). A lasting interest was the brotherhood movement which

grew out of our being asked to help in a civic group concerned

with racial and religious tensions. Our own mixed marriage (Catho-

lic-Protestant) was felt to offer some small experience in religious

tolerance.

Being easterners at heart and with both our families on the east
coast, after three years we moved back to the metropolitan New
York area which is how I traverse from dog food in Illinois to plas-
tics in nearby New Jersey. We enjoyed our life in Montclair and
all would have been well, if Curtiss-Wright Corporation had not
decided after a few years to relocate its recently acquired plastics
division near a new jet-engine testing site in the middle of the
State game preserves of West Central Pennsylvania. It is not hard
to guess that Debby and I decided against making such a move.

In our happy years of marriage there was the sorrow of not be-
ing blessed with children of our own and of not being able to adopt
children because of our mixed marriage. We had long been con-
templating ways of making a fuller contribution, and the more we
pondered, the more we became convinced of our need to do some-
thing worthwhile. After much consideration came our plan for
me to enter the Episcopal ministry. Although we felt that perhaps
the contribution would be primarily mine as an Episcopalian, Debby
felt that she would be participating, not only in the role of wife but
also through the knowledge that I would be following a career which
would give us a feeling of a greater mutual usefulness, As it turned out

[ 334]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

we were unable to do so because of our mixed marriage, but things
worked out well in the long run, for I was fortunate in obtaining
the job of financial vice-president of the Episcopal Church’s re-
cently formed publishing house. We now live quietly and contentedly
in Greenwich, where part of Debby’s days are filled with lending
a cheery smile plus competent assistance to the Radiology Depart-
ment at the Greenwich Hospital, and her husband’s days are taken
up with trying to keep Seabury Press on a sound financial footing.
We continue with our respective church activities (I teach a class
of fourteen-year-olds each Sunday) and we still lend a hand with
the Community Chest, the Health Association and other local charit-
able organizations.

Somehow each passing year sees us shooting a little less golf and
playing less bridge, but continuing to get in a lot of swimming in
the summertime. I derive much enjoyment from singing in the bass
section of our Greenwich Choral Society. A Christmas concert
followed by one at Eastertime is all that we amateurs undertake.
Many townspeople join in this simple pleasure of singing good music
together, supported enthusiastically for the past thirty- “five years by
our non-singing neighbors and fellow-townsmen. Debby and I look
forward to an ever fuller enjoyment of our life here, “hoping that
we shall be granted additional years with each of our parents and
trusting that what we are trying to do will be of some modest bene-
fit in a minor way.

Whatever one may say, we ourselves feel that our first eighteen
years of marriage could never have been called dull!

JOHN MIGUEL ve BRAGANCA

 

HOME abDpREsS: 135 E. 54th St., New York 22, N.Y,

[ 335]

el

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

OFFICE ADDRESS: Winslow, Cohu & Stetson, 26 Broadway, New York, N.Y,

BORN: Sept. 7, 1912, Sussex, England. parents: Miguel de Braganga, Anita
Stewart.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935.

mMarRiED: Winifred Seyburn, May, 1948, New York, N.Y. (divorced 1955).
cuitp: Miguel William, Sept. 25, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Miguel de Braganga, °37.

occuPATION: Investment banking; vice-president, Winslow, Cohu & Stetson,

MEMBER OF: Brook Club; Racquet and Tennis Club; Piping Rock Club; New-
port Country Club; The Recess.

LAURENCE JOSEPH DELANEY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 159 Howard St., Reading, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: J. VW. Daly, Inc., 672 Washington St. Lynn, Mass.

BORN: Oct, 22, 1910, Lawrence, Mass. PARENTS: Denis Joseph Delaney, Margaret
Mary Molloy.

PREPARED aT: Johnson High School, North Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932—193§. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Ruth Natalie Whitney, June 2, 1940, North Andover, Mass. CHILDREN:
Marilyn, July 10, 19423 Eleanor, July 20, 1946; Margaret, Jan. 6, 1951.

occupation: Sales and purchasing, wholesale drugs.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Deanery Council of Catholic Men, 1954-56, Men’s
Guild of Nazareth Academy; president, Holy Name Society, Reading,
Mass., 1954; company representative, National Wholesale Druggists Asso-
ciation, 1957-60; correspondent, “Wholesale Drug Salesman,” 1957-60;
vice-president, Traveling Men’s Auxiliary, Massachusetts Pharmaceutical
Association, 1959-60, North Shore Chapter, Dale Carnegie Alumni, 1959-60.

SHORTLY after graduation, I was accepted as a sales trainee with
the Beech-Nut Packing Company and, after getting some selling
experience in rural and urban areas, the company found it neces-
sary to abandon its embryo sales managers because of wartime
shortages. The armed services found that they could get along

[ 336 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

without my help and so, in 1941, 1 became a part of the Training
Within Industry program of the War Manpower Commission. In
1944, 1 accepted the position of division manager for the New Eng-
land area for Luden’s, Inc., and served in that capacity until | gr
tired of “life away from home.” In 1947 I became associated with
the J. W. Daly company at Lynn, Massachusetts, and am still enjoy-
ing my job there.

Over the years, whatever free time I have had has been spent in
the pleasure of raising three daughters. With them, their mother and
I have explored the historic and beauty Spots of the eastern states,
At home, the years seem to have passed i in repairing doll furniture
and sports equipment, helping with school lessons and the normal
chores of a surburban resident. Very little time was left to improve
my golf.

Marilyn, my oldest daughter, will enter college this year. Elea-
nor is about to enter high “school and Margaret is ready for fourth
grade. Their questions have made it necessary for me to refer, on
occasion, to some of my old textbooks. Their interests are varied
and result in some difficult transportation problems for the driver of
the family car.

All in all—the years have been good. A devoted wife, loving
children, a stimulating job — I'm happy.

ALFRED C. DENIG

 

ApprEss: Schloss Schreez, Bayreuth, West Germany.

BORN: May 3, 1913, New York, N.Y. PARENTS: Rudolph C. Demy, Baroans
Lily von Siefried.

PREPARED AT: Kirmayer School, New York, N.Y,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES? SB. Mange ctor bande, iyis, aw, Wk

NO questionnaire returned.

( 337]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

JOSEPH DEPOPOLO

 

apprEss: 24 N. Elm St., Westfield, Mass.

BORN: June 28, 1911, Westfield, Mass. parents: Rocco Depopolo, Catherina
De La Fera.

PREPARED AT: Dean Academy, Franklin, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

NO questionnaire returned.

HOWARD SICKEL DERRICKSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 6312 Pershing Ave., University City 30, Mo.

OFFICE ApprEss: St. Louis Country Day School, 425 N. Warson Rd., Ladue 24,
Mo.

BORN: Sept. 9, 1913, Philadelphia, Pa, parents: John Henry Derrickson, Caro-
lyn Sickel.

PREPARED AT: Church Farm School, Glen Loch, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., Cum laude, 1935; A.M. (Washington
Univ., St. Louis), 1942.

MARRIED: Helen Clara Welcker, June 19, 1937, Springfield, Mass. (divorced
1945); Winifred Cox, July 5, 1945, Miami, Fla. cu1tpren: William DeWitt,

[ 338 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

July 7, 1942; James Foster, April 27, 1944; Fred Cox, July 19, 1947, Ann
Lenore, Sept. 28, 1950.

occupation: Teacher of high school and junior high English, director of public
relations, St. Louis Country Day School; editor, St. Lonis Country Day
Magazine, free-lance writer.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, ClO-Political Action Committee, American News-
paper Guild Unit No. 47, St. Louis, 1946-47; secretary, 1937, president,
1938-42, Cre-Art Writers Club, St. Louis; vestryman, Sunday School
teacher, choir member, dramatic coach, St. Paul’s Episcopal Church, Over-
land, Mo., 1940-42; naval air combat intelligence officer, U.S. Navy, 1943-
45.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of St. Louis; St. Louis Chapter, National Council of
Teachers of English; Faculty Club of Washington University (member
executive committee, 1956-59); College Art Association of North America
(winner of national citation for work in art criticism for St. Louis Post-
Dispatch, 1955).

PuBLIcATIONS: What Does Washington University Stand For? A Historical
Interpretation of the Goals and Achievements of Washington University
(1853-1958), Newcomen Society in North America, with Ethan A. H.
Shepley; The Chancellors Message, Washington University, with Ethan
A. H. Shepley, 1956-59; three contributions to national and other maga-
zines, with Vice-Chancellor E. H. Hopkins, Washington University, 1956-
59; two pamphlets on how to approach foundations, with Eleanor Berg-
feld, Washington University; sole author, contributor to School and
Society, Art News, Arts, Christian Science Monitor, London Evening
Standard, Buffalo Evening News, etc.; contributor to paid-for contributions
of verse to Cadence, Street and Smith publications, Hardboiled; contribu-
tor of more than 1000 reviews of books, art shows, dramatic and musical
performances to St. Louis Post-Dispatch, 1942-56.

TWENTY-FOUR years and forty pounds ago I was coaching var-
sity soccer and track and teaching senior English at an eastern pre-
paratory school. Today I coach “BB” (junior high) soccer and track
and teach mostly junior high English at a leading midwestern coun-
try day school. This is progress?

Among the teacher’s rewards personal progress is scarcely to be
expected. Fairly certain, too, is his lack of advancement in salary
scale. His pay seems destined to remain at the subsistence level
despite a current rash of pious platicudes to the contrary. In the
demands it makes upon him his occupation is second only to parent-
hood. And yet in my experience teaching offers intangible forms
of recompense that transcend those of rival vocations, including the
troubled role of the educational fund-raiser, The greatest personal
riches in my life at present, after a disconcerting three-vear skir-
mish with the mercenary soldiers now w aging the battle for f unas for
private universities, is my constant and loving association with mv

[ 339]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

wife, who is the librarian at the school where I teach, and with our
son and daughter. Both are creative and happy children who stand
at or near the top of their classes in independent schools with chal-
lenging curricula.

In my twenty-four post-Harvard years I have had but four em-
ployers. My current occupational experience is that of the pedagogi-
cal re-tread. Not only have I returned to prep-school teaching after
a seventeen-year absence but I have come back to the very same lo-
cally celebrated institution with whose alumni, my former students,
I have never really lost contact since coming to St. Louis to teach
and coach at Country Day School from 1937 to 1942. As a Post-
Dispatch reporter for almost all of the interval since 1942, I have
covered civic, educational, political and cultural news dominated
by members of Country Day families. Probably these families can
be conservatively said to exert a more pervasive influence on St.
Louis affairs than does any other group of comparable size.

Now I teach my former students’ sons. At any moment during
the day I may be carried back twenty years by real or imagined
family resemblances in a student’s alert or telling question, in a center
forward’s clever dribbling and his whistling shot for the goal, in a
hurdler’s smart chop as he drives for the tape.

Mine are the mildly sentimental joys on which James Hilton com-
mercialized, the same solid pleasures Jane Austen must have known.
These satisfactions make up the humanizing experience of beginning
to understand oneself and others through knowing a few of them
well over a long enough period of time. Thoreau speaks truth when
he declares it is not worth the while to go around the world to count
the cats in Zanzibar.

At Harvard I knew and studied under justly famous figures —
Whitehead in philosophy, Oldenberg in modern physics, Graustein
in mathematics and, in English, Kittredge, Lowes, Matthiessen, T. S.
Fliot and Theodore Spencer. But to my adviser and freshman
English instructor, William H. Cary, I am most deeply grateful. His
conscientious example sustains me now in my day-to-day routine. A
kindly, moral, hard-working instructor, he more than anyone else
taught me to read and think and write. He straightened me out
when I underestimated Thoreau through paying more attention to
carping critic than to Thoreau himself. The summer following my
freshman year, after Bill Cary persuaded me to concentrate in Eng-
lish, I lived in the Carys’ empty Cambridge house while doing odd

[ 340 ]

29TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

jobs that were hard to find. I then read through much of the Carns
library. Those were my life’s most formative months.

They provided me with my Master's thesis subject — that writer.
teacher, reporter and compulsive reader Lafcadio Hearn — and
strengthened my enduring interest in reading, writing and teaching.
Once I shared the lust for travel that Hearn gratified; I still should
like, if it were possible, to sojourn in the South Seas, Japan, Tim-
buktu or Zanzibar. And I truly envy those of my classmates whose
biographies can provide firsthand reports of such romantic places.

ANTHONY RICHARD DrSIMONE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 413 Otisco Drive, Westfield, N.J.
OFFICE appREsS: Merck & Co., Inc., Rahway, N_J.

BORN: Sept. 8, 1914, Boston, Mass. parents: Alessandro Michael DeSimone,
Anna Marie Bruno.

PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B, 1935; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1938

MARRIED: Josephine Edith Bonacorso, Jan. 20, 1946, Somerville, Mass. CHILDREN:
Paul Anthony, March 8, 1948 (died Jan. 20, 1953); David Michael, March
27, 1950; Joanne, April 29, 1954; Ellen Marie, Jan. 1, 1956.

occuPATION: Lawyer; trademark counsel, Merck & Company, Inc. pharma-
ceutical and chemical manufacturers,

MEMBER oF: American Bar Association; U.S. Trademark Association, Assocm-
tion for the Protection of Industrial Property.

WHILE I'm sure that an account of my activities since leaving the
Yard is hardly worthy of recordation for posterity, TE can no longer
resist the exhortations of our hard-w orking report committee.

My first recollection is of the three years at law school, all of chem
stimulating and enjoyable, and then the lean vears of private prac-
tice — not so stimulating and enjoyable, but of interest nevertheles.

[ 341 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

These were interrupted by my thirty-eight months of service with
the Army Air Force during the war which afforded me my first
view of people and places far beyond the environs of Boston. Al-
though the war failed dismally to solve any of the world’s prob-
lems, it was a momentous experience for me as for so many others.

Upon my return home I married my very lovely wife — the most
significant and happiest event in my life. With my new responsi-
bilities ] accepted a position in Philadelphia with Sharp & Dohme,
pharmaceutical manufacturers, Several pleasant years were spent
in Philadelphia before I became a casualty of the business monster
known as “the merger,” in this case a union with Merck & Company,
Inc., of Rahway, New Jersey. This resulted in my transfer to the
metropolitan New York area, We settled in the town of Westfield
where we are at present.

I feel most fortunate to have a happy marriage and three lovely
children. I enjoy most spending my leisure time with them and with
my charming wife. We still love to vacation in Maine in the sum-
mer and, of course, visit our families and friends in Boston as often
as time and opportunity will permit.

MAKONNEN DESTA

 

appress: Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.

BORN: May 16, 1912, Addis Ababa, Abyssinia. parents: Bahtawi Desta Teddla,
Waizero Tobiaw Lautche Dagitou.

PREPARED AT: Jafferi Makonnen School, Abyssinia.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.

oocuPaTION: Ethiopian government service.

NO questionnaire returned.

[ 342 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

NIXON pe TARNOWSKY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 225 Sprain Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y.

OFFICE appRess: F, & M. Schaefer Brewing Co., 430 Kent Ave. Brooklyn 11,
N.Y.

~ BORN: Oct. 29, 1913, Chicago, Ill. parents: George de Tarnowsky, Bertha
Duffield Nixon.

PREPARED AT: Francis W. Parker School, Chicago, IIL.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935.

MaRRIED: Althea Jean Murphy, June 19, 1930, Winnetka, Ill. (died Oct. 27,
1952); Jean Murwell Moore, Nov. 5, 1955, Pelham, N.Y. cuttpren: Althea
Oakley, Dec. 14, 1943; Kristin Carroll, Nov. 26, 1946; Nixon Alexander,
Sept. 21, 1956; Anne Travis, July 22, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alexis de Jarnowsky, ’26

occupaTion: Labor relations, industrial accident prevention; safety director,
1946-59, assistant to Jabor relations manager, since 1959, F. & M. Schaefer
Brewing Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Brooklyn Tuberculosis and Health Association, 1950-
58; chairman, Metropolitan Chapter, American Society of Safety Engineers,
1954-55; general chairman, Food and Beverage Section, National Safety
Council, 1955-56; vestryman, St. Barnabas Episcopal Church, since 1957;
director, Ardsley’ (New York) Swimming Club, since 1gs9; chairman,
Safety Advisory Committee, U.S. Brewers Foundation, 1959.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Safety Engineers; Industrial Relations Re-
search Association; Safety Executives Club; Veterans of Safety; Lake Beu-
lah (Wisconsin) Yacht Club; Anchor and Saber Club of New York;
Ardsley Swimming Club.

SINCE reporting for the Twentieth Anniversary Report, [I have
married again (my first wife died in 1952) and have two small chil-
dren, aged three and one, as a dividend. Jean and I are fortunate to
have “built-in” baby-sitters in our two older girls, now sixteen and
thirteen respectively, who are a tremendous help.

My job has been made even more interesting by a transfer from
accident prevention to labor relations. I am now up To my ean in

[ 343 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

grievance handling, contract negotiation, and general peace-making
in a highly unionized industry. I often feel like a fireman fighting a
grass fire on a day when the wind keeps shifting, but I love it.

At home, we are in the thick of the usual suburban whirl which,
contrary to some, we find exciting and interesting. I sing every Sun-
day in the choir at St. Barnabas, a brand-new Episcopal parish in
Ardsley, a fast-growing suburb of New York City. I am also a
vestryman, which in our case means I mow the lawn, plant shrubs,
paint, change light bulbs and generally make myself useful around the
church on my spare Saturdays, My love for singing hasn’t faltered
since my Harvard Glee Club days with “Doc” Davison and
“Woodie” Woodworth, and I get genuine pleasure from my choir
work, occasionally doing a tenor solo in an anthem.

Jean and I enjoy our bridge group evenings, occasional theatre-
going and dancing. We are active in P.T.A., our local Swimming
Club, church Supper Club and such, but find them fun rather than
banal, In other words, we live a happy life in the country with
plenty of activities to keep us busy. We live in a century-old farm-
house that we have modernized over the years and still call unfin-
ished. While the grounds now amount to a mere acre-and-a-half, I
find plenty of trees to prune, firewood to saw up, and garden to care
for. A few chickens and a collie dog complete our ménage. All in
all, I have a great deal to be thankful for.

PETER DI NATALE

 

HOME apprEss: 28 Cheryl Drive, Milton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 556 Broadway, South Boston, Mass.

BORN: May 26, 1912, Boston, Mass. Parents: Carmelo Di Natale, Santina
Terranova. .

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

[ 344 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1935; Mv. (Tufts Coll),
1939.

MARR Barbara Sisk. cHiLpren: Ann, 1942; Barbara, 1950; Paul, 1951; Peter,
Jr., 1956.

OccUPATION: Physician, private practice.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in medicine, Tufts Medical School, 1941-48, junior

physician, Carney Hospital, 1945-48; visiting senior physician, Harley

Hospital, 1948-59; trustee, Boston State Hospital, 1957-64; internist, Metro-

politan Life Insurance Company, since 1958; president, South Boston

Medical Society, 1957, 1958, 1959.

MEMBER OF: South Boston Medical Society; American Medical Association.

puBLications: “Mental Institutions in Italy,” 1959; “Drugs in the Treatment of
Bronchial Asthma,” 1955.

FOLLOWING my graduation from Harvard in 1935, I was offered
a two-year fellowship in the Department of Romance Languages at
Columbia University, which I refused in order to study medicine.
At that time I resented very much the attitude of the assistant dean
of Harvard Medical School who was in charge of admissions. Al-
though I was an honor student, I was told that “boys of Italian de-
scent usually do not make good physicians.” Contrary to this belief
many of the most qualified and prominent physicians in this country
today are of Italian extraction.

I entered Tufts Medical School in 1935 and graduated in 1939.
I had my internship and residency in internal medicine at the Car-
ney Hospital, served as medical officer in the U. S. Army Medical
Corps during World War II, spending some time with the 4:d
General Hospital in the South Pacific, and in 1945 I opened an office
for the practice of internal medicine in South Boston. From 1945
to 1949, I was visiting physician to the Carney Hospital, chief of the
allergy clinic and instructor in medicine at Tufts Medical School.
In 1949 I joined the medical staff of the Harley Hospital and am still
an active member of this hospital. I have done considerable life in-
surance examinations for various insurance companies, and at the
present time am an internist for the Metropolitan Life Insurance
Company.

My interest in the field of mental health is great. In 1957 1 was
appointed trustee of the Boston State Hospital, the largest mental
institution in the State of Massachusetts, for a period of seven years
by Governor Foster Furcolo, This year I visited and made a study
of mental hospitals in Italy.

I have no children old enough to be in college. My nephew, son
of the Commissioner of Public Works of the Stare of Massachusetts.

[ 345]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Anthony N. Di Natale, Jr., is a senior at Harvard and will be gradu-
ating in June, 1960. My eldest daughter Ann will enter either Rad-

cliffe or Jackson in the fall of 1960. Iam hoping that my two boys
will some day enter Harvard.

JOHN ROBERT DIVENS

 

HOME avprEss: 1678 Bahia Vista, Sarasota, Fla.

BORN: Sept. 10, 1913, McKeesport, Pa. parents: John Roscoe Divens, Ora Mae
Johnson,

PREPARED AT: Peabody High School and University School, Pittsburgh, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; Certificat Normal

(Sorbonne), 1937; a.M. (Univ. of Pittsburgh), 1938.
UN MARRIED.

OFFICES HELD: President, Brentwood Teachers’ Association, 1940; treasurer,

Classical Association of Pittsburgh, 1941; charter member, International
Order of Bar-flies, Trap No. 3, Miami, 1956.

MEMBER OF; Ivy League Club, Sarasota, Fla.; formerly, University and Harvard
Clubs of Pittsburgh.

AFTER twenty-five years, the cycle has been completed — from
unemployment to unemployment. First, there was a stint at the
University of Pittsburgh to acquire the necessary credits in “educa-
tion” (horrible!) for a teacher’s certificate, and also to do a little
constructive work toward a Master’s degree in Latin, which I finally
received in 1938. Meanwhile, a trip through western Europe, and
some fascinating courses at the University of Paris, which tied to-
gether the two facets — French and Latin — of my field of concen-
tration, literature. Then back to my six-a-day, plus sponsorship of
four major extra-curricular activities, as head of the Latin and French:
departments at Brentwood High School in Pittsburgh. How gullible
we can be in our youth! After seven years of Caesar, Cicero and

[ 346 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Virgil, Daudet and de Maupassant, and assorted juvenile delinquents,
I deserted the ivied halls for the quietude of the steel industry.

My initial assignment at National Tube Company, Pittsburgh,
was job evaluation, followed by a promotion to assistant salary ad-
ministrator. In the latter capacity I wrote cases for submittal to the
Salary Stabilization Unit in Washington to obtain approval for salary
increases for executives. I am proud that, as far as I know, I was
the only one in U. S. Steel Corporation who won every case.

When the War Labor Board decreed that the steel companies
and the United Steel Workers jointly were to develop wage and
salary classification procedures leading to the establishment of equi-
table pay scales, I was appointed as National Tube’s representative to
an industry-wide study. Under the guidance of the American As-
sociated Consultants, representatives of all the major steel companies
spent the next three years in the “den of inequity.” There we de-
vised, and negotiated with the union, classifications for the union-
eligible salaried occupations in the plants. As staff industrial engineer,
I trained plant industrial engineers in the techniques and acted as
troubleshooter with representatives of the international union to
negotiate disputed classifications. Next, I supervised installation of
the plan for non-eligible employees in the general office and in the
sales offices. In these plants, my vocabulary of four-letter words
expanded more than it had during the many years of my study of
Latin (even Petronius).

After the death of my parents, with no responsibilities of my own,
I began to feel the itch of the Florida sand which was already in
my shoes. In 1953, I resigned from National Tube and spent most of
two years traveling over the United States and Mexico. My conclu-
sion was that I wanted to live in Sarasota, Florida. Being settled in a
fixed location began to pall, and so I took a fling at selling stocks
and bonds, with the magnificent title of account executive. with
Adams, Sloan & Company. But the sun and the surf and the lethargy
of the semi-tropics took their toll, and now I am a-sittin’, a-rockin’,
a-sunnin’ and a-swimmin’. I spend much time reading, engaging in
amateur theatricals and playing duplicate bridge. As of the moment,
I am serving on the Circuit Court jury. All of vesterday, I struggled
deciding whether four men should be subjected to two-to-tive vears
of hard labor for allegedly having stolen a seven-dollar pig. (nci-

dentally, we voted unanimously for acquittal.) Having engaged in
three diverse fields, I am beginning to want the stimulation of some-
thing new. I am looking to the future.

[ 347]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

JAMES HENRY DIXON

 

HOME apprEss: 161 Woodland Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 73 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.
BORN: Jan. 26, 1914, Boston, Mass. Parents: Henry James Dixon, Laura A.

Chase.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; LL.B. (Boston Coll.).
MARRIED: Joan R. Roche, Oct. 28, 1948, Chestnut Hill, Mass. cHttpren: Theo-
dore, Dec. 18, 1949; Peter, Dec. 12, 1952; James Henry, Jr., May 15, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.
MEMBER OF: Kittansett Golf Club; Beverly Yacht Club, Boston Skating Club;

Weston Golf Club.
FROM 1940 to 1945, I served with the 2d Armored Division in the

European Theatre. Since 1946, I have been practising law in Bos-
ton and environs, specializing in real estate investment, conveyanc-

ing and probate law.

DANIEL BERNARD DOHERTY, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2425 Amesbury Rd., Akron, Ohio.

[ 348 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE apprEss: Godfrey L. Cabot, Inc., 518 Ohio Bldg., Akron 8, Ohio.

BORN: July 14, 1914, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Daniel Bernard Doheny,
Anna L. Sullivan.

PREPARED aT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MARRIED: A. Janice Zimmerer, Feb. 5, 1951, New York, N.Y. Gaitpee~: Mary
Janice, Nov. 28, 1951; Daniel Bernard, May 28, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Humphrey Doherty, ’27; s.M., ‘28.

OccUPATION: Midwestern Regional Sales Manager, Godfrey L. Cabot, Inc,
chemical manufacturers.

OFFICES HELD: Director, secretary, University Club of Akron, 1951-53, secre-
tary, Harvard Club of Akron, 1952.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Engineering Society; Harvard Club of New York,
Buffalo, Chicago, Akron and Fort Wayne Rubber Groups, American

Chemical Society; Fairlawn Country Club; Congress Lake Country Club,
Akron University Club.

TWELVE years in the laboratory (Cabot and the U.S. Navy) and
thirteen years in chemical sales (Cabot) would be a fairly accurate
summation of my business activities since college. My present re-
sponsibilities extend from Buffalo to Dallas, but my worries are
minimized by some excellent people installed in various cities along
the way. This also cuts down on the amount of geography | have
to cover, and with half a million air miles behind me, home looks
pretty good.

During a previous seven-year stint in Akron, I married the fair
Janice Zimmerer and acquired two additional exemptions, Mary
and Danny, now eight. and six and a half years old. There follow ed
a five-year duty in New York, with residence in Connecticut, a
combination which we found most delightful and upon which we
shall always look back with considerable nostalyia,

Back in Akron again, our activities revolve pretty much around
the clubs, and vacations play an increasingly mmportant part in our
pursuit of happiness. In recent vears, we have managed to spend
the Christmas holidays 1 in Arizona, a summer vacation on Cape C od,
and a long weekend in Florida or Vi irginia in the between seasons,
My golf game leaves a lot to be desired, and I still plough along
the swimming pool in the same smooth stvle that kept me otf the
Varsity in 1935. We dabble in most of the customary hobbiey
such as some moderately hi-fi, and some shaky home movies which
no one but us has to watch. On the dance floor, we still swing a
mean fox-trot, even when the band is plaving a cha-cha-cha. Burt
there is neither time nor energy for many of thee things during

[ 349 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

a week of pushing the company’s products, and a weekend of try-

ing to make normal, law-abiding citizens out of the two youngsters.
Currently, I am looking forward to two homecomings: thirteen
weeks at the Harvard Business School Advanced Management Pro-

oram ending in May, and, of course, the Great Reunion in June.
See you there.

+« BROOKE DOLAN, II

 

BoRN: Oct. 12, 1908, Torresdale, Pa. parents: Thomas Jefferson Dolan, Ysabel
Whelen Hoffman.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Princeton University, Princeton, N.J.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934.

MARRIED: Emilie Dolan. cHitp: a daughter.
pep: Aug. 19, 1945, at Chungking, China.
wipow: Mrs. Brooke Dolan, 2d, 423 Fishers Rd., Bryn Mawr, Pa.

BROOKE DOLAN, II, spent two years with our Class. While at
college he was a resident of Lowell House and a member of the
Hasty Pudding-Institute of 1770 and the Delphic Club. In March,
1942, he entered service as a second lieutenant in the USAAF and
was assigned to the OSS and sent to the China-Burma-India Theatre
in July, 1942. He was promoted successively to lieutenant and
captain. In November 1943, he returned to the United States for
temporary duty and four months later returned to C.B.I., where
he was attached to the 20th Bomber Command. Before entering the

service, Dolan was a zodlogist with the Academy of Natural Sci-

ences in Philadelphia. He was survived by his wife and daughter.

[ 350 |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PHILIP HILARY DOLAN

 

HOME appress: Holly Hill, Marshfield, Mass.; 2 Lowell Ave., Newtonville, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cambridge Public Library, Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: July 5, 1914, Cambridge, Mass. PareNTs: Jeremiah Mathew Dolan,

Catherine M. Gleason-Riley.
PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; ED.M., 1937; 5B.
_ (Columbia Univ.), r9q1.
UNMARRIED.
occuPATION: Director, Cambridge Public Library.
OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Finance Committee, treasurer, Massachusetts Library
Association; president, Metropolitan Boston Library Planning Council.
MEMBER OF: Adult Education Association of the U.S.A.; Phi Delta Kappa;
American, New England and Massachusetts Library Associations, Cam-
bridge Committee for Youth and Leisure Time; Cambridge Mental Health
Association (member, board of directors); National Education Associa-
tion.

PUBLICATIONS: Editor and compiler, contributor to periodical literature.

EDWARD JAMES DONAHUE

 

HOME aAbpREss: 260 Hawthorne Ave., Derby, Conn.

[35 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

OFFICE ADDRESS: Healey, Donahue & Healey, 6 Elizabeth St., Derby, Conn.

BorN: Aug. 29, 1913, Derby, Conn, parents: James Sylvester Donahue, Anna
Mansfield.

PREPARED aT: Derby High School, Derby, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; LL.B, 1938.

MARRIED: Jean Stier, June 15, 1946, New Haven, Conn. cuitpren: Laura Jean,
Feb. 15, 1948; Edward James, Jr., Feb. 2, 1951; Timothy W., July 26,
1952.

occuPaTION: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Corporation counsel, city of Derby, 1941-43; city attorney,

Derby, 1946-49, 1954-60, member, missions committee, New Haven County
Bar Association, 1950-60.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; Connecticut State Bar Association;
New Haven County Bar Association; Elks; Knights of Columbus, High-

land Golf Club; Graduates Club; Harvard Club of New Haven; Harvard
Club of Connecticut.

UPON graduating from college in 1935 I equipped myself with a
green bag and started in at the Law School. My chief recollection
of that period of my life concerns itself primarily with attempting
to find a soft chair in Langdell Hall in order to make the rest of
my body comfortable while I worked my eyes overtime on the
case books, Inserted in the middle of each day was a frantic dash
at the conclusion of a twelve o’clock class to the Eliot Winthrop
Kirkland squash courts where from 1:00 p.m. until 6:30 each day,
except weekends, I tried vainly to explain to the boys how I man-
aged to confuse their reservations so that at the peak of the season
there were always more people hanging around than there were
squash courts to accommodate them.

After law school there was a short period in the practice of law,
but in 1943, after a second look at all of the earlier rejected physical
specimens, Uncle Sam decided he wanted me in uniform. By 1943
each draftee found himself confronted with an army of generals,
colonels, sergeants, corporals, and even privates first class, all of
whom knew more than he and were prepared to prove it. It seemed
to be the general consensus of opinion that the most misfit characters
in the ranks were lawyers, and I was no exception. Out of thirty-
six months in service, thirty of them were spent either with a hospital
unit or as a military policeman and it was not until three months
prior to my discharge from service that I landed in the Judge Advo-
cate’s Division. During the interim I experienced all the vicissitudes,
trials and triumphs of one of Uncle Sam’s heroes in GI. This in-
cluded being shuttled from Fort Devens to Fort Lewis in Wash-
ington, then back across the country and eventually to the ETO.

[ 352 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I saw a great deal of France, England and Germany and, in addition,
found myself enrolled at the University of Aberdeen Law School
during the fall term of 1945, as a result of which I received a degree
in Scots law. After a brief whirl with the Judge Advocate’s Depart-
ment in the Delta Base Area, I returned to the United States and was
discharged from service in April, 1946.

From June, 1946, up to the present time I have had all the trials
and tribulations of the small town general practitioner in the field
of law. The problems run all the way from trying to reconcile the
conflicting views of two farmers over the value of a cow to a corpo-
rate dissolution or a pour-over trust with marital deduction impli-
cations. However, I am extremely happy in what I am doing, not
only because I enjoy the problems which come across my desk.
but also because weekends and holidays I have the opportunity to
do things with my family which under the pressure of a big city
practice might be denied to me. This includes an annual visit to
Cape Cod every summer which is the high point in the family vaca-
tion schedule.

I have learned, over the years, that my experiences at Harvard
in which I met a cross-section of the world were really a basic
training for coping with the problems of life itself. Politically, over
the years, I have voted a Democratic ticket although I have voted
for men and issues rather than party labels. In the. year 1960 I see
no one on the horizon in whose hands I would rather place the
management of the United States than Senator Jack Kennedy.

Others in the Class undoubtedly have had a much more exciting
and glamorous twenty-five years than I. On the other hand, blessed
with a good wife and three healthy, normal children I would trade
places with none of my classmates because, up to the present time

at least, I have found happiness and contentment in the life that I
am living.

[ 353]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

     

JAMES FORD DONNELLY, JR.

  

  

HOME ADDRESS: 134 Pennsylvania Ave., Winston-Salem, N.C.
OFFICE ADDRESS: State Board of Health, Raleigh, N.C.
porN: March 25, 1914, Philadelphia, Pa. pareNts: James Ford Donnelly, Mary
F, Heinzerlein.
PREPARED AT: Lower Merion High School, Ardmore, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 1935; MD. (Univ. of Chicago),
1939.
marriep: Elizabeth L. Podgursky, June 14, 1941, Philadelphia, Pa. CHILD:
Maura Jean, Aug. 25, 1945.
occuPATION: Physician; chief, Section on Maternal and Child Health, North
Carolina State Board of Health; associate clinical professor of obstetrics
and gynecology, North Carolina University School of Medicine.
OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Committee on Maternal Welfare, since 1954, Section
on Obstetrics and Gynecology, 1957, North Carolina Medical Society;
president, North Carolina Obstetrical and Gynecological Society, 19595
member, Committee on Maternal and Child Health, American Medical
Association, since 1959; consultant, National Institutes of Health, Septem-
ber, 1959.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American Board of Obstetrics and
Gynecology, American Committee on Maternal Welfare; American Public
Health Association; South Atlantic Association of Obstetricians and
Gynecologists; North Carolina Medical Society; North Carolina Obstetrical
and Gynecological Society; North Carolina Public Health Assoctation;
Forsyth County Medical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: “Indications for the sterilization of women,” J. F. Donnelly and
F. R. Lock, January, 1953; “A review of the first 1000 consecutive maternal
deaths in North Carolina,” March, 1953; “The proper use of posterior
pituitary extract in pregnancy,” May and June, 1957 (all in North Caro-
lina Medical Journal); “Parental, fetal and environmental factors in
perinatal mortality,” J. F. Donnelly, et al., December, 1957; “Perinatal
mortality in the primigravida over thirty years of age,” J. F, Donnelly, et
al., October, 1959 (both in American Journal of Obstetrics & Gynecology).

MANY pleasant carefree years passed swiftly by after my admission

[354]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to Harvard College in 1931 to the day I was finally released from
academic institutions after spending four years at Harvard, four
years at the University of Chicago studying medicine, two years
at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania as an intern and,
finally, three years at the same hospital as a resident in obstetrics and
gynecology.

Since that time my efforts have been widely devoted to teaching
in the field of obstetrics and gynecology. The years from 1944 until
1954 were spent at the Bowman Gray School of Medicine of Wake
Forest College in Winston-Salem, North Carolina. In 1954 I left
to become the consultant for the North Carolina State Board of
Health. Only recently I was elevated to the position of chief of
section on Maternal and Child Health of the North Carolina State
Board of Health while continuing my duties as the obstetric con-
sultant.

Since 1954 I have been teaching at the University of North Caro-
lina Medical School as well as the School of Public Health associated
with the University of North Carolina. During the past five years
my duties have included considerable travel over the State of North

Carolina and during the past year considerable travel throughout
the country.

JAMES VINCENT DOOLIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 112 Randlett Pk., West Newton 65, Alass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Union Central Life Insurance Co. 110 Milk Se. Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 25, 1913, Somerville, Mass. Parents: Patrick Joseph Doolin, Mar-
garet T. Lyons.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; LLB. (Boston Coll), raga
MARRIED: Mary Virginia Carty, June 2, 1951, Sacramento, Cahf. creas:

[355]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Christopher, April 21, 1952; James Patrick, May 26, 1953; John Michael,
July 14, 1954; Mary Patricia, Feb. 7, 1956; Richard Timothy, Nov. 17,
1957.

occupation: Lawyer, life insurance programming and estate planning.

TWENTY-FIVE years add up to over 9,000 days and it’s very easy
in thinking over the events of 216,000 hours to get lost in a maze
of insignificant details. Not that J think all little things are insignifi-
cant. For instance, there are five minor details running around the
house right now and they are certainly the most important things
that have happened to me. For the sake of domestic tranquillity, I
hasten to affirm the importance of their mother whom, of course, I
have never considered a mere detail.

Taking things chronologically, I spent a few years as a stock-
broker’s clerk and a casualty claims adjuster while attending law
school evenings. A perforated eardrum resulting from scarlet fever
in infancy made me the country’s healthiest 4-F and I spent most
of World War II in army camps as an assistant field director for the
American Red Cross. After that came eleven busy years in a legal
capacity with an investment management firm during which I
formed many lasting friendships in the financial world, dealt daily
with the SEC and became aware that Blue Sky does not necessarily
mean blue skies. More recently, I’ve been in the life insurance busi-
ness, which I have found pleasant enough but frustrating at times
and financially unrewarding.

Nobody, I’m sure, is going to look upon the foregoing recital as
indicating anything unusual. Yet the day-to-day living it encom-
passes has seen plenty of excitement and dullness, happiness and
unhappiness, success and failure. Adding it all up, I come to the
conclusion that I am not a part of that select company of men who
make things happen, but belong rather to the vast majority of man-
kind who have things happen to them.

Probably the best thing that has happened to me is meeting Class-
mate Jim Carty’s sister in 1946 (without any assistance from him).
After a whirlwind courtship of five years, we were married in
Sacramento, which is close enough to Lake Tahoe to be the ideal
place for a wedding. The years following that happy event have
been devoted more and more to a happy home, which I count not
least among my blessings, and I look forward with eager anticipa-
tion to re-learning fifth-grade geography and elementary algebra

and also to the day when all five offspring can tie their own shoes.

As to the broader aspect of things, my ideas are fundamentally

[ 356 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the same as they were in 1935, tempered by greater knowledge and
experience and a more tolerant attitude. I believe in God and erernal
life and that the struggle for salvation is won only by a man’s own
efforts and the grace of God, which includes the virtues of faith,
hope and charity. Consequently, the next twenty-five vears, if I'm
around to see them, take on more significance than the past. In
fact, the important question is —where will I be 25,000 years from
now? Of course, the past tends to shape the future, but Jest I be
accused of taking refuge from reality in a passive existence, it is my
firm conviction that the answer will be largely determined by w hat
I do each day from now on.

ROBERT BARNARD DOREMUS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1536 Adams St. Madison 5, Wis.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 201 South Hall, University of Wisconsin, Madison 6, Wis.

BORN: May 19, 1915, Newton, Mass. PaRENTS: Robert Proudfit Doremus, 1.8.
708, Eleanor Barnard.

PREPARED aT: Gloucester High School, Gloucester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; A.M., 1936; PH.D. 1040.

MARRIED: Betty Bartlett Holt, April 26, 1941, Wayland, Mass, cuitpre~: John
Barnard, Sept. 1, 1944; Andrew Bartlett, April 24, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Barnard Hinckley (half-brother), °2 4.

OCCUPATION: Associate dean, College of Letters and Science, and profesor of
English, University of Wisconsin,

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Patterns in Writing (with Edgar W. Lacy and George Bush
Rodman), 1950, revised 1956; Writing College Themes, 1940,

MY first quarter-century was spent mostly in sitting attentively at
the feet of the formal educators. Taking a Harvard A.B. ac tw cney
(too young, alas, too young), I then sheltered myself in Cambrids

[357 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

sifting and winnowing by which alone truth can be found.” This
too I find invigorating, especially at a time when so many fainthearted
souls in the country seem willing enough to exchange their intellect-
ual birthright for a mess of comforting pottage, giving over their
minds to the bondage of various blind creeds and closed systems,
Nearly a century ago Matthew Arnold, borrowing a figure from
the hard-boiled Swift, suggested the desirability of both “sweetness
and light”; and because Arnold is remembered only as a poor old
unfashionable Victorian, some careless folk think sweetness and
light equivalent to lavender and old lace. But Arnold could be hard-
boiled too; what he was really saying was that the human race can-
not survive without emotional sensitivity backed up by the free and
fearless exercise of human intelligence. The Commencement Hymn
sung yearly by those gathered in Cambridge speaks of Harvard as
“calm rising through change and through storm.” Harvard’s calm
has never been the calm of apathy or stupidity, but rather the sure-
ness of the sensitive and humane man, trusting (though with due
humility) in his own hard-boiled intellect, and always a little puck-
ish around the edges. Sweetness, light, and just a touch of the
Harvard Lampoon —\ think these will see us through at least the
next quarter-century.

THOMAS BURNETT DORMAN, JR.

Se RE eee eee

    

HOME apprEss: 70 Overlook Pl, Rye, N.Y,
OFFICE ADDRESS: Wallace Silversmiths, Inc., Wallingford, Conn
BORN: June 9, 1913, Montclair,

Anna Bull McFadon.
PREPARED AT: Montclair High School, Montclair, N,J.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1032.

marrieD: Jean M, Martin, June 4, 1938 R e, N.Y
, 7 ’ 4 . . CHIL 4 . .
July 8, 1942; Barbara Thomas, May 14, 1946 DREN: Jessie Martin,

[ 360 ]

“se . S r

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Manager of sales, Wholesale Division, Wallace Silversmiths, Inc.
MEMBER OF: American Yacht Club, Rye, New York.

AFTER twenty-five years in the family woolen business, a change
to the wholesale marketing of housewares is proving extremely edu-
cational and reasonably lucrative, though requiring considerable
time away from home. I am manager of sales for New England,
New York and Pennsylvania.

Outside of age, my family status remains about the same. Jean
and I recently celebrated our twenty-first anniversary, and our
daughters their seventeenth and thirteenth birthdays respectively.
Basic family interests include tennis and salt water activities, with

young men beginning to play a prominent part as far as the girls
are concerned.

Fvents at New Haven this fall helped heighten our interest in
Harvard and we're looking forward to next June and Reunion.

GEORGE MYERS DOUGHERTY, JR.

 

HOME appREsS: 1038 N. 32d St., Corvallis, Oregon.

OFFICE apprEss: C. S. Rondeau, 138 S. Second St., Corvallis, Oregon.

BORN: July 23, 1913, Wilmington, Del. parents: George Myers Dougherty,
Jennie Mitchell.

PREPARED AT: Friends School, Wilmington, Del.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935(36); M.Ba. (Univ. of Pennsyl-
vania), 1939.

MARRIED: Helen M. Paris, June 23, 1949, Bryn Mawr, Pa.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Mitchell Dougherty, a.M., "27, PHD. 732.

OCCUPATION: Real estate.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in various subjects, University of Washington, rq,
University of Rhode Island, 1940-41, University of Pennsylvania, 1046-
54; associate business specialist, O.P.A.. 1941-42; ensign — lieurenant,

U.S.N.R., 1942-46; assistant professor of business administration, Oregon
State College, 1955-56.

[ 361 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

WHEN my notes for the Ph.D, dissertation began to gather dust,
we moved westward. Once settled, the realty business appeared more
rewarding in this fast-growing town; Oregon State College enroll-
ment has already passed the 8,000 mark. We expect a greater in-
crease in population in this “last frontier” area.

RICHARD APPLETON DOW

  

HOME apprEss: Dedham Street, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE ApprEss: R. M. Bradley & Co., Inc., 57 Brattle St., Cambridge, Mass.

BorN: April 29, 1912, Cambridge, Mass. parents: George Lincoln Dow, Ethel
Dora Appleton,

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935.

MarRieD: Elisabeth Forde Sagendorph, May 14, 1937, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Gretchen Hansell, May 17, 1939; Richard Appleton, Jr., Aug. 30, 19415
Pamela Dickinson, March 29, 1947; Bettyna Van Alstyne, Dec. 16, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Lincoln Dow, Jr., a.B. 731.

occupaTion: Real estate; broker and building manager, R. M. Bradley & Co.,
Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Member, since 1936, president, 1949, director, Harvard Square
Business Men’s Association; chairman, Cambridge Community Fund, 1946,
North Central Division, Greater Boston Community Fund, 1947; director,
Cambridge Y.M.C.A., 1947-50; chairman, Cambridge Heart Fund, 1951;
member, 1953-56, secretary-treasurer, 1954, vice-president, 1955, New
England chapter, Institute of Real Estate Management; member of the
corporation, Home Savings Bank, since 1954.

MEMBER OF: Cambridge Club; Cruising Club of America, Dedham Country
and Polo Club; Harvard Varsity Club.

TWENTY-FIVE years hadn’t seemed so long until I started this
report: to be sure, the children have grown up; one, after two years
at Rhode Island School of Design, is learning the ways of earning

[ 362 |]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a living (?), one is going to college next year, and the other two are
thirteen and eight. Time has marched on!

After college I enjoyed two years of bachelor life, working enough
to offset some ocean racing as often as possible, Marriage in 1937
to a pretty young Boston girl settled things down some and life
took on more meaning. The two oldest children, born 3 in 1939 and
1941, settled things down even more.

The war years were spent in the Navy sub-chaser fleet: Atlantic,
Pacific, Caribbean, and in and out of Miami sub-chaser school, with
many another classmate. Back in Boston after the war, I worked on
many community money-raising campaigns — a great satisfaction,
but a lot of time away from making a living. Finally I called a halt
and concentrated on the real estate business.

Moving to the country, we remodeled the second and third houses
we had lived in and settled down to raising a family, now four.
The usual car-pools, dentists, dancing schools, animals galore —
baby chicks in the oven to dry out, miles of fencing, with thousands
of post-holes to dig, and gardens to weed. Enough. Now a few
ponies (really easy to take care of), dogs and a cat. Children now
older, only colleges to pay for, and, “Daddy, I want an apartment!”

With Dick Sullivan I have shared the 1935 Class Agent's work,
and this year am assisting Charlie Woodard in the Twentv-fifth
Anniversary Reunion Fund. Real estate in Boston and Cambridge
has taken my working hours, as an independent and lately with R. M.
Bradley & Co., Inc., in the Cambridge office —close to the old
locale of our undergraduate days.

JAMES EDWARD DOWNES, JR.

 

HOME apprEss: go Old Colony Rd., Weston 93, Mass.

[ 363 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

orFice appress: Downes Lumber Co., 100 Southampton St., Boston 18, Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 21, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: James Edward Downes, Mary
Ellen Murphy. "

PREPARED AT: The Country Day School for Boys of Boston, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935, DEGREES: A.B., 1935; LL.B., 1938.

marriep: Ellen Teresa Manahan, Aug. 8, 1941, Fort Knox, Ky. CHILpREn;
James Edward, 3d, April 2, 1944; David, July 6, 1947; Ellen Teresa, Jr.,
Aug. 19, 19493 Susan, April 28, 1951; Robert, Aug. 3, 1952; Leslie Christine,
Aug. 19, 1954; Christopher, Sept. 28, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Thomas Downes, °34, Philip Godfrey Downes, ’40.

occupation: Vice-president, Downes Lumber Company.

GOING directly from college to Harvard Law School, I was gradu-
ated and admitted to the practice of law in Massachusetts. Before
I could do more than get started, I was called up in late 1940 to
serve in the Army as a reserve officer. My commission from Har-
vard was in the field artillery and 1 was sent to Fort Knox to be
trained in the armored artillery.

While at Fort Knox, Ellen and I were married and were stationed
later at Camp Chaffee and Fort Sill. It was from this last post that
my battalion was shipped overseas to Africa in 1943. From Africa
we went to Italy where we took part in the campaigns until we were
relieved to make the invasion of southern France. We joined in the
beach assault and continued through France into Germany and
Austria. I ended the war as commanding officer of the 93d Armored
Field Artillery Battalion with six campaign stars, the Bronze Arrow-
head, and the Bronze Star with Oak Leaf Cluster. Entering the
service as a first lieutenant, I received a terminal promotion to lieu-
tenant colonel.

After five years in the Army, I decided not to return to law.
Finding an opportunity in our family business, I joined with my
brothers in selling building materials and lumber. Although this
was to be a temporary job, I have spent the past fifteen years at it.

A large family leaves little time for civic or community work. I
have spent all available time and effort helping in one of the blighted
areas of Boston, serving as chairman of the Mayor’s committee and
working with several groups to secure urban rehabilitation and
conservation. Urban renewal is a semi-neglected major problem of
most older cities. A small amount of progress has been made and
we have hope for the future.

[ 354 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM FRANKLIN DRAPER

 

HOME apprEss: 160 E. 83d St., New York, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 535 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.

BoRN: Dec. 24, 1912, Hopedale, Mass. parents: Clare Hill Draper, Mathilda
Grace Engman.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.

MARRIED: Barbara Cagiati, Oct. 7, 1944, Washington, D.C. cxumpren: William
Franklin, Jr., May 1, 1946; Francesca Cagiati, Dec. 24, 1948; Margaret Joy,
March 5, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Portrait painter.

MEMBER OF: Spee Club; Hasty Pudding, D.K.E.; Signet Society; Harvard Club
of New York; Century Association, New York; Knickerbocker Club,
New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Work reproduced in “The Navy at War”: sixty-nine paintings
reproduced in the National Geographic Magazine, August, 1943, April,
1944, October, 1944, November, 1945; in Life, Horizons, Collier's, etc.

I LEFT college at the end of my sophomore year to study painting
at the National Academy of Design in New York City for two years.
Then I studied a year in Paris and Spain, returning to study sculp-
ture with George Demetrious in Boston. I painted with Henry
Hensche in Provincetown for three summers and had one summer
with Jon Corbino in Rockport and the Art Students League.
During World War II, I was an official combat artist for the U.S.
Navy. I began as a lieutenant junior grade and finished as a heuten-
ant commander. My assignments took me from the Aleutians through
the southwest Pacific, including the invasion of Bougainville, to
landings with the Marines at Saipan and Guam. I was awarded the
Bronze Star. Before returning to civilian life I painted, among others,
portraits of Admiral Nimitz and Admiral Halsey, and completed
the murals for the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland.

[ 365 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

The war paintings were reproduced in four issues of the National
Geographic Magazine, as well as others at that time.

I was married in October, 1944, in Washington, D.C., to Barbara
Cagiati, who was then working with O.S.S., and we lived there for
about a year and a half. In 1946 I left the Navy to return to civilian
life and to portrait painting. We soon moved to New York City,
where we have been living ever since. My interest in music, particu-
larly the piano, is shared by my wife. We are equally fond of plants
and gardens. We have a house in the country at Wainscott, Long
Island, where my wife and I, the three children, two dogs and my
collection of orchids spend the summers.

I have had one-man shows of my portraits and compositions in
New York City at Knoedler Galleries and Portraits, Inc.; in Boston,
at Vose Galleries and Margaret Brown Galleries; in St. Louis, at
Julius Polk’s. My work has been shown in group exhibitions in the
Boston Museum of Fine Arts; the Institute of Contemporary Art,
Boston; the Metropolitan Museum and National Academy of De-
sign, New York City; National Gallery and Corcoran Gallery,
Washington, D.C.; the Chicago Art Institute; the National Gallery,
London; the Salon de la Marine, Paris; and museums in Sydney and
Canberra, Australia. My portraits have included such subjects as
President Nathan Pusey for Harvard University; Dean Douglas
Horton for the Harvard Divinity School; Mr. Paul Cabot for the
Harvard Business School; Dr. George Shattuck for the Harvard
Medical School; the late Secretary of State John Foster Dulles; Un-
der Secretary of State Douglas Dillon; General Walter Bedell Smith
for Central Intelligence Agency, President Sarah Gibson Blandin
for Vassar College, Dr. Charles Mayo for the Mayo Clinic; and Mr.
William G. Saltonstall, headmaster of Phillips Exeter Academy.

| 366 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HAROLD LEE DRIMMER

 

AIRE ORE IIE ROTTER Se baa ang

 

HOME ADDRESS: 95 Jerome Ave., New Rochelle, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 745 Fifth Ave., New York 22, N.Y.

BORN: Oct. 6, 1914, New York, N.Y. parents: Edward Drimmer, Sarah Cohen.
PREPARED AT: Mount Vernon High School, Mount Vernon, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: a.B., magna cum laude, 1935; LLB.
(Columbia Univ.), 1938.

MARRIED: Florence Robinson, Oct. 10, 1940, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN: Judith,
March 6, 1943; Stephen, Dec. 5, 1945; Eric, June 25, 1950.
OccUPATION: President, J. J. Little & Ives Company, Inc., Leland Publishing

Company, Ltd.; chairman of the board, Divco-Wayne Corporation, auto-
motive.

OFFICES ‘HELD: Currently, chairman of the board, Philharmonic Svmphony of
Westchester, Inc.; director, Hebrew Home for the Aged, New Rochelle
Guidance Center, Friends of the Hebrew University.

MEMBER OF: Fenway Golf Club, White Plains, N.Y.

HAVING no particular philosophy in life, nor any great regrets, I
find it difficult to set down anything that will be of interest to the
few people who could possibly remember my relatively insignificant
years at Harvard. Fortune has been more ‘than kind to me, more
than I deserve. I am beset by no burning ambitions or agonizing
frustrations and have relatively few inhibitions.

From the above you might detect the symptoms of the mellowing
process — and you are right,

[ 367 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

_ DAVIS CLAPP DRINKWATER

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Four Corners Farm, R.D. 3, Vergennes, Vt.

BorN: Nov. 6, 1910, Braintree, Mass. PARENTS: Horace Rogers Drinkwater,
LL.B., ’98, Eleanor R. Clapp.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Frederica Plimpton, Oct. 8, 1938, Chestnut Hill, Mass. CHILDREN:
Susan P., July 24, 1939 (22. Arthur M. Cottrell, 3d, June 13, 1959); Frederica
P., Dec. 19, 1941; Polly, April 22, 1944, Davis Clapp, Jr., Dec. 26, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Albion Clifton Drinkwater, ’37.

occupation: Dairy farmer.

UPON graduation I joined the family business, Edwin Clapp & Son
in East Weymouth, shoe manufacturers, and lived in Hingham,
Massachusetts. I was with them until 1955, with five years out for
active duty in the Naval Reserve. In the spring of 1955, I acquired
a dairy farm in the Champlain Valley of Vermont and am still hard
at if.

SAMUEL SMITH DRURY

 

HOME appreEss: 17 Glencoe Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

[ 368 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE appRESS: Colonial Distributors, Inc., 75 Federal St., Boston ro, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 29, 1911, Milton, Mass. PARENTS: Samuel Smith Drury, ’o1, Comelia
Frothingham Wolcott.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MaARRIED: Hope Blanchard, May 23, 1936, Boston, Mass. cHitpreN: Elinor
Whitney, June 17, 1938 (m. John M. Eager, 58, Oct. 4, 1958); Samuel Smith,
Jr., Sept. 5, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Roger Wolcott Drury, ‘36.
OCCUPATION: Head, home office, Colonial Distributors, Inc., national sponsor
of two mutual funds, The Colonial Fund and Colonial Energy Shares.
OFFICES HELD: Assistant secretary, American Brake Shoe Company, 1936-49;
secretary, Harvard Club of New York, 1944-47; director, Harvard Alumni
Association, 1944-47; vice-president, Colonial Distributors, Inc., since 1950;
corporator, Brookline Savings Bank, since 1950; secretary, since 1953,
member Class Committee, since 1955, Harvard Class of 1935; trustee,
Three Trusts for benefit of Weld Boat Club, since 1955; treasurer, Friends
of Harvard Rowing, since 1957.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Clubs of New York and Boston, The Country Club,
Brookline; Essex County Club, City Club Corporation, Cary Street
(Nahant) Swimming Pool, Inc.

MY life during the past quarter century falls into two distinct
segments — the first fourteen years in New York, and the past
eleven years back in Boston. During the early period, | was married,
our two children were born, we lived in a series of apartments and
my job was doing corporate work in the head office of a national
industrial manufacturer. My time for outside interests was chiefly
devoted to the affairs of the Harvard Club of New York, of which
I was the secretary for three years.

Our year of change was 1949, the year we returned to Boston,
acquired our present house in Chestnut Hill and [ tackled what for
me was an entirely new line of work — the distribution of mutual
funds. Here our children have grown up and our family roots have
been established. My job is one with never a dull moment and only
a scant half-hour drive from home in semi-country. Our daughter
is married to a Harvard oarsman, believe it or not, Class of 1958,
and is living in New York just as we did twenty-odd vears ago.
Our son has just applied for admission to Harvard next fall as a mem-
ber of the Class of 1964. My spare time is largely devoted to the
financial (rather than to the physical) aspects of row ing in general,
having been involved not only for Harvard through MY position as
treasurer of the Friends and as trustee of the Weld Boat Club Trusts,
but also having raised money for the 1956 Olympic Rowi ing Team
and for a new rowing course at St. Paul's School. For exercise, an

[ 369 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

occasional round of very poor golf gives some variety to the seem-
ingly endless gardening chores around the house. For pure recrea-
tion, I have found nothing to compare with cruising off the Maine
coast in the summer.

Altogether I have had a heavy preponderance of the good things
in life since graduation. My best hopes for the next quarter century
include becoming a grandfather, and seeing my son complete his
education and possibly enter the medical profession, a family heri-
tage which has skipped two generations. Most important of all, 1
hope to have the health, the wherewithal and the leisure time to
devote to seeing some of the world with my wife, who has surely
earned some fun during the past twenty-four years.

GEORGE THOMAS DUDMAN

 

HOME appress: W. Lake Road, Skaneateles, N.Y.

OFFICE abpress: Allen V. Smith, Inc., Marcellus Falls, N.Y.

BORN: Nov. 8, 1913, Westfield, N.J. parents: George Gilman Dudman, Ethel
Dewey.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: 5.B., 1935.

OCCUPATION: Business.

NO questionnaire returned.

[ 370 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ARTHUR BALDWIN DUEL, JR.

 

HOME ApDpRESS: 136 Chestnut St., Garden City, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 200 N. Village Ave., Rockville Centre, N.Y.

BoRN: May 3, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: Arthur Baldwin Duel, a1p., “94,
Mary Key Crawford.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932, 1933-1935. DEGREES: $.B., 1935; Mv. (Univ. of
Virginia), 1944.

MaRRIED: Virginia Wilkinson, 1936 (divorced 1943); Elsa Underdahl, 1952.
CHILDREN: Arthur Baldwin, 3d, May 16, 1937; Virginia, Nov. 17, 1941;
Brett, May 29, 1958.

OccUPATION: Physician — ophthalmologist.

MEMBER oF: American Medical Association, American Academy of Ophthal-
mology and Otolaryngology; American College of Surgeons; Association
for Research in Ophthalmology; Pan-American Association of Ophthal-
mology; Ophthalmological Foundation; Nassau Ophthalmological Society.

PuBLicATIONS: Ophthalmological papers published in: American Journal of
Ophthalmology; Transactions of Ophthalmology; Southern Medical Journal.

I BELIEVE that every individual has certain capacities which life
fulfills. Capacities of enjoyment, sorrow, understanding, tolerance,
love, adventure, whimsy — an endless list. I believe these capacities
are filled brimming in everyone's life, regardless of the events or
circumstances. We see an actor in an endless variety of roles and
situations. Sometimes he is the “good” man, sometimes the villain;
at times a strong character, at other times weak, But as we sce these
different characters and roles portrayed in different settings — say-
ing and doing different things — we come to know the actor him-
self, as aman, “All the world’s a stage... ,” and we for a brief
time have principal parts.

I don’t believe it matters much WHAT we do. Ir does matter
very much HOW we do ir, Some of us are endowed with rare

[370]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

talents, and these capacities, when developed and exercised, leave
an imprint and affect enough people to be worthy of recorded
history. But all of us, most of the time, are playing our parts to an
empty house. Only the actors themselves know what transpired
and felt the impact of the drama.

I have been fortunate in my life, and I’ve loved every minute
of it. The so-called good parts and the bad, the exciting events and
the dull, the quick-witted people and the slow —I wouldn’t have
missed one of them. Without contrast there would be no apprecia-
tion. Every scene and every line have helped fill my capacities.

Upon leaving Harvard I entered Columbia Medical School. Dur-
ing my first year my father died. Shortly afterwards I married, left
medical school, and did some teaching: eighth grade at the Walt
Whitman School in New York City, then mathematics at the Foun-
tain Valley School for Boys in Colorado Springs. I became a com-
mercial pilot and a radio ham operator. I had a son, Arthur, and a
daughter, Virginia. Then my wife and daughter took one road and
my son and I went down another. I returned to medical schoo] at
the University of Virginia and my mother helped me bring up my
son. Internship and residency followed. I opened an office in New
York City as an ophthalmologist. I married again and now live
and practise medicine on Long Island. We have a young daughter
Brett, and not enough time in the day to do all the things we hope
to accomplish.

I believe in the Golden Rule and the dignity of a human being.
There is a wonder in me about this world — how things are and

why things are — and because I don’t know a better word for it, I
call it God. But you can’t tell a thing about this from just a précis.
You have to participate to savor the full enjoyment and meaning —

“The play’s the thing .. .”

[ 372 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES HENRY DUFFY, JR.

 

ti.

HOME AbpreEss: Eastern Point Road, Gloucester, Mass.

BORN: Feb, 6, 1914, Lynn, Mass. parents: James Henry Duffy, Winifred H.
Maroney.

PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1935.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Maroney Duffy, °41.

OccUPaATION: Engineer. '

IN 1935 I became a teacher and later on a husband. Neither func-
tion suited me, so I became a wanderer. In the course of wandering
I learned to speak northern Chinese, then the Navy sent me to Fukien
and later to the Shanghai Naval Academy, where all the midship-
men were Fukienese. For communication purposes, this was like
sending a Laplander to Lisbon. While in Shanghai I had the honor
of being put up as a candidate for the vice-presidency of the Shang-
hai Harvard Club. The other candidate, Consul-General John M.
Cabot (A.B., 23), received 139 out of the 140 votes. That was my
political nadir. Politico-sociologically, I am of the ADA and Urban
League persuasions.

I have lately settled in Gloucester (which is hardly ADA or Ur-
ban League) because I love the sea. My greatest interest is anthro-
pology. If there is time, I hope for an engineering assignment that
will give me a side-shot at a great cave discovery.

[ 373 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

WILLIAM HARRISON DUNBAR

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3312 35th St. N.W., Washington 16, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of State, Washington 25, D.C.

BorN: April 5, 1914, Cambridge, Mass. parents: William Harrison Dunbar, ’82,
Katharine Copeland.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; M.B.A., 1939.

MarrigD: Carolyn Roorbach, July 22, 1941, Leopoldville, Belgian Congo. cut-
DREN: Robert C., June 26, 1943; Anne L., Feb. 17, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Franklin Dunbar, ’25, LL.B., ’28.

occupaTion: Analyst, Department of State.

THE summer after our graduation found me traveling through
Europe with classmates Bill, Hunter, Scannell and Scheu, on what
I originally supposed would be a conventional, three-month “Grand
Tour.” Instead, a change in my personal fortunes and a lack of any
definite career plans decided me to continue on round the world.
T allotted myself $150 a month to cover everything, including trans-
portation, clothing and recreation (could it be done for twice that
now?) and set off east through Suez. Over the next two years I
visited or lived briefly in various parts of Africa, Asia and Australia.

Naturally I saw many wonderful sights and met many fascinating
people during this trip. In addition I acquired, almost unconsciously,
a basic knowledge of world trade and transportation which has stood
me in good stead ever since. However, the most significant thing |
acquired, although I was not conscious then either of it or of its sig-
nificance, was a deep interest in Africa. Seven months’ roaming
over much of East and South Africa, from Cape Guardafui to the
Cape of Good Hope, was enough to infect me with a love for

that continent which has really been the basic motivation of much
of my life for the last twenty years.

[ 374]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My first job after I got my M.B.A. from the Harvard Business
School in 1939 was marketing petroleum products for Texaco in
West Africa. Company policy was against marriage during a new
employee’s first tour of duty abroad, but by mid-1941 I had com-
pleted eighteen months’ service and permission was somewhat grudg-
ingly granted for my fiancée to join me in the Belgian Congo. Dis-
regarding submarines in the South Atlantic and other wartime in-
conveniences, she set off for Leopoldville, arriving finally after an
epic, fifty-six-day voyage from New York to Capetown, during
which the food ran out, people were shot and all sorts of other
interesting events occurred.

Barely five months after our marriage, Pearl Harbor came along,
and my job began to seem less and less essential. After several
abortive attempts, therefore, | managed to get a U.S, Army com-
mission, which resulted in my wife being “evacuated to the Zone of
the Interior” and in my remaining in West Africa until March,
1045+

My military career ended in October of the same year, and I de-
cided to try the airline business. This proved interesting, but an
offer to return to West Africa as the shore-based superintendent of
a shipping line was irresistible, and in June, 1947, our family, in-
cluding by then two small children, migrated to Nigeria for a two-
year stay. Family and other reasons ruling out further overseas
work at that time, I accepted a position in the Office of the Secre-
tary of Defense, where I was able to work almost exclusively on
African economic problems, including particularly transportation
and related fields. During this period I kept my hand in, so to speak,
with a brief trip through North Africa in 1952 and a somewhat
longer one through southern Africa in 1955.

After eight years in Washington, wanderlust again overtook us
and in 1957 I was fortunate in being able to transfer laterally to the
State Department, which assigned me to the new ly-opened Consu-
late at Abidjan, Ivory Coast. These last two years on my old stamp-

ing ground have been richly rewarding, especially as ‘the pace of
political, social and economic change in that part of the world has
become almost explosively rapid. My only regret is that a Washing-
ton assignment will prevent me from being on the spot to celebrate
the independence which I feel sure will come during the next couple
of years.

However, I am not brooding over this, which is “all part of the
game,” when one is in foreign service. Rather I reflect on the wealth

[375]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

of experience which almost twenty-four years’ association with
Africa, including ten years actually there, has given me. And on
how extraordinarily lucky I am to have a wife and children who
have, with unfailing cheerfulness, adapted themselves to each new

situation and continued to make their full contribution to the life of
our family.

PHILIP FRANCIS DUR

 

HOME apbRESS: Route 3, Vienna, Va.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of State, Washington, D.C.

BORN: June 30, 1914, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Alphonse Nicolas Dur, Sarah
Ralston.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 1935; PH-D., 1941.

marrigeD: Elena Delgado, June 30, 1942, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN: Maria
Elena, May 3, 1943; Philip Alphonse, June 22, 1944; Stansbury Sutton,

Sept. 18, 1946; Carmen, Aug. 27, 19473 Jacqueline, March 20, 1949; John,
Feb. 9, 1952.

occuPaTION: Foreign service officer, Bureau of Far Eastern Affairs, Department
of State.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Columbia Society of Yokohama, Japan.
MEMBER OF: Cercle du Commerce, Lyon, France; Carl Schurz Gesellschaft,

Bremen, Germany; Rotary Clubs of Colon, Panama, and Yokohama, Japan;
Columbia Society of Yokohama.

PusLications: “The Right of Taxation in the Political Theory of the French
Religious Wars,” Journal of Modern History, December, 1945.

AFTER graduation I spent a happy, carefree, and somewhat tumultu-
ous year in the now well-known character of “an American student
abroad.” There were fewer of us then, for the Fulbright Act had.
not yet been passed. Harvard as usual was my benefactor. Those
wild oats were sown at the expense of Henry Russell Shaw, who had
founded the fellowship, as I then thought, expressly for the purpose.

[ 376 ]

 

ROE Ne Ba 1, eam

pracge

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

A year later I was back at Harvard teaching and studying history,
Friskie Merriman had hired another greenhorn graduate student as
an assistant in History 1. I completed my college education in that
course. Other courses were by comparison mere technique. Histo
1 was life with all its unpredictable vicissitudes and inimitable spon-
taneity. In this instance the élan vital was supplied by Friskie, with
a blend of bluffness and caprice that would have done credit to the
Tudors whom he admired.

My ambition at the time was to become a professor, but the war
intervened. Harvard had been in an uproar over foreign policy for
more than two years when Pearl Harbor struck and cleared the air
like a bolt of lightning. I was in New York awaiting a Navy com-
mission which seemed to be hung up on a pile of waivers. Pearl
Harbor took care of that, too.

My next and greatest stroke of luck was to get married in war-
time haste to my life-long companion and wife, who has given me
six fine children in token of nearly perfect conjugal faith. Neither of
us has had much leisure to repent, but we both feel steadied and
strengthened by the yoke we bear. And we hope by the constancy
of our conduct to make up somehow for the impetuousness of our
behavior. Home is no bed of roses, but we'll try to make it a school
of decency.

I entered the Foreign Service of the United States in 1947 and
have never since then lacked for excitement. We have enjoyed a
succession of interesting posts, including such assignments as public
affairs officer in Lyon, France; as executive officer at the Consulate
General in Bremen, Germany; as principal officer at the Consulate
in Colon, Panama; as executive officer again at the Consulate General
in Yokohama, Japan. We even took part in that unique experiment
in reconstruction known as Hicog. Fortunately perhaps, we were
only low co

Having learned from our travels that the world is habitable in
almost all its parts and that, as the Spanish say, “Everywhere one
boils with water,” we returned to the United States and to the State
Department. We found a comfortable old house with two acres of
land within forty minutes driving distance of the office. Here we
intend to put down as many roots as we can, so that next time we
go abroad the children can answer the recurrent and embarrassing
question, “But where in the United States?” This has heretofore been
hard to handle for junior citizens born in France and Germany.

I won’t attempt to describe my present job in the Srate Depart-

[377]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ment. It might change tomorrow. But briefly I can say that it has
almost as much pressure as a boiler room, and is also close enough
to hear the throbbing of the engines. If there is any “drift” in our
foreign policy, it is not because the ship of State is idling. More
likely, we have run into heavy seas — as we all know, we shall sink
or swim together.

R. GREGORY DURHAM

 

HOME appreEss: 1540 N, State Pkwy., Chicago ro, Ill.

OFFICE ADprEss: Lyon & Healy, Inc., 243 S. Wabash Ave., Chicago, Ill.

porn: Nov. 24, 1912, Winnetka, Ill. parents: Raymond Ewing Durham,
Eleanor Gregory.

prepareD aT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, Ill; Berkshire
School, Sheffield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1936. DEGREES: A.B. 1935(36); LL.B. (Yale Univ.), 1939.

MarrieD: Carol Margaret Borchard, Jan. 4, 1936, New Haven, Conn. (divorced
1955). CHILDREN: Edwin Borchard, July 28, 1938; Anthony Gregory, Dec.
17, 1940.

occupation: President, Lyon & Healy, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Director, First National Bank of Winnetka, since 1940; secretary,
Harvard Club of Chicago, 1944-45; trustee, Northfield (Illinois) Rural
Fire Protection District, 1948-55; trustee, Northfield Public School Board,
1951-54; director, 1954-57, treasurer and member executive committee,
board of directors, 1957-59, National Association of Music Merchants;
director, American Music Conference, since 1955; director, Lyric Opera
Association, since 1957.

MEMBER OF: Legal Club of Chicago, University Club of Chicago; Cliff
Dwellers Club,

HOW much of life had passed by was painfully impressed upon me
once again when I looked at you guys toiling up the slopes of the
Yale Bowl last November, ruefully admitting and regretting all the

[ 378 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

while that the converse process was unquestionably even more
dour. Now synthesizing the record into a page and a half brings
reality probing more ruthlessly, albeit more privately.

Crossroads or turning points:

1933: The sophomoric sophomore decision not to become a
doctor. I received “D—” in Chemistry A. I’m told the only other
man in a class of 800 that was conceded a pass with a “D—” grade
subsequently graduated Number Two in his class at medical school.
Mistakenly or otherwise I regret this decision more than any other
act or event in my life.

1931-1936: “Veritas” indoctrination. I harbor a consuming faith
impregnated by Harvard (in my opinion — but I wouldn’t know
exactly how) that Harvard is fundamentally motivated by an end-
less objective quest for fuller understanding of ever-changing truth.
_T admire this phenomenon as much as anything in life. It became a
personal ideal and basic standard. However, voluntary and involun-
tary internal and external self-deception reduced my capacity to
observe it for years. But it always was a beacon, and today is a
working credo of my daily life.

January 4, 1936: My marriage. She didn’t love me. I knew it
after our engagement but before marriage. Why did I marry her?
Lack of capacity for definite personal action unpleasant in character.
There ensued nineteen years of emotional uncertainty and strain,
ended only through divorce. Then I first learned of tranquility, and
for a while rolled myself up into it at night as if into a blanket.
Then I started my bachelor days — interesting, gratifying, fun —
but not really satisfying. I am sure they must be better when ex-
perienced in normal chronological sequence.

July 28, 1938: The birth of my elder son; December 17, 1940:
the birth of my younger son. All of us with children know in
how highly individualized a way each one increasingly becomes an
insuperable element in our lives, no matter what. “Can't do any-
thing with this in my page and one-half. However, I must note that
a life-time experience without them is unimaginable for me.

1949: I left law practice for Lyon & Healy, Inc. —a twelve-store
general retail musical merchandise chain, and operator of the
world’s only harp factory. The size of the family stock interest
prompted my move at the instigation of my predecessor as presi-
dent of the company, who was concerned about long-range suc-
cession. I was deeply disturbed by conditions I found; policy has-
sles developed, and after strain, resignations and other corporate

[ 379 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

strife, I found myself running a goo-employee retail business about
which I knew only what was wrong with how it was being run.
Although I have probably been working an average of sixty to
seventy hours a week ever since, much to my surprise and pleas-
ure it has turned out to be much more alive and exciting than law
practice. I believe we are gradually rebuilding a hundred-year-old
company which was not keeping pace, into a sound organization
with an assured satisfying future. This is an intensely absorbing
and challenging experience for me. I have hopes that it will be
completed sufficiently well and soon enough to enable me both to
travel extensively and somehow more effectively aid society before
having to return these Harvard-impregnated bones to dust.

EDWARD McMAKEN EAGER

   

ge °

X

HOME ADDRESS: Valley Road, New Canaan, Conn.; 320 E. 54th St., New York,
NY.

BORN: June 20, 1911, Toledo, Ohio. parents: Frederick Zina Eager, Carolyn
Dorr McMaken.

PREPARED AT: Tome School, Port Deposit, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1936.

MaRRIED: Jane Eberly, Jan. 28, 1938, New York, N.Y. cup: Frederick George
Alfred (Fritz), June 26, 1941.

HARVARD SON: Frederick George Alfred Eager, *63.

occupation: Writer of plays, song lyrics, opera librettos, children’s books.

MEMBER OF: ASCAP; Dramatists’ Guild; Radio Writers’ Guild; Harvard Club
of New Canaan, etc.

PuBLicaTions: Half Magic, Magie Or Not, and other books for children.

     

I'VE been sort of battering at the gates of Broadway, as playwright
and lyricist, ever since Harvard Dramatic Club days. Every once
in a while something gets produced, but I have to admit there have

[ 380 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

been more flops than hits. Things that have pleased me through the
years have been my lyrics for the musical play, “Sing Out Sweet
Land,” the English version of Mozart’s “The Marriage of Figaro,”
that I did for NBC-TV, and my lyrics for the television “spectacu-
lar,” “Marco Polo.” Right now I have two musical plays ready for
production, one with music by George Antheil and written for my
friend Alfred Drake, the other a sort of musical “Living Newspaper
of the Civil War,” with music by Jerome Moross.

Meanwhile, I’ve taken to writing books for children as a sideline,
and I find I enjoy these very much. My ninth will be published by
Harcourt, Brace in the spring of 1960. Ever since rgso I've been
living in Connecticut, but now that my son Fritz is a Harvard fresh-
man, [ve yielded to wifely pressure and taken a New York apart-
ment for “winter weekdays.” However, my heart still belongs to
the Silvermine valley and my chosen life is one in which each day
is Just like the one before, with plenty of time for writing, reading,
rock-gardening, birdwatching and perhaps a little thinking. I dis-
like change and travel and rootlessness, having had a childhood full
of it, but I] would like to spend a year in England some day.

Politically, 1 am a “liberal” Democrat and I look forward with
hope to the election, at last, of Adlai Stevenson. In most ways, I am

a frighteningly happy man.

RICHARD LANDER EASTLAND

 

HOME ADDRESS: 8818 Appian Way, Hollywood 46, Calif,
OFFICE appress: Campbell-Ewald Co., 1750 N. Vine St. Hollywood 28 Calif.

BORN: Jan. 19, 1913, San Francisco, Calif. parents: Thomas Butler Eastland,
‘06, Helen Wagner,

PREPARED at: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1931-1934.

[ 381]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

marrigp: Nancy Nicoll Pearson, June 27, 1941, Rye, N.Y. (divorced 1956).
CHILDREN: Lucinda Pearson, Dec. 27, 1937 (stepdaughter); Alice, Jan. 20,
1944; Thomas Butler, 2d, Nov. 19, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Butler Eastland, Jr., ’33.

occupation: Manager, Hollywood Branch, Campbell-Ewald Company, adver-
tising agency.

HAVING started life in northern California, spent the major part
of my life in the New England and New York area, I am now in
southern California, making the double adjustment to becoming
an Angeleno, I find it extremely pleasant here, after only four years!
My eyes necessarily turn either north or east, from time to time.
Still, | am adjusted, I think.

My children visit me in the summers, otherwise I am single. I work
at the broadcasting of network television shows and my particular
responsibility is the much vilified commercial. Read any of the re-
cent books on the ghastly state of television, select the most ludicrous
Madison Avenue character (transplanted to SoCal) you can find —
perhaps the third one from the left in The Hucksters who shouted
“Check!” and you see your classmate. Still, I find my chosen pro-
fession is an interesting one. In spite of the novels and movies
you have all read or seen, I have known mostly imaginative, interest-
ing, courageous and intelligent people. If they’ve been a trifle crazy,
so much the better.

On leaving college in ’34, 1 spent three years in The Emporium,
San Francisco’s largest department store. You have no idea how
useful it is, in a creative meeting with a client, to tell him quietly
that you spent a year as assistant buyer of a department selling his
products! There followed a year at Macy’s in New York and at
last, as the Great Depression eased, I weaseled my way into the radio
department of J. Walter Thompson. I was shifted for almost a year
to the Chicago office where | found myself in an adjoining office
with Bobby Jones.

War (or rather the clouds of war) interfered, and in September,
1941, shortly after marrying, 1 found myself at 90 Church Street.
In late 1942, I went through the tedious training process to fit a pub-
lic relations officer for duty at sea. Fort Schuyler, Princeton and
Miami each had a crack at teaching me the rudiments of mathe-
matics so that I could navigate and 1943 found me in a swampy
shipyard in East Texas as communications officer on a DE. Two
years later, after chasing around the Atlantic as part of an anti-sub
carrier group, I was detached and sent to a new APD building at

[ 382 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Hingham as executive officer, to find Nat Goodhue as my gallant
commander. We went into commission just as the first atomic
bomb was dropped and finished out a postwar shakedown at Guan-
tanamo.

Meanwhile, with three children, I returned to New York to take
up the advertising game and instead of returning to J. Walter Thomp-
son I spent approximately three-year tours of duty at Roy S. Durs-
tine, Inc., Erwin Wasey & Company and Needham, Louis & Brorby,
Inc., all advertising agencies. In the last assignment I was New
York branch manager for this fine Chicago concern.

My oldest child has just graduated from Wellesley and pursues a
music degree at New York University. Daughter Alice is at Emma
Willard —a junior. Son Tommy is at Fay with a view to entering
St. Paul’s or Andover next year. Dear old dad hopes for the former.

Four years ago I joined Campbell-Ewald to head the Hollywood
office where the major activity is handling network TV and radio
programs for our long-time client, Chevrolet. Every aspect of the
job is stimulating and the people I work with are far removed from
the Hollywood stereotype.

My labors here in Lovelyland (as a cynical friend calls it when
visiting) keep me from pursuing much in the way of hobbies. M{y
major project is a one-hour live Sunday night show, hence my w eek-
ends are shot. The golf course has not seen me in many months and the

sight of a beach is totally unknown. I have purchased a Corvair
(plug!) in the hopes that climbing in and out of it will give me
some much needed exercise. For me at least, California outdoor
living is a myth! I’m either in a TV studio, an office or a car. Never-
theless I like it and as I mentioned above, my life which is so far re-
moved from Cambridge, has a great many compensations.

[ 383 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

WILLIAM FREDERICK EBLING

 

HOME ADDRESS: 125 Steele Rd., West Hartford 7, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Cooley & Co., 100 Pearl St., Hartford 4, Conn.

BORN: Sept. 23, 1913, Bronxville, N.Y. parents: Louis Allen Ebling, Ethel Ber-
rien Laurence,

PREPARED AT: Taft School, Watertown, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932, 1933-1935. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1935.

MARRIED: Ruth Mattison, Sept. 14, 1940, Yonkers, N.Y. CHILDREN: David
Laurence, March 5, 1942; Peter Woodman, Nov. 28, 1944; Laura Dake,
June 2, 1947; Susan Weston, Jan. 20, 1953.

occuPATION: Stockbroker.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, American Cancer Society, 1952-55; chairman, Race
Committee, Cotuit Mosquito Yacht Club, president, Association of Cotuit
Mosquito Yacht Club, 1960; member, Harvard Schools Committee, 1953-
56; occasional lecturer on Securities and the Market, solicitor for Com-
munity Chest, Harvard Fund, Church, etc.

MEMBER OF: Cotuit Mosquito Yacht Club; Harvard Club of Connecticut; Phi
Beta Kappa; various P.T.A.’s.

MY education began on June 5, 1935. On June 4th I thought every
graduate fell into a comfy job and twenty-five years later reported
to Reunion his presidency of some major corporation. On June 4,
1935, I thought suburban living, P.T.A.’s and junior Chamber of
Commerces were suspect institutions. Twenty-five years later I still
do, while a helpless victim of their West Hartford, Connecticut,
manifestations. I am not president (durn it!) and I’m struggling (but
not too hard) to keep up with the Joneses as a stockbroker. My
wife says this sounds awful and I agree.

I have been in sales since graduation, with something of a coast-
to-coast tour of duty from American Airlines right out of college
to sales manager of Plax Corporation and a few stops in between,
with the big career decision in 1951 for stocks and bonds at the

[ 384 ]

eRe

erm
a mrwervamnat LOM SPEEA ARITA INR, HEELERS LOCA ALF OLE IELTS PHT IM ve
ef ee Di BE MRT RENI EDIT PENTEL AL RINE EME IE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

strategic start of the bull market. World War II was a period of
special opportunity and application of Harvard training when I
served four years in the Navy as a Japanese language officer and
liked it.

The big things in my life are “my wife Ruth and four children.
David graduates from Loomis this year and claims no interest in
applying for Harvard. We approve his independent thinking while
deploring his decision, Then, Peter — fourteen, Laura — twelve and
Susie — six. We believe in Cape Cod — especially, Cotuit, and the
integrity of the individual. We think we dare occasionally to be
non-conformists but, in actuality, are rather boring Babbitts,

Harvard has meant a good deal to me all through these years and
has had a good influence on my life. I wish I had accomplished
more since graduation than raise a family, learn to speak Japanese
and occasionally win a race in a fourteen and one-half-foot skiff.
Friends, I suspect that the education of Bill Ebling is really going
to begin on June 5, 1960.

ROBERT LEIGH EDDY

 

HOME appress: Little Compton, R.I.
OFFICE ADDRESS: United Congregational Church, Little Compton, RIL.

BORN: Jan. 1, 1913, Waltham, Mass. parents: George Wilbur Eddy, a. '13,
Sarah Louise Sanders.

PREPARED aT: South High School, Youngstown, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1932, 1933-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; S.T.B., 1938.

MarrieD: Myrtle Alma Goss, June 23, 1939, Cambridge, Mass. cHitp: Robert
Leigh, Jr., Dec. 9, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Anderson Conover Eddy, °37.

occuPaTION: Pastor, United Congregational Church.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, Brockton (Mass.) Ministers’ Union, L038;
president, Windham County (Vt.) Church Council, 1944, Fddy Family

[ 385 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Association of America, 1953-54; secretary, Paxton (Mass.) Fire Depart-
ment, 1947-48; chairman, Fall River Council of Churches Department of
Radio, 1956-57, Southeastern Massachusetts Radio Commission for the
Massachusetts Council of Churches.

MEMBER OF: Rhode Island Congregational Ministers’ Association; Fall River
Ministers’ Association; Little Compton Summer Association (director);

Little Compton Red Cross (director); Harvard Club of Fall River (mem-
bership chairman, 1957).

pusLicaTions: Minister's Monday, Boston, Pilgrim Press, 1948; Pastoral Prayers
through the Year, compiled, edited, with introduction, bibliography and
indices by R.L.E., New York, Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1959, a number of
articles for Congregational magazines.

BEFORE leaving college ] had decided on the ministry for a mix-
ture of reasons, among them the feeling that American religious
life and thought were about to swing “upward” into something
more “modern” and “intelligent” if not intellectual (I was wrong
about that), and that it needed every man who would give himself
to it (I was right about that).

I chose Harvard Divinity School in high regard for its tradition
of religious freedom and its quiet, historical approach. Here, as in
its other schools, the Harvard way is to examine the field thought-
fully, thoroughly and modestly, to respect all thoughtful points of
view, to be sensitive, if not allergic, to dogma, yet to have a base
camp of general, inner convictions, blown but not blown about by
winds of doctrine. After deliberation I set out for the Congrega-
tional fellowship (from the Unitarian) because I felt that in its com-
plexity and growth in numbers, I would be able to find a more con-
genial place somewhere. I felt that there was something still to be
said for the classic Christian theology, complete with doctrine of the
trinity. This last seemed to be an instance of an idea which could
be made comprehensible, useful and even interesting if only the
historic explanations could be scraped off. Big ideas, simple words,
told in true Christian love, that was to be the business, and it still is.

My first church was the seventh and smallest Congregational
church in Brockton, Massachusetts, where I was ordained in 1938,
a poor and very conservative church, but a start. The grand event
of these years was my marriage to Myrtle Alma Goss of Boston in
the Memorial Church by Dean Sperry. Holy, fair and wise is she,
in fact, practically the brains of the organization.

My second church, during most of the war years, was in Wil-
mington, Vermont, for over two years the only active pulpit be-
tween Brattleboro and Bennington, in an immense tract of sparsely

[ 386 ]

 

‘
‘

i
b
+
:

t
é
t
i

‘
i

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

settled field and forest. The year 1944 brought us to Paxton, Massa-
chusetts, and brought us our only child, Robert Leigh, Jr., a distinct
improvement on the previous model. The Paxton years included
joining about everything in town, putting out fires, etc., and also
my first book, Minister's Monday, which was much fun doing.

My present pastorate (since 1953) in this remote (sic) corner of
Rhode Island is in an extremely civilized parish, considering that it
has no bus and no drugstore. A wide variety of people of many in-
terests — natives, summer people, year-rounders (former summer
people staying to be snowed on), keeps me stirring constantly. (The
summer congregations are much bigger than the winter ones.) My
second book, an anthology of full-length pastoral prayers, is a trib-
ute to the graciousness of the men who contributed to it and who
made it the first such that I know of in modern times.

As a sort of hobby, or extra-time pursuit, I have done something
in religious radio which I feel is about twenty-five years behind
where it should be, and this largely the fault of the public and the
good people in the churches. Good religious radio (and how little
of it there is) goes through closed doors and can find idle and un-
consciously hungry minds and feed them. When we weary of
westerns and hit tunes that only bruise, we may be ready for a much
larger, thoughtfully prepared radio ministry. But maybe I'm wrong
about that, too. At least, the better radio ministry should be on the
way.

For a forecast, the big atomic thing will probably not come off,
but something almost as bad may happen, that we shall smother in
grey-flannel complacency, and yield to intellectual and spiritual
inertia as long as the car runs and the job holds. Thus the devil can
have his way at last as, dying from within from homemade dry rot
of the mind, we let our spirits grope down a Tobacco Road of empty
mediocrity with a heart too small in a body too fat. But there would
seem to be a chance, and a good chance too, that a solid, stubborn
remnant, independent before man and humble before the Lord, will
win out in saving us from ourselves, to walk into the Promised Land
of peace, grace and dignity.

[ 387 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

LAWRENCE EDMANDS

 

HOME ADpRESS: 90 Great Plain Ave., Wellesley, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Automation Components Co., P.O. Box 115, Wellesley Hills,
Mass.

BORN: May 3, 1913, Wellesley, Mass. Parents: Frank Albert Edmands, ’oo
Mabel Webb.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935.

MaRRIED: Dorothy Diller Matthew, Oct. 1, 1937, White Plains, N.Y. cHILDREN:
Peter Lawrence, Oct. 2, 1939; Wendy Chellen, Nov. 8, 1940; Frank Albert,
2nd, May 16, 1946.

occupation: Owner, manager, Automation Components Company, specializing
in sales of standard components for special machines; designing and build-
ing of special machinery for fabricating and assembly operations.

OFFICES HELD: Precinct chairman, etc., Red Cross, Red Feather, Heart Fund
fund-raising campaigns, since 1939, Wellesley town meeting member,
1939-41; scoutmaster, 1950-53, 1958; men’s parish representative, St.
Andrew’s Church, Wellesley, since 1957; chairman, Wellesley Heart Fund,
1960,

MEMBER OF: American Society of Tool Engineers.

?

THE requirement to produce an autobiography of the past twenty-
five years brings home the fact that, while my life has not been one
of spectacular material success, it has been a full and happy one, in
a quiet way.

The receding hairline, redistribution of weight, weakening legs,
shortness of wind, etc., are typical of most of us, but they are lia-
bilities that are more than made up for by a wife, family and home
that have all the virtues usually attributed to them — and some of
the faults. What more could one desire!

From college, I went into manufacturing as an apprentice ma-
chinist, in the course of time becoming superintendent of a large
machine shop. In 1951, I left this solid, secure existence to go into

[ 388 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sales work in the machinery field. This led to establishing my own
business, as a manufacturer’s representative, in 1957. If someone
had delineated the trials and tribulations of becoming established in
this work, | doubt that I would have had the courage to start. But
the effort has been most rew arding, i in many ways, and stimulating.
Needless to say, not much time is left for recreation, puttering
around the house, or taking the family on those long-planned excur-
sions.

Meanwhile, while the treadmill is kept oiled, Peter is expressing
himself at Franklin and Marshall College (Fred Bolman please note)
and Wendy 1s preparing herself to become an efficient member of
the female business world; Frank, our youngest hopeful, is looking
forward to bolstering Harvard's athletic squads and assimilating her
culture.

In spite of the lost opportunities of twenty- -five years ago, Har-
vard left me with a whetted sense of curiosity, an appreciation of
the finer things of this life, and friendships thar have been i inspira-
tional.

If anyone is looking for a formula for a happy life, I can advise

an abiding faith in the wavs of the Almighty and His teachings. It
is as simple, or as hard, as that.

JOSEPH SAMUEL EGEL

 

HOME appress: 27 Essex Rd, Sharon, Mass.

OFFICE aporEss: Post Otfice Bldg. Boston 9 Mass.

BORN: March 3, 1914, Lynn, Mass, parents: Abraham Fyecl, Ahee Cohen.
PREPARED at: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932

MarriED: Betty Glassman, June 26, 193% Boston, Mass cniinars: Ruth ah

July 17, 1943; David Jonathan, Dee. ta. teas, Any Jeanne, Aug. yt, tusye
OCCUPATION: Government: service.

[ 3k ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

GEORGE EHRENFRIED

 

HOME ADDRESS: 13 Remington St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: Polaroid Corp., Cambridge, Mass.

BoRN: Oct. 1, 1913, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Albert Ehrenfried, ’02, Grace
Waterman.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1935.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Photographic physicist, Polaroid Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Offices, committee chairmanships, etc., on local and national
level, Photographic Society of America; vice-president, Boston Chapter,
Society of Photographic Scientists and Engineers; member, advisory com-
mittee, 1945-51, faculty, since 1948, Cambridge Center for Adult Education.

MEMBER OF: Photographic Society of America; Society of Photographic Sci-
enusts and Engineers; Optical Society of America; American Association
for the Advancement of Science; Sub Sig Outing Club, Boston; Genesee
Valley Hiking Club, Rochester, N.Y.; Appalachian Mountain Club; Na-
tional Speleological Society (study of caves); Boston Mineral Club.

puBLicaTions: Chapter on electrical resistors in electronic Components Hand-
book (M.I.T. Radiation Lab. Technical Series, 1946); several patents in
color photography; technical articles on photography in professional
journals,

LET'S get the career part over with first, because it is not very ex-
citing. My first real job, and in some respects the most interesting,
was while I was still in college — a summer job for the Great North-
ern Paper Company, prospecting for minerals in their forests up in
Maine. I liked this because it tied in with my interest in the outdoor
life, of which more later.

After graduation I joined the Kodak Research Laboratory in
Rochester, working in a department which is almost as noted for its
output of photographic scientists as for its output of technical ad-

[ 390 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

vances. I was there until mid-1942, developing color printing proc-
esses, mainly for making paper prints from Rodachrome slides.
When the war called, I was able to make use of my earlicr radio
“ham” experience by coming to the Radiation Laboratory at MALT.
In this tremendous and important team effort, my part was to design
and nurse into production certain radar receivers. The systems
containing these sets were rushed into action as soon as the last screw
was adjusted, and they played major roles in winning battles in
many parts of the world.

When “Rad Lab” closed, at the end of 1945, I returned to photog-
raphy by joining Polaroid, where I have been involved in various
projects connected with the company’s one-minute camera. This
job permits me to reside in Cambridge, which I consider a wonder-
ful place to live. My home is two minutes from Widener and only
200 feet from the nearest Harvard freshman dorm.

Although I have many interests, the most important is that of
the outdoors. There is no single word that neatly packages the
activities which occupy my w eckends and vacations; they include
hiking, camping and mountain-climbing i in all seasons, skiing, both
downhill and cross-country, canoe trips, mineral and fossil collect-
ing, cave exploring and other such doings. On these trips I have
covered New England and New York Stare fairly intensively and
have hit the high spots (often literally), in many other regions,
such as the Great Smokies, West Virginia, the Saguenay V alley in
Quebec, the San Juan Mountains in Colorado, several parts of the
Canadian Rockies and Coast Range, etc.

Most of the interest I take in these outdoor sports is not simply
that of engaging in them myself, but is even more that of promot-
ing them and helping people get started in them. This is most ef-
fectively done, of course, through organizations, and [ can hardly
remember a time when I have nor been up to my neck in officer and
committee work in these various clubs and societies. One that’s a
lot of fun is our Sub Sig Outing Club, a small and informal burch,
which somehow manages to carry out such an ambinious and re-
freshingly varied program that older and larger organizations are
starting to sit up and take notice. Just last fall, for instance, we re-
discovered and reopened a lost trail through one of the wildest party
of the White Mountains, and our club plans te maintain this trail as
a public service in the future.

I myself have adopted a certain part of western Maine, the Swit
River region, as my specialty. PE have explored all over at and have

[ 39 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

taken scores of hiking, mountain-climbing and gold-panning parties
there to introduce them to its fine recreational possibilities. One of
the results of these expeditions has been to bring to light a great
and beautiful waterfall, one of the very best in New England, in a
wild and trail-less area, which had previously been known to only
a few local lumberjacks and fishermen.

This type of activity is a good prescripton for keeping one
young, It seems to work, not only on myself, but also on many
others I have met in my travels who, although their calendars run
up as far as eighty, can still scramble up a scree slope like monkeys.
By the way, some of them started after their twenty-fifth reunions!

ROBERT IRWIN ELLIOTT

 

HOME abpress: 1175 York Ave., New York 21, N.Y.

OFFICE abpress: McCann-Erickson, Inc., 485 Lexington Ave., New York, N.Y.

Born: July 6, 1912, New York, N.Y. Parents: Irwin Elliott, Susan Stinson.

PREPARED aT: Deep Springs Preparatory and Collegiate School, Deep Springs,
Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., Cu7 laude, 1935.

Marriep: Dorothy Story Evans, 1945, Chillicothe, Ohio (divorced 1954); Car-
roll Angell Whedon, 1954. cHiLp: Robert Irwin, Jr., May 30, 1948.

occupation: Vice-president in charge of public relations, McCann-Erickson,
Inc., advertising agency,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

YOUR questionnaire was responsible for the following dialogue:
Q. Why did you delay so long in sending information on your-

self? A. I was frozen between a joy of recognition and a passion for
anonymity.

Q. What were you trying to hide? A. Faults.
Q. You're stalling — what did you do after college? A. I studied

[ 392 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

at Columbia Law School for a year and a half, before deciding to
turn to writing. I was successively a reporter, associate editor, and
managing editor of Advertising and Selling.

Q. During World War Il? A. In the Navy. During the first year,
as a public relations officer, I interviewed survivors of Atlantic ship
sinkings. Then to the Pacific aboard the USS New Jersey, flagship,
alternately, of Admirals Spruance and Halsey. Much heat, noise,
and ocean. Not enough sleep, mail, et cetera. Bombardment and
anti-aircraft from Truk to Okinawa and 225,000 criss-crossing miles
between, Two lethal typhoons. We were fifty miles off Tokyo,
Manila, Shanghai, Saigon, but our total sight-seeing was on Ulithi,

Kwajalein, and Majura, “Separated,” as they say so definitely, as a
lieutenant commander. Unbelievably long while it lasted, and
strangely unreal.

Q. Since the war? A. Approximately equal time with Fortune
Magazine, Columbia Broadcasting, and McCann-Erickson, chiefly
in editorial, promotion, and public relations work. At McCann-
Erickson, .1 am responsible for an information program directed to
business, the press, government, and business schools, as well our
fifty-six offices here and abroad. It includes papers, speeches, con-
ferences, advertising and publicity, as well as a Marketing Com-
munications Workshop, an indoctrination and publishing center for
our staff of 4,000. When asked to elaborate, I explain that a busi-
ness or other institution must develop and express its own ideology,
justasa....

Q. Who asked you to elaborate? A. Harvard and my eleven-
year-old son.

Q. How did he react? A. With an abrupt contraction of his atten-
tion span.

Q. What do you envy him most? A. His way with ladies and the
prospect of his living through the time of the great paradox —
when a people most celebrated for materialism will win leadership
in the life of the mind and spirit. Also, the likelihood of his having
more than a glimpse of the Twenty-first Century, from whose peo-

ple, problems, mores, maps, arts, and astral headlines his father
resents being barred.

Q. What books have you read lately: A. The Armada, The Ger-
man General Staff, The Longest Day, The Lien and the Throne,
The Odyssey —A Modern Sequel (as wonderful in Fnetlish as
Homer’s in Greek).

Q. Who are your favorite people? A. Those with good will,

[ 393 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

talent, enjoyment of life, who are not too “certain of certain cer-
tainties.”

Q. Your least favorites? A. People who keep announcing, “I never
look at television.”

Q. Who, exactly, are you? A. I must refer you to some higher
authority.

Q. What do you wish? A. A thousand great years to Harvard.

RICHARD PRESCOTT ELMS

 

appress: 1 Maple Ave., Manchester, Mass.

BorN: March 20, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: Joseph Damon Elms, Annie
Byron Atkinson.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933. DEGREES: aB. (Boston Univ.), 1935; a.m. (Har-
vard Univ.), 1949.
occupation: Education.

NO questionnaire returned.

L 304 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+- HARRY KNIGHT ELSTON, JR.

 

BORN: Oct. 5, 1913, Rochester, N.Y. PARENTS: Harry Knight Elston, Laura

Otis.
PREPARED aT: Santa Barbara School, Carpinteria, Calif.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932. .

pieD: Aug. 15, 1942, Phoenix, Ariz.

HARRY KNIGHT ELSTON, JR., spent one year with our Class.
The Secretary has no information concerning his activities after
leaving college except that he had been a rancher in Phoenix for
five years preceding his death,

KELLS ELVINS

 

HOME AppRESS: Fermo Posta, Albano Laziale (via Roma), Iuly.

BORN: Aug. 15, 1913, Elvins, Mo. parents: Politte Flvins, Florence Kells.

PREPARED AT: John Burroughs School, St. Louis, Mo,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREFS: A.B, ct dade, 1935) AM
Texas),

(Univ. of

[ 395 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

MARRIED: Mimi Heinrich. cuiprEN: Peter (a7. Anne Coleman Wallace); Theo.
dora, GRANDCHILDREN: Lisa Elvins; Elanora Elvins.

HARVARD SON: Peter Elvins, ’55.

occUPATION: Retired.

RICHARD WOOLLEN EMORY

 

HOME AppRESS: 915 Poplar Hill Rd., Baltimore ro, Md.

oFFice appress: Venable, Baetjer & Howard, 1409 Mercantile Trust Bldg.,
Baltimore 2, Md.

BorN: Aug. 20, 1913, Baltimore, Md, parents: German Horton Hunt Emory,
Lucy Imogen Stump.

PREPARED AT: Gilman School, Baltimore, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: $.B., cum laude, 1935; LL.B., cum laude,
1938.

marrieD: Elizabeth Atkinson Burke, Sept. 20, 1938, Alexandria, Va. CHILDREN:
Richard Woollen, Jr., Feb. 21, 1941; John Burke, Feb. 19, 1943.

occupaTioN: Partner, Venable, Baetjer & Howard; general practice of law.

OFFICES HELD: Member, since 1946, president, since 1956, board of trustees,
Gilman School, Baltimore, Md.; Deputy Attorney General of Maryland,
1947-48; member, Board of Natural Resources, 1949-51; member, board
of trustees, Morgan State College, Baltimore, since 1950; chairman, Balti-
more Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, 1956-59; member,
numerous American, State and City Bar Associations.

MEMBER OF: American and Maryland State Bar Associations; Bar Association

of Baltimore City; American Law Institute; Merchants Club and Elkridge
Club, Baltimore.

UPON graduating from college I attended Harvard Law School
for three years. This latter institution I hold in the highest esteem
and rank it above the College, Upon graduating from the Law
School, 1 entered the general practice of law which has been a most
active and interesting life. I had the usual military duty (Navy —
44 months) during World War II. I have had the usual civic, chari-

[ 396 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

table and professional chores, some of the most important of which
are mentioned above. But my daily life has been and is that of an
active law practice. I do principally business, tax and trial work,
but I have done, at least once, almost any type of work that a lawyer
may be called upon to do.

As noted above, I have been married since 1938, and have two
sons. The elder son is a freshman at Yale. This sort of thing hap-
pens to some Harvard fathers.

I have had the extreme good fortune of being happy in my pro-
fession and work, and happy in my married and family life. I have
enjoyed the customary recreations which, in my case, have been
hunting, fishing, golf, gardening, sailing, bridge and a modest (in-
sufficient) amount of travel.

If I could do the past twenty-five years over again, I can see no
reason why I should do them any differently. 1 am conscious that
I have a great deal to be thankful for, not the least of which is the
Harvard education which has stood me in good stead.

EUGENE FRANCIS ENDICOTT

reo eee

   

HOME ADDRESS: 159 Summer St., Hingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Haussermann, Davison & Shattuck, 15 State Sr, Boston, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 18, 1913, Chelsea, Mass. parents: Winthrop Tingley Endicott,
Alice Rand.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933. DEGREE: LL.a. (Boston Univ.), 1936.

MARRIED: Frances Coburn Anderson, Oct. 2, 1938, Hingham, Mass. catpars;
Judith Rand, Oct. 23, 1945; Douglas Winthrop, Feb. 7, 19y8, Carol Ruth,
Feb. 19, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Attorney,

OFFICES HELD: Member, since 1949, chairman, since tgst, Elingham School

{ 397]

HARVARD CLASS OF I 935

Planning and Construction Committee; chairman, Hingham Board of
Zoning Appeals, since 19553 clerk, First Parish in Hingham, since 1955.
MEMBER OF: Massachusetts, Boston and Plymouth County Bar Associations:

Society of Former Special Agents, F.B.I.; Old Colony Lodge, AF. & A.M.;

Hingham Yacht Club.
BECAUSE of problems existing in the 1932-33 period and shared,
I am sure, by many of my classmates, I transferred in 1933 from
Harvard to Boston University School of Law, a move possible in
that era which is regarded as somewhat prehistoric by our children.
In due course I received my LL.B., was admitted to the Massachu-
setts and Federal bars in 1936 and thereafter settled down to the
problems involved in building up a practice in the suburban area of
Boston’s South Shore.

This interesting, challenging, sometimes lucrative, and always
pleasant way of life came to an abrupt end for me, as it did for most
of us, in December, 1941. I applied for appointment as a special agent
of the F.B.L, and upon acceptance I entered into a tour of duty in-
volving residence for varying periods of time in Washington, Louis-
ville, Richmond, New Haven and finally as resident agent in Hart-
ford and association with as dedicated and hardworking a group of
public servants as I have ever seen.

Toward the end of 1945 we began to look forward to a return to
the practice of law and a more settled way of life. After considering
opportunities in Connecticut which we had come to like very much,
and in New Hampshire where both my wife and I had many ties,
we finally settled down again to live in Hingham and to practice in
Boston. We have always enjoyed the well advertised virtues of
suburban living and I firmly believe that the advantages of family
living and growing space, recreational and educational benefits,
friendships and the opportunity to participate in the thousand and
one local projects and problems greatly outweigh the problems of
lawns, leaves, storm windows, etc., and of commuting, a minor but
constant irritant which seems to grow worse as we pass from trains
to buses to super highways to what next.

While I did not have the opportunity to complete my courses at
Harvard, I am profoundly grateful for the lessons I learned in my
two years there. There can be no question about the importance of
education in our country and in the world today. If there is any
validity in Arthur Schlesinger’s thesis that we are moving toward
that condition of private opulence and public squalor which has
always marked the decay of empires, then, in my opinion, Harvard

[ 398]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and the other great educational institutions stand as the one strong
bulwark in the preservation of whatever we and our contemporaries
have achieved in the past twenty-five years and of the better world
which we hope our children will create.

HENRY WILLIAM ENGEL

 

HOME appREss: 10 Gerlach Pl., Larchmont, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Express Co., 30 Church St., New York, NY.

BorN: Feb. 6, 1914, New York, N.Y. parents: Isidore Engel, Frances Beck.

PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, New York, N.Y.; Riverdale School, New York,
N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., cumt laude, 1935.

MaRRIED: Edith J. Schick, Sept. 8, 1940, New York, N.Y. curepren: Judith
Claire, July 25, 1944; Virginia Nan, June 4, 1949.

occupaTIon: Editor of directories for American Express Credit Card Plan.

THE chief change since the last Report has been a radical switch in

activities. After a good number of years, owning and managing

my own textile manufacturing business, I have become an editor

and writer: editing for bread and butter, writing on a free-lance

basis.

Life outside of New York City has made a difference to all of
us. It has been possible to put down roots and become part of a
community, both adults and children, in a manner impossible in a
large city. While not particularly active in community affairs, |
have found enjoyment and fulfillment in several. We are trying
hard to elect a Democrat or two in Westchester County, and we

may yet succeed.

[ 399 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

JONATHAN SEIFERTH ENGLAND

 

HOME abprEss: 3001 Ellicott St. N.W., Washington 8, D.C,

OFFICE apprEss: Devlin Lumber & Supply Corp., 4865 Bethesda Ave., Bethesda
14, Md.

BORN: Nov, 12, 1913, Pittsfield, Mass. parents: Albert Charles England, ’or,
Aida Seiferth.

PREPARED AT: Pittsfield High School, Pittsfield, Mass.; Phillips Academy,
Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., cu? laude, 1935.

MARRIED: Patricia Anne Goldsmith, Nov. 30, 1944, Washington, D.C. cHILpREN:
Elizabeth Anne, March 9, 1947; Laurie Lee, March 12, 1949; Patricia Joan
and Lenore Alison (twins), May 15, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Albert Charles England, Jr., ’33, M.p., 37; Richard England,
"q2.

occupation: Vice-president and secretary, Devlin Lumber & Supply Corpora-
tion and affiliated companies.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Washington Association of Credit Men; member,
advisory board and membership chairman, Home Builders of Metropolitan
Washington; member, Industrial Committee, Bethesda-Chevy Chase Cham-
ber of Commerce, Schools and Scholarships Committee, Harvard Club of
Washington, various committees, United Givers Fund, Boy Scouts.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington; Honorable Order of Kentucky
Colonels, Woodmont Country Club; Peter Tare, Inc.,; Associated Builders
and Contractors of Maryland, Inc.; Washington Board of Trade.

SO much has happened in the past twenty-five years since I left.
Harvard that the pattern of 1935~50 is anything but an even one.
During college I used to pride myself on being able to make plans
and go through with them: it is only recently that I have been able
to make solid plans for more than three and four years in the future.

As soon as I graduated from college I left on a most remarkable
trip to the West Coast with the U.S. lacrosse team, where we pro-
ceeded to lose the world championship to a very able Canadian team,

[ 400 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

however, the friendships made on that trip have continued on
through many years. We barnstormed through Canada on the way
back, ending in Toronto, and I have promised my family to take
them back to Lake Louise which must look just as beautiful today
as it did then.

Starting in August of 1935, I took the two-year merchandise
training course at Filene’s in Boston, where I got some very thorough
training. Then on to Syracuse, New York, for two additional years
in department store work. Just prior to the war I started in some
special sales work outside the department store field, finding it very
much to my liking, but Pearl Harbor put a very firm dent in the
plans at that time.

I became a navy officer in 1942, taking elementary training at
Northwestern University’s Tower Hall which didn’t look much
like a ship but which certainly gave several thousand of us our first
real experience with navy life. My only other prev lous experiences
with the Navy had been three short athletic trips to the Naval
Academy in Annapolis, where I stayed at Bancroft Hall, and two
short afternoons in Marblehead during college, where 1 became
very seasick without any difficulty at all.

Commander Bulkley, who had just returned from the Philippines,
gave one of the several talks to the naval midshipmen in Chicago
about PT boats and I found myself thoroughly enthused about
them. Without any real knowledge of seamanship or navigation
I became overnight a very ambitious student of small boats — an
enthusiasm which has lasted and come in very handy ever since.
We chased a few Axis submarines around Narrag: ansett Light Ship,
but our real operation began in the commissioning in New York
of Squadron Nine in late 1942. We went through the Panama
Canal and began combat service at Guadalcanal, going through the
Russell Islands, New Georgia, Bougainville and ending with a very
hectic but uneventful (from a military point of view) patrol into
Rabaul Harbor.

I returned to Melville, Rhode Island, in mid-1944, some forty
pounds lighter and some thirty-six shades darker than IT had left.
I proceeded to enjoy the experiences of teaching during the day at
the PT School and relaxing at night amid the unique social lite of
Newport. I also found time to manage the PT “Night Raiders”
football team which defeated Harvard i in the Stadium that year —

the only time I ever sat on the “w rong’ ’ side of the Stadium before
or since,

[ yor ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

But in late 1944 the call of the wild was a little too much, on]
this time it was the call of Smith College, and Pat Goldsmith and
I were married November 30, 1944, in Washington, and darned if
I’m not still here in the Presidential City!

Having learned some very good lessons on independence in the
Navy, as soon as the war was over I formed my own business repre-
senting some manufacturers in this area and found that the work was
lucrative buc that it required a tremendous amount of travel —a
difficulty in raising a family. In 1947 our first girl arrived, in 1949
our second and in 1953, at the earnest request of my very patient
wife, I joined Andy Devlin here at the Devlin Lumber and Supply
Corporation where we are joint owners of a growing and most in-
teresting lumber operation. We are very close to the construction
industry, which I like a great deal, and I have found (just as I did
at College when I used to admire the wonderful humor of Arthur
and Johnny Duffy) that I get along superbly with Irish fellers,
especially when they are as interesting and amiable as Andy.

The subsequent merry result of this pleasant home life was that
Pat and I had two more children in 1957 —this time twin girls.
Now if Pat will only play “jumping center” this will give us soon
a very handsome all-girl basketball team, and I can sit on the bench
as coach. We also have acquired a new home with enough bed-
rooms (at last!) to take care of the whole sorority house and a
female dog, which makes me King of the Roost with no competi-
tion.

For hobbies I find that athletics is still my number one favorite,
whether it’s golf or tennis or fishing, and I am most impartial ex-
cept that I take it a lot easier than ever before. Finding that Cam-
bridge is a long way from Washington, I cheer for the only red-
shirted football team in the area (the Washington Redskins), and
look a little winsomely at the fellows who manage to go up to Cam-
bridge or take other trips to the West Indies or Canada, for special
fishing or hunting. The only real hunting I ever did was in the
Solomon Islands, where I shot a crocodile at 300 feet with one shot
of a B.AR., and since I took only one shot and got one nine-foot
crocodile, I think I had best quit while I’m ahead.

As 1960 rolls around I have become very cheerfully philosophical
indeed, Speaking with the utmost sincerity I respect tremendously
the achievements of others in the Class about which I have heard,

and am resolutely determined to do as much for Harvard as Harvard
has done for me.

[ 402 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CARL ROBERT ENGLUND, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 76 Ridgeview Drive, Pleasantville, N.Y. _

OFFICE AppRESS: United Parcel Service, 331 E. 38th St. New York 16, N.Y.

BORN: July 27, 1914, Buffalo, N.Y. parents: Carl Robert Englund, Ethel Isabel
Groat.

PREPARED AT: Freehold High School, Freehold, N_J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932; 1934-1937. DEGREE: A.B., 1935(37).

MaRRIED: Irene Elizabeth Kinne. cHmpreN: Julie Irene, Sept. 16, 1947; Carl
Robert, 3d, June 6, 1951; Jill Elizabeth, June 19, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Transportation — national advertising and sales promotion mana-
ger, United Parcel Company.

THE depression plus my own slowness to catch on in classes inter-
rupted my stay in college from 1932 to 1934. Barnstorming around
the Far West for work landed me in a railroad roundhouse, then
in some exciting locomotive service and a determined area of in-
terest for the future.

After graduation in 1937, a series of happenstances led to operat-
ing a series of motor caravan tours throughout Furope during the
summers of 1937 and 1938 and two longer trips, one overland to
Persia, the other to Nairobi, Kenya from Alexandria, Fgypt. Youth
and brashness got me past otherwise impossible obstacles — trailing
a Nairn convoy at Sixty miles per hour across the rocky desert to
Baghdad, ferrying station wagons across the Tigris and Euphrates
rivers in round-bottom rush boats; navigating by compass and x
number of paces from three camel skeletons to the next grisly point
of reckoning in the upper Sudan desert.

In between these tours, I completed a very full year of work at
Yale’s graduate seminar in railroad operation, management and f-
nance, sallying forth to make my fortune in marketing and sales
development for railroads. Though I wanted to work for the rail-

[ 403 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

roads, they did not want me. Outside of one offer to begin as an
apprentice dining car steward, my efforts fell on very dead ears,
Pre-war stints with J. C. Penney Company, Socony-Vacuum and
Western Electric took the place of my railroad hopes, taught me
volumes in the finer arts of corporate advertising and sales promotion.

During the war, four years were spent in the Navy sailing the
seven seas and “visiting” many of the principal action areas during
this time. Activities ranged from minesweeping and salvage to ship-
piloting. My last few months, the most rewarding ones, were spent
on a shore assignment in California with primary responsibility for
certain Navy railroad and trucking operations.

While I was on terminal leave, New York Central’s doors took a
determined battering, and in May, 1946, I joined them to do adver-
tising and sales promotion work. The next nine years at Central
were wonderful years that passed all too swiftly. On the west coast
I had met a young lady who had spent the war years logging pilot
hours ferrying B-24s and B-26s as a WASP. Unraveling the red
tape for releasing her from a business manager’s job in a California
high school district, we met at midpoint, were married and, between
a pair of quickie railroad strikes, managed a hurried honeymoon
through the northwest.

Between 1947 and 1954 we acquired a house, two girls and a boy
plus the usual handyman work. Despite everything, we managed
annual safaris to California to visit our parents. In 1955, having
originally made my major bet on the future of rail passenger service,
the time came to switch to another field. I am now working as
national advertising and sales promotion manager for the common-
carrier division of the nation’s largest delivery service. Before these
notes are printed, I expect to be in business for myself with two of
my former employers among the clients,

As a typically harried commuter always working against the
nagging deadlines of the graphic arts field, there has been very little
time or energy to spare for engaging in the community enterprises
that so many of my confréres have. This type of activity has been
left to the distaff side, my wife being most active in everything from
Community Council and Garden Clubs to schools and to the national
committee of the Wing Scouts, What time I do get off in the sum-
mer is usually spent traveling around the country with a small camp-
ing trailer in tow behind our station wagon. We've pretty much
managed to cover the United States and are now saving against the

day and the time when foreign fields can be invaded.

[ 404 ]

—"

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Growing with our active, young family, we have acquired a hese
of wonderful memories with each new day opening another interest-
ing vista of things to do. As a fitting climax, after what appears to
be a lifetime of trying, the gates are beginning to swing open within
the railroad industry to do a real job of sales development and pro-
motion. With any luck at all, our next twenty years should be the
busiest and the most soul-rewarding, ever.

MAXWELL ENKIN

 

ADDRESS: 40 Wellesley Rd., East Natick, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 19, 1913, Framingham, Mass. Parents: Samuel Enkin, Dora
Krasalofsky.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MARRIED: Sophie Cashman, Dec. 31, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Government service.

NO questionnaire returned.

[ os |

HARVARD CLASS OF 193§

t+ JOHN ENDICOTT ESTEY

 

porn: April 9, 1912, Billerica, Mass. PaReNTs: Harold Watson Estey, Elsie
Hayden (Mrs. J. V. Hussey).

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.

pirp: March 9, 1936, New York, N.Y.

JOHN ENDICOTT ESTEY spent two years with our Class. He
was a member of the freshman football squad. After leaving college
he attended business school and then became associated with the
Regal Shoe Company in New York City. He was survived by his
mother and two brothers.

WESLEY MORT EVANS

 

HOME apprEss; 321 W. Lehigh Ave., Munhall, Pa.

OFFICE apbREss: 137 E. Eighth Ave., Homestead, Pa.; Medical Dept., Homestead
District Works, U.S. Steel Corp., Homestead, Pa.

BorN: Dec. 26, 1912, Homestead, Pa. parents: Frederic Wesley Evans, Hazel
Glendoline Mort.

[ 406 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Munhall High School, Munhall, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933. DEGREES: 8.B. (Univ. of Pittsburgh), 1935; sep.
(ibid.), 1939.

marrieD: Cleopha R. Mosbacher, April 19, 1941, Washington, D.C. cattpars:
Bronwyn Weslcy, April 13, 1943; Scott Wesley, May 17, 1936.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

MEMBER OF: Pennsylvania and Allegheny County Medical Societies; American
Medical Association; Academy of Psychosomatic Medicine; American
Geriatrics Society; Industrial Medical Association; Industrial Medical
Association of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh Playhouse Association, Western
Pennsylvania Club (Schools Committee).

TO me the year 1935 was no shining goal, but merely a significant
milestone in a long, difficult climb, during the depression-ridden
years, toward an education in medicine.

In 1939 I received my M.D., and after a year or so at the Mercy
Hospital in Pittsburgh, decided to apply for a commission and
active duty. It seemed obvious that we were headed for war, and
getting in on the ground floor appealed to me, at least at that time.
As a result, I was on active duty in the Medical Corps, US. Army,
for five years, the first of which was pre-Pearl Harbor, and the
first two being spent in Washington, D.C. Those were exciting
years: the first job and the first real independence (compatible
with AR, of course), the first (and only) marriage, the first child,
the first war. Early in 1943 I was transferred to Mississippi (war
is, indeed, hell), Alabama, thence to the U.k.

For the next two years (England and, later, Belgium), as chief of
the medical service of a specialized general hospital (NP), I had a
rare opportunity in psychosomatic medicine, During the Bulge we
had several anxious days and were finally chased from our hospital.
This, of course, did not constitute a major reversal to our side, and
about October, 1945, I found myself back at the ranch, no longer
employed by Uncle Sam (w hich was my idea).

Inasmuch as Scott was born in May, 1946, it is only fitting and

proper to note, at this point, that I few home from Paris late in
July of 1945 for a thirty-day leave.
Since November of 1945, I have been engaged in private practice
(internal medicine) and in industrial medicine (U.S. Steel), and in
about equal parts. Recently I have become more interested in the
organizational aspects of medicine and have been tempted to de
vote full time to industrial medicine.

Cleo and I have run the gamut of the usual fairly-small town
organizations, pscudo-cultural, doing good, ete. Our principal: in-

[ 407 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

terests are our children. Our lovely Bronwyn, now sixteen, is an
honor student, whose many extracurricular activities include re-
gional, state and national rifle-shooting championships, thus attest-
ing to her army background of being born in Walter Reed Hospital!

Scott, at thirteen, is making sudden, rather startling progress
toward maturity. Certainly, something other than a common in-
terest in sports cars has brought us closer together in the past year
or two. Yes, I drive a red Alfa Romeo — you may draw your own
conclusions,

Bron and Scott are, I believe, keeping their parents fairly young.
In return, we are stimulating them to rise above the cult of medi-
ocrity and security which seems characteristic of the times. We
take an active interest in our local schools and, along similar lines,
are helping to restore the two-party system to local government,

In summary, this report covers a period of growing up, personally
and professionally, of fighting a war, of loving, marrying and rais-
ing a family —all very fundamental and earthy activities — and
I wouldn’t change much of it, if I could.

GEORGE EVASHWICK

 

HOME appress: 204 Roswell Ave., Long Beach, Calif.

OFFICE abvRESS: 1217 Obispo Ave., Long Beach, Calif.

BoRN: Feb, 19, 1915, Turtle Creek, Pa. parents: Nicholas Evashwick, Anna
Martinovich.

prepareD aT: Turtle Creek Union High School, Turtle Creek, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: a.B., cum laude, 1935; M.p. (Jefferson
Medical Coll.), 1939.

marriep: Helen E. Holding, Jan. 7, 1943, Helena, Mont. cHILDREN: George

Edward, July 25, 1947; Connie Joanne, Jan. 1, 1949; Linda Sue, Aug. 8
1951; William Thomas, Sept. 29, 1953.

[ 408 ]

—_

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: Michael Edward Evashwick, wv.s., '30.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association, Los Angeles County Medical
Association; American College of Surgeons; International College of
Surgeons; Southwest Surgical Congress; Long Beach Surgical Society,
American Association of Railway Surgeons, American Board of Surgery
(diplomate).

AFTER graduation in 1935, I followed the path taken by Ben
Franklin and went to Philadelphia. Unlike Franklin I did not attain
fame, fortune or great wisdom, but I did get a sound medical edu-
cation at Jefferson Medical College, from which I graduated in
1939. Westward then, to Pittsburgh, where I interned at Allegheny
General Hospital. There, the most fortunate event of my life oc-
curred when I met my future wife, Helen Holding, whom ‘I married
three years later on January 7, 1943. After finishing my internship,
I worked in a hospital until I went on active duty i in the Army in
July, 1941. Thus began an Odyssey which lasted for six and one-
half years. In November, 1941, I was sent to the Panama Canal
Zone, where I was stationed when war broke out. In August, 1942,
I volunteered for a special assignment with a unit being organized at
Helena, Montana. This momentous decision resulted in my becoming
a surgeon with the First Special Service Force, a fighting unit com-
posed of Canadian and American troops, which was trained to do a
hazardous demolition job in Norway. Along with the rest of the
troops, I learned to ski, to make parachute jumps, to fire all types
of weapons, to set off demolitions, to survive in the Arctic, to run a
track-laying cargo-carrier and that old infantry favorite — how to
be happy though hiking.

The result was the formation of a crack fighting unit with an
esprit-de-corps second to none. Fortunately, our original mission
was called off. However, during the next two vears we engaged in
considerable combat. Our first mission was to participate in the re-
capture of Kiska. Then we went to Naples via Casablanca and Oran.
After engaging in the fighting below Cassino, up one muddy hill
and down the other in the rain, I have never been able to face the
thoughts of going on a hunting trip. Then came the months on the
Anzio beachhead, where I made my last home deliveries, five of
them. On the push to Rome, I had the misfortune of having my aid
station blasted by German artillery and wound up in the hospital
for a month. They awarded me the Purple Heart and Silver Scar.
My wounds healed in time for me to get in on the landings in

[ 409 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

southern France. Thence to the Italian border, northern France,
Germany, and, finally, to Norway, where I spent four months.
After my return [ was stationed at New Jersey, then New Mexico,
where I finally was discharged in 1948. Having an opportunity to
learn more surgery, | took a residency in the Veterans Hospital at
Albuquerque, where I spent three years. Then a year at Chillicothe,
Ohio, three years in Gainesville, Texas, and, for the past five years,
here in Long Beach, California, where I have been practising sur-
gery, Our four children are the j joy of our lives, and we hate the
thought of the problems facing them. However, we try to teach
them to cope with their problems, to stick up for their rights, to
maintain their freedom and independence, to be patriotic and love
their country, to try to take care of themselves rather than to look
to others to take care of them, to love each other, to be kind to and
considerate of others, to be fair and to live by the Golden Rule.
Perhaps this is an impractical and idealistic program, but if it suc-

ceeds Pam sure that they will do their share to make the world a
better place i in which to ‘live.

JOHN CURTIS EWER

 

HOME ADoRESS; 64 Beechmont St, Worcester 9, Mass.

orrice aporrss: Norton Co., Worcester 6, Mass.

Borax: Nov. 25, 1911, Brookline, Mass. parents: Herbert Louis Ewer, ’oo,
Louise Pierce Kittredge.

preparrp at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

VEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934.

Marrigp: Barbara Howe Pierpont, June 5, 1937, Worcester, Mass. CHILDREN:
Barbara Kittredge, March 18, 1939; Sarah Lee, Jan. 3, 1944.

occupation: Manager of new products, Norton Company.

orrices HELD: Managing director, Norton Grinding Wheel Co., Lrd., England,
1951-57; director, Behr-Manning, Ltd., Belfast, Northern Ireland, 1953-573

[ 410 ]

2 51TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
member, board of governors, Sherrardswood School, Welwyn Garden City,
England, 1953-56.

MEMBER OF: Prouts Neck (Maine) Country Club (vice-president); Tatnuck
Country Club, Worcester, Mass.

MY mind is always looking forward to the good things of the
future, not the events of the past, so it’s going to be a little difficult
for me to turn backwards and tell the story of my thoughts and
deeds during the past twenty-five years. Anyway, here goes.

With the exception of my happy marriage, by far the most im-
portant event in my life since college took place the day Norton
Company plucked me from a sales job in New England and offered
me, after a short training period, the job of assistant general manager
of its English plant. That day was December 30, 1949. That dav
life really began for all of us. Pll never forget driving back to my
home in Dover, Massachusetts, that evening from the main office
of Norton Company in Worcester. All 1 could think of was “Would
the family be as enthusiastic as I was?” “Would they really want
to leave their nice home in the perfect town of Dover and move
‘kit and caboodle’ to a foreign land 3,000 miles away — and for an
indefinite period too?” Barbara said immediately, “Call the man
tonight before he changes his mind!” The die was cast and off
we went the following spring.

Life was tough the first year. We missed our friends, families
and the old New England sunshine. Food and coal were still rationed
and it seemed that England was going to live in damp austerity
forever. But in the summer of 1951, life suddenly began to brighten.
Rationing ended. The weather improved. I was made managing
director of our fast-growing English factory which now employed
about 750 people. We were getting to know our British friends
and were finding them cordial, receptive and fine sportsmen. Thev
all seemed to like the same things we did, outdoor life, skiing, ten-
nis, golf, the nineteenth hole, etc. Business was growing by leaps
and bounds, the plant was producing and selling two to three times
as much and still making good profits. The export business to the
Continent and Scandinavia was also growing and this enabled me
to take many trips from England to our distributors in Oslo, Stock-
holm, Copenhagen, Brussels, Rotterdam, etc. [T think one year |
made thirteen trips “abroad.”

Besides new friends, a fascinating job, lots of outdoor life, inelud-
ing an annual skiing trip to Austria with the whole family, there
were other advantages, perhaps even more important. Our twe

[41]

_——

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

girls were receiving a fine education. They started out as day
scholars in a private coeducational boarding school, a rare type of
school in either the United States or England. The headmaster there
was surprised at the good grounding our then eleven-year-old daugh-
ter had. This is a warning to you Americans who run down the Ameri-
can school systems in general, for I believe that all private schools
and many public schools here are fully as good as private and free
schools in England up to age eleven. Past that age, I really cannot
compare yet, except by telling you that Kit finished an English
boarding schoo] and then entered the sophomore class at Smith,
having gained one year on her former Winsor classmates. Perhaps
I can remember in our next report to complete this story based on
Sally, now in the second class at Milton Academy.

More important, I believe, than the education of the child is the
education of the adult, in this case, Barbara and myself. Like most
Americans, we believed, before living in England, that the American
way of life was the “only” way of life. We believed that our “stand-
ard of living” was the only “standard of living.” Churchill once
said in a speech in the United States, “Our (British) standard of
living is none of your business.” How right! For the British prefer
their standard. Very few British who move to the United States
really prefer living here to their own country. When we Ameri-
cans use the term “standard of living,” we refer to materialistic
items, warmth, more cars per person, fancy country clubs, etc. In
general, the British include these items, but a lot of other items too,
such as opportunity for the pursuit of knowledge, tradition and
background, centuries of experience, etc. These feelings are hard
to explain. Perhaps the following one sentence will give a clue.
Such a horrible era as the era of McCarthyism never could happen
in England. In short, living in England taught Barbara and me to
respect, understand and appreciate another point of view on the
general subject of “how to live.”

In the first few days of 1957, while on a skiing holiday in Austria,
I was offered a new job for Norton Company in the United States.
Of course, I was thrilled at first and so cabled the parent company
in Worcester. But this time my family did not share my enthusiasm.
In fact, small daughter Sally refused to return to her native land!

Now it is the fall of 1959. Kit, now twenty, is a senior at Smith
College. She is completely American and regrets that she got
cheated out of a whole year in Northampton because of her English
experiences. Sally, now fifteen and who did stay in England an

[412 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

extra year, is fast becoming Americanized and now admits she
loves her American boarding school just as much as she did her
English boarding school at Bemmenden in Kent. Barbara and 1?
Well, we're slowly readjusting and just beginning to realize that
life, after all, is “what” you make it. It doesn’t really matter “where.”

What about the future? Well, I for one am really looking forward
to it. Next month I receive my twenty-five-year gold watch from
Norton Company. Later on in the month, the H-Y football game.
Next year in February I want to return to Johnny Seesaws in
Peru, Verniont, for a little skiing. Then in June, 1960, Kit’s gradua-
tion (I hope!), immediately followed by Reunion! What more
could a man want!

Finally, I’m looking forward to still another new job at Norton
Company which I started only this August. My title is manager of
new products which means that I search for, screen, evaluate and
finally select new products for Norton to make and/or sell. Such
products must be needed by industry and fall within the broad
scope of Norton Company’s vast know-how, either in manufactur-
ing or selling. Any ideas, classmates?

See you in June.

RICHARD WATERS FARLOW

 

HOME appress: 75 Lawton Rd., Needham 9:2, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 12, 1913, Weston, Mass, pareNts: John Smith Farlow, ‘os, Fadich
Katherine Morse.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1931-1935. DEGREES! A.B, 1934 (36); MAA, fora

MaRRIED: Ruth M. Asendorf, Nov. 10, 1945, Rumson, NJ. crmpers: Richard
Waters, Jr, Sept. 3, 1946; Susan Woodford, Aug. za, ryt.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Smith Farlow, Jr, ‘32, Maa, "34.

[ 413 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

occuPATION: Site planning.

MEMBER OF: American and Boston Societies of Landscape Architects; New

England Chapter, American Institute of Planners, American Institute of
Planners (associate member).

AFTER graduation I entered the Department of Landscape Archi-
tecture, Graduate School of Design. During 1938-39, I traveled in
Europe. Upon my return I completed a thesis for a Master’s degree
and then started to try to earn a living.

My business career has been varied to say the least — city and
site planning, landscape architecture and civil engineering. I have
been overseas while doing classified work for the Military and in
the course of my planning work I have even found myself in an
emu’s cage (neither one of us liked it).

Ruth and I are enjoying the growing-up of our children. I even
enjoy watching Rick following in my footsteps at school in foot-
ball! In spite of my advanced age, I still enjoy skiing and hope to
be left way behind by the children within the year. If my horse-
loving daughter has her way, [ll be riding a horse very soon. I
can hardly wait —for the liniment, that is! The last twenty-five
years have certainly raced by with many high points and some low
points.

To be continued — in the Fiftieth Class Report!

THOMAS WOHLSEN FARMER

  

HOME AppREsS: 1304 Mason Farm Rd., Chapel Hill, N.C.

OFFICE appress: School of Medicine, University of North Carolina, Chapel
Hill, N.C.

BoRN: Sept. 18, 1914, Lancaster, Pa, parents: Clarence Ravenal Farmer, Laura
C, D. Wohlsen.

preparep at: Lancaster High School, Lancaster, Pa,

[ 414 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: a.B., cum laude, 1935; a.m. (Duke Univ.),
1937; M.D., cum laude (Harvard Univ.), 1941.

MARRIED: Phyllis Edna McCormick, July 19, 1941, Boston, Mass. cHitorrs:
Pamela Ann, May 26, 1943; Thomas Wohlsen, Jr., June 3, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Clarence Richard Farmer, M.8.a. "42.

occuPATION: Physician, professor of neurology and head of division of neu-
rology, School of Medicine, University of North Carolina.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, American Academy of Neurology, 1955-37; Medical
Advisory Board of National Multiple Sclerosis Society; Medical Advisory
Board of Myasthenia Gravis Foundation.

MEMBER OF: American College of Physicians, American Neurological Associa-

tion; American Academy of Neurology, Southern Society for Clinical
Research.

PUBLICATIONS: Thirty-five medical articles on clinical and laboratory investiga-
tions.

AFTER graduate study at Duke University in psychology, I en-
joyed four busy years at Harvard Medical School. Then I married,
and Phyllis and I have enjoyed many happy years together.

My specialty training in internal medicine and neurology con-
sumed five years spent at Boston City Hospital and the Johns Hop-
kins Hospital in Baltimore, Maryland. This long program was in-
terrupted by military duty, as a physician in the Navy.

In 1948 I accepted a position as assistant professor at a new medi-
cal school in Dallas, Texas. With our two small children Phyllis
and I went to the great southwest, and we enjoyed life in Dallas
very much. After concentrated evening studies | was duly exam-
ined and certified by the American Boards in internal medicine and
in neurology in 1950. This made me a specialist on paper, although
I shall spend the rest of my life trying to achieve this status in fact.
In 1951 I was appointed professor and acting head of the department
of medicine at the Southwestern Medical School in Dallas.

In 1952 I accepted my present appointment as head of neurology
at the newly expanded medical school at the University of North
Carolina in Chapel Hill. The opportunities of opening a new teach-
ing hospital, of arranging a new curriculum, and watching the staff
and research activities grow have been most rew: arding to me. Many
Harvard graduates are associated with me on the faculty, and Har-
vard Medical School graduates come here to intern each year,

During 1958 the whole family went to Copenhagen, ‘Denmark,
for a year. I had a fellowship for research in muscle phy sialogy at
the medical school. The children enjoyed new experiences at their
schools, while Phyllis struggled with her Danish in the little stores,
At Christmastime we went skiing in Norway, and at Faster we were

[415 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

in Rome. It was a very valuable experience and gave us a chance
to get “our batteries recharged.”

Our daughter, Pamela, entered the eleventh grade at the North-
ampton School for Girls in September, 1959. Massachusetts seems
to be far away now. Fortunately our son, Tim, is still happy to be
in seventh grade at Chapel Hill. We are happily settled in this de-
lightful university town of Chapel Hill. I participate in our school
and church activities, as well as the local country club. As a con-
sultant to the National Institute of Health I make periodic visits to
Bethesda, Maryland, and I attend a variety of medical meetings.
We spend most of our summers at China Lake in Maine, my wife’s
home. Our greatest hope is to remain healthy and happy.

SAYWARD HOWARD FARNUM

 

HOME appress: ‘“Cloudlands,” Marlboro, N.H.

Born: Aug. 9, 1911, Brockton, Mass. parents: Frank Sayward Farnum, Mary
Porter Churchill.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935.
UNMARRIED.

occupation: Retired manufacturer,
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; St. Bernard Fish & Game Club of Quebec;
Travelers Club; American Racing Association; American Meteorological

Society; First Corps of Cadets, Paul Revere Lodge, AF. & A.M.; Beta
Theta Pi.

pusLications: Associated Press correspondence during travels; articles on

artillery tactics in various military publications; a battalion history; guest
editorials in newspapers.

IMMEDIATELY after graduation I spent the better part of a year
in traveling some 48,000 miles on an around-the-world junket. This

[ 416 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

afforded me an opportunity to see many remote places and the en-
suing adventures enabled me to participate in most enjoyable con-
tacts with journalism. Upon my return [ joined Ginn & Company
and became their production editor.

Along with classmates, Dean Cogswell and Tom Huntoon, some
four years later, I voluntarily enlisted in the Army fifteen months
before Pearl Harbor. For the next five and one-half years various
assignments carried me all over the world once again. A combina-
tion of good breaks and two battlefield promotions granted me
command of a well-known artillery battalion assigned to Terry
Allen’s night-fighting “Timberwolves.” Herein we encountered many
noteworthy combat engagements due to the remarkable new inno-
vations in military tactics with which we were experimenting in our
various sectors. At the conclusion of activity against the enemy, I
came up with the choice experience of being Provost Marshal of
Paris which, of course, was quite an education i in itself! (This ex-
perience, incidentally, stood me in good stead when I worked at
the hectic 1952 Republican Convention in Chicago as Sergeant at
Arms and “protected” Tom Gannett while he was so effectively
working “behind closed doors” in Mr, Eisenhower's behalf.)

After donning mufti | traveled extensively for about a year (in-
terrupted by three trips to testify at the Nuremburg Trials) and
then settled down to work for Reed & Barton, Silversmiths. Through
good fortune I obtained promotions and became president of W eb-
ster Company, their newly-acquired subsidiary, Three years ago
I retired in order to manage family affairs and then reboarded the
flying carpet in order to alight in enchanting parts of the world
that I had not previously visited.

I resumed boxing and bobsledding for a short time before the
war but gave them up when I entered the service, except for a few
exhibition bouts when I was stationed in Paris. Unlimited hydro-
planes caught my fancy after my release from the Army and for
about six years I became involv ed in big speed-boat regattas, but
slowing reflexes have caused me to pack away that type of activ ity.
Accordingly, Classmate Frank Littlefield introduced me to a happy
pair of substitutes in the red and gun (marvelous trout and salmon
at my club in Northern Quebee and upland birds in the beautiful
hilly environs of my home in the Monadnock district) which have
been enhanced by my long-time interest in the camera.

Since my “retirement” FE find myself busier than ever in seming
on a number of assorted committees, all of which are great fun

[4:7 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

but — as you know — most demanding. One of the more reward-
ing responsibilities has been a just-completed three-year stint in
being chairman of the House Committee (and currently being chair-
man of the Long Range Planning Committee) during the “‘revitaliza-
tion” of the Harvard Club of Boston. This is cited for it presented
me the rare occasion of getting to know a large number of Harvard
alumni as well as causing me to participate actively in the Club’s
highly successful efforts to attract the right caliber of student to
the “plaving fields.”

My parting paragraph is to state my great optimism about the
wonderful world we live in, and in spite of all the “tension head-
lines” that clobber us every day, my experiences with people all
over the globe thoroughly convince me that, on the whole, man-
kind is steadily climbing the inclined plane toward better brother-
hood — and, of course, as it must indeed!

JOHN PERCIVAL FARQUHAR

 

anoaess: 2506'; Fourth St. Los Angeles, Calif.

Bors; March 20, 1912, Los Angeles, Calif. parents: Robert David Farquhar,
‘93, Marion Jones.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: SB. 1935; S.M. (California Inst. of
Technology), 1941.

NO questionnaire returned.

[418 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ERNEST FASANO

 

HOME ADDRESS: 79 Harrison Ave., Red Bank, N.J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Doremus, Russell, Fasano & Nicosia, 73 Broad St., Red Bank,

N.J.
BORN: Jan. 22, 1916, Waterbury, Conn. parents: Carmine Fasano, Vincenza
Capetta.

PREPARED AT: Long Branch Senior High School, Long Branch, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1935; LLB., 1938.

MaRRIED: Elizabeth Nelson, March 27, 1943, Sacramento, Calif. cHipreN:
Raymond Ernest, Aug. 30, 1945; Diane Elizabeth, Jan. 23, 1947; Michael
J., Dec. 2, 1950; Peter C., June 15, 1958.

occuPaTION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Member various committees, Monmouth County Bar Associa-
tion, since 1940; secretary, Atlantic Fire Company, Long Branch, N.J,,
1941-42.

MEMBER OF: Monmouth County, New Jersey State and American Bar Associa-
tions; Knights of Columbus; Castle Chess Club, Manasquan, N.J.; New
Jersey Chess Federation; United States Chess Federation.

AS an undergraduate — so long, long ago —I had visions of being
a writer. Doesn’t everyone? Now, I shrink from the very thought
of putting words on paper. I am still waiting, in this day of ad-
vanced gadgetry, for the invention of a device thar will automat-
cally transfer muddled thoughts into faultless printed prose. But
since the Yearbook can’t wait, here go a few faltering paragraphs.

After graduation and the usual three years at Harvard Law School,
I had barely embarked upon the practice of law when the war inter-
vened. As a member of the Signal Corps, I spent several pleasant
years at Camp Kohler, California. Since I had been trained in the
Jaw it was only natural that I should finally be sent to India in
1945, heading up a radio teletype team. Once there it was equally
natural that I should become base motor transport officer in Cal-
cutta.

[ 419 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Back in the States in 1946, I passed through a rather hectic re-
adjustment period before settling back to the general practice of
law. I became, and still am, a partner in the firm of Doremus,
Russell, Fasano & Nicosia. No great excitement, no high causes —
just the everyday, workaday practice of the type that must be com-
mon to all small city neighborhoods the country over.

In private life, my greatest achievement has been the production
of four children. In this I must confess to having received a modi-
cum of help from my wife, Elizabeth.

My hobbies are quite simple and uncomplicated. I have lately
taken up chess, in which, however, my fourteen-year-old son, Ray-
mond, trims me with monotonous regularity. On and off since
Harvard days, I have enjoyed hiking and climbing the New Eng-
land mountains, Of recent years, ] have introduced my youngsters
to the delights of puffing up the paths on Greyinel Mount Wash-
ington and Katahdin.

I have evolved no philosophy of life — at least none that I can
formulate in words. Troubles come and go, alternating with pleas-
ure. The days pass and the nights, and our children grow up.
Though much is taken, much remains — and even if the way ahead
may not involve “some work of noble note,” I am sure that I shall
enjoy the down slope as much as I have enjoyed the upward trail.

ABBOTT FAY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 217 Randolph Ave., Milton 87, Mass.

oFFice appress: Walter Channing, Inc., 15 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept, 27, 1911, Wellesley Hills, Mass. PARENTS: Edward Henry Fay,
’oo, Jessie Merriam.

prepareD AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934.

[ 420 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
HARVARD BROTHER: Herbert Fay, "35 (deceased).
UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Vice-president, Walter Channing, Inc. broker — dealing in sales,

leases, mortgages and appraisals of suburban property within twenty miles
of Boston.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee and member of board of investment, Milton Savings
Bank.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club, Brookline; Somerset Club, Boston.

I HAVE been in real estate since 1936 and with Walter Channing,
Inc., since 1938, except for the war years from 1942 to 1946, during
which time I was in the Army in the Quartermaster Corps in this
country and Europe. Since the war any spare time I have in winter

is spent in Nassau, British West Indies, and summers are spent at
Cape Elizabeth, Maine.

+ HERBERT FAY

 

BORN: Sept. 27, rort, Wellesley Hills, Mass. parexts: Edward Henry Fay,
’oo, Jessie Merriam.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.
HARVARD BROTHER: Abbott Fay, 35.

Diep: Aug. 3, 1933, La Jolla, Calif.

AFTER a year with our Class, Fay was compelled to relinquish his
studies because of ill health and went to the west coast.

He was
survived by his mother, three brothers and a sister.

[421 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

LIPMAN GOLDMAN FELD

 

HOME appress: 607 W. 58th Terr., Kansas City 13, Mo.

OFFICE appress: Protective Life Insurance Co., Century Acceptance Corp., 1334
Oak St., Kansas City 6, Mo.

BORN: Jan. 16, 1914, Kansas City, Mo. paRENTS: Emel Feld, Celia Goldman.

PREPARED AT: Westport High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1935; LL.B. (Univ. of
Missouri), 1938.

marriep: Anne Brozman, April 30, 1942, Kansas City, Mo. cHiLpren: Robert
David, Nov. 27, 1947; Celia Anne, June 26, 1951.

occupation: Lawyer; director and vice-president, Protective Life Insurance
Company, Century Acceptance Corporation, Century Finance Company
(Kansas-Georgia-F lorida-Kentucky-Alabama-Texas-Associated and Sub-
sidiary Companies).

OFFICES HELD: Private to captain, Quartermaster Corps, AUS, 1942-46; major,
JAG, USAR, 1947-53; active speaker, Speaker Services for the United
Nations, American Association for the United Nations; specialist on con-
sumer credit, ICA, Washington, D.C.; member, Roster of Qualified Spe-
cialists available for consultation under United Nations Program of
Technical Assistance to other countries, United Nations, N.Y.

MEMBER OF: Missouri and Kansas City Bar Associations; Risk Selectors Club
of Kansas City; Life, Accident and Health and Hospitalization Service
Association; Kansas City Chamber of Commerce; Jewish Community
Center, Congregation B’nai Jehudah,; Great Books Program, other adult
of continuing education programs, YMCA, Jewish Federation and Council.

PUBLICATIONS: Reports to stockholders and four prospectuses for filing with
Securities and Exchange Commission.

AS I think back over the past twenty-five years, I realize that my
four-year experience at Harvard College should be viewed as an
unexpected pleasure. My father, who was hurt by the depression
like everyone else, owned a small grocery store, and I probably
would have studied at Kansas City Junior College and the Kansas
City School of Law in the usual process of events. However, Har-

[ 422 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

vard College seemed a very magical place to me, and I wanted to
go there. I believed that once J took the Harvard treatment I would
emerge as a great writer, or a magnetic business executive. Several
uncles and cousins had studied at Harvard, and their careers seemed
quite glamorous and emotionally exciting.

I applied for a scholarship at the Kansas City Harvard Club, be-
cause as the proud possessor of the highest grades at Westport High
School, I felt I was deserving and was good scholarship material, I
was turned down because I was no good in sports. I told my Eng-
lish teacher at Westport High School about my disappointment
and he told me that he was a Harvard graduate and would help me
to apply directly to Harvard. I think he advised Harvard that I
had within me the potential of a future Chekhov. The result was
that I won a small scholarship; I told a wealthy and somewhat senti-
mental uncle about this, and saw he was impressed. In a weak
moment he agreed to pay the difference between what the scholar-
ship paid and what it cost to go to Harvard and stated that as long
as I had a scholarship I could go to Harvard. I was triumphantly
elated — perhaps as much by the 1700-mile train trip (my first)
as by the great opportunity.

Harvard was a wonderful new world to me, but I can’t say that
these were the happiest four years of my life. I alw avs had the
worry that I would not win my scholarship and would go back to
Kansas City. This worry continued right to the end even though
one year I only got three B’s and did not win the scholarship. My
uncle did not let me down even with this rebuff, although he dis-
cussed the advantages of a Kansas City education.

I think that even if I had remained in Kansas City I would have
been an interested student. College never bored me. One Harvard
friend recently told me that I alw: avs said I was a bigger grind than
T actually was at Harvard. But Harvard did give me ‘adv antages that
I would never have enjoy ed at Kansas City . L listened to the | famous
professors and had Michael Karpovich for my tutor in history. |
remember meeting T. S. Eliot and Theodore Dreiser once, and Al-
fred North Whitehead many times. There were other men than
these that helped broaden my outlook, but these made a lasting im-
pression on my young mind — particularly Karpovich and White-
head. Also, I made several Harv ard friends who opened up a com-
pletely new world to me—the world of country estares and
Park Avenue Jewish society —IT had never known chauffeurs
and butlers before. I remember one maid who worried because |

[ 423]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

THEODORE MAXWELL FELDMAN

 

HOME appress: 14 Halcyon Rd., Newton 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: United Utilities & Specialty Corp., 12 Harvard St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 19, 1913, Brockton, Mass. parents: Charles Feldman, Cecil Terr.

prepareD aT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.,; Worcester Academy,
Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Irma Deitz, March 29, 1938, New York, N.Y. cuitpren: Joanne,
March 14, 1939; David Joel, July 23, 1944.

occupation: Executive, United Utilities & Specialty Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, since 1946, secretary, 1946-51, vice-
president, 1951-56, United Utilities & Specialty Corporation; member,
board of governors, 1950-54, treasurer, 1951-1953, Newton Squash &
Tennis Club; member, board of directors, since 1954, vice-president, 1956-
59, Popular Distributors, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Dorchester Yacht Club; Metropolitan
Yacht Club.

THE prospect of our Twenty-fifth has been heightened and stimu-
lated by my own anticipatory thoughts of renewing friendships
which have been allowed to lapse because of distance or negligence.
In addition, glowing reports of previous Twenty-fifths — recent
and otherwise — of close friends and assorted relatives have fur-
ther added to this. I am sure this same pleasant anticipation has
been shared by most of us who plan to attend — come hell or high
water!

Reaction to a sketch of one’s last twenty-five years, I am sure,
differs with each individual. Continual prodding to look back over
these years causes one a bit of reflective soul-searching. One won-
ders as to what he would do differently, given the opportunity, and
how he would re-evaluate earlier goals and aspirations, As for my-
self, I have come to the conclusion that I must be a “damn smug,

[ 426 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

satisfied and happy individual.” To be sure, if in retrospect: |
could rearrange the past tw enty-five years of my business experi-
ence, | am certain that there are many things that I would do differ-
ently — but only from a crass monetary standpoint. After all,
whose hindsight isn’t far keener than his foresight?

Since college, I have been associated with the same company
whose scope in business over the years has encompassed merchan-
dising, at the retail as well as the wholesale level, commodities such
as housewares, hardware, toys, domestics, jewelry, g giftware and
automotive supplies. This has been done at various times by means
of catalogues, direct mail, direct sales to the consumer, group dem-
onstrations and, at the present time, by retailing much of this same
general type of merchandise in self-service departments stores
throughout the country. During this twenty -five-vear period, my
position with the company has “covered practically every possible
phase, including personal selling, buying, sales supervision, person-
nel directing and merchandising. At various times I have held the
corporate offices of secretary, vice-president and treasurer. Cur-
rently, as one of the principal stockholders, I am naturally con-
cerned with most of the above categories and am thoroughly en-
joying all of them.

My extracurricular hobbies have included, lightly and politely,
photography, tennis, golf, squash, skiing and boating. I have par-
ticularly enjoyed boating, mainly because it has been an activity
which has been very much enjoy ed not only by myself, bur by my
wife, Irma, and my two children, David and Joanne, Boating,
which has been mainly cruising on aunihary sailboats (not *stink-
potting” .. . with due apologies to any of my fellow-classmates
who are powerboat men, because, who knows, when I get old Tmay
be one of them myself), has been most pleasurable. We have
not really cruised too widely, but have covered most ports from
Gloucester, Massachusetts, south to practically every harbor of
Cape Cod and the adjacent islands, as well as the Connecticut and
Long Island shores. Although IT am nor a true racing Corinthian,
mainly because I prefer the much more leisurely pastune oft cruising,
I have participated in the mosc recent Bermuda race, as well as other
ocean and coastwise cruising races. [ highly recommend boanng
as a true family-togetherness activity, that ix, until one's son be-
comes more interested in the speed of today’s meing outboards
and one’s daughter becomes engaved and decides that ‘boating can
be taken or left for other more inte resting: pastimes,

[4:7]

1

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

My previously mentioned self-styled “smugness” is due in large
measure to a most remarkable wife who has been able not only to
put up with my idiosyncrasies, but to make each one seem like
an attribute. We both tremendously enjoy our children. Joanne is
presently a junior at Smith, is engaged to William Segal, an analyti-
cal engineer and a recent graduate of Amherst. They plan to be
married in June, a short time after Reunion, which should make
this June a most eventful and memorable month. David is preparing
for college at Rivers Country Day School. Most Harvard graduates
hope, secretly or otherwise, that their sons will also attend this
great University, but it is too early to forecast as yet what will be
my son’s choice and the choice of the Boards of Admission.

Whatever his eventual alma mater, I hope he enjoys his associa-

tions with it, both during and after his college years, to the same
extent that I have with mine.

STEPHEN SIDNEY FENICHELL

 

HOME appREss: 315 W. 106th St., New York 25, N.Y.

OFFICE appress: Chemical Bank New York Trust Co., 165 Broadway, New
York, N.Y.

Born: March 16, 1914, New York, N.Y. parents: David Allen Fenichell,
Susan Goldsmith.

PREPARED AT: Boys’ High School, Brooklyn, N-Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREE: s.B., cum laude, 1935.

MarrieD: Lois Forde, 1953, New York, N.Y. cumpren: David Forde, 19545
Stephen Clark, 1956.

occupation: Banking — publications and public relations.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

pustications: The Vatican and Haly Year, Doubleday, 1950; The United

Nations, Winston, 1951, 1954; The United Nations — Design for Peace,
Winston, 1960.

[ 428]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SINCE graduation:

1935-40 — Writing, editing.

1941-46 — Military service (Infantry and Air Force), discharged
as major.

1946-50 — Book publisher.

1951 to date — Writing and editing.

EDWARD VINCENT FERGUSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 624 Forest Ave., Alton, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 200 W. Third St., Alton, IIl.

BORN: Jan. 24, 1916, Edwardsville, Ill. parents: Edward Carlin Ferguson, Era
Louise Schwarz.

PREPARED AT: Edwardsville High School, Edwardsville, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: S.B., Cum laude, 1935; MD, t9i0

MaRRIED: Dorothy Wright, June 28, 1939, Duke Center, Mass. critpars:
Maureen, Dec. 18, 1930; Edward Carlin, Jan. 12, 1944; Pamela Ruth, Dec.
16, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Physician; specialty, general surgery.

OFFICES HELD: Chief of surgical service, president of statf, chainnan, executive
committee, St. Joseph's Hospital, Alton, HL; city health comnussoncr,
Alton,

FOLLOWING graduation from college [ put in four hard years
at Harvard Medical School, followed by surgical training at Peter
Bent Brigham and Children’s Hospitals i in Boston and DePaul Hos-
pital in St. Louis, Missouri, ending in July, 1943. when I went on
active service in the U.S. Naval Reserve as lieutenant ().¢.) in the
Medical Corps.

I spent a short period of time with the U.S. Marines in Sun Diego,
then at an advanced hospital unit in San Brune, California, subse-
quently transferred to a destroyer which | chased about the Pacing

[4:9]

____

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

for three months before locating it. Stayed aboard the destroyer,
USS Wadleigh DD 689, until V-J Day, having some active battle
experiences but otherwise complete boredom. Finished out my
navy career at the U.S. Naval Hospital in Great Lakes, Illinois, be-
ing released from active duty in August, 1946, following which |
spent three months at Washington University trying to relearn the
medicine 1 had forgotten.

Began active practice the latter part of that year. Presently en-
gaged in active practice of general surgery with a lot of industrial
surgical work in partnership with Dr. H. P. McCuistion, graduate
of the University of Pennsylvania. Have no spectacular plans for
the future and fully anticipate continued hard work until the time
when my smoking or martinis catch up with me. Would love to
look forward to retirement but see no possibility of anything except
enforced retirement under our present tax laws and my complete
inability to guess right on oil well drillings.

JOHN HUMPHREY FERGUSON

 

HOME apprEss: 42 Bubier Rd., Marblehead, Mass.
OFFICE aAvorEss: Buston Edison Co., 39 Boylston St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: April 16, 1912, Marblehead, Mass, parents: Thomas Edward Ferguson,
Jennie Paine Foss.

prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1936. DEGREE: $.B. IN MECH.ENG., 1936.

Marriep: Ruth Warner Gardner, Sept. 14, 1940, Marblehead, Mass, CHILD:
David Gardner, Aug. 19, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles Foss Ferguson, ’29, M.v., °33; Norman Augustus
Ferguson, °36.

occupation: Director, Rate Research and Forecasting Department, Boston
Edison Company.

OFFICES HELD: Superintendent, five years, deacon, 1944-50, chairman, Building

L 430 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Plans Committee, 1948-51, moderator, since 1949, Old North Congrega-
tional Church; member and secretary, Finance Committee, 1945-50, mem-
ber, Future School Building Needs Committee, 1954, Town of Marblehead,
director, Marblehead Cooperative Bank, since 1956, Marblehead Taxpavers
Association, since 1957; various positions, Boy Scouts; vice-president, pro-
gram chairman, P.T.A.

MEMBER OF: Boston Chamber of Commerce; Edison Electric Institute Rate

Research Committee; New England Rate Discussion Group, Church Social
Clubs.

AS most of us remember, jobs in the engineering field, as well as in
other fields, were extremely scarce at the time we entered the busi-
ness world. However, immediately after acting as Engineering
School Marshal at Commencement in 1936, 1 went to w ork i in Provi-
dence, Rhode Island, building, installing and making design draw-
ings for stokers for commercial and industrial size boilers, all for
the magnificent wage of twenty-two dollars for a fifty-hour week.
My associations with Professor C. Harold Berry at the Engineer-
ing School had developed my desire to get into public utility work,
and in September, 1936, I obtained a job with Boston Edison Com-
pany, as a mechanical engineer in the production department, study-
ing operations and working on technical problems in connection
with the power plants. As time went on, I gradually moved from
the technical operating part of the business into studying and
planning for the physical growth and development of the company.
Thus, when the war broke out the company requested and obrained
my deferment so that I could do my part in assuring that the so
important supply of electricity would at no tme be “too little or
too late.”
In 1940 Ruth and I were married. After living in Boston for a
year we had had enough of the city and returned to Marblehead.
In 1952 I was appointed to the newly-created post of forecasting
“engineer for the company and assigned the job of setting up pro-
cedures for forecasting sales, revenues and capacity of requirements.
In 1953 I became staff assistant to the commercial vice-president,
and in 1955 was made director of the rate research and forecasting
department, the position I presently hold, In addition to fore-
casting, this department is continually studying the rate structure
of the company.
Membership on the Edison Electric Institute's Rate Research Com-
mittee enables me to attend meetings in various parts of the coun-

try. Whenever possible, I drive and take the family along so that
we can sce the country together.

[431]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

HENRY GRANT FERNALD

 

HOME apprEss: 11 Mt. Pleasant St., Winchester, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: American Optical Co., Southbridge, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 4, 1913, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Merritt Lyndon Fernald, ’97,
Margaret Howard Grant.

PREPARED aT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude (Amherst Coll.), 1937.

Marritp: Margaret Rita Tyler Wyer, June 26, 1937, Medford, Mass. CHILDREN:
Margaret Janice, March 10, 1942; Sharon Lucille Anne, July 15, 1943;
Gregory Merritt Earl, Feb. 1, 1946.

occupation: Development mathematician in opthalmic lens division, American
Optical Company.

MEMBER OF: Optical Society of America.

puBLicaTions: Various articles in technical magazines; a few patents.

AFTER one year at Harvard College, I spent a year traveling and
doing free-lance photography. I then entered Amherst College,
from which I was graduated in 1937. Five days later I was married.
For the next couple of years, I did graduate work at Harvard in
mathematics and German, while I worked part-time for the Har-
vard Summer School, the Office of University Extension, then the
Bureau of Supervisors at Harvard, and the Harvard Coop. My
traveling at this period was limited to touring the East, drumming
up business for the private school at which my wife taught.

In 1941 I went into civil engineering with the Charles T. Main
Company of Boston, and thus began a life of being away from home
a great deal. The war years were spent mostly in Mississippi and
Tennessee, building munitions plants and Army camps for the
government. During this period, my family came south to spend a
few weeks at a time with me, and I was able to make a brief trip
home almost every year. When war contracts began to peter out,

[ 432 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

] wound up at the Radiation Laboratory at M.LT., designing radar
antennas.

At the end of the war, I joined the American Optical Company in
Southbridge, Massachusetts, where I have been occupied in all kinds
of applied mathematics and physics ever since, mostly in designing
various kinds of lenses, with the help of our big digital computer.

Just before I went to American Optical, we bought a house in
Winchester, Massachusetts, which we couldn't bear to leave. Rather
than commute seventy miles each way every day, I come home
only on weekends, so I still don’t see much of my ‘family. In 1946,
we bought some land in North Truro on Cape Cod, and the lumber
from a torn-down army barracks, which we used to start build-
ing a summer home. Now, almost fourteen years later, we still
seem to be building it — at least there are alw: avs repairs and im-
provements to be made on it. We are quite proud of the fact that
it has withstood several hurricanes.

It is obvious that my principal hobby is “do-it-yourself” carpen-
try, plumbing, and electrical wiring — perhaps by necessity as well
as by choice. I am also interested in hi-fi — again with the help of
do-it-yourself kits. In addition to these avocations, I enjoy photog-
raphy, astronomy, skating, eating and sleeping. Our principal family
hobbies seem to be, at the present, a passionate interest in pro-
fessional hockey and baseball — rooting for the Boston Bruins and
the Red Sox, of course.

Our traveling now seems to be mostly between Winchester and
the Cape, with an occasional trip to Prov idence, where my older
daughter is a freshman at Pembroke College (she followed her
grandmother, instead of choosing Radcliffe w here her mother w ent).
I sometimes get to various optical and optometric society conven:
tions, and my family makes occasional trips to W ashington, Canada,
or some other point that can be reached during a school vacation,

Like our contemporaries, we continue to fight a losing battle
with the federal and state governments — not to take it with us
but to use a little of it while we are here to keep things going and
to educate the children (my second daughter is a high se hool j junior,
who has not yet decided on a college, and my son is a potential
Harvard freshman in 1963).

( 433]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

+ BENJAMIN WITHERS FERRELL

 

BORN: Sept. 9, 1913, Charlotte, N.C. parents: John Atkinson Ferrell, Lucile
Withers.

PREPARED AT: Adelphi Academy, Brooklyn, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.
pieD: Nov. 26, 1936, Stamford, Conn.

BENJAMIN WITHERS FERRELL graduated with our Class.
While playing football at Adelphi Academy he had suffered a leg
injury and during his freshman year at Harvard it became neces-
sary to have his leg amputated. While in his senior year the tumor
started to affect the other leg and he had been under treatment for

several months before he died. He was survived by his parents, a
brother and a sister.

a

STANHOPE BLUNT FICKE

   

HOME appress: 120 FE. 79th St., New York 21, N.Y,

oFFice appRESS: Shreve, Lamb & Harmon Associates, 11 E, aqth St.. New York
17, N.Y.

[ 434]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

gorN: Nov. 1§, 1912, Davenport, Iowa. parents: Arthur Davison Ficke, ‘oy,
Evelyn Blunt.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MARRIED: Jane Jonson, 1941, New York, N.Y,

occUPATION: Architecture.

NO questionnaire returned.

HAROLD MYER FIELD

 

LAST KNOWN apprEss: 14 Abbey Lodge, Hanover Gate, Regents Park, London,
N.W. 8, England.

BorN: March 15, 1913, Johannesburg, South Africa. parests: Jobn Field,
Hettie Epstein.

PREPARED aT: Chillon College, Switzerland.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

FIELD has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since 1943.

HERBERT ABNER FIERST

   

HOME ADDRESS: 4114 Rosemary Se, Chevy Chase 15, Ma.

[435]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

OFFICE Appress: Ring Bldg., Washington 6, D.C.

BorN: July 29, 1914, New York, N.Y. parents: Harry P. Fierst, Miriam Cohen.
PREPARED AT: Mount Vernon High School, Mount Vernon, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 1935; LL.B. (Yale
Univ.), 1939.

MarrigD: Edith Udell, April 20, 1947, New York, N.Y. c#HiLpren: Frederick
Udell, July 12, 1948; David Udell, July 2, 1950; Margaret Jane, Aug. 22,
1952.

OCCUPATION: Attorney; private practice.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington; Yale Club of Washington; Yale
Law School Association of Washington; American, Federal and D.C, Bar
Associations, National Capital Democratic Club.

THESE have been twenty-five exciting years. I would exchange
mighty few of them for others even if I could. But I am glad to
report that ] am now adjusting myself to a slower pace for the years
ahead.

Some of my most vivid memories go back to my first year after
graduation when J traveled abroad in fifteen countries as a Sheldon
fellow. Ominous war clouds were gathering over Europe. I wit-
nessed first-hand the frightening militarization and brutalization of
Nazi Germany. I visited Sovier Russia in the dead of winter. I
found the western democracies demoralized and disorganized.

It was not easy, after that year abroad, to settle down to the study
of law. But I soon was swept up by the pioneering spirit of the
Yale Law School. Law was treated as a vital force closely related
to the forces at work in society. We did not have many “bread
and butter” courses, but we learned how to think. My experience
as one of the editors of the Yale Law Journal was a rich intellectual
treat as well as a stern discipline. I think that my training at Yale
Law School, more than anything else, prepared me to cope with
the succession of unfamiliar problems which confronted me in the
years that followed.

Until Pearl Harbor I practised law in New York. I have no idea
whether I would not still be there today if it had not been for the
war. But whose life was not changed in some significant way by the
war? In my own case, I first came to work in Washington in the
office of the General Counsel of the Board of Economic Warfare
—an able, dedicated and hard-working group trying to conserve
and develop strategic and critical war materials. My own special
responsibilities were steel scrap, industrial diamonds and control
over the export of technical data,

My army career thrust me first into anti-aircraft artillery, then

[ 436 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

legal planning for the occupation of Austria, and finally the handling
of displaced persons. The intervening years have blotted out mose
of the unpleasant aspects of the war, leaving in me a pleasant nes-
talgia for the camaraderie I shared with fellow-enlisted men and
officers. I ended up with the Legion of Merit and a special award
from General Eisenhower, but actually the honor I prized most of
all was a makeshift certificate from a group of enlisted men, pre-
sented to me before I returned to the United Srates, thanking me
for having been a good officer to them.

I would have bet at least 1o00-1 when I finished college or law
school that I would never land on the staff of the State Department.
But that is just where I found myself shortly after World War IL,
when my last army boss, General Hilldring, became Assistant
Secretary of State for Occupied Areas and took me along as Special
Assistant. We were to coordinate policy on Germany, Austria,
Japan and Korea. My special responsibility soon became refugees
and displaced persons. Some years later, I was transferred to U nited
Nations Affairs. During the nine and one-half years I spent in the
State Department, I was Special Assistant to six consecutive As-
sistant Secretaries of State. Most of the years were fascinating —
my colleagues and I were continuously grappling with seemingly
endless and insoluble problems in the realm of foreign affairs. I
developed tremendous admiration for the ability and selflessness of
the average government officer. (Even now, when [ am often on
the opposite side of the government in legal marters, | continue to
admire the quality and integrity of the much- aligned “bureaucrat.”)

My decision to leave the State Department in 1933 was due pr-
marily to my lack of desire to enter the Foreign Service for assign-
ment abroad. Under a new policy at the State Department, those
in my type of work who did not “volunteer” for the Foreign Service
were in effect frozen indefinitely in their current positions, [am
glad for the sake of the country “that there are those who welcome
an opportunity to serve abroad, wherever assiyned, most of their
adult lives until retirement. I happen to prefer to live and rane
my family here in the United States. By this ame my roots were
deep in Washington and my expertise lay in dealing with the gov-
ernment. So I thought ir would be interesting to develop my own
law practice after an interlude of so many years in the government
service. It has been a rewarding experience, although PE must adiet
that the problems T handle now are on the whole not as comptes
or intense as those T wrestled with in the government, Viy practic

[437]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

brings me into contact with the Congress and the administrative
agencies more than the courts. I find that my former experience in
the government has given me an insight into how the government
operates and has enabled me to get along with government officials
of all types.

My chief hobby is my family. When you meet them, if you
haven’t already, you will understand why. They enable me to enjoy
life from day to day without stagnating. My wife seems to have
achieved the ideal balance between a professional and a maternal
career. A lawyer in her own right, she works for the government
on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. My sixth- -grader 1 is already
pushing the outer limits of my accumulated knowledge in history,
science and mathematics. It’s fun trying to keep up with him.
At least I keep in trim for the two younger ones.

In politics I am a Democrat — but not so doctrinaire a one that
I would not vote for a Republican for president if an outstandingly
qualified candidate were ever nominated. None has yet been, in my
opinion, since I attained voting age.

Although I no longer work for the government, out-of-towners
still ask me, “What’s new in Washington?” More and more, I find
myself saying “nothing,” and that worries me. There should be lots
new in Washington, and there isn’t. No more progress is being
made toward solving the problem of population protection. Our
downward drift in leadership, domestic and international, is unmis-
takable. But the nature of our democratic process makes it diffi-
cult to generate leadership, if none exists at the top, except in times
of visible crisis such as war. And yet the problems confronting us
at the international level are just as serious as war. It is fine to be
active in PTA, Community Chest and even local politics, but even
the most intensive well-meaning activity along those lines will not
produce the kind of inspired and inspiring national leadership we
need during the decade of the 1960's. As I am an optimist of sorts,
I think the leadership will turn up — and, I hope, in time. But I
must admit I cannot figure out — after all my study of government
through the years — how to increase the chances that it will.

[ 438 ]

- lalla eM Rlass B .

DRE ACE hae i

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT MARTIN FISHER

 

HOME AND OFFICE appress: 188 Airdale Rd., Rosemont, Pa.

BORN: Jan. 30, 1914, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Fisher, Anna Carroll.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; Mv. (Columbia
Univ.), 1939.

MARRIED: Katharine S. Morris, March 29, 1948, Villanova, Pa. CHILDREN: Robert
W., May 21, 1949; Andrew W., May 13, 1951; Elizabeth L., March 23,
1954.

occupaTion: Physician; general practice.

OFFICES HELD: Member of staff, Bryn Mawr Hospital.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of General Practice; College of Physicians of
Philadelphia.

AFTER Harvard I went to Columbia Medical School with the idea
of becoming a general practitioner, I found most of my medical
school subjects dull by comparison with my college courses, but
I persisted with them and graduated. After an internship of two
and a half years I joined the Army and spent 1942-43 in the Middle
East with a unit that was attached to the British Eighth Army and
1944-45 in Saipan as a flight surgeon. My war experiences were
sometimes exciting but of little value medically.

After the war I did general practice in Weston, Massachusetts.
I met my wife because I was too slow-witted to think of an excuse
to get out of a blind date. Thank heavens for my slow thinking
processes! I have been happily married ever since and have three
children to boot (in every sense of the word).

We spent a year in Iowa where I did rural medicine, It was an
interesting and valuable year. I learned a good deal about medicine
and people. For the past ten years I have been doing a more re-
stricted general practice in this suburban community where | con-
tinue to learn about medicine and people. The medicine and people

[ 439 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

here are quite different: the difference is mainly one of sophistica-
tion. The people here are also more interesting because of their
great diversity of occupations and interests.

The spirit of the times is to specialize. I still like all branches of
medicine and have no burning desire to be one thing more than
another. So I continue on as a general practitioner. As such IJ shall
make no contributions to medicine. Like a parasite, on the other
hand, I try to drain the best out of my more learned colleagues
whose postgraduate courses I take in one field or another from year
to year. I find them a source of relaxation as well as knowledge.

Every generation of man has worried about the future; and so do
I. I despair for the freedom of the individual. I feel it will eventu-
ally be lost to a great extent, because people appear to want security
more and will sell their freedom at this price. At best we'll prob-
ably end up with something that is a compromise between what we
have now and Russian Communism.

In the field of medicine the government will have to do something
for the aged and chronically ill. It undoubtedly will mean sociali-
zation. Shall we be able to stop the socialization process at the right
point, though?

I’m all for an effective United Nations. If we don’t get one, we
can’t survive. If we do get one, it will mean the virtual disappear-
ance of national barriers at some time in the distant future. But
that’s how things were in the beginning.

LAWRENCE GERALD COCKRILL FITZGERALD

   
 

OPT Rey Sr tah serene cream a ee

 

HOME appkess: Archer Drive, Stony Brook, N.Y.
OFFICE ADbRESS: Grumman Aircraft, Bethpage, N.Y.

[ 440 ]

{dedi ts atacanan

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BoRN: May 27, 1913, Dallas, Texas, parents: Claude Edward Fitzgerald, Marie
Cockrill.

PREPARED AT: Montclair Academy, Montclair, N.J.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: $.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Marjorie Palmer, Oct. 10, 1936, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN: Sheila,

Oct. 10, 1937 (m. Frederick Krieger, July 27, 1958); Scott, May 1, 1941;
Brian, June 20, 1951.

OccUPATION: Industrial engineer, Grumman Aircraft.
MRS. FITZGERALD sent in the following:

“Tam afraid that this will reflect his wife’s views. So far, Jerry
seems to be so busy that unless I dash off a line, it won’t get to you
on time.

“Jerry’s work has been almost entirely in aircraft: Lockheed dur-
ing the war, Curtis Wright, Fairchild, and now Grumman. There
was a very happy New Hampshire interlude where we ventured
into our own business —had a furniture factory in a converted
“carriage house” — but after three years we saw that this alone
couldn’t keep us on top —so back to aircraft.

“We are now very happily settled in Stony Brook, Long Island.
Our daughter, Sheila, was married in 1958 and lives in Montclair,
New Jersey. Our son, Scott, who was born in 1941 when Jerry
was at the Business School, is in the Army and now at Fort Devens,

Massachusetts, Our son, Brian, aged eight, is at home cheering up
his old parents and keeping us on the move.

“No time for much but work — classes in New York twice a
week — and enjoying home, yard and family — and friends. Hope
to make the reunion. I — his wife — born in Cambridge and brought
up in Belmont — would particularly enjoy seeing his old friends.”

[ 441]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

JOHN ALBERT FITZPATRICK

 

ADDRESS: 11 Adams St., Newtonville 60, Mass.

BORN: July 26, 1913, Medford, Mass. Parents: John Bernard Fitzpatrick, Mary
Griffin.

PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

OCCUPATION: Government service.

NO questionnaire returned.

RICHARD GEORGE FLETCHER, JR.

   

HOME ADDRESS: 1851 Parrott Drive, San Mateo, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Civic Center, 422 Federal Office Bldg., San Francisco 2, Calif.

BORN: May 25, 1913, Washington, D.C. Parents: Richard George Fletcher,
Nellie Esther Clark. .

PREPARED AT: St. Alban’s School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1035; LL.B. (George Washington
Univ.), 1939.

MarRIED: Mary Elizabeth McLaughlin, June 29, 1940, Washington, D.C. cHIL-

[ 442 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DREN: Betty Ann, Sept. 27, 1942; Richard George, 3d, Feb. 1, 1945, Stephen
Craig, June 25, 1949.
occUPATION: Special agent, Federal Bureau of Investigation:
THE year 1936 found me working in a clerical capacity in the FBI
and attending night law school at George Washington University in
Washington, D.C., where I obtained my LL.B. and was admitted to
the D.C. bar.

I received my appointment as a special agent of the FBI in 1939
and in 1940 married Mary Elizabeth McLaughlin. We are privi-
leged to have three wonderful children, each so similar to the others
in some ways, and yet so different in others.

During the war years I was assigned to the Intelligence Division
of the FBI in an administrative capacity at Bureau Headquarters in
Washington. I have also been assigned to Charlotte, North Carolina,
Los Angeles, Detroit and now San Francisco.

We are very fond of the San Francisco Bay Area and when my
normal household chores allow, I manage to do some duck and
pheasant shooting and Mary and I have our occasional golf and ten-
nis games with bridge also a favorite pastime. With five other
couples we have a dinner-bridge group. This group has met once
a month since 1951 with the host and hostess picking the restaurant
to eat and then returning to their home for bridge. With so many
outstanding eating places in the area, we have only repeated twice.
This, as much as anything, endears me to San Francisco, as my
friends say ‘‘my favorite dish is food.” Periodically, we are privi-
leged with a family trip to the east coast, where we vacation with
my family at Tall Timber, Maryland, on the Potomac River and
with Mary’s family in the mountains at Deep Creek Lake, Maryland.
These trips give the children a true taste of what a real summer
vacation should be with the excellent swimming, water skiing, etc.,
which is quite lacking in the San Francisco Bay Area but which iS
more than made up for in so many other ways during the other
seasons.

For some time, I have been very interested in working with our
youth. Since 1956, Mary and I have been the advisers of the jumor
high youth group at our Episcopal church. I also teach the church
high school discussion group and have been active in organizing
and participating in neighborhood baseball activities for varving
ages of boys.

In view of my interest in youth work, I am extremely concerned
with the rise of youthful lawlessness and feel that the senseless

[ 443]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

preference for the youthful criminal instead of his victim exhibited by
soft-headed sentimentality only gives encouragement to other young
thugs. The young criminals who commit serious crimes should be
fingerprinted and their names published. Also, the spotlight of pub-
lic opinion should be focused on those members of the judiciary
who persist in turning these young terrorists loose on the public.
The responsibility of establishing proper juvenile discipline belongs
to all of us.

I feel our youth should be proud of their country and not become
apathetic apologists. They must be taught to recognize the menace
Communism presents and not be lulled into a sense of false security
or accept a blackmailed compromise, by swallowing Soviet peace
proposals, the aim of which is to propagate the fundamental
Marxism postulate that disarmament and the abolition of war are
possible only with the fall of capitalism.

Particularly, in the past few years, I have thought back to almost
empty Harvard Chapel that I used to observe during my under-
graduate years. I have never found a satisfactory answer to this
lack of response of such highly intelligent young men to such a
necessary and fundamental basis in preparing the proper founda-
tion of a future head of a family, head of a firm, or head of anything
involving handling or dealing with others of varying races, colors
or creeds.

This indeed is an area of our lives often neglected, either taken
for granted or ignored, and yet an area to which time, thought and
study could wisely be devoted. We are too Christian to enjoy
sinning but enjoy sinning too much to be good Christians. We
can’t or won’t make up our minds and this confusion is handed
down to our children, so their sights are fuzzy. Let’s give them the
help they need in understanding who they are and why they are
here.

I might conclude by saying that my most earnest desire and fore-
most ambition at this stage of life is to be able to provide the proper
guidance for my children so they may enjoy a full Christian life
with its true values in proper focus and with the strength to with-
stand compromising them for the expediency of the moment.

[ 444 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM FLOYD, II

 

HOME aAppREss: 103 E. 84th St., New York 28, N.Y.

OFFICE appRESS: Lenox Hill Book Shop, 1186 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

BORN: June 5, 1910, New York, N.Y. parents: Rolfe Floyd, M.p., ’95, Emily
Prime Delafield.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935.

MarrieD: Laura Marion Musser, Sept. 17, 1938 (divorced 1947); Lois Gray
Bradfield, June 9, 1949. CHILDREN: James Coburn, June 14, 1939; William,
‘March 5, 1943; Laura Day, Oct. 16, 1944.

OCCUPATION: President, owner, Lenox Hill Book Shop, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, minority stockholders committee, Standard Oil (New
Jersey), 1942-44; chairman of the board, New York Area Booksellers
Association, since 1958.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; former member, Association of
Squadron A; American Booksellers Association, New York Area Book-
sellers Association.

AN editor of the Class Year Book back in 1935 attempted to clarify
what he possibly thought was not apparent in mv prospective choice
of a profession. The words “Foreign Service” were substituted for
“diplomacy.” I had hoped to allow myself a wide berth. Perhaps
diplomacy wouldn’t be the right category in 1960. [ am just a
middle-aged anachronistic man.

After Harvard, I lost too many years trying to find myself, or,
as I have heard it better expressed, ‘ ‘trving to know w hat I was
about.” I suppose we are all destined to "search continually for our
individual goals, and in growing older, we keep changing and learn-
ing. It took me some years to realize how to become an effective
member of society.

Certainly the seed of conscious realization of the Fascist menace
was sowed in Cambridge. Long before Pearl Harbor, T was a rabid

[ 445 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

interventionist, and when I was turned down by the draft board, I
sought always to aid and abet the cause of a free society. When I
learned of the cartel arrangement between the I. G. Farben Industrie
and the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey, I determined to
fight this subversive and monopolistic threat to the best of my ability,
Legal advice deemed the best means of carrying on the fight was
to form a minority stockholders committee, since I owned a few
shares of Standard Oil. As anyone might foresee, such a battle could
never be won. Nevertheless, our tilt with the windmills over a
three-year period helped to make the American people conscious
of the peril to our freedom that such supranational arrangements as
cartels imposed on our free enterprise system. Furthermore, I be-
lieve that, subsequent to the war, the hydra-headed cartel menace —
at least as far as SONJ was concerned — was largely dismembered.

My concern for a free and stable world influenced my taking a

course in the School of International Administration at Columbia
University in 1943-44, which was to prepare me as a field worker
in the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Center Organiza-
tion. However, in early 1945, I became the owner of a small estab-
lished book store, the Lenox Hill Book Shop. For the sake of the
editor, I hasten to explain that 1 am a bookseller and not a bookie.
I do not regret this move, although I would certainly be unable to
recommend the retail book business to anyone today. There is
much to be said for being your own boss, even in an area that is
largely sold down the river by the merchandising manufacturers —
the term “publishers” being pretty idealistic in today’s cut-throat
practice. I can still attempt to serve my community, small as my
influence may be, as a competent purveyor of books, trying to pro-
mote the best that I believe is presently available in the literary
marketplace.

In an interview I had some years ago with the late Justice Roberts
of the United States Supereme Court, I was deploring the malfeas-
ance of business practices and the subsequent strangulation of compe-
tition. He quietly remarked that “every drop of water wears away
the stone.” Perhaps I must always tilt with windmills. Perhaps, by
nature, I cannot adjust as an organization man. I can and shall,
however, fight for a free enterprise democratic capitalistic system
(anachronism though it is) as the best of all possible worlds.

[ 446 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WALTER ALFRED FORBUSH, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 161 Howard St., West Bridgewater, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Avon Sole Co., Avon, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 7, 1913, Brockton, Mass. parents: Walter Alfred Forbush, ‘or,
Helen B. Dill.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1935(36).

MarRRIED: Margaret Hebberd, Sept. 10, 1938, Bridgewater, Mass. CHILDREN:
Robert B., Dec. 13, 1939; John M., July 31, 1942; Louise, Sept. 18, 1944.
N. William, Feb. 11, 1946.

HARVARD SON: Robert B. Forbush, ’61.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lothrop Martin Forbush, 739.

occUPATION: Director, assistant treasurer and purchasing agent, Avon Sole
Company, manufacturers of rubber soling materials.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, since 1943, member executive committee, since 194%.
president, 1958, Brockton Hospital; corporator, People’s Savings Bank,
Brockton, since 1947; director, since 1948, president, 1953-34, Brockton
YMCA; master, St. George Lodge, AF. & AM. 19sg-35; director,
Campello Cooperative Bank, since 1956, trustee and member execunve
committee, Brockton United Fund; member trustee, Advisory Council,
Massachusetts Hospital Association, various positions, South Congrega-
tional Church and Sunday School, Brockton.

MEMBER OF: South Congregational Church; Brockton YMCA; Sc. George
Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Rubber Division, American Chemical Society, Old
Colony Harvard Club; Pocasset Golf Club; Boston Rubber Group.

THE years since 1935 have been for me most happy even if by
conventional yardsticks quite uneventful ones. A business life en-
tirely with the same company that hired me in 1936 has left undi-
turbed the community ties in the place where I grew up.

I find myself agreeing with many of you that both the clock and
the calendar move with a constantly accelerating pace so that there
is not time enough to do all the necessary things — let alone the

[ 447 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

desirable ones. What spare time is left after hospital, YMCA,
church, etc., is taken up by trying to see as many as possible of the
team games in which the boys are involved. Including the latest,
Bob’s H in soccer, the growing collection of athletic letters, jackets
and trophies the boys are accumulating gives me at least the normal
feeling of pride, just short, I think, of what their grandfather feels.
So far none of them can beat me at golf, although the margin is
shrinking. And I delight to dance with my daughter who is at
least as good a dancer as her mother.

Physically, I've acquired glasses and twenty pounds and lost most
of my hair since college. J have more hobbies than I can find time
for and all of them have been side-tracked since we moved into a
200-year-old house in 1958. If any of you want to know what I'll

be doing for recreation for the next few years come down to West
Bridgewater and I'll show you.

BENJAMIN STURTEVANT FOSS, JR.

 

HOME apprEss: Windy Hill, Ingleside, Texas.

OFFICE ApDREss: C C Purewater Co., 621 Nueces Bay Blvd., Corpus Christi,
Texas,

BORN: Feb. 21, 1941, Boston, Mass. PaRENTS: Benjamin Sturtevant Foss, ‘08,
Dorothy Sherwood Chapman.

PREPARED AT: Noble & Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Wilfreda Fulton Hoopes, June 11, 1938, Dallas, Texas. CHILDREN:

Peter Fulton, April 14, 1941; Benjamin Sturtevant, 3d, March 8, 1943;
Timothy Hoopes, May 5, 1946.
HARVARD BROTHER: Eugene Noble Foss, 734.

occuPATION: Sales manager, C C Purewater Company, processors of purified
and distilled water; distributors of treating equipment.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, 1944, Vice-president, 1945, president, 1946, North

[ 448 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Texas chapter, American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers,
president, Ingleside High School Parent Teachers Association, 1957-59;
president, Ingleside Youth Recreation Center, 1959-6o.

MEMBER OF: Live Oak Country Club.

MINE — I should say ours — has been a happy odyssey since AD 35.
After a nine-month training period in its various glass, paint and
brush factories, Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company sent me to Dallas
the following May for warehouse experience. Two years later, ]
married a local pixie whose rare know-how and pervasive good
humor have fortified this family and fascinated its friends ever since.
We were transferred east to Harrisburg and later to Baltimore for
three years, then back to Dallas, where we set up serious-type house-
keeping, and I went to work for the B. F. Sturtevant Company of
Boston as one of its territorial sales engineers.

Our twosome became a threesome in 1941 with the arrival of
Peter; Kippy made it foursquare in 1943, and Timmy spaced us
into a star of Texas around the tables in 1946. We had ‘consistently
gravitated to the edge of town in our earlier houses, and now we
were holding down a large platform in the middle of twelve acres
of rolling land, where we sampled the raising of chickens, turkeys,
sheep, pigs, dogs, cats and boys. We liked this (semi-) country life
— the daily, even hourly, challenges presented by the growing chil-
dren, the weather, the animals and the thousand inanimate items that
combine in unpredictable sequences which are invariably over-
compensated for by your continuing little successes, and your total
gain is always greater than the sum of its counterparts.

An opportunity arose in 1949 to move to Houston to open up a
branch office for the Flexwood division of the U. S. Plywood
Corporation. We bought a comfortable place in Bellaire, which,
ten years ago, was strictly peripheral property and which today
is nearly downtown — so. rapid has been the city’s growth. But.
y know, the newness palls; the public pace accelerates from tire-
some to hectic to mad; the social scene conforms and progresses in
turn from mad to tiresome; one’s life and time are conditioned com-
pletely by things, material things, that only money can buv, and
quickly we forget (and the kids never learn) the art of simple con-
versation or the vicarious stimuli of reading a good book, or practis-
ing a hobby, or you name it. . . .

A chain of circumstances brought about our move to Corpus
Christi four years ago. Here is a story-book setting — a brilliant,
growing city ‘of a quarter million ov erlooking a bay protceted trom

[ 449 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

the Gulf by Padre, one of the finger islands that hug the coast from
Galveston to Brownsville. Northeast of the city (seven miles by
water, twenty by road) is the town of Ingleside, and the acreage
we bought and built upon has been in my wife’s family nearly a
hundred years. Here, with the high tide just fifty feet away, we
can fish, sail, water ski and swim; in the workshop I ply my wood-
working hobby, Poddy the Pixie completes her excellent sculptures,
and the boys putter with their motors, boats and complicated teen-
age projects (like salting down and tanning skins of visiting rattle.
snakes).

I am associated with another Bostonian (not an H-man but an
H,O-man) in the C C Purewater Company, a six-year-old organiza-
tion devoted to the production, bottling and distribution of purified
drinking and distilled water, along with the engineering and sales |
pertaining to domestic -water-treating systems, commercial ice-
makers and water coolers. We moved into a larger location last
spring, spent many thousands on new process and bottle washing
equipment, and right now are up to our eyeballs in bank notes. Our
problem, Dr. Anthony, is how to survive this winter’s reduced in-
come. I’m sure we'll be on the high road after next summer, first
because we work from sixty to seventy hours a week to make it
possible, and secondly because the market for our products has
scarcely been tapped in this expanding Gulf Coast area.

Peter is now a freshman at Del Mar Junior College in Corpus
and Kippy and Tim are still matriculating in the local high school.
Del Mar should provide Peter with a suitable orientation and pur-
pose, and perhaps in 1961 I can find a few extra nickles to send him
to Harvard as a junior. — Sure hope I can do the same for myself
come June 12, 1960!

[ 450 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE McCLELLAND FOSTER, JR.

 

ADDRESS: 790 San Luis Rd., Berkeley 7, Calif.

BORN: Oct. 9, 1913, Sioux Falls, S. Dak. parents: George McClelland Foster,
Mary Slutz.

PREPARED AT: Ottumwa High School, Ottumwa, Iowa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: I93I—1932.

NO questionnaire returned.

HOWARD HATHERLY FOSTER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 315 E. 72d St. New York, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Northrop & Johnson, Inc. 366 Madison Ave, New Yark,
N.Y.

BORN: July 5, 1912, Dedham, Mass. parents: Herbert Ira Foster, ‘g& Marte
Barrows.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.

MaRRIED: Dorothy Ernst, Sept. 17, 1956, New York, N.Y. ciivpars: Howard

Hatherly, Jr., May 27, 1937; Dorothea, Dec. 17, 1942; Florence, Sept
1945 (all by previous marriage).

[451]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

HARVARD SON: Howard Hatherly Foster, Jr. ’59.

occuPATION: Partner and secretary, Northrop & Johnson, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Air Reduction Company, Inc., 1955-57.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Racquet and Tennis Club, New
York City; Cruising Club of America; Norwalk Yacht Club.

AT the time of my father’s death in July, 1933, I went to work for
the Air Reduction Company of New York. After a training pro-
gram of about six months, I was assigned to the sales department,
thereafter holding various positions until 1954, at which time I was
elected assistant treasurer. I was made treasurer in 1955, which po-
sition I continued to hold until the end of 1957, at which time |
left to join Northrop & Johnson, Inc., as an officer, and Northrop &
Johnson Company as a partner. Northrop & Johnson are engaged
in the business of distribution of fiber glass boats, marine brokerage
and insurance.

I was married in 1934 and lived in New York City, and Darien,
Connecticut, until 1955. I was remarried in 1956, and am now living

in New York City again. During World War II, I was a member
of the Coast Guard auxiliary.

EDWARD WHITING FOX

    

HOME apprEss: 507 Triphammer Rd., Ithaca, N.Y.

OFFICE appREss: History Dept., 311 West Sibley Hall, Cornell University,
Ithaca, N.Y.

BORN: June 28, rgt1, Seattle, Wash. parents: Philip Fox, ’03, Agnes Whiting.
PREPARED AT: Central High School, Springfield, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 19353 A.M. 19373 PH.D, 1942.

MaRRIED: Elizabeth M. Simon, June 14, 1935, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:

Elizabeth Ann, May 28, 1941; Edward Whiting, Jr., Jan. 28, 1943; Rebecca
MacMillan, April 16, 1948.

occupation: Professor of modern European history, Cornell University.

[ 452 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: American Historical Association; Society for French Historical
Studies, New York State Association of European Historians, Harvard
Club of New York; Annisquam Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Atlas of European History, Oxford University Press, New York,
1957; (editor) Development of Western Civilization, Cornell University
Press, Ithaca, 1950 (a series of small essays on European history from its

origins in ancient Israel and Greece to the present); miscellaneous reviews
and articles.

IT should be possible to render an account of twenty-five years,
but as the editors of this volume could testify, I have not found it
easy. Perhaps the answer is suggested by the dateline of this still
almost blank page. In the words of the late Albert Camus, “I chose
Ithaca,” and while the rest of you have been plowing the wine-dark
sea, fighting on the beaches and sacking a thousand Troys, I have
remained in the “faithful land.” My assignment for tomorrow morn-
ing is what it was when we came in as the Class of ’35 —a lecture
in “History One.”

Following graduation, I stayed on in Cambridge for a ten-year
apprenticeship in history and college teaching. In addition to gradu-
ate work —and acquisition of the necessary Ph.D.—I ran the
Winthrop House library, assisted in “History One,” tutored in
history and literature, served as assistant dean, was senior tutor of
Eliot House, taught in the history department, helped administer
and teach in an AST Program, and set up an office to receive re-
turning veterans. Unable to join the armed forces, I decided to do
my war service behind a familiar Harvard desk, rather than a strange
government one in Washington; but with the approach of victory
in Europe I resigned to seek. my own adventure in the new phase of
the peace.

In April, 1945, I went to work in the State Department as chief
of a policy analysis section — at that point merely a figment of my
imagination — and in the course of eighteen months managed to
put together a functioning office w hich actually could follow and
analyze the development of American foreign policy. The whole
operation proved to be far more beneficial to me personally than to
the Department, however, since few of the officers of policy-making
rank shared my interest in a continuing analytical record of our
policy. By the summer of 1946 it seemed most unlikely chat there
would be a formal peace conference to attend, the original excite.
ment of my assignment was beginning to be replaced by a sense of
frustration and futility, and I decided it was time to return to my

[ 453]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

academic career. I accepted an appointment in the history depart.
ment at Cornell, where I have been since, except for two years
spent at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton and a year
in Paris.

To one brought up at Harvard, the freedom of Cornell seems
quite anarchic, and if anarchy is inefficient it can also be very pleas-
ant. Free to teach what I wanted as I wanted to a few excellent stu-
dents, I have had what must be nearly unique opportunity in this pro-
fession. My most ambitious effort has been the development of a re-
vised and modified “History One.” For this I have edited a series of
narrative essays to serve as a basic text and made an historical atlas.

Even so, ’'m by no means sure my version of this memorable institution
won't go the way of so many others, a victim of our generally sink-
ing academic standards.

It is this manifest and all but universal deterioration of our edu-
cational standards that throws the most serious shadow over the full
enjoyment of the daily academic life. It is all too easy to live com-
fortably in the company of books and friends (and in this category
I include my students) and ignore this threat, and it is all but im-
possible to stem even briefly or locally the distintegrating process.
But it hurts when it forces you to send children away from home
and the public schools of a university community to get a reason-
able preparation for college. Two years of effort to improve the
situation through a citizens’ committee, however, produced neither
results nor encouragement. In spite of the much advertised “bulge”
in our school and university population, students are arriving at
college less and less well prepared and—thanks to tuition rises —
from a narrower and narrower economic segment of our population.

My own special field of study, recent French history, has given
me the opportunity to spend considerable time in France, to get to
know another society, to make new friends, and to see all our own
problems attacked or evaded in a different context and on a dif-
ferent scale. The experience, has, I suspect, raised my estimate of
the resources of mind and character of individual human beings, but
lowered my view of their collective actions. So far I have not ac-

cepted emotionally what might be the logical conclusion of my
intellectual perceptions. The great crises of our century have re-
vealed extraordinary reserves within the population of our western
world, reserves which we seem not to have drawn on very freely

in our recent years of peace and plenty. Can it be as simple as that
the human spirit only flourishes in adversity? Or would it be suf-

L 454]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ficient to break the mirrors of self-congratulation with which we've
enclosed ourselves, and breathe some clean fresh air?

For hobbies and recreation, I can report that ] have been develup-
ing a belated game of tennis with my daughter, have served as an
afterguard for my son’s small racing boat, and dabbled occasionally
in oils.

MAURICE FRANKS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 5413 Surrey St., Chevy Chase 15, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: gor 20th St., N.W. , Washington 6, D.C.

BORN: Sept. 14, 1914, Lawrence, Mass. PARENTS: Harry Franks, Bessie Gevant-
man.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 19353 M.D, 1939.

MarRIED: Dorothy Davis, Sept. 29, 1940, Lawrence, Mass. cuiLpren: David,
Jan. 30, 19433 Paul, July 9, 1946.

occuPATION: Physician,

AFTER June, 1935, entered Harvard Medical School and gradu-

ated in 1939. Had a two-year internship in internal medicine at

Mount Sinai Hospital in New York City, 1939-1941. Married in

1940 to Dorothy, my long-suffering spouse. Embarked upon a

general residency in a small city hospital at Pontiac, Michigan, in

1941 with the purpose of becoming a general practitioner. The

vicissitudes of this overworked, unappreciated group in the peck-

ing order of the practice of medicine soon convinced me that this

was not for me, so that I continued my training in internal medi-

cine from 1942 to 1945 at Detroit Receiving Hospital under Gor-

don B. Myers, the most brilliant diagnostician and teacher whom

it has ever been my good fortune to encounter. David was bern in

1943, and helped keep Dorothy busy while father followed a

[455]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

packed program of learning, teaching and research. This last was
in the pathogenesis of diabetic coma, where we approached the
pinnacle of fame, but unfortunately backed the wrong 1on-phos-
phorus instead of potassium — c’est la vie.

In 1945, having been found physically unsuitable for military
duty, and being bright and starry-eyed, I went to work for a co-
operative prepayment medical program called Group Health, in
Washington, D.C. This was one of the best eye-openers an idealist
could ever have. The consumer is indeed a harsh taskmaster and |
am fully converted to the private enterprise system, although still
a left-of-center Democrat in political philosophy.

In 1946, Paul joined the family, which is as it stands at present,
and in 1947 I entered private practice in Washington. At this
time, I was fortunate enough to secure a part-time job with the
Veterans Administration in their local out-patient department and
an appointment as clinical instructor in medicine at George Wash-
ington University Medical School. Between these and a mewing
practice, I was able to keep busy and for the most part solvent. By
1953, | was able to leave my part-time job with the Veterans, and
because of the press of duties I also resigned my instructorship.
Since 1953, I have been in the solo, full-time practice of internal
medicine in the downtown medical center area of Washington. The

family is growing up and David will be ready for college next year.
That’s it.

HAROLD HERMAN FREEDLANDER

      
 

  

HOME aAppREss: 2245 Burbank Rd., Wooster, Ohio,
OFFice appress: H. Freedlander Co., 125 W. Liberty St., Wooster, Ohio.

BorN: Nov. 12, 1913, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Herman Freedlander, Edna
Anthony.

[ 456 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Wooster High School, Wooster, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1935.

MarRIED: Lois K. Rubin, Jan. 23, 1939, Cleveland, Ohio, camores: Ann, Oct.
8, 1947; Mary, July 26, 1953.

occupation: General merchandise manager and partner, H. Freedlander Com-
pany, department store.

OFFICES HELD: President, Wooster Chamber of Commerce, 1952-533, Rotary
Club of Wooster, 1954-55; past president and member, Wooster Planning

Commission; member board of trustees, Knesseth Israel Temple, vice-
president, The Freedlander Foundation.

MEMBER OF: Century Club of Wooster; Wooster Country Club, Masonic
Lodge.

FOLLOWING my graduation in 1935, I went to work in the family
business in my home town. The retail department store business
in a small town is one which requires one to become truly a jack-
of-all-trades and also to become at least partial master of a few,
which status I trust I have attained. I moved through various de-
partments as assistant buyer, then buyer and, in 1946, following
three years of military service during World War Il, 1 became
divisional merchandise manager of our women’s and children’s ap-
parel departments and have since become general merchandise
manager of the store. In our business, as in most these days I sus-
pect, the chief qualification for success is one’s ability to get along
with people and still accomplish one’s objective — in this I hope
I have been reasonably successful thus far.

My personal life has followed the usual comfortable pattern of
small town living. Four years after graduation I married Lots
Rubin (Western Reserve University 738) of Cleveland and have
never had cause to regret it. Four years after our marriage I was
drafted into the Army and served three vears with the Field
Artillery branch in Texas, Mississippi and, the final year, in the
ETO. In 1947 our elder daughter, Ann, was born; and Mary, our
younger daughter, was born in 1953. I wonder if anvone in our
Class has younger children.

My only connection with the government has been via the Inter-
nal Revenue Service in the role of contributor since my army
service. My political leanings are Democratic, in which T duter
from most of my business associates in this part of the Midwest. I
suppose I could weasel on that one by calling myself a “Jetfer-
sonian Democrat,” whatever that is, but the truth i is that my poli.
tics do not necessary coincide with my economic interests 19
every respect. I deplore the subservience of certain elements in the

[457]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

party to organized labor and detect a healthy move to sever the
closeness of the alliance. I am a Democrat because I believe that,
by and large, there has been more interest shown in the welfare of
the people in the actions taken by that party than by its rival.

Be all that as it may, I am mostly absorbed not by politics but
by my home and family and business. Our small and lovely city
(of which I am a native) is as over-organized as most others and
it is a continual struggle to pick and choose carefully among the
many opportunities for community service, and still retain one’s
perspective and a private life. The most interesting activity in
which I have been engaged thus far is on the city planning com-
mission and specifically in the task of writing a city zoning ordi-
nance.

It has been a long time since 1935 and I am planning on being
present with my family for our Twenty-fifth Reunion in June of
1960. It will be a great thrill for my girls to see Harvard and I am
sure we shall all find it to be a memorable occasion.

NATHANIEL ROCKWOOD FRENCH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 700 Oakwood Ave., Dayton 19, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Marechal, Biebel, French & Bugg, Winters Bank Bldg., Dayton,
Ohio.

BoRN: March 8, 1913, Brookline, Mass. parents: Charles Stratton French, ’95;
Isabelle Rockwood Mauro.

prePaRED at: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1031-1934. DEGREE: LL.B. (National Univ., Washington, D.C.),
1937- :

MargieD: Alix Amador, Sept. 9, 1939, Forest Hills, Long Island, N.Y. cHiLpREN:
Sharon Amador, Feb. 26, 1942; Philip Mauro, Nov. 8, 1944; Andrew

Holmes, May 26, 1948, Eric Rockwood, Feb. 28, 1955; David Stratton,
Sept. 7, 1958.

L458 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
HARVARD BROTHERS: John Mauro French, ’29, David Stratton French, °3:.
OCCUPATION: Patent lawyer.
OFFICES HELD: President, Dayton Patent Law Association, 19§7-59. chairman,
Patent Legislation Committee, American Patent Law Association, 193840.
MEMBER OF: American Patent Law Association, Dayton Bar Association,

Dayton Patent Law Association, Engineers’ Club of Dayton, Miami Valley
Hunt and Polo Club, Harvard Club of Dayton.

PERHAPS the hardest part of starting this account of life since
Harvard is the realization that it is to cover twenty-five years —
which must be more than one-half of the average man’s working
life. Somehow this account must justify the accomplishments of
those twenty-five years, enjoyable as they may have been, and the
pay-off must start for me in 1960, as we figure the cost and other
problems of sending the first of our five children to college, but 1
am getting too far ahead of my story.

My first three years after leaving Harvard in 1934 were taken up
by night law school in Washington, D.C., supplemented by day
work as clerk-apprentice i in the office of my maternal grandfather.
Many a garret inventor who lacked money for legal services dur-
ing those bottom-of-the-depression years had his. patent applica-
tion prepared by me, cut to pieces by my grandfather and redone
and redone until it finally passed inspection. It was a most valuable
training and I was already registered as a patent agent when I gradu-
ated from law school and was admitted to the District of Columbia
bar in 1937.

Washington was still a depression town for patent lawyers in
1937, and while New York was little better, it did provide me a job
as assistant to a patent lawyer with the remnants of a good prac-
tice which afforded more valuable experience in patent office work
as well as litigation. Even more important, New York brought an
end to my bachelor days in the fall of 1939, and life has been a true
team proposition ever since.

The New York period of our life ended early in 1940, when I be-
came assistant to the patent counsel of Polaroid Corporation and
moved back to Cambridge. The next five years were a combina-
tion on the professional ‘side of absorbingly interesting work and
on the personal side of starting a family. T shall alw avs be grateful
for having had the opportunity to w ork with Dr. Edwin Land whe
is the most stimulating person T have ever known, and it was a
fascinating experience to share in the early development of a new
industry which has now grown to such iMposing success, The tint

[ 459 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

year and a half of that time was spent in Cambridge and then at
the very start of the war we moved to Weston, and since my work
at Polaroid kept me out of service, we spent the war years there in
the now dimly recalled maze of air raid drills, victory gardens,
meat and gas rationing, and bicycle commuting which became the
routine of country life.

With the end of the war came the decision to return to private
practice of patent law, coupled with the desire to try life in a
smaller community, and in the fall of 1945 I joined the firm in which
I am now a partner. We have had no reason to regret the move
other than the geographical difficulties of distance to the salt water
areas which the whole family prefers over swimming pools and
to the art centers which inspire the painting talents of my wife,
and those are difficulties which can be solved from time to time. In
addition, the problems of the widely varied and constantly growing
practice of an expanding office have offered ample rewards in satis-
faction as well as more practical considerations.

The end of a quarter-century should call for analysis of its
achievements — both positive and negative. The latter need not be
listed; unless they have contributed to improvement in judgment,
they have failed in their only useful purpose. As to the former,
my greatest satisfaction has been that we have been able to do so
many things we enjoy together — sailing on Buzzards Bay, paint-
ing a striped ceiling in our dining room, theatre week-ending in
New York, refinishing fourth-hand furniture when we could af-
ford nothing newer, basking in the sun on small West Indies islands
when we could not afford that either, and watching the develop-
ment of the incredibly different personalities of our growing chil-
dren.

If I can add the hobby which has brought the most personal
satisfaction, it would be the coaching of baseball teams of grade
school or junior high age during the spring and early summer of
the past eight years. To those of my classmates who have never
tried such an activity, I can assure you that it is most rewarding —
and exhausting. In an age when there is so much tendency to play
down competition among children —a tendency which to me ig-
nores basic aspects of life— the guidance of young teen-age boys
in highly competitive team sport is a challenging responsibility
guaranteed to make one forget office problems. And with my

youngest son in only his second year, it is a hobby I should be able
to follow almost indefinitely.

[ 460 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIS HASFLTINE FRISBEE, JR.

  

HOME ADDRESS: 237 Park St., Newton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Liberty Mutual Insurance Co., 175 Berkeley St, Boston, Mass.

BoRN: March 19, 1914, Sheldon, lowa. parents: Willis Haseltine Frisbee, Grace
B. McGorrisk.

PREPARED AT: La Jolla High School, La Jolla, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1935; A.M. 1936.

MaRRIED: Alberta MacDowell, Jan. 28, 1939, Newton, Mass. cHILDREN: Susan,
Nov. 28, 1941; Margaret, May 27, 1944; Willis Haseltine, 3d, May 24
1947; Stephen, Aug. 29, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Casualty and fire insurance; director of personnel and research
manager, Personal Sales Department, Liberty Mutual Insurance Company.

THERE isn’t too much that is new to report. [ have continued to
work for the same company in the field of market and personnel
research and sales development. We have approximately 850 people
in our department, located in 145 offices. As our personnel con-
tinues to grow, the problems of operating effectively and economi-
cally become more and more complicated. Our particular industry 1s
in the middle of a period of rapid change and we are busy accommo-
dating our organization to these changes.

I have been happily married to the same girl for twenty-one
years. Our children, two girls and two bovs, are now eighteen,
fifteen, twelve and six. We ‘live in a very large and very old Geor-
gian colonial house in Newton and continue to spend our summers
at Laurel Acres, Rockport, Massachusetts.

I have discovered a new and fascinating interest in lobster fsh-
ing. The lobsters off our particular beach at Rockport are surpris-
ingly plentiful and my son Bill and I have averaged as many as six
lobsters per trap on a “good day. We propose to “e\pand our active
ties somewhat this coming summer.

Our oldest child, Susan, is a freshman at Newton Colleve of the

[ 461 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Sacred Heart. Margaret, fifteen, is a sophomore at Mount Alvernia
Academy in Chestnut Hill. Billy and Stephen are in the Newton
public schools where Billy, twelve, is developing into an excellent

athlete — especially 1 in baseball. Stephen, our youngest, is his moth-
er’s and my constant delight.

FRANK JOSEPH FRISOLI

 

HOME apprEss: 99 Trowbridge St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE aDpRESS: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 14, 1914, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Lawrence Frisoli, Antonetta
Accettullo.

PREPARED aT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; A.M. (Boston Univ.), 1936.

mMarrieD: Mary Angela De Guglielmo, Aug. 12, 1939, Cambridge, Mass. cHiL-
DREN: Mary Ann, Dec. 24, 1944; Elizabeth Jane, Oct. 26, 1947; Francis
Joseph, Jr., Dec. 17, 1948; Lawrence Walter, Aug. 22, 1950, Martha Jean,
Aug. 19, 1954; Angela Clare, Oct. 1, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Pasquale Frisoli, ’40, a.M., ’41.

occupation: Assistant Headmaster, Cambridge High and Latin School.

OFFICES HELD: President, St. Vincent de Paul Society, since 1939, Dot Taxi, Inc.,
Cambridge; vice-president, St. Francis Guild, since 1958; member, board
of directors, Cambridge T.B. and Health Association, Community Fund,

Archdiocesan Council of St. Vincent de Paul Society, former president,
Cambridge Tech Cab, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Eastern Board of Basketball Officials, Cambridge Teachers Club

(former vice-president), Modern Language Association.

SINCE graduation I have been constantly preoccupied in keeping
up with young America. I served as a high school coach for seven-
teen years and at present I am busy helping the senior class with
their applications to college. My own tribe and the 500 odd (some-
times literally) members of the high school class keep me in close

[ 462 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

touch with young America. My life is nothing spectacular, bur
often satisfactory when former pupils come back on their way to
SUCCESS.

LUCIANO FRISSORA

 

HOME ADDREsS: 37 Lileston St., Boston 13, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, Boston, Mass.

BoRN: May 27, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Giuseppe Frissora, Maria Mad-
dalena Ridolfi.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 193 I-32, 193 3-34-

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Bank clerk, Federal Reserve Bank of Boston.

TWENTY-FIVE years of living in this very real world of ours
since leaving Harvard have dissipated the golden mist surrounding
the dreams of my college days but at the same time have given them
new clarity and direction.

After leaving the College, I became a geodetic computer and
then assistant supervisor Ww “ith the Massachusetts Geodetic Survey,
an organization engaged in running traverses between established
triangulation stations in Massachusetts, with the object of defining
more precisely the dimensions of this state. In March, 1943. be-
cause of the emphasis on military defense, the Massachusetts Geo-
detic Survey ceased operations. A physical disabilitv, meanwhile,
had prevented me from joining the armed services and in July, rag;
I became a clerk in the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, continuing
in that capacity until March, 1949, when a severe lung infection
forced me into temporary retirement.

Then came a long period of convalescence, which ended only
recently. This enforced inactivity gave me an opportunity to re-
flect on life in general and I dev eloped an intense love of philosophy,

[ 453 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

its history and many ramifications. I have been studying this subject
ever since.

‘The tremendous advances of science in our day have led to highly
specialized studies of increasingly smaller areas of knowledge, and
sO bewilderingly many and various have these areas become that
without the light which philosophy can shed, great confusion and
obscurity would result, at least for me. Like the proverbial hunter,
we wouldn’t be able to see the forest for the trees. Philosophy re-
verses the powerful binoculars of science and by judicious elimina-
tion of detail enlarges our field of vision, enabling us to view things
in something like their proper relationship.

This view of life, in my opinion, has helped me to distinguish the
important from the not so important, and has particularly empha-
sized for me the great importance of Harvard to our country and,
indeed, to the world. Harvard then becomes a spearhead of exquisite
temper and keenness, able to pierce effectively the thick walls of
ignorance and misunderstanding, but even the best spearhead can-
not realize its full effectiveness unless given force by a powerful
shaft. The alumni and friends of Harvard represent that shaft and
I have no doubt that it is solid and true. Circumstances up to now
have prevented me from adding much to the solidity of that shaft,
but it is my sincere hope and desire that the future will change
these circumstances and enable me to realize my true desires in this
respect.

For the rest, I am lucky to have still with me my wonderful
mother, and a bevy of small nephews and nieces add considerable
zest to my life.

JOHN CUSHING FUESS

Hata

         

ApprEss: American Embassy, Rome, Italy; APO 794, New York, N.Y.
[ 464 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BorN: April 13, 1912, Andover, Mass. parents: Claude Moore Fuess, Elizabeth
Goodhue.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 19353 A-M., 1938,

MaRRIED: Frances Henry, Jan. 4, 1943, Belfast, Ireland. curpren: James Henry,
Jan. 6, 1944; David Cushing, April 12, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Foreign service officer.

MEMBER OF: Speakers’ Club; D. U. Club; Foreign Service Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in Yale Review, Political Science Quarterly, Foretzn
Service Journal.

THE Harvard senior, so all-prepared, so “well-rounded,” so all-
wise, how well does he discern —or prepare for —the spinning
and cutting of the Fates? How long, how many ventures, does it
take to fix upon his Star?

For this particular product of the Yard, the first steps were but
little distance from the known — to the lovely, scholastic fen of the
Brooks School as a faculty jack-of-all-trades. But such was not the
Star.

Feet wet, yet ears far from dry, the ultimate plunge was into the
then-lengthy examinations for our Foreign Service (three consecu-
tive six-hour days of writer’s cramp in international, maritime and
commercial law, three histories, economics, general information and
two languages, plus a searching oral).

After the first proving post at Mexico City, the transfers and
shattered furniture (unrecompensed) matched ‘the passing | years —
Washington for more boot-training in passports and visas; Belfast
and Auckland during the war as liaison between troops and local
government, Capetown for a whack at commercial and agricultural
reporting; and Milan for a strange mixture of industry and labor
reporting.

After the proving and testing, then the alleged polish and specialty
(in labor affairs) at the Univ ersity of Wisconsin (amusingly
enough, in then current theory, the most opposite to Harvard!) for
an immensely profitable year of study, thought and general re-
charging of the intellectual batteries. The path of the Fares then
led to the Department of Labor’s Otfice of International Labor
Affairs and thence, always as a career foreign service officer, as
Labor Attaché at Santiago, Chile, Two years ago came the jackpot
of First Secretary and Labor Attaché at Rome.

In all these wanderings, “job satisfaction” has thus far won hands
down over the undeniable hardships (I speak not of Rome!) of
unhealthful assignments, personal economic sacrifice, erratic educa-

[ 465 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

tional opportunities and the constant physical and spiritual uproot-
ing of the family (wife Fran, son Jim at Tabor Academy, son David
at the International School of Rome). _

All in all it has been a satisfying venture. The central considera-
tion is that the work has “mattered,” for apart from the broad po-
litical and economic picture, no international arena is more vital
than that of labor in the current defense of our national institutions
and their underlying spiritual principles and heritage.

The crystal ball is as ever cloudy, but the intent is to shift away
from the current specialty, back to generalization and a broader
political assignment, after Rome.

From this Odyssey, what? Above all, I am assured that, within
the limits of the inevitable foibles of man, we have a dedicated and
supremely capable peacetime front-line in our Foreign Service, a
group of constantly winnowed individuals whose integrity and
ability can match those of the highest professions.

A second chance? No! The cards have fallen unevenly and not
always on the plus side. But no regrets.

PEIRCE FULLER

 

HOME ADDRESS: off River Street, Norwell, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 100 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 12, 1912, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Richard Frederick Fuller, Carrie
Mildred Peirce.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1035.

MARRIED: Katherine Rand, Nov. 2, 1940, Boston, Mass. cHi_pReN: Michael
Peirce, Dec. 12, 1941; Katherine, Feb, 10, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Timothy Fuller, ’36,

occupation; Life insurance agent.

[ 466 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, South Shore Hospital, 1950-51, treasurer, Norwell Rod

& Gun Club, 1951; director, Boston Life Underwriters Association, 195 5-
56.

MEMBER OF: Boston Life Underwriters Association, Boston Chapter, CL.U.,

Boston Life Underwriters and Trust Council, Georgetown (Maine) Fire
Department.

AFTER graduation I went to work in the family business, the Old
Corner Book Store. Except for time out during the war — when
I was with the Quincy Yard of Bethlehem Steel Company and Sub-
marine Signal Company in industrial relations work — 1 continued
at the Old Corner until it was sold in 1951. After what in retro-
spect seems a short period, but then seemed very long, of collecting
unemployment compensation, I joined Connecticut General Life
Insurance Company as an estate planning agent. For several years
I was in field management but three years ago went back to being
an agent full-time on the theory that doing the work yourself rather
than teaching others to do it is more rewarding financially and
certainly less frustrating. In 1956 I obtained my CLU and last year
taught a course in business law, trusts, and estates in connection
with the CLU program.

My current objectives are to get our children through school and
to retire to Maine — at least ona part-time basis. These are not exactly
compatible as anyone with two kids in private school well knows.
At any rate, we are making progress on both, the first mainly by
the passage of time and the second by buyi ing ten acres of shore-
front property in Georgetown last year. Hobbies are hunting and
cutting firewood. I’m ashamed to report that my son, Mike, i is a
better shot than I am and naturally he is able to run the chainsaw a
lot longer than [ can. Kitty has never had an interest in hunting
and has had none in woodcutting since I dropped a log on her finger
and broke it a few years ago. Kay prefers the results of these activi-
ties rather than participation in them — currently, most of her free
time is occupied as a member of the Norwell Board of Health.

[ 467 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

WILLIAM HENRY FURST

 

HOME ADbRESS: 10635 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 24, Calif.

BORN: Feb. 16, 1911, Minneapolis, Minn. parents: William Furst, Flora Dopping.

PREPARED AT: Shattuck Military School, Faribault, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934.

MARRIED: Mary Patricia Mars, September, 1933, Manchester, N.H. (divorced
1937); Harriet Ann DeGoff, Sept. 26, 1937, Hempstead, Long Island, N.Y.
CHILDREN: William Henry, Jr., December, 1934; Robert Mars, February,
1936; Joan, June 28, 1938.

OCCUPATION: Investment counselor.

AT the start of what would have been my graduation year at
Harvard, I got married and left school (two pretty stupid mis-
takes!). I then went to work for Mars, Inc., a candy company
owned by my wife’s family, and spent some time working in every
department of the company in order to learn the candy business.

However, the company also owned a stable of thoroughbred
race horses (Milky Way Farms) which interested me more. So in
1935 I decided to go into the horse racing business for myself, and
soon had a large stable of thoroughbreds which I raced at all the
major tracks in this country with considerable success.

When the war came I worked for the Douglas Aircraft Company
in Santa Monica, California. Since the war I’ve been engaged in
planning and managing investment programs for a limited clien-
tele, but lately I’ve considered going into something more active
and, I may add, am open to any offers.

My first wife and I were divorced in 1937. Shortly thereafter I
married again and my wife and I came to California on our honey-

moon, We liked California so much we stayed and made our home
here.

[ 468 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

VERNER SIMPSON GAGGIN

  

. ‘ * = , 4
wa * |
« Hate
m a gl.

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 106 Concord PIL. Fayetteville, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 14, 1913, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Verner Simpson Gaggin, Helen
Walker Slack.

PREPARED AT: Shady Side Academy, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1935.

MARRIED: Nancy Flint Weston, March 1, 1941, Pittsburgh, Pa. cHipReN:
Nancy Karen, March 9, 1943; David Verner, June 22, 1945; Mark Weston,

Oct. 16, 1953.
occuPaTION: Self-employed; distributor for Simplified Tax Records, Inc.
OFFICES HELD: Director of consumer relations, 1945-47, chief investigator, 1947-
49, Better Business Bureau of Pittsburgh, Pa.; director of business relations,
1949-53, general manager, 1953-58, Better Business Bureau of Philadelphia,
Pa.

UPON graduation from Harvard I was convinced I was destined
to be the greatest publisher of fine books this country had ever
seen. Armed with letters of introduction to the president of every
major publisher in the country I made the rounds only to discover
that the depression was still with us and was told that I should
obtain some retail experience first and then I might be senously
considered. This I did, working my wav through Various Pitts-
burgh department stores to the position of assistant buver in the
book department for Kaufman’s, 1937-1939. Here | learned that the
art of publishing had depreciated from an art to the business of
printing three types of books, — novels, self-improvement and sex.
Thoroughly discouraged, I got myself fired from this job and im-
mediately began to rebuild a one-hundred-fifty-year-old barn on
some property up near Erie, Pennsylvania, into a restaurant. This
was completed in June, 1940, and successfully operated until Sep-
tember of that year as the “Old Red Barn,” at which time Uncle

[ 469 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

not believe in or are not willing to support sufficiently so that it cay
be developed as it should be. |

OTTO GAMBACORTA

BERS wR AR Tene er roa gcrgr ne een

   

HOME ADDRESS: 5402 E, Holmes, Tucson, Ariz.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Thomas-Davis Clinic, 130 S. Scott St., Tucson, Ariz.

BORN: Sept. 17, 1914, Ariano, Province of Avellino, Italy. PARENTs: Leopoldo
Gambacorta, Adalgisa Del Giacomo.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; M.p. (Tufts Coll.), 1939.

MarRiED: Merrie Jo Thomas Jacobs, July 23, 1955, Des Moines, Iowa.

occupation: Otolaryngologist, Thomas-Davis Clinic.

OFFICES HELD: Senior assistant surgeon, New York Eye & Ear Infirmary, 1951-
57; associate otolaryngologist, Columbus Hospital, Newark, N.J., 1953-573
associate attending surgeon in otolaryngology, St. Mary’s Hospital, Tucson,
since 1958.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Arizona State and Pima County
Medical Societies; American Academy of Ophthalmology and Otolaryn-
gology; American Society of Ophthalmologic and Otolaryngologic Allergy;
National Board of Medical Examiners (diplomate, 1940); American Board
of Otolaryngology (diplomate, 1943).

PUBLICATIONS: “Hereditary Hemorrhagic Telangiectasia with Severe Epistaxis,”
Journal of the Medical Society of New Jersey, February, 1950.

THE last twenty-five years for me have flown by with the speed
of the jet age in which we are now living. This period included
four busy and productive years at Tufts Medical School; more
training for two years at Kings County Hospital in Brooklyn, New
York, which for me were filled with a lot of work and during my
off-duty hours with much fun. Then came two years of specialty
training (ear, nose and throat) at New York Eye & Ear Infirmary
in Manhattan; about three and a half years in the wartime US.

[ 472 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Army Medical Corps, of which two were spent overseas, picking
up the threads of my civilian life and professional activities on
separation from the service (with the rank of major, AMS) and
plunging into more self-training and a large volume of free clinic
work to keep up with new surgical techniques in my revitalized
and rapidly changing specialty; ten years of private practice in
New York City, Bloomfield and Newark, New Jersey.

A new and happy chapter began for me when I met Merrie Jo
Jacobs from Des Moines, Iowa, on a sightseeing bus filled with
American tourists on the Amalfi Drive in Italy. We were married
in Des Moines about a year later and since that time my life has
been filled with joy and laughter. The only cloud to darken other-
wise bright skies at this time was the loss of my beloved parents,
the spiritual beacons of my voyage up to this time.

We are now living in Arizona. We don’t have any children but
we enjoy our white and champagne-colored French poodle, Gigi
(we acquired her, at the age of three months, about four months
after the death of our handsome old Dalmatian, Tinker). I have

layed some tennis down here and any day now I may start play-
ing golf. We have done a fair amount of fishing, not only in the
mountain lakes and streams of Arizona and Wyoming, but also in
the clear blue waters of the Gulf of California. I hope that soon I
can find the time to do more horseback riding. Another of my so
far unfulfilled ambitions is to own and pilot my plane.

Now a word about my reflection on the political scene from the
point of view of American medicine and its service to the Ameri-
can people. I am rather pessimistic about the future security and
freedom of the American medical man. The pressure will be re-
applied by the socialistic lobbyists early in 1960 in the form of the
Forand Bill, and if they succeed, the American doctor will be a
step closer to total enslavement. The problems of bringing toral
first-rate medical and surgical care to all the people who need it
certainly exists. I have been in a position to observe our svstem at
work — both in a large metropolitan center such as New York
City, and in a small city of 200,000. Practically everyone in New
York City can get first-class medical care because of the large
number of free clinics staffed by men of professional rank, w ith
students and trainees intensely interested in learning their specialty.
But in towns like Tucson (200,000), this does not exist, and those
who cannot travel to Los Angeles or San Francisco or the Mave
Clinic, and who cannot afford skilled private care (which ince

(473 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

dentally is excellent) just simply do not get it in the County Hospi-
tal, because of the fact that most of the medical and surgical staff
(attending staff) who are supposed to supervise the work of the
resident and intern staff do so only in name, and hardly ever in
fact. They just do not have the time. They (and I am one of
them) must use all the working time to make money to pay taxes,
high operating expenses, and to live in the style to which we are
accustomed. It so happens that those who need the most skilled
special rehabilitative surgery (which is time-consuming and ex-
pensive) are the very ones who cannot afford it. (Of course, emer-
gency surgery is offered to all, regardless of the ability to pay.)
I don’t know how to solve this problem, except that we all become
Dr. Schweitzers, which I would not hesitate to do if only everyone
would just stop sending me bills——and that includes our good
friend Sam.

THOMAS BRATTLE GANNETT

    

HOME appress: Mainstone Farm, Wayland, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hornblower & Weeks, 75 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 5, 1912, Hopedale, Mass, parenrs: Thomas Brattle Gannett, ’97,
Dorothy Draper.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

Markitp: Ann Cole, April 18, 1936, North Andover, Mass. cuiLpREN: Thomas
Brattle, Jr., May 24, 1937; Ann W., Feb. 4, 1939; Benjamin H., March 14,
1942; Deborah, Sept. 16, 1947; Peter C., March 11, 1951.

HARVARD SON: Thomas Brattle Gannett, Jr., ’59.

HakvakD BRoreRS: John Draper Gannett, ’37; Robert Tileston Gannett, ’39,
LLB, 742.

OOCUPATION: Investment banking; general partner, Hornblower & Wecks.

OFFICES HELD: Trustce, Milton Academy, Boston Five Cents Savings Bank;

[ 474 ]

seasammesunnste tA Se Seta Aan AAa Neate seamen ete RS Gee EASES

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

former president and director, Elizabeth Peabody House; assistant treasurer
and director, Robert Breck Brigham Hospital; vice-president and director,
Boston Madison Square Garden Club, treasurer, United Community
Services of Boston; former director and chairman, Greater Boston Red
Cross Drive, 1952; chairman, New England Group, 1956-57, national
governor, 1959-61, Investment Bankers of America; president, Bond Club
of Boston, 1958-59.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club; The Country Club, Harvard Club of Boston,
Essex County Club; Myopia Hunt Club; Millwood Hunt Club, Boston
Madison Square Garden Club; Bond Club of Boston; Harvard Varsity
Club.

TO summarize the activities of the past twenty-five years of my

life is an imposing task for one who is not inclined to an easy flow-

ing pen, but in deference to the request of the Class Report Com-
mittee, it is incumbent upon me to try.

Following graduation, a trip to Europe with several classmates
preceded my entrance into the field of finance as a messenger at the
Boston Safe Deposit & Trust Company for the enormous sum of
$12.50 a week. With this success under my belt and accumulating
such a fortune, I married Ann Cole in April of 1936, who for some
strange reason has tolerated my whims and fancies ever since. Five
children as listed above have kept our lives active and challenging,
yet at the same time most rewarding.

With the advent of World War II, I joined the U.S. Naval
Reserve (not entirely of my own volition) where I was ensconced
from 1942 until 1946. This led to three years of staff duty in the
Mediterranean Theatre, six months at the Naval War College in
Newport, and the balance in the Pacific. Seven battle stars and one
Navy commendation ribbon were the result of these varied travels
which, although unforgettable in many ways, are now but memories
of the past. I then retired (of my own volition) as a lieutenant
commander, USNR, in 1947.

Back once again, the banking fraternity did not place any undue
pressure or regard for my services with the result that I ch: anged
my so-called financial affiliations to that of an investment banking
firm — commonly known as a brokerage house — Hornblower &
Weeks. Indeed, ‘this proved to be a fortuitous move and after six
years of selling to my friends — and thereby losing some — and to
others where i could find them, I was asked to become a member of

the firm in 1953 and have since been a general partner in charge of
our eight New England offices. This has been challenging and to
date the SEC and other regulatory bodies have seen no valid reason

[475 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

for moving in on me! Hornblower & Weeks’ doors are always open
in strategic parts of the USA to members of the Class of 1935 and
their friends!

Various charitable, civic, educational and business extracurricu-
lar activities have managed to keep me well occupied — but still
leave time for golfing, gardening and continued interest in school
and college athletic programs. Through my industrious bride, [
have even ventured timidly into the field of politics and the finer
arts!

Possibly one of the most exciting events of the past twenty-five
years (aside from all angles of bringing up a family) was working
behind closed doors with Cabot Lodge and Sinclair Weeks at Chi-
cago in 1952 ultimately to nominate “Ike,” whom history, I am sure,
will prove to have been the president who set the stage for the free
world to honestly assert itself in these troubled times. Our good
classmate, Sayward Farnum, was very much in evidence on this
occasion as Sergeant at Arms in helping to maintain order on the
floor amongst the delegates — and I might say he did just that in
a most eloquent manner!

On the lighter side, one of the pleasanter episodes of recent years
has been the joint venture with the F. A. Reece family (of our il-
lustrious class) in purchasing a ski lodge in the vicinity of Fran-
conia Notch. Winter holidays find as many as thirty young bodies
and souls enjoying the hospitality of these co-inhabitors as well as
the clear, cold New Hampshire air. Needless to say, age prevents
me from attempting the rigors of the slopes, but I find I double in
brass expertly as garbage collector, dish washer, bartender, snow-
shoveler, bed maker and what-have-you! Even summer time finds
this a most relaxing and refreshing hideaway.

In conclusion, my principal occupation at the present time is
general chairman of our Twenty-fifth Reunion — and this with the
complete approval of my thirty-seven partners and my wife. Two
years ago when I was told I had been selected your general chair-
man, though certainly not unanimously, I found myself groping
as to just what lay ahead. As this period of working with our com-
mittee and the University draws to a close, I full well realize that it
has been a most rewarding experience, and I deeply appreciate the
honor and privilege you have accorded me. Without the help of a

number of devoted staff members, our Twenty-fifth Reunion could
not exist as we shall all see it. Sincere thanks should go to Miss
Ruth Mahoney for her persistent efforts in making this Report

[ 476 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

possible; to Peter Schultz and Arthur Trottenberg for guiding our
destinies and very existence in Cambridge, to Mrs. Judith Greif
and Mrs. Francesca Bergschneider, our Reunion secretaries, who
have most competently succeeded Mrs. Ruth Rintels and have as-
sisted our various committees so graciously, energetically and ef-
ficiently to the point where we find ourselves now on the eve of this
wonderful occasion. Many others, too numerous to mention, are
included in our thanks.

Should there be a few of our classmates who read this Report
prior to June and are still undecided as to whether or not to return
to their Twenty-fifth, I say to you with the deepest conviction
that it is an experience which you will always cherish. I look for-
ward to expressing my personal gratitude to you for your help in

maintaining this unforgettable Harvard tradition.
See you all in June!

JOSEPH JAMES GANO

 

HOME ADDRESS: 31 Davis Ave., Arlington, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dynamic Controls Co., 1955 Massachusetts Ave., Cambndge,
Mass,

BORN: Jan. 13, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: Domenic Gianino, Carmela

Giufridda.

PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: §.B. IN MECH.ENG., viagra cum laste,
1935; S.M. IN EE. (Mass. Inst. of Technology), 1952.

MarRiED: Mary A. McGrath, 1939, Medford, Mass. cHILpREN: Joseph James,
Jr., Oct. 23, 1942; Anne Elizabeth, Oct. 13, 1946; Thomas Durward, March
28, 1949.

occupation: Electrical engineer; manufacturer of electronic equipment.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Engineering Society; American Institute of F lectrival

[477]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Engineers; American Society of Mechanical Engineers; Institute of Radio
Engineers.

pusLications: Three articles on power systems for large electronic installations,
published in professional journals, 1957-58.

IT appears that P'll be making decisions in regard to my career until
my last days. In my high school days I thought I might like to teach
and yet my proficiency in mathematics and the sciences indicated
engineering as a possible career. M.I.T. or Harvard? My princi-
pal, being a Harvard graduate, influenced me as any proper Har-
vardian would. If I showed no predilection for engineering I could
transfer to liberal arts.

Harvard it was. I did well in the engineering sciences and upon
my graduation jobs were scarce in any occupation. After three
years as a mechanical engineer in the development of air condition-
ing equipment with Westinghouse at Pittsburgh and Springfield, I
acquired no great love for engineering and tried without success to
transfer into high school teaching. Instead I continued as an en-
gineer in Worcester and studied a little Jaw evenings in hopes of
liberation into management work.

After two year of designing industrial gas and oil burners with
a small company, I saw nothing in the future there; so in 1949 I
shifted to an even smaller company working on automation of ma-
chine tools. I began to find engineering more exciting. We were
developing numerical controls about fifteen years ahead of time,
but working with egotistical inventors was wearying and one time
I quit. Visualizing a placid life, 1 accepted a high school teaching
job. Before I could start, the president of the company (ten em-
ployees) induced me to retract my resignation.

The company acquired inventors of all types of gadgets and
every employee from the secretary to the sweeper thought he could
invent, Our finances and manpower were limited and our objec-
tives too great. A much larger company bought us and in 1948 re-
quested that we move to the Midwest. I preferred to stay in the
Fast.

During this period of 1941 to 1948 I had dropped all thoughts
of a legal profession and got started in electrical engineering by
taking courses at Worcester Tech, Again a decision! Mechanical
engineering? Electrical engineering? Teaching? I was offered an
assistant professorship at an eastern engineering school, Now the

money did not appear adequate and I felt I would not be able to
go far without an advanced degree. With some thought to con-

[ 478 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tinuing my studies, I accepted a staff position in the Digital Com-
puter Laboratory of M.I.T. My metamorphosis to electrical en-
gineering was completed. There I was responsible for the power
system for the first large-scale electronic computer. In the mean-
time, on a part-time scale, I earned a Master’s degree in electrical
engineering. I had about decided to depart when in 1953 along came
the Sage system, which applied the giant computers to the air de-
fense system of our country. Frequent travels and exchange of ideas
at conferences with L.B.M., Western Electric and a multitude of
subcontractors were exhilarating.

In 1957, our coordinating work having subsided, the tranquil
and cloistered life of research and development held no appeal. I
decided to form my own organization. My intention was the manu-
facture of power supplies. However, my first offer was a trip of
two weeks to Honolulu on a consulting job. Upon the expiration
of this project on the mainland, five months later, my manufactur-
ing got started. After a year or so financial troubles forced me back
into consulting. During the past year that has been very profit-
able, but my first love, manufacturing, has deteriorated to a point
where it requires considerable promotional work. Thus like plug-
ging leaks in dikes, I rush from consulting to manufacturing. The
company is small—ten employees. The headaches, especially in
manufacturing, are sometimes unbearable and it is then that I won-
der why I ever got into this business. Looking to 1960, it is stll
a question of survival. Regardless of the outcome, if I hadn’t tried,
I am sure I would have regretted the decision the rest of my life.

ERIC FREEMAN GARDNER

&

  

HOME ADDRESS: 1401 Euclid Ave, Syracuse, N.Y.

[ 479 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

OFFICE ADDRESS: 200 Slocum Hall, School of Education, Syracuse University,
Syracuse 10, N.Y.

BorN: March 16, 1913, Brooklyn, Nova Scotia. pareNTs: Clayton Elwin Gard-
ner, Grad. Sch., 1915-16, Elizabeth E. Taylor.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cumt laude, 1935; ED.M. (Boston
Teachers Coll.), 1936; Epp. (Harvard Univ.), 1948.

MARRIED: Catherine Smalley-Smith, June 24, 1939, Cambridge, Mass. cnt:
Elizabeth H., Dec. 31, 1944.

occupaTION: Professor of psychology and education, director, Division of
Advanced Studies, School of Education, Syracuse University, acting
chairman, Psychology Department, acting director, Psychological Research
Center; member, Advisory Committee to Commissioner of Education of
New York on Experimental Programs.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, Division 5, American Psychological Asso-
ciation, 1958-61; chairman of board, Test Research Service, Inc.; examiner,
Scholastic Aptitude Test of College Entrance Examination Board; mem-
ber, executive council, Harvard Graduate School of Education Alumni
Association; member, executive committee, Syracuse University Graduate
School; member, Syracuse University Senate and its committees on Ap-
pointments and Promotions and Agenda.

MEMBER oF: American Association of University Professors; American Psy-
chological Association; American Statistical Association; American Edu-
cational Research Association; Institute of Mathematic Statistics; Psycho-
metric Society; Biometric Society; University Club of Syracuse.

PUBLICATIONS: Stanford Achievement Test—co-author with T. L. Kelley,
L. M. Terman and R. Madden of 1953 revision, World Book Company;
Social Relations and Morale in Small Groups, co-author with George
G. Thompson, 1956, Appleton-Century-Crofts; Syracuse Scales of Social
Relations, co-author with George G. Thompson, 1959, World Book
Company; Tomorrow's Graduate School of Education, 1958, Syracuse
University Press; Educational Psychology, co-author with George G.
Thompson and Frank DiVesta, 1959, Appleton-Century-Crofts.

TO be perfectly honest, I did back out hastily when faced with the
personal part of the questionnaire — not because I had reservations
about my private life, but because this type of writing has never
been my strong point. However, faced with the tireless and un-
daunted efforts of the “Committee for Getting in Reports,” here
goes... .

My first teaching job, at Vermont Academy, was a delightful
experience, leaving me — and I gather I am not at all unique in this
respect — a dyed-in-the-wool Vermont devotée. I realize most New
E-nglanders should react this way, but not perhaps with such fervor.
Next came Moses Brown School — you see, I’m not doing much
better than if Pd used only the above statistics. And marriage. . -
And not just because I am well aware that my family will read this

[ 480 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

carefully, I say most enthusiastically that 1 approve of the institu-
tion, and for almost everyone.

Catherine and I had just two short years of comparative quiet,
while I did high-school teaching, before our junketing around the
country for the U.S. Navy began. All of this tending to make us
fairly efficient packers (and at short notice) and teaching us the
valuable lesson not to be hoarders or savers of anything but the bare
necessities.

We lived in South Bend, Indiana (where I taught navigation to
midshipmen at Notre Dame — and have you ever had shore patrol
duty in South Bend, Indiana??); enjoyed a strenuous nine months
in Ann Arbor, where I took a course in naval architecture, courtesy
of the University of Michigan; on to Portsmouth, New Hampshire,
where I found myself a ship superintendent at the Portsmouth Navy
Yard working on the construction of submarines, on to Washing-
ton, where I settled at the Bureau of Ships for the remainder of the
war — with time out for a brief duty as an assistant damage control
officer on a cruiser. In 1944, our daughter Elizabeth was born, by
far the most important thing that has “happened to us, and shortly
thereafter the end of World War II. In 1946, we made the fateful
decision as to what my future would be and decided in favor of the
Harvard Graduate School of Education — a decision we can honestly
say we have never regretted, and this includes sweating out the last
harrowing hours of the final work on the dissertation.

My life at Syracuse, both professionally and socially, has been
very pleasant indeed. My outside activities — in consulting capaci-
ties — in connection with the Stanford Achievement Test — in the
writing of books and articles — have been rewarding and stimulat-
ing. I cannot deny the moments of great stress, unhappiness and
even anguish that are part of day-to-day living, but neither do
I forget the more than compensating moments I have had for balance.
My family life, my association with my colleagues and students and

the from-time-to-time reunion with old friends lead me to believe
that I have been favored mightily,

[481 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

IRVIN McDOWELL GARFIELD, JR.

 

HOME appreEss: Main Street, Southboro, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: New England Trust Co., 135 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 19, 1913, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Irvin McDowell Garfield, L3.,
’96, Susan Emmons.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

marriED: Elinor Fay, April 23, 1938, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN: Michael
Rudolph, Jan. 9, 1941; Richard, Oct. 22, 1942; Hester, May 20, 1944; Irvin
McDowell, 3d, Nov. 14, 1945; James Abram, June 13, 1952; Anne and
Elizabeth (twins), May 26, 1955.

HARVARD SON: Michael Rudolph Garfield, ’63.

occuPaTION: Financial analyst; assistant vice-president, New England Trust
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Advisory Board, Town of Nahant, 1942-46, Town of
Southboro, since 1958; member, Algonquin Council, Boy Scouts of
America, 1954-56; treasurer, St. Mark’s Church, Southboro, since 1954.

MY life in the twenty-five years since graduation has been most
prosaic, particularly in view of all that has gone on in the world
during that period. While seldom getting back to Cambridge I have
never gotten very far away from it except for sporadic business
trips and a vacation jaunt last summer that led me as far as the 4gth
state.

After one year at the Law School, for which I definitely was not
fitted, I moved no farther than Boston where I worked in a bank
until 1942. During the next four years I was with the War Depart-
ment as.a member of the Boston Ordnance Department for the
renegotiation of war contracts. This was followed by two years
with an industrial concern in Worcester and again return to Boston
to another bank where I have been employed ever since as a finan-
cial analyst in the trust department.

[ 482 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Prosaic — but not dull to me. The achievement of seven chil-
dren might have, at one time, singled me out among our classmates
but this record has long since been eclipsed by John Cort. These
seven, plus holding a job, have naturally consumed most of my time
but I have been able to devote about the usual amount of effort to
local civic and charitable affairs.

I think I am peculiarly devoid of hobbies, a subject that usually
takes up a good part of class autobiographies. Whether this means
I shall quickly wither on the vine at enforced retirement in about
eighteen years, as some would lead you to believe, remains to be
seen, but I have few qualms. I feel that satisfactory solution of the
problems that face the nation between now and our Fiftieth Anni-
versary will provide more than sufficient challenge to the imagina-
tions of all of us, and precludes such an eventuality.

BLAKE GARNER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 10535 Wilshire Blvd. Los Angeles, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Early Investment Corp. 1300 Wilshire Blvd, Los Angeles,

Calif.

BoRN: March 14, 1914, Ottumwa, Iowa. parents: Charles Lawrence Gamer,

Cornelia Mary Blake.

PREPARED AT: Ottumwa High School, Ottumwa, Iowa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.
UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Independent stock trader.

GRAIN trader with Farrol Bros., Chicago,
broker, Beverly Hills, California, 1942-50.
Angeles, California, 1950-60.

Religion — Episcopalian, Live with my mother in sunny Cah-

[483 ]

g32-4o. Real estute
Stock speculator, Los

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

fornia — settled here after seeing most of the United States during
last twenty-five years — liked climate and growth of this area.

One of my greatest appreciations in life is the sincere and con-
tinued contact Harvard keeps with its alumni.

HARRISON HERMAN GASS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 120 Lake Ave., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE appREsS: Marilyn Sandal Corp., 426 Main St., Stoneham, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 13, 1915, San Antonio, Texas. PARENTS: Nathan Paul Gass, Sonia
L. Dorson.

PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: a.B., cum laude, 1935.

marRiED: Blanche V. Faye, Aug. 20, 1946, Lynn, Mass. cHILDREN: Robert
Bruce, Jan. 29, 1948; Laurie Beth, Nov. 16, 1953; Diane Lee, April 7, 1956.

occupaTion: General and sales manager, Marilyn Sandal Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Sales manager, Amoskeag Shoe Company, Manchester, New
Hampshire; sales consultant, Bee-Bee Shoe Company, Manchester, New
Hampshire, commissioner, Newton E. Little League, 1959.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Council on Foreign Relations; New
England Shoe and Leather Association; Intelligence Officers’ Association,
Foreign Affairs Section, American Jewish Committee; The z10 Associates;
Newton Squash and Tennis Club; New England Economists; Air Force
Reserve Association.

THERE must be a mistake; this can’t be my Twenty-fifth coming
up. Pm much too young! With this happy thought, I promptly
filed the Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report form and turned to
more acceptable matters. However, one of the committeemen, Still
Williams, just ‘phoned suggesting that I was old enough, and that
the publishing deadline was near, so .. .
After graduating from college, I went to work in the shoe manu-
facturing business, production and sales, and then opened my own

[ 484 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

factory in Lynn, Massachusetts. Several months later, Pearl Harbor
— and Uncle Sam looked at me with pointed finger — “I need you!”
So I decided to sell the business and help him out. I was in the
Army for five years, from private through captain, mostly in Air
Force Intelligence, in England, North Africa, Newfoundland, Ice-
land and Greenland. One day, while protecting the security of the
Allied North Atlantic flank in the Officers’ Club at Gander, New-
foundland, I met Blanche Faye, the 1 ingenue in ‘Personal Appear-
ance,” the first U.S.O. legitimate play sent overseas, and saw many
possibilities in her above and beyond the acting profession.

In 1946, I got a bad break. Without warning, I was wrenched
from beloved B.W.1. upper Greenland (thirty to forty degrees
below zero) to Harvard Business School for a course in contract
termination. No igloo— Dunster House! For the remainder of
1946, I spent days working the Wall Street-Broad Street section of
Manhattan as a contract termination officer for the Air Force, and
nights working the Broadway beat as a stage door Johnny for
Blanche, who was appearing in a Broadway play at the time.

Today, my wife still does some acting professionally, but the
children do more. Diane Lee, aged three, is a comedienne, Laurie
Beth, six, a tragedienne, and Robert Bruce, eleven, a politician. (Bob's
most recent campaign was for the vice-presidency of the seventh
grade, on the slogan: “Don’t be an Ass— vote for Gass!” There
must have been more ingratiating slogans — he lost!)

Vocationally, I’m in the shoe manufacturing business, an under-
taking in which you have to run fast to keep competition's hot
breath off your neck. In the past two years, the Japanese have
joined the race; it’s amazing how well they can run on a low calorie
diet. However, thus far they’ ve been very helpful to me. They
have prodded me to run faster than I thought I could.

Avocationally, I specialize in foreign affairs, the market, geologic
reports, and tennis and squash. Over the years, many responsible
statesmen have had the benefit of my unsolicited advice. I have
made suggestions to Acheson re Korean policy, to Truman re Mac-
Arthur, to Dulles re “Liberation of the Satellites,” “Massive Retalia-
tion,” “Agonizing Reappraisal,” to Eisenhower re McCarthy, to
Kennan re “Disengagement,” etc. Despite my efforts, we still seem
to be in trouble. Oh, well...

My studies of Wall Street have led me to the conclusion that the
market is hike a woman — sweet, alluring, tempting and SPITEFU L.
In the words of the immortal limerick, “Instead of coming, it went.”

[ 485 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

The results of my investment program are average: as Dow-Jones
goes, so go I. On the other hand, the results of my speculative ap-
proach are fantastic:

1. I was able to buy a three per cent interest in a wildcat oil well
that turned out most fortunately.. After receiving royalty checks
for seven years, I’m not quite even. But what interesting geologic
reports!

2. Only through the good offices of a close friend (Harvard Busi-
ness School, ’35) was I able to purchase a three per cent interest in
a wildcat gas well. At 4,500 feet, the gas pressure was so great that
“it might blow up the state of Utah.” It’s been nine or ten months
now, Utah remains in one piece, and I haven't received a cent yet,
but what interesting geologic reports!

3. My biggest speculative play is in uranium. Through another
close friend who has an “in” with a “bucket-shop operator” who
works out of a “boiler room,” I made my gamble for $1,000,000 —
130,000 shares of Gold Cloud Uranium. When the quotation on this
unlisted stock goes to twelve dollars a share, I intend to sell out. My
calculations show that after paying federal capital gains and state
taxes, I'll net $1,000,000. At the moment, the price on the stock is
ASK — three cents. Bid? But, oh, what interesting geologic re-
ports!

We travel some (not enough). Acapulco is the best vacation so
far. I urge you all to hurry there before the native population is
overwhelmed by the onslaught of tourists, and before Hilton starts
to put Acapulco on a “paying basis.”

I have lots of hair, slightly grizzled in a dashing manner. I still
gambol about the tennis and squash courts. Further gains: a few
friends, a pony, a boat. Further losses: a few fantasies. But one
persists: I’m much too young for a Twenty-fifth Anniversary Re-
union!

[ 486 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DAVID EDGERLEY GATES

 

HOME apprEss: 103 Walker St., Cambridge 38, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Seamloc Carpet Co., Sanford, Maine.

BORN: Nov. 13, 1911, Elyria, Ohio. Parents: William Nahum Gates, Ada
Laura Cook.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-19313 1932-1936. DEGREE: A.B. 1934(36).
MarRieD: Clare Elizabeth Haskins, Feb. 7, 1942, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
David Edgerley, Jr., Oct. 13, 1945; Beatrix Bradford, Oct. 31, 1949.
HARVARD BROTHERS: William Nahum Gates, Jr., 25; Geoffrey McNair Gates,
’27; John Monteith Gates, ’27, Edward Leigh Gates, ’30.

occuPATION: Marketing manager, Seamloc Carpet Co., Sanford, Maine (for-
merly carpet division of Goodall-Sanford).

OFFICES HELD: Republican Ward Chairman, 1952-56; member various com-
mittees, Red Feather, Red Cross, Boy Scouts, Christ Church (Episcopal),

Cambridge, Cambridge Civic Association, Republican Ward Committee;
vice-president, Cambridge Boat Club.

MEMBER OF: Milton-Hoosic Club; Harvard Club of Boston; Cambridge Play
Readers; Naval Reserve MSTS Unit, Boston.

ALMOST all of my business life has been concerned with some
aspect of selling. Starting with the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company,
I progressed — or moved, anyw av — from Pittsburgh to Kansas
City, to Miami, to Philadelphia, and ended back in Boston, in late
1941. Having applied to the Navy in September, 1941, and become
engaged in December, 1941, I was commissioned and married in
February, 1942. After a few months as naval advisor to the War
Production Board in Philadelphia, a year or so at various shipbuild-
ing and service yards in that vicinity, and some training, | went
aboard a merchant ship as officer-in-charge of the Navy gunners
and convoy communications (“Armed Guard”) and stay ‘ed in this
activity aboard cargo vessels and tankers until the end of the war.
As the ships were built larger and faster toward the end of the war,

[ 487 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

convoying became less essential, and we often traveled alone. |
liked the responsibility of an independent command and I liked the
travel — United Kingdom three times, France twice, Persian Gulf
twice, and once around the world, via India, Australia, the Ad-
miralty Islands, and Panama. In 1946 I returned to Boston as branch
sales manager for a Midwest concern, and in 1955 bought a small
company of my own — an instructive but highly unprofitable ven-
ture. Its main virtue was that it led indirectly to my present job —
marketing manager, in charge of sales, sales personnel, merchandis-
ing, promotion and advertising, of an old textile enterprise under
new management. It is a tremendous challenge to help build a
company — and a town — back up from collapse.

Since it has usually been easier for me to get away in the earlier
half of the year, my wife and I have taken several winter vacations
in the past six or seven years, mostly in the Virgin Islands, once in
Tobago and Barbados, and have found a fascinating new hobby in
the Indies — snorkeling. We had our first trip to Europe together
in the spring of 1959. The whole family takes off on two or three
skiing expeditions each winter and we go bowling together fairly
often. Clare and I horse around once a month with an amateur
play-acting group. Its greatest asset, one of our members says, is
that we’re all so rotten no one can feel embarrassed over his per-
formance. Clare and I see most of the legitimate theatre in Boston,
and hear a good many of the concerts. In the summer, I am too
occupied with business to take more than a few week-ends with
the family at our summer cottage near New Bedford. Cambridge
is not at all unpleasant in the summer. It is abnormally quiet, and
there is a hard core of stay-at-homes who have a pretty good time
together, with tennis, rowing, bridge, etc. I still get out on the
Charles in a single shell fairly regularly and hope to start David,
Jr., in a double with me as soon as I feel pretty sure he won’t dump
us both into those Stygian depths. He and I do a little .22 target
shooting together and think we're getting pretty hot. Regular
competition will undoubtedly dispel this illusion in short order.

I am vitally interested in local government, doing all the volun-
teer work I can sandwich in between numerous business trips, for
the local Republicans and the Cambridge Civic Association. If we
can clean up our cities, and keep them fairly clean, the states and
country will benefit automatically. 1 am a Republican because I lean
to a conservative fiscal policy and view with alarm the accretion of
power in the hands of labor racketeers. There are, however, several

[ 488 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

traditionally-Republican tenets for which I have no use, protective
tariffs being one and coddling the rural vote with subsidies another.

I feel so strongly about the latter I’d probably be read out of the
party anywhere west of the Hudson.

In summary, I don’t know whether I’ve “ grown” in any respect
except at the waistline since 1935. I'm a good deal more self-conti-
dent than 1 was then and at the same time have a far livelier aware-
ness of my limitations — not as paradoxical as it seems at first glance.

ROGER CROWELL GAY

 

HOME appreEss: 5 Bradeen St., Springvale, Maine.

OFFICE appRESS: Nasson College, Springvale, Maine.

BORN: May 11, 1912, Metuchen, N.Y. parents: Peter Joseph Gay, Lydia W.
Crowell.

PREPARED AT: Plainfield High School, Plainfield, N.J.; Rutgers Preparatory
School, New Brunswick, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B, 19353 ED.M., 19373 A.M. and Pro-
fessional Diploma (Columbia Univ.), 1950; Lap. (Hillver Coll, 1954.
LL.D. (New England Coll.), 1956.

MarRiED: Barbara Leighton, Aug. 28, 1937, Melrose, Mass. cutpren: Peter
Leighton, Aug. 9, 1941; Nanev Crowell, June 8, 1943.

occuPATION: President, Nasson College, since 1950.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant director, Civil Defense and Public Safety, York County,
since 1950; Justice of the Peace, since 1052; president, Maine Welrare
Association, 1953-55; trustee, Nasson College, since 1gs5;  seeretary-
treasurer and director, Council for the Advancement of Small Colleges,
since 1956; Town Meeting Representative, Sanford-Springvale, since 19s>.
adviser, National Board on College Housing Program for the U.S. Houwg
and Home Finance Agency, since tgs8, director, Sanford-Springs alc
Chamber of Commerce, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Phi Delta Kappa; Kappa Delta Pi; Rotary International, New-
comen Society; American Association of University Profesem, Nanenal
Education Association,

[ 489 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

puBLicaTions: Nasson College (1912-1957) —A Modern Parable of The
Mustard Seed!

ALTHOUGH twenty-five years have all too swiftly passed since
graduation, I am still happily marching in the academic procession,
I spent two worth-while years at the Graduate School of Educa-
tion, then two years at Suffield Academy, two at Bard College and
nine at the New York Medical College. For the past ten years I
have been president of Nasson College.

During this quarter-century I have been joined by one wife and
one each of the two genders of children; my hair has grown thinner
and my waist thicker. Like most people in my field, “. ... I am
always on the job, though nearly always a non-resident, I tour
about the country to assemblies gastronomical, and make all sorts
of speeches from sublime to broadly comical; . . .” I have too little
time to spend with my family, although not to the point that I have
to be introduced when I get home.

Toward the latter part of my thirties, I took up skiing. My only
regret is that we cannot enjoy it twelve months of the year. Peter,
Nancy and I spend as much time as we can together on the slopes,
and this has given me a special acquaintance with two very likeable
young people whom it is good to be with. Would that there were
more such opportunities.

It is a good thing that I enjoy my work; otherwise, the pressure
would be intolerable. The rapid growth of the college, with a six-
fold increase in assets and a four-fold increase in students, is most
satisfying. This is especially so in the light of Russia’s challenge to
us in the war of ideas. It would appear now that we are no longer
going to take education quite so much for granted as we have in
recent years. ‘This had better be so if we hope to prevent the ful-
fillment of Mr, Khrushchev’s threat to bury us. I have no doubts
of the ability of American education to meet the challenge or of our
people to rise up to the occasion. We've just begun to fight, and a
better field could not have been chosen for us.

[ 490 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BENJAMIN GEISINGER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 542 W. Englewood Ave., West Englewood, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lincoln High School, Jersey City, N.]J.

BORN: Jan. 18, 1914, Boston, Mass. parENTs: Louis Geisinger, Ida Kaufman.

PREPARED aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; ED.M. (Boston Teachers
Coll.), 1936; a.m. (Columbia Univ.), 1950.

MARRIED: Edith Levine, Aug. 9, 1942, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Don Lee, July
18, 1948; Neal Iver, June 16, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Jacob Geisinger, 734.

OFFICES HELD: Committee memberships, Cub Scouts, 1956-59, Congregation
Beth Sholom, 1957-59, Lions, 1956-57; coach, Teaneck Little League, 1958.

MEMBER OF: Boy Scouts Council; Lions, YMJHA: New Jersey Education
Association.

FIVE years ago I reported that I had a beloved wife, two wondertul
boys, two jobs, one (teaching) which I enjoyed and the other (real
estate) which I disliked but which kept me prosperous, a pleasant
suburban home and much happiness. There is little to add to this
for life for us since has still been the same happy rut. I don’t have
to work as much now and we try to make two distant trips a year.
I would like to retire in order to travel and read more but I still like
my teaching and my wife does not want me home all day long. 1
do spend more time with my children and give more time to com-
munity activities. I have no more worlds to conquer nor do I weh
to, for we have our fair share of worldly goods and happiness. Our
aim is to enjoy what we have for as long as the Lord is willing.

[ 491 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

KIRKLAND HOPKINS GIBSON

 

HOME appress: Pojac Point, North Kingstown, R.I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Leesona Corp., P.O. Box 1605, Providence, R_I.

BORN: March 3, 1912, Brookline, Mass. parents: Kirkland Hopkins Gibson,
’04, Florence Warner.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.

MARRIED: Jane Bucklin, Dec. 7, 1935, Providence, R.[I. cHiLtprRen: Edith Row-
land, Nov. 22, 1939; Kirkland Hopkins, Jr., Nov. 22, 1941; Carla, July 17,
1943 (m. Stephen G. Thornton, Sept. 25, 1959).

HARVARD BROTHER: George Warner Gibson, ’31.

occupation: Market analyst.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Rocky Hill Country Day School, ten years.

MEMBER OF: V.M.C.C.A. (charter member).

HAVE spent the last twenty-five years in and out of the textile
business. For the past ten years I have been associated with Leesona
Corporation of Providence, Rhode Island.

[ 492 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HOWARD FRANK GILLETTE

 

HOME AbpRESS: 408 E. Illinois Rd., Lake Forest, Ill.

OFFICE apprEss: Marsh & McLennan, 231 S. LaSalle St., Chicago, Ill.

BORN: Jan. 21, 1913, Chicago, Ill. parenrs: Howard Frank Gillette, ’96, Cornelia
Forbes Brookmire.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

marrieD: Mary Scranton Hale, Nov. 16, 1940, Winnetka, Ill. cumpren:
Howard Frank, Jr., June 8, 1942; Cornelia Forbes, May 16, 1946; Jonathon
Hale, Dec. 8, 1947; Mary D., Feb. 16, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Insurance broker, vice-president, Marsh & McLennan.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and treasurer, Rose Hill Cemetery Company,
since 1948, member, Budget Reviewing Committee, Community Fund of
Chicago, since 1957; board member, Chicago Maternity Center, Chicago
Travelers Aid Society, Welfare Council Metropolitan Chicago (vice-
president, 1959).

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Chicago (vice-president, 1950-51); Harvard
Alumni Association (director, 1957-59); Fly Club; University Club of
Chicago; Onwentsia Club; Shoreacres Club (treasurer, 1952-56); Winter
Club of Lake Forest (president, 1956-58).

AS is true, I guess, of most of us, my life since graduation falls into
three sections: prewar, war and postwar.

Upon graduation and not having any particular avocation or bent
except train-watching (and railroads were firing not hiring), I took
the only job that sought me out rather than vice versa, with the
insurance brokerage firm of Marsh & McLennan. Up to that point
I had always thought of the insurance business as being a high-
pressure, back-slapping strictly sales business. I was intrigued then
and have been constantly ever since to find that the handling of
insurance requirements of large commercial and industrial risks ts
a complex, challenging and professional career, (Plug!) Just as I was

[ 493 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

beginning to get my feet wet and to carry some weight, Pearl Harbor
came along.

After a running battle with Bureau of Medicine and Surgery, I
finally received a waiver and reported to the Navy’s Bureau of
Aeronautics in Washington where I spent the next three years in
the Plant Facilities Section. Our job was to finance new aviation
plants and equipment, help secure the necessary priorities and at
the end to arrange for their disposal as surplus or otherwise. The
work was fascinating, and while far removed from the firing line, we
did get a belt out of helping to push out the Navy aircraft.

The Washington atmosphere was such that getting back to the
insurance business seemed pretty tame, especially as I experienced the
problem common in many large companies of reorienting returning
veterans. Although progress was reasonably good, I became more
and more frustrated and finally, in 1953, I decided there must be a
better way of earning a living than the insurance business and up
and quit. For nine months I was busier than ever with various local
charitable activities, and a most interesting three months helping
run Bob Merriam’s campaign for mayor (he lost). Finally deciding
the only two things I really knew a lot about were, one, insurance,
and second, Marsh & McLennan, I returned to the latter in an ad-
ministrative capacity where ] am now worrying more about people
than policies.

I have also been well occupied with the management of a family-
owned cemetery. As might not. necessarily be expected, we have
the same problems as other industries, the main difference, I guess,
with insurance being that we haven’t lost a client yet.

Other extracurricular activities have consisted primarily of Jabor-
ing in the Harvard Alumni vineyard; a most interesting series of
experiences on the budget committees of the Community Fund and,
at present, a rather mystifying series of increased responsibilities as
a layman in the field of social welfare planning, an area which some-
times makes even Washington bureaucracy look simple and clearly
mapped.

Finally, and to me most important, has been the experience of an
only child becoming involved, intrigued and inescapably emmeshed

with a growing family of four — two of each. So far so good.

If the above sounds pretty routine, I’m afraid it is, but a very
satisfactory and often frantic routine withal.

I think perhaps the most significant milestone involved in reach-
ing one’s twenty-fifth, other than the usual increasing waistline

L 494 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and bald spot, is a growing acceptance of things as they are. I don't
mean to imply by this a necessary slowing down of drive, or a
particular lessening of desire to take up the cudgel when necessary,
but nevertheless a realization that in general we're over the hum
and that our pattern of life is not apt to change appreciably — bar-
ring of course an external explosion such as Pearl Harbor. This
may be all for the best and mean we can look forward to a perhaps
less hectic rat-race and a chance eventually to do some of the things
there never seems to be enough time to do.

KURT GLASER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 450 Westerholdt Ave., East Alton, IIl.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Alton Residence Center, Southern Illinois University, Alten,
Ill.

BoRN: Aug. 19, 1914, Ann Arbor, Mich. parents: Orto Charles Glaser, Derothy
Gibbs Merrylees.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 720g72 Cum laude, 19353 A.M. 1933,
PH.D., 1941.

MaRRIED: Florence Riddle (divorced); Ingeburg Elfmede Halle, 1950, Berlin,
Germany. cHiLpREeN: Jeffrey, Aug. 10, 1941; Kristin, Feb. 17, 1933, Robin,
1950; Angela, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Lecturer in government, Alton Residence Center, Southem
Illinois University.

MEMBER OF: American Political Science Association.

PUBLICATIONS: The Art and Technique of Aduinistration in German Miniseries
(with Arnold Brecht); Adsinistrative Procedure; Land and Local Gov
ernment in the U.S. Zone of Germany; Comparative Federal Constresursons;
Verwaltungstechnik; The Iron Curtatn and American Poltcy; Crecbesio-
vakia, Its Rise and Fall.

MY life since graduation has fallen into two seements: a burewu-

[ 495 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

DONALD HOWES GLEASON

Te a vet

ay

}
of

 

HOME ADDRESS: 12 E. 88th St., New York 28, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Corn Products Co., 717 Fifth Ave., New York 22, N.Y.

BorRN: Nov. 12, 1913, Newton, Mass. parents: Charles Bemis Gleason, ’94,
Helen Zabriskie Howes,

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

marrieD: Ann Robertson Campbell, Nov. 5, 1938, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Linda Campbell, June 13, 1942; Peter Hall, Dec. 1, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Howes Gleason, ’30, A.M., 736, PH.D. 738; Francis
Howes Gleason, ’34; Sidney Gleason, 735.

OCCUPATION: Assistant treasurer, Corn Products Company, New York City.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Business Advisory Committee, 1953-54, panelist, 1959,
Ways & Means Committee; vice-chairman, Tax Committee, National
Association of Manufacturers, since 1954; member, advisory group, Harvard
Law School World Tax Series, since 1954.

PUBLICATIONS: Various lectures and articles, NAM, AMA, NYU Law School,
etc., on various subjects.

AFTER graduation I took a job in the brokerage business in Boston.
Three years of limited success convinced me I’m not a salesman.
Finance still appealed and I drifted into accounting, law and, par-
ticularly, taxes.

Stomach ulcers dismissed me from the Naval Reserve before Pearl
Harbor, and Pace Institute (Accounting) and New York University
Law School provided a nodding acquaintance with excess profits
taxes. I am assistant treasurer of Corn Products Company, in charge
of all taxes and insurance. Twenty-odd domestic subsidiaries and
fifty-odd foreign subsidiaries in nineteen foreign countries keep me
jumping.

A slight exposure to the legislative process leaves me with a deep
admiration for a number of dedicated public servants. Despite the
mess in which we seem to be I think we’ll muddle through.

[ 498 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Although brought up as a country boy (in the suburbs), I love
the sound of snow shovels, and compost heaps delight me. I have
nothing to do with them and vice versa.

The financial aspects of providing for the education of the young
leave something to be desired. Peter is a freshman at Milton and
Linda is a senior at the Brearley School in New York. And then
there is college. Which ones?

I look forward with great anticipation to the Twenty-fifth Re-
union, to renewing old acquaintances and making new ones.

SIDNEY GLEASON

 

HOME aApDpREss: 21 Chandler Rd., Chatham, N.J.

OFFICE AppRESS: D. C. Heath & Co., 475 S. Dean St., Englewood, N.J.

BORN: Nov. 12, 1913, Newton, Mass. parents: Charles Bemis Gleason, “94.
Helen Zabriskie Howes.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1935(36).

MARRIED: Madeleine Elwell Rowse, July 27, 1940, West Roxbury, Mass. crit-
DREN: Donald Howes, April 23, 1946; Edward Rowse, Aug. 30, 194°.
HARVARD BROTHERS: John Howes Gleason, ’30, a.M., 736, PH.D. 938, Francs

Howes Gleason, 734; Donald Howes Gleason, °35.

OccUPATION: Manager, Northeastern Division, D. C. Heath & Company, edu-
cational publishers.

OFFICES 'HELD: President, New York Publishers Luncheon Group, 1934; member,
various committees, American Textbook Publishers Institute; Chatham
(N.J.) Community Chest.

MEMBER OF: Annisquam (Mass.) Yacht Club; Harvard Faculty Club; Harvard
Club of New York; Morris County (N.J.) Golf Club, Chatham Hos-
torical Society.

BECAUSE I spent the first semester of the 1934-35 college vear
teaching the three R’s to some children who lived on a middiing-

[ 499 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

big cattle ranch near Tucson, Arizona, graduation was still a year
ahead for me when most of my classmates were welcomed “into
the fellowship of educated men.” Living in a plush version of the
Southwest’s cowboy complex was a rewarding experience, indeed,
to one whose personal knowledge of America and the world had
been limited to the area encompassed by Hyannis, Massachusetts,
Wiscasset, Maine, Bennington, Vermont and New York City.

So, it was not until the summer of 1936 that I started my search
for employment. With the desire to get into some sort of publish-
ing, I punched doorbells until I was hired as manuscript scout-
salesman in the New England colleges by D. C. Heath & Company,
a general textbook publisher. I have been a traveling salesman
ever since.

There are fewer than 700 people who concern themselves with
procurement and editing of manuscripts and the marketing of text-
books in the 2,000 colleges and universities whose 3,000,000 students
spend some $75,000,000 each year on books. They are a most stimu-
lating and interesting group of people. The relationship of publish-
ers and college teachers is generally most cordial. Indeed, I first
met my wife while calling at the German office at Smith College,
with German grammars in mind. We were married in 1940, and
lived in Cambridge until 1948. During this period, my wife was
occupied nearly full time as research assistant and editor for an as-
sortment of social scientists and scholars. She’s still at it. Three
books which she was involved in were published last May. |

My promotion to the position of manager of the Northeastern
Division of D. C. Heath & Company occasioned our move to Chat-
ham, New Jersey, where we now live. Chatham is barely distin-
guishable from dozens of sub/exurban (sic!) communities. Our
sorrows and joys are pretty humdrum: crab grass, Little League,
Community Chest, schools, taxes, golf, occasional dinner-and-thea-
tre in New York, and so on. Our two sons are old enough to share
in the things we like to do and to share our enthusiasm for them
... from summering at our version of paradise (Annisquam,
Massachusetts) to tripping by train and U-Drive-It via the canyons
to the West Coast, the Northwest and the Canadian Rockies. We
look forward to a trip to Europe in a year or two to revisit places
where both of us have been and to see others for the first time.

To the questions “Has life been good to us and do we enjoy it?”
our answers would be emphatically affirmative—no different, I
suppose, from the great majority of us who compose “Twenty-

[ 500 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fifth” self-portraits in the best-foot-forward, stylistic cosmetics al-
most inevitable to such a process. To the question, “Do I have anv
worries?” the answer would have to be equally emphatic “Yes.”
For one thing, I must confess that the prospect of the “Festival rites
from the age that is past’ — the Reunion — worries me a lot, for
it implies the passage of time and consequent physical deterioration.
What I should be worrying about more, I suppose, is the amount
of resistance to change that I see about me — the insistence on the
maintenance of status quo—and the fruitless vigor which is de-
voted to it. I should worry more, too, about a corollary — namely,
the all-too-common (and belligerent) assumption that change ts
synonymous with progress. If but half of the heedless energy de-
voted to the pursuit of the two were combined and directed to the
search for wisdom, our sons, though many of them may not be
smart enough to be admitted to contemporary Harvard College,

would have a greater opportunity for a smiling future in ‘the age
that is waiting before.”

VICTOR BENNETT GLUNTS

 

HOME apprEss: 16 Juniper Ave., Merrick, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Equitable Life Assurance Society, 393 Seventh Ave. New
York, N.Y.

BORN: Nov. 23, 1913, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: David Glunts, Sarah Fine.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B, Stmma cum batade, 1933) PRM.
1938.

MarrieD: Ruth Firestein, June 17, 1937, Boston, Mass, campers: Barry Maran,
March 10, 1941; Janet Carolyn, Sept. 16, 1943.

occupaTIoN: Actuary, life insurance company:
planning.

OFFICES HELD: Head, Mathematics Department, Grafton (Mas. Pligh School

[ sor ]

life insurance and pensien

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

1937-39; teacher, Classical High School, Springfield, Mass., 1939-42
lieutenant, U.S. Navy, 1942-46, member, various committees, New York
Actuaries Club and Life Office Management Association, 1950-60; member
Boy Scout Committee, 1950-53; president, Junior High School, 1956-57.
Senior High School, 1958-59, Merrick, New York, PTA.

MEMBER OF: Society of Actuaries; International Congress of Actuaries; New
York Actuaries Club; Life Office Management Association; National
Council of Teachers of Mathematics; PTA; Calhoun Parent Faculty
Association, Civic League.

puBLicaTions: Contributor to The Massachusetts Teacher, The Transactions
of the Society of Actuaries.

AFTER graduation in 1935, it did not seem to me that the business
world was overly anxious to welcome us with open arms. My de-
cision was to return to Harvard for a Master’s degree and enter the
field of education, I had done some tutoring as an undergraduate
and I honestly liked the satisfaction of teaching. So I enrolled in
the Harvard Graduate School of Education in spite of the warnings
that teaching jobs were not very plentiful and that I would never

get rich,

While still studying at Lawrence Hall, I had the good fortune to
be appointed as temporary teacher at the Boston Latin School. This
was followed by a permanent job as head of the Mathematics De-
partment (a second teacher also taught math, but only part time)
at Grafton, Massachusetts, High School.

Ruth and J, recently married, spent two enriching years in Graf-
ton learning what it meant to live in a small New England town
after spending all our previous years in a big city, to have our first
home, to make a whole set of new friends and to become financially
independent on one hundred dollars (less deductions) per month.

On the day that World War II began in Europe, we moved to

Springfield, Massachusetts, where I began a new appointment teach-

ing at the Classical High School. This was the top school in a large

city system and it seemed at the time that this was where our future
lay. Barry was born in March of 1941 and we were very happy.

Little did we anticipate that the coming war would change every-

thing.

Re-enrolling at the Graduate School at Harvard for my Ed.D., I
soon completed all my course and residence requirements, general
examinations, etc., and was just short of receiving my Doctorate
when, after Pearl Harbor, I could no longer resist the compulsion
to volunteer into the Navy. I was given a direct commission and
that ended all my planned career in public school teaching. Dur-

[ 502 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing the war, I taught at the Midshipmen School at Columbia Uni-
versity, did anti-submarine duty in the Caribbean, put in a stint at
BuPers in Washington and then on to the Pacific, serving for a
while as educational services officer in Guam. My rank was lieu-
tenant.

The war had changed many of my earlier plans. I was no longer
happy with the thought of returning to my old job. There were
four of us now in the family (Janet was born while I was at Colum-
bia) and the spectre of inflation made teaching appear less and less
attractive. In 1946 I decided to make a completely fresh start and
become an actuary. Obtaining a job at the Equitable Life in New
York City, I began the arduous program of studying for the exam-
inations of the Society of Actuaries so that I could qualify as a pro-
fessional in this field. In time I received my associateship (1950)
and then my fellowship (1954) and I then knew that I would never
return to the field of pedagogy.

During this period it became obvious that we could not live and
raise our two children in New York City in the manner we pre-
ferred, so out we went to Long Island where we had our home
built. This was one of the wisest decisions we ever made. In spite
of the price one pays, that of being a commuter, the rewards of
living in suburbia are well worth it.

It is not sufficient in life to attain certain goals. They must be
achieved with a timeliness if they are to have significance. In retro-
spect, I am sure that if I had not decided to become an actuary
when I did, the opportunity would have forever after been lost.
Likewise, we were wise to have moved into our new home in Mer-
rick when the children were still young enough to benefit from it.

In the years since then we have been active in community affairs
and have found such participation very satisfying and rew arding.

Civic League membership with its concomitant struggles for new
schools, bus transportation and even garbage disposal became the
accepted way of life. Committee memberships for Boy and Girl
Scouts were par for the course. When the children were in jumeor
high school, I was elected president of the PIA. The same thing
happened again at the senior high school level. Now I'm one of
the “elder statesmen” and find myself still in the middle of chair-
manships and innumerable meetings.
When vacation time rolls around, we turn more and more to
traveling. We have toured extensively throughout northeastern

[ 503 ]

AE 8 CMa? ie, ali

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

U.S. and nearby Canada, but the real thrill came when we visited
Mexico, Our sights are now set on Europe.

At Harvard we were a depression class. I’ve often thought of
how great an influence the economic difficulties of the 1930’s have
had on our lives. I am convinced that a large measure of the con-
servative point of view that many of us have can trace its roots
back to those unstable and discouraging times. Our children show
a much more adventurous and optimistic attitude toward life,
which I attribute not solely to youth but in part to the different
times and environment surrounding them.

But what about our own future? I wonder if you have the same
feeling as I, that this is the end of an era. The family-centered wa
of life is soon to terminate as our children have reached that age
when they shall go off on their own. This is like a kind of gradua-
tion all over again for us and our future will have new and different
challenges. We'll have to learn how to live alone all over again.

Has Harvard been an influence in my life since 1935? Obviously
yes, but in different ways. In the years soon after graduation, I
can recall the more mundane results of being a Harvard grad. For
instance, transcripts of records were frequently offered with the
hope that they would be of material assistance in obtaining some
immediate goal. Later, however, the more nebulous values emerged
almost unobtrusively. I am convinced that Pve had a fuller aware-
ness of our environment and our rich heritage by virtue of having
gone to Harvard.

THOMAS PATRICK GLYNN, JR.

 

Appress: % Lever Bros., Baltimore, Md.
worn: Dec. 30, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Thomas Patrick Glynn, Kathrine
Hayes.

[ 504 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MARRIED.

OccUPATION: Manufacturing.

NO questionnaire returned.

NOAH GOLDBERG

 

HOME AppRESS: 247 Crafts Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Clean-Brite, Inc., 120 Liverpool St., Boston 28, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 24, 1914, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Goldberg, Esther Halpert.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935.

MarRIED: Miriam R. Solomon, Dec. 17, 1939, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: Joseph
Stephen, Jan. 28, 1942; Richard Davis, Nov. 19, 1944; Kenneth Lawrence,
Aug. 30, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Philip Goldberg, p.M.p., 16, Solomon Gobert, p.M.p,, "24.

occuPATION: President, Liverpool Lumber, Inc.; vice-president, Clean-Brite,
Inc., industrial janitorial service; vice-president, \Watchmanitors, Inc.
armed guards and watchmen; vice-president, Don Garland, Inc., janitonal
supplies.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of directors, Kiwanis, 1936-38, member board of
directors, Cooperative Reserve Supply, since 1958; assistant treasurer,
Zionist B.B.N., since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Brandeis University Club; B'nai B'rith; Temple Israel Brocher-
hood.

IT is with a feeling of great trepidation that I attempt to review my

past years. To write an autobiography about an ordinary indiv idual,

someone who has not been either famous or infamous, is likely to
result in tedious reading. So bear with me while I relate the facts.

The transition from cultural bliss to economic struggle was not
easy, especially when there were no father’s footsteps to follow,

[ 505 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

After a few years of “finding myself” I started a lumber yard,
A most impressive one it was, with enough inventory to build about
a dozen dog houses. It steadily progressed until the war curtailed
its forward motion. By this time I was very happily married and
the father of a son. During the war I allowed my lumber yard to
become dormant and went into the ship cleaning business — a most
strenuous but satisfying ordeal, After the war I returned to my
peaceful existence — with my wife, two boys, house and dog.

Life, I think, is a continual expression of one’s ability to cope not
with the usual but with the unforeseen. In my case it happened ten
years ago when my wife was stricken with a severe case of polio-
myelitis just a few days before the birth of our third son. In time
of stress one usually asks plaintively, “Why did it have to happen
to us? Why us?” This is the “no hope” philosophy that starts first
with self-pity, then melancholy, and finally complete resignation.
As soon as we change the direction of our thoughts from a “Why
us?” attitude to a “Why NOT us?” — then, and not until then, can
we face the ordeal with stamina and courage. Let this thought be
enough, as this is no time for serious preaching. May I just add that
my wife is one of those rare individuals who knew how to accept
her affliction and through sheer determination (notwithstanding all
the doctors’ diagnoses) she is now able to lead a normal life.

To complete the record, my oldest son is a freshman at M.LT,,
my second is a freshman at Brookline High School, and my third
is in the fifth grade. To summarize my business ventures, I have
been actively associated for the past ten years with Clean-Brite,
Inc., a firm that specializes in industrial janitorial service. We are
the second largest in our field (I would say the first, but naturally all
our competitors claim that). Recently we formed a subsidiary
known as Watchmanitors, Inc., a firm that provides a combination
armed guard and janitor for ‘banks, defense plants and industry.
Please do not construe this as advertising, but if any of my class-
mates does have a problem along these lines I shall be glad to assist.

One final note: if it weren’t for the conscientious effort (or shall
I say persistency) of our committee, this exposé would never have

been written. May I congratulate them on doing such a wonderful
job.

[ 506 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOSE RAUL GONZALEZ

 

HOME apprEss: Calle A 8 Villa Caparra, San Juan, Puerto Rico.

OFFICE appRESS: Box 9506, Santurce, Puerto Rico, 13 Cervantes St., Santurce,
Puerto Rico.

BORN: May 18, 1915, San Juan, Puerto Rico. PARENTS: José Maria Gonzalez,
Elena Giusti.

PREPARED AT: St. Augustine’s Military Academy, San Juan, Puerto Rico.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: S.B., 1935; M.D., 1939.

MARRIED: Carmina Inclan, May 4, 1944, Caguas, Puerto Rico. cHiLpREN: Carmen
Elena, Oct. 19, 1945; José Raul, Jan. 12, 1947; Jaime Luis, Aug. 8, 1949;
Carlos Alberto, Sept. 7, 1951; Maria de Lourdes, October, 1953; Eduardo
José, March 23, 1956.

occuPATION: Physician in private practice of surgery.

OFFICES HELD: Attending and chief, Surgical Service, Hospital Auxilio Mutuo,
San Juan, since 1951; assistant clinical professor of surgery, 1952-57, lec-
turer in surgery, since 1957, University of Puerto Rico; associate attend-
ing surgeon, San Juan City Hospital, since 1952; Miembro Consejo
Supremo, Liga P.R. Contra el Cancer, San Juan, since 1955; attending
surgeon, Presbyterian Hospital, San Juan, since 1958; president, Puerto
Rico Chapter, American College of Surgeons, 1959-60; member, board of
directors, Caparra Dairy, Inc., since 1946, Caribe Motors Corporation,
since 1955, Ochoa Fertilizer Corporation, since 1956, Gonzalez Chemical
Industries, since 1956 (all San Juan, Puerto Rico).

MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons (fellow); American Board of
Surgery (diplomate), Asociaci6n Médica de Puerto Rico, Sigma Alpha
Epsilon; Mass Gramma; Knights of Columbus; Fraternidad Afda, Caparra
Country Club; San Juan Country Club (vice-president 1959-60).

AFTER obtaining my M.D. at Harvard in 1939, I was fortunate to
obtain a three-year combined surgical residency at the Roosevelt
Hospital in New York City. Out of seventy-five applicants for the
four vacancies available, I was one of the first two chosen to start
the residency on July 1, 1939. Those were days of hard work, but
of great satisfaction for having had the privilege of learning mv

[ 507 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

JOSEPH HERBERT GOOD

  

HOME ADDRESS: 224 Spruce St., Brattleboro, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: H. Margolin & Co., Putnam Park, Brattleboro, Vt.

BORN: Sept. 11, 1913, Boston, Mass. Parents: James Albert Good, Elizabeth
Ellen Connelley.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1935.

MaRRIED: Lucille Carolin George (Wheaton 48), March 27, 1948, New York,
N.Y. cHILpreN: Elizabeth Ellen, June 6, 1950; Constance Anne, Sept. 1,
1952; Robin Carolin, Feb. 25, 1956; Gail Frances, July 29, 1959.

occupation: Shipper and supervisor, Shipping Department, H. Margolin &
Company, manufacturers of ladies’ pocketbooks and handbags.

MEMBER OF: American Legion Post No. 5; Tri-State Traffic Club, Brattleboro,

Vermont.

I AM a shipper for goods manufactured in Brattleboro and Bellows
Falls, and supervisor of the shipping department and warehouse in
Brattleboro. H. Margolin & Company has sales office in New York
City and factories in Fitchburg, Massachusetts, Brattleboro and Bel-
lows Falls, Vermont.

[ 510]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

NATHANIEL MANSFIELD GOODHUE

 

me |
HOME appRESS: Holiday Farm, Medfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ty-Car Manufacturing Co., Inc., Holliston, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 23, 1912, Salem, Mass. Parents: Albert Goodhue, ‘og, Plizabeth
Burrill Mansfield.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Katharine Forbes, June 11, 1936, Milton, Mass. (diverced tgs4):
Janice Duncan, May 8, 1956. CHILDREN: Nathaniel Mansfield, Jr, June s-,
1940; Charlotte, Feb. 11, 1943.

HARVARD SON: Nathaniel Mansfield Goodhue, Jr., ‘62.

HARVARD BROTHER: Albert Goodhue, Jr., '37, M.B.a., "39.

occuPATION: Manufacturing, treasurer and fifty percent owner, Ty-Car Manu-
facturing Company, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Cruising Club of America; Wardroom Club of Boston,

 

ONE crisp September morning in 1935, I emerged from the sub-
way under the Old State House, walked down State Street and
through the doors of Tucker Anthony & Company, investment
bankers, of Boston. As far as stock market activity was concerned,
there has probably not been less during the past fittw vears. For
extended periods the ticker was unable to come up w ithatich. The
bond business was somewhat more active as higher coupon obli-
gations were being called and replaced by new ones paving con-
siderably less.

In the summer of 1g40 T moved to another otfice in the same
building but I shall always be grateful for my nearly four vears
with Tucker Anthony, Law school training is the most valuable
background for all types of business but 1 believe indoctrination in
investment banking follows not too far behind.

The spot where [ came to rest in the summer ef ryge was dest
nated Enterprise Associates, a group of ten Bostonians whe hoped

[sir]

Sientnamiateen teense nadeaianannnll ET PSTN Tart ee RRR TRIE UR} ROORUMRR TUNA cat

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

that pleasant benefits would result from investing in a unique manu-
facturing process or a new approach to an established technique.
This was very much the case in one instance but the only other I
can remember involved a new type boiler. This enjoyed a brief
career and then vanished in a puff of steam.

There were many other projects submitted but not invested in.
One was a plastic of tremendous strength which would revolution-
ize airplane construction. It did have unusual potentialities at room
temperature but when exposed to zero degrees, it shattered into
thousands of pieces at the slightest blow or strain. Another man
had a death ray which could end the war in Europe in a matter of
hours. This one slipped through our fingers because the inventor
would not divulge a single detail until he was paid one million dol-
Jars in gold. I had just come back from lunch and did not have
quite that much left, so he walked out muttering dire threats. Some
time later he came back with a novel process for making felt hats.
Late in 1940 several of the members of the group were called to
active duty and Enterprise Associates was wrapped up in a few
cartons.

On February 8, 1941, as an ensign D-V(S), USNR, I reported to
the Charlestown Navy Yard for an indoctrination course. Until
March, 1946, I served in the U. S. Navy, most of the time afloat and
all of the time in the anti-submarine branch. The problem of locat-
ing, attacking and destroying a submarine and the problem of a
submarine avoiding detection and destruction are as intriguing as
any I have ever known.

In 1946 I became treasurer of a venture capital group known as
New Enterprises, Inc. During the next six years many projects
were investigated and approximately two per cent of them were
considered worth investing in. Some of these proved quite success-
ful and others fell by the wayside. By 1932 the group was as deeply
involved in new ventures as most of them cared to be, so I started to
search for a venture of my own.

In the past I had been looking for situations in the idea stage,
but now I needed a going business. This I discovered in the coun-
try town of Holliston, Massachusetts, ten miles from home, and
not a traffic light along the route. The name of the concern was
and is the Ty-Car Manufacturing Company, and I soon found my-
self half-owner of same. We manufacture a wide variety of small
metal stampings, and when you next look at a clock, the chances

are very good that Ty-Car made the hands.
[ 512 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The years with Ty-Car have been far from universally prosperous
but never dull, We have been growing reasonably steadily, which
fact attracted the interest of a nation-wide labor union. We have
been organized by the union, had a strike and then had the union
depart. We have had customers increase orders day after day, and
then cancel them all. We have had suppliers calling for payment
and competitors trying to buy us. I had an ancestress who was
executed in Salem for suspicion of witchcraft. She was neither
hanged nor burned, but was placed under a large plank over which
was led a plowhorse. Often I have experienced some of her later
sensations.

Four years ago I extended my western horizon beyond the fron-
tier town of Cleveland and discovered the fascinations of the Sierra
Nevadas and the Pacific Coast. Since then I have been back four
times and now consider Denver and Salt Lake City eastern cities.

During a recent visit to the West, a good friend quoted a few
lines by Sam Davis, which express my feelings:

Have you ever scented the sagebrush that mantles
Nevada’s plain?
If not you have lived but half your life,
and that half lived in vain.
At the present time we are negotiating for a few acres of Nevada

sagebrush.

REUBEN GOODMAN

 

HOME aAppREsS: 395 Broadway, Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS; Widett & Kruger, 1 State St. Boston, Mass.

BoRN: July 14, 1913, Brockton, Mass. parents: Charles Ceidel Goodman,
Mollie Wisotzky.

PREPARED AT: Brockton EPligh School, Brockton, Mass.

[513]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 19353 LLB. 1938.

MARRIED: Helen B, Greenburg, Jan. 30, 1944.

occUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Counsel, Civil Liberties Union of Massachusetts, co-chairman,
New England Commission on Law and Social Action, American Jewish

Congress.
MEMBER OF: Civil Liberties Union of Massachusetts; American Jewish Congress;

Boston Bar Association.

FROM the College I went to the Harvard Law School and gradu-
ated in 1938. I practiced in Boston, and even got some clients —
among them the Atlantic Fishermen’s Union. In early 1942, I joined
the Office of Price Administration in Boston as attorney in the rent
control operation. I later transferred to Washington, where I was
counsel in the food division concerned with setting maximum prices
for fish, fats and oils. The work was exciting and satisfying. ‘There
was a crusading zeal and a sense of urgency which did not at all
fit the stereotype of a bureaucrat. People stuck their necks out with
imagination and courage — though sometimes rashly. All this does
not imply that the peacetime government worker does not have
these qualities. It has been my experience that the middle echelon
career government worker (unfortunately “bureaucrat” has an in-
vidious connotation) is generally capable and dedicated.

After the war in 1946, I went to Korea with the Military Govern-
ment. I was advisor to the Korean Ministry of Justice and worked
with the various departments and agencies of the Korean Interim
Government, drafting ordinances and regulations. The work was
completely frustrating. The State Department directives read beauti-
fully, but the only Korean groups which functioned effectively
(and which the Army permitted to function) were Nazi-like youth
groups, organized by Syngman Rhee’s followers, and the Korean
police, which was equally lawless. I remember finding it impossible
to convince the head of the Korean police that it was not necessary
to have a policeman stationed at every Korean theatre to watch
every performance, or that the Korean police should not have a
veto power over the acts of the civilian administrator. That head of
the Korean police, I understand, is now the leader of the liberal
opposition to Syngman Rhee — which is some measure of Rhee’s
notions of democracy. There were a number of really decent Ko-
reans who might have accomplished some reform; but most of them
were outside the government under constant suspicion, and in con-
stant fear of beatings, kidnapping and arbitrary arrests, which were
daily occurrences.

[ 514 ]

smecanereene en greceetritg i eA TE CN OE TELE CENT TIE TTT TT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I got out of Korea as soon after my year’s commitment as I could,
and transferred to Japan. There, General MacArthur was attempr-
ing to change the entire economic and political life of Japan. My
particular job was to supervise and work with the Japanese govern-
ment agencies, charged with the enforcement of price and ration-
ing controls. It was a challenging job and I enjoved every minute
of it. The price control and rationing program in an economy of
such scarcities as there were in Japan made our own O.P.A. pro-
gram look like child’s play, but in spite of the inevitable frustrations
we felt a sense of accomplishment. I came away with a great respect
for General MacArthur. He is responsible for the land “reform pro-
gram in Japan, and, to a great extent (strange as it may seem), for
the labor movement which was built from scratch after 1945. Such
institutional changes gave a large number of people a stake in a
democratic Japan; and though it may still not be time to uncross
one’s fingers, there is real hope. Perhaps, however, Korea wasn't so
bad after all and Japan wasn’t so good. Maybe, it was just that my
wife joined me in Japan. It really made a difference.

In 1950, just before the Korean war, my ulcers got the better of
me and we came back to the United States. Since then, I have been
in private practice in Boston. The first few years I was associated
with an office where we did a great deal of criminal work. I did
the appellate work, appearing in the Massachusetts and Rhode Island
Supreme Courts and the Court of Appeals for the First Circuit. I
argued one case in the United States Supreme Court. After I had
spent a few minutes of introductory argument, I found myself in
what was in effect a legal discussion with at least six or seven first-
rate minds. It was an unforgettable intellectual experience.

For the last three years I have been associated with Widere &
Kruger, a medium-sized Boston firm engaged in a general civil prac-
tice. I have become more and more involved in drafting wills and
trusts and estate planning —a fascinating game plav ed with the
Rule against Perpetuities, and the Internal Revenue Code, the ob-
ject of which is to control the devolution of property through as
many generations as possible, paving a minimum of inheritance taves
as it is transferred from one generation to the other, and vet pe remit.
ting each generation, as it holds the property, to have a mayimum
amount of control over it. But even chess plavers need a chanve,
and my work with the Civil Liberties Union provides a satisfying
variety. I have also become interested in the abolitionist movement,
and have been collecting books about Wendell Phillips, Charles

[sts ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Sumner, etc. They were men who had a capacity for indignation.
They tore aw ay the foundation of all the compromises and expe-
diencies by pointing out that slavery was just plain wicked. It seems
to me we need to develop a similar capacity for indignation with
the outright oppression in the South. Apart from that, I spend too
much time deploring TV, the contemporary preoccupation with
adjustment, and the Eisenhower Administration.

I don’t know what this all adds up to, nor why it should add up
at all. But, there have been a fair number of exhilarating and satis-
fying experiences; and I don’t know that anyone has a right to ask
for much more.

ROBERT RUSSELL GOODRICH

 

LAST KNOWN appRESS: 5376 Northland Ave., St. Louis, Mo.
Born: April 22, 1904, Dexter, Mo. parents: William Basil Russell, Mary

Bradley.
TRANSFERRED FROM: University of Missouri, St. Louis, Mo.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932,

GOODRICH has been carried as a “Jost” man on our records since
1945.

[ 516 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD SANGER GOODWIN

 

HOME AppREsS: 49 Hazardville Rd., Longmeadow, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Johns-Manville Sales Corp., 100 Newbury St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 18, 1913, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Alexander Moore Goodwin,
Lona Hoyt Bartlett.

PREPARED AT: Rindge Technical School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932, 1933-1934.

MmarRiED: Elizabeth Fairbank Taylor, Oct. 3, 1942, Belmont, Mass. cHitpre~N:
Leavitt Taylor, Oct. 7, 1947; Myra Fairbank, Mav 8, 195:

HARVARD BROTHER: Shirley Bartlett Goodwin, °33.

OccUPATION: Salesman, Pipe Division, Worcester-Springtield Territory, Johns-
Manville Sales Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Elementary School Building Committee, Boylston,
Mass., 1954-56, member, Junior High School Building Commurtee, ‘Long-
meadow, Mass., 1958-60.

MEMBER OF: West Springfield Rotary Club, Masons, Massachusetts Consntory;
New England Water Works Association, Massachusetts Water Works
Superintendents Association; Tri-County Highway Superintendents Asso-
ciation; Federated Sewerage and Industrial Wastes Association,

LEAVING college early in 1934 was a real blow to me. F shall
always regret not ‘finishing. Monev, however, was not easy to come
by in those days, though I'm sure it went a lor further, if you
were fortunate ‘enough to have it, Looking for a job at that ame
was all that could be done, and there were few to be had. After
finally getting one in April, 1934, 1 lost it to complications of a
faulty appendix which laid me low for several months. However,
through my associations at Emmanuel Church in: Boston, where I
had been active for some years in choir and club work, Twas hired
by Mr. S. Hooper Hooper to work in his importing busines, begun
with the repeal of prohibition, The pay was low, but welcome, and
it was a job. Pleasant associations in this firm and continued acny tty
at Emmanuel, plus singing in Handel & Playdo and the Ceciha So-

[se7 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

cieties occupied most of my time while the war clouds gathered.

Deferred in the first draft, and becoming anxious to settle down,
having met the girl I wanted, I sought a different niche. I took a
series of aptitude tests at Northeastern and was advised to seck
work in a sales engineering line. On July 1st, 1941, I was hired by
Johns-Manville in Boston, as a salesman-in-training in the Power
Products Division, which was just the line recommended. It has

roved fortunate, indeed.

Libby and I were married shortly after getting this break, but the
draft was getting stronger. I applied for work on the Polaroid
Program with the Navy and, one month after our marriage, was
sworn in as a CPO, unsalty, which I remained during the course of
the war, with some movement up and down the East Coast, finally
settling at ASTM School, Section Base, Charleston, South Carolina,
from which I was discharged after three years of service, if you can
call it that. Returning to Johns-Manville and a chance to do some
active selling, we moved to Portland, Maine, early in 1946, and a
red-hot but green “salesman” began haunting the paper mills. It
was very rewarding, and we enjoyed Maine, its people and the
many other things it has to offer. Our son was born there and is
proud of being a “Mainiac.”

My brother Shirl and I crossed paths in 1949 when he took a
church in Portland, while promotion in the form of a transfer to
the more compact and more productive Worcester territory came
my way. Again we were happy to go, and moved to Boylston, a
small town just northeast of Worcester. We found Worcester,
where our daughter and second child was born, a rather unusual
town with cliques of all kinds: old families, skilled trades, strong
politics by different racial groups and a somewhat backwardness
in making change. Portland stores lifted their faces ten years before
those in Worcester. However, we made friends, entered school
and church activities, had football season tickets every year and
generally enjoyed the beauties of the Wachusett Reservoir, includ-
ing the fishing, for which local residents may get permits.

In 1956, a split of the Industrial Division of Johns-Manville landed
me in the Pipe Division, to my great pleasure. It also necessitated
another move. After looking for some time in the Springfield area,
we decided on a place in the charming town of Longmeadow and
are very pleased that we did. Without doubt it is one of the nicest
communities in the East. Taxes are not low, but they are not high
either, and you get something for your money. Good schools,

[ 518 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

playgrounds and recreational activities, well-kept roads, good pub-
lic works program and all the other things that lead to good living.
My present job keeps me out all the time calling on contractors,
water and sewer superintendents and commissioners, and engineers.
Even the entertainment is stimulating!

As to the future, there are always new fields to conquer and much
to look forward to with the children. I’m frankly hopeful Leavitt
will go to Harvard, but Libby’s from an all Brown family and lm
sure his grandfather and uncle will try to influence him, though he
does cheer for Harvard and the Red Sox — surely a good sign!

CARL A. GOULD

 

HOME abprEss: 188 Rawson Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Burberrys, Ltd., New York, N.Y.

BORN: July 23, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: Abraham Gould, Rose Saltzman.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934, 1935-1936. DEGREE: AB. cum laude, 1935136).
MARRIED: Muriel Rubin, Sept. 6, 1942, Boston, Mass. caitprex: Deborah Ann,
June 17, 1943; Cathy Jane, May 17, 1946.

occupation: New England representative for Burberrys, Ltd. English outer-
coats and weatherproofs.

MEMBER OF: Men’s College Club, Boston; National Association of Men's and
Boys’ Apparel Clubs.

IN the course of the years since Harvard, in spite of marriage and
fatherhood, I have tried to indulge my taste for the leisure arts and
not let business obligations frustrate me too much. With a family
to educate — one daughter will be entering college in September,
1960 — I am finding more and more that the selling of Burberry coats

is displacing golf and other diversions more compatible to my
tastes, and oh, the difference!

[ 519]

Bok eae GER 67

—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

RICHARD WESTALL GOULD

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2272 Granada Ave., Long Beach, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Veterans Hospital, Long Beach, Calif.

BORN: Oct. 12, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Harold Howard Gould, Elaine
Westall.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

marrigD: Dorothy Gay, 1933 (divorced 1940); Martha Eberly, June 13, 1942,
New York, N.Y. cuitoren: Christopher, Nov. 2, 1943; Jeremy, Jan. 17,

I 2.

OCCUPATION: Manufacturers’ representative, Karastan Rug Mills.

IT is always a pleasure to me to discover my name still included
on the Class roster, because, since a football injury in my freshman
year limited my staying powers to such a brief period, you. might
so easily have read it off — disowned me, in fact. But apparently,
to have been at Harvard at all is like being born into a family. There
is always an inheritance.

So it could be that I am setting down the record of a prodigal
son who did not leave home empty-handed. I carried no degrees in
my scrip when I journeyed to the mills of the American Woolen
Company at Lawrence to learn everything I could about this fasci-
nating natural product, from clip to cloth. I needed no doctorate at
Lowell Textile where I spent my evenings during those years, But
certain habits of study or other more subtle influences may have
impelled and sustained. And this is one of Harvard’s intentions,
isn’t it?

When I chose to become a manufacturers’ representative in-
stead of a production man, it was probably because I like people,
and wanted contact with others who were concerned with the hu-
man aspects of the industry. And I found them everywhere — men

[ 520 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of imagination, insight and vigor who engineer the sales and distri-
bution of vast quantities of goods that meet a fundamental need.
You've seen Eskimos in Pendleton jackets? Well! Our cloth travels
to the antipodes, too, furnishing patterns and designs for living to
untold thousands. Even our carpets sail seas and climb mountains.

My own adventures were embarked upon with Penn Worsted
Company; with Cohn, Hall, Marx, with Bigelow Sanford, lastly
with Karastan. Vast quantities, did I say? Vast distances, too,
entered the picture, in territories that included every state of the
Union except Montana, the Dakotas and Florida. My wife, who
loves painting and is a wow at decorating, really had too much of it.
Draperies may be lopped but never lengthened enough, it appears,
and they lack the chameleon propensity for taking on the color of
new surroundings. But we lived widely and variously, in sophisti-
cated apartments, duplex units, haciendas, mountain bungalows in
turn, and liked it. So did the children, who received a more liberal
education thereby.

In the midst of all this came the historic interruption. Often I
look back on my war service with a sharp nostalgia, for to me it had
more meaning than any combat experience could have given and
gave promise of a greater human adaptability, which could be the
hope of the world, For I was chosen, with fifty other men, to take
a year’s course in modern Chinese at Georgetown University and
sent afterwards to California and Texas to teach English to groups
of the 3000 Chinese aviators and mechanics who had come here for
training.

This was a rich experience which I shall never forget. I have al-
ways been interested in languages and enjoy teaching, but this
assignment was concerned with far more than pedagogy. We
taught these boys, many of them from bombed and ruined villages,
the basic English they needed to repair and service airplanes, to
make landings at foreign airports and to live with English-speaking
units. And they learned more quickly from us because we could
speak their language and had some knowledge of their history and
culture. We found them excellent students, eager to learn, grood-
natured, imbued with the Confucian doctrines of politeness,
thoughtfulness, personal integrity and, according to their ingrained
philosophy, they showed deep respect and even affection for their
teachers. We were honored guests at all their yearly fextivals,
when delicious Pekin food was dispensed and Chinese opera per-
formed with an orchestra of those native instruments we offen

[521]

ana ee eae Ne

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

heard plaved at night in the compounds of these homesick boys.
Some of them may have remained here after the war, but I often
wonder how many of the others are still living and where they are,

They were all my friends.
In listing my occupation, I should have added the word ‘former.

The reason why I have none at present should be of interest, I
think, to many others besides my classmates. The same thing could
have happened to anyone.

Early in May, 1958, I was foolish enough to get my neck broken
in an automobile accident. I can’t say it was my fault, but I was in
a car at the time and perhaps that in itself was foolish, the way
things are. Anyway, ever since then I have been a quadriplegic,
confined to bed and wheelchair. I can move my head and shoulders,
one arm and the thumb of the same hand.

I am not alone. Some twenty other men in the spinal injury sec-
tion of this hospital are equally handicapped. —I-wo hundred more
can use both hands and propel their chairs. A good part of each
morning is spent in physical exercise and/or training to help us to
come back if this may be possible. We are all eager for greater
mobility, if only on wheels, which would enlarge our world and
increase our chances for rehabilitation. A number, like myself,
have sons nearly ready for college. Life is precious to us, even now,
but living implies activity. Some of us certainly possess talents
and aptitudes that ought not to be lost.

Naturally, I have become greatly concerned that so few people
know anything at all about spinal injuries and what they entail for
the victims, their families and the taxpayer. I am lucky. With the
help of a gadget I can operate an electric typewriter for short
periods and some day I hope to be able to tell our story.

[ 522 ]

gp tee ae nara sme aT mE PATIO TPE PETS P= PR OS FE TT HST

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWIN HALL GRAHAM

 

LAST KNOWN -ADDRESS: 2008 Pearl St., Boulder, Colo.

BoRN: May 21, 1913, Oklahoma City, Okla. parents: Edwin Hall Graham,
Lois Brookes. .

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935.

marrieD: Dorothy M. Lockwood, June 28, 1940, Yuma, Ariz.

GRAHAM has been carried as a “lost”? man on our records since
1954-
3

++ NORMAN SMITH GREEN

 

BoRN: Feb, 1, 1913, Cincinnati, Ohio, parents: William AL. Green, Marv
Goode.

PREPARED AT: Hughes High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932. DEGREFS: A.B. (Univ. of Cincinnati), 1936; M.D.
Cibid.), 1943.

MarRiED: Marguerite L. Merekel, Sept. 10, 1938, Cincinnati, Ohio. cat pr SN:
Sally Lou, May 27, 19423 Linda Ann, Aug. at, 1944; Charles Robert and
James William (twins), June 3, 1946.

[ 523]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

pep: June 1, 1953, Mercer Island, Wash.
wiwow: Mrs. Norman S. Green, 19 Scott Rd., Belmont 78, Mass.

AFTER one year at Harvard with our Class, Green transferred to
the University of Cincinnati where he received an A.B. and an M.D.
He served an internship at Christ Hospital, a residency in anesthesia
at Cincinnati General Hospital and did postgraduate work in anes-
thesiology at Ohio State University. Since 1945 he had been engaged
in the private practice of medicine (anesthesia). He was survived
by his wife and children.

WILLIAM GREEN

 

ADDRESS: 184 Seaver St., Dorchester 21, Mass.
BORN: Dec. 3, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: Morris Deitelbaum, Minnie

Hirshhorn.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MarrieD: Charlotte Klayman, June, 1935, Asbury Park, N.J. cumpren: Carol,
April 4, 1936; Judith, March 1, 1942; Jerrilyn, Feb. 6, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Musician,

NO questionnaire returned.

[ 524 |

on tn ANG RE REE YE TCL SE RIPE: CTT AINA A CEA Ae SR =r ROCA

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDMUND GREENE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 305 N. Sappington, Glendale 22, Mo.

OFFICE ADpREss: Monsanto Chemical Co., 800 N. Lindbergh, St. Louis 66, Mo.

BORN: Oct. 18, 1914, Cambridge, Mass. parents: William John Greene, Catha-
rine Dooley.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MaRRIED: Janet Hubley, June 13, 1942, Bala-Cynwyd, Pa. cuipren: Curtis,
Nov. ro, 1944; Daniel Hill, March 30, 1955; Peter Schuyler, April 3, 1959.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Hill Greene, ’28.

occupation: Associate director, marketing services department, Monsanto
Chemical Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Philadelphia chapter, Society of Plastics Industry, 19473
director, Philadelphia chapter, Society of Plastics Engineers, 1947; vice-
president, Technical Advertising Association, Boston, 1952; chairman,
Chemical Group, Association of National Advertisers, 1954; vice-president,
St. Louis chapter, American Marketing Association, 1959-60; vice-presi-
dent, Harvard Club of St. Louis, 1960.

MEMBER OF: Marketing Research Advisory Council, National Industrial Con-
ference Board; Industrial Advertising Research Institute; Association of
Industrial Advertisers; Harvard Club of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Miscellaneous articles for trade magazines; contributions to text-
books in plastics, advertising and marketing.

THOSE impressive ceremonies twenty-five years ago, when we
were welcomed to the fellowship of educated men, were but a brief
interruption to my putting to bed the twelfth or fifteenth issue of
the Brookline Citizen. Joe Boyd °35, Gardner Barker °35 and I
had started the weekly paper three months before, Like the Harvard
Journal, with which I was also briefly associated, the Citizen was
less successful financially than journalistically. Several are still pub-
lishing with enough profit to attract those who write for bread

[525]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

alone, but they fall far short of the editorial ideals set by their young
Harvard founders.

There followed six disillusioning months in the city room of the
Boston Herald — enough for me to gain some insights into the rea-
son Boston, despite some good reportorial talent, publishes such
poor newspapers.

Then a fascinating year with Smith, Kline & French Laboratories,
manufacturers of such pharmaceuticals as benzedrine, feosol and
Eskay’s Neuro Phosphates. I handled commercial and professional
correspondence, interviewed physicians and pharmacists, wrote copy
for overseas promotion, and ghosted articles for medical journals.
This experience emboldened me to tackle an advertising job for
Rohm & Hass, where I devoted the next eight years to promoting
Plexiglas, their transparent plastic. Since the major use was in air-
craft enclosures, the war years found me directing a program of
booklets, films, and personal presentations to improve the military’s
maintenance methods. A parallel program was aimed at improving
the optical and mechanical design of these enclosures.

Before and after the war we worked toward expanding the exist-
ing uses of Plexiglas by advertising and publicity and finding new
uses by creative design and application assistance to our customers.

Twelve years ago _ joined Monsanto and have since served in
two divisions and in various corporate advertising, sales promotion,
and marketing research positions. My present department combines
these fields and, in fact, a miscellany of other marketing functions.
This range of duties and the variety of Monsanto’s products and
markets promise to keep me swamped at least until our Fiftieth An-
niversary Report is due.

During my Rohm & Hass stint, I watched with more than casual
interest a willowy young thing who rode the same commuter train
each morning. We still debate who picked up ‘whom or whether
we have ever been properly introduced, but we soon decided that
if we could tolerate each other at 7:45 every morning on a Pennsyl-
vania coach, we could survive the tribulations of life together. She
had majored in math at Wells and was an insurance underwriter
and should have realized the odds and risks involved, but, fortu-
nately, she married me anyway. The fruits of our marriage are
three fine sons. Curt, now fifteen, leads his class at Country Day
and may survive the competition for a spot in Harvard’s class of
1466, He may not do much for Harvard’s football fortunes, but
plays regularly on his soccer team. He debates all too skillfully with

[ 526]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

parents, beats us at chess, and, as a crowning humiliation, promises
to tower over us both in another year,

Our five-year-old is learning to write and spends hours poring
over old magazines. We don’t claim that he’s reading, just gather-
ing source material for the next million questions. He’s no literary
recluse, however, but a freckled-faced, affectionate extrovert.

Our youngest, Peter, will be a year old by Reunion time, and I
have had to learn again the problems of diets and diapering and
teething. This young family may keep us young and certainly sup-
porting them will keep me working right up to the moment of re-
tirement.

Service on the Harvard Club of St. Louis Schools Committee has
kept me in sporadic contact with the University. I am sure that
I would never be admitted into today’s competition. Judging from
the teenagers we interview for Harvard, the country and the world
are going to be in: pretty good hands when they take over.

H. VOSE GREENOUGH, JR.

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 48 Banks St., Cambridge 38, Mass.
BoRN: April 4, 1912, Brookline, Mass. parents: Henry Vose Greenough, *

0%,
Emery Holden.
PREPARED AT: Taft School, Watertown, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935.
UNMARRIED,

HARVARD BROTHER: Peter Bulkeley Greenough, °39.
occuPaTION: Sound recording engineer and consultant.
OFFICES HELD: Director, Technicord Records, 1937-49; chief engineer, Haydn

Society, 1950-51; director, Acoustics Department, Juillard School of
Music, 1953-56.

MEMBER oF: Acoustical Society of America; Audio Fnygineering Society;
Institute of Radio Engineers.

[527]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

In 1956, I moved to Cambridge and purchased a small house on
Banks Street, behind Dunster House, which serves as my profes-
sional office and residence. I continue to make tapes and produce
records for a number of local and out-of-town firms, including the
Harvard Glee Club. My time is also occupied with consulting in the
field of sound recording and reproduction, and I am advising the
Juilliard School on the technical matters of setting up the new
Acoustics Department when the school moves to the Lincoln
Center in New York.

My principal hobby is music, from the listener’s standpoint,
and the recording of it. I attempted to study organ once, but
proved inept, so I have to be content with just the listening aspects
of music. A secondary hobby is photography, but lack of dark-
room space in my house here has put this somewhat in abeyance.
Being a bachelor, cooking is a third and important hobby, and I
designed an excellent kitchen for my house. I still like to indulge
in a little climbing in the White Mountains. I still find the Cam-
bridge climate, slush and all, better than New York, and the ability
to have a car and park it in front of one’s home makes up for a lot.
Unless some firm manages to Jure me away to Vienna or some
extremely attractive foreign city, I expect to make Cambridge my
permanent home.

** HARRY ALAN GREGG, JR.

 

: June 21, 1911, Nashua, N.H. parents: Harry Alan Gregg, Margaret
Richardson,
rerpaneo at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
VEAKS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: 8.B., 1935(36).

[ 530 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED; Anne Ten Brocck, May 8, 1937, Quincy, Mass. cHitores: Susan,
Peter; Harry Alan, 3d, Thomas.
piep: Feb. 23, 1948, Cambridge, Mass.

AFTER graduation, Gregg spent a short time at the Business Schoo!
and then became associated with Hall- -Gregg, Inc., millwork dis-
tributors in Somerville, Massachusetts, where he was treasurer and
sales manager at the time of his death. During World War II, he
served as a field director for the American Red Cross. Gregg, his
wife and four children died when a fire swept through their home
in Cambridge, Massachusetts.

FREDERICK K. GROPPER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 414 W. 120th St., New York 27, N.Y.

BORN: June 11, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: Harry Gropper, Betty Graff.

PREPARED aT: Erasmus Hill High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935.
UNMARRIED.

occuPaTION: Self-employed: consultative and creative advertising.

OFFICES HELD: Business-administrative manager, Presentation Group, MeCann-
Erickson, Inc., New York City, 1956, 1957; member, Graduate Psvchology
Society, Graduate Faculty of Pure Science, Columbia University, 193% 60,

MEMBER OF: Graduate Psychology Society, Columbia University.

BY coincidence, our Twenty-fifth finds me on the verge of a new

Commencement, in a sense both conventional and directly practi

cal. Recently I have been tapering off advertising work, after two

decades, to step up a program of graduate study in psychology at

Columbia. By this Report's press time I expect to have completed

the A.M. degree and taken the next steps forward — toward a uni-

versity teaching post and more advanced scientific work. Juse
which university or college remains to be scen,

[530]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

This comprehensive change in career was planned, or at least
looked forward to, as far back as the time of our graduation. But
appropriate action had to wait on proper time and circumstance,
It may be relevant to note that advertising, apart from its currency
value, deserves some credit for keeping the embers of this old am-
bition aglow for so long a time. For, in constantly asking why
people buy what they buy, advertising is, at bottom, really asking
why they do whatever they do. Perhaps this is one of the reasons
I got into business. It has been a powerfully crystallizing experience
— but always adjunctive in my mind to the original goal that is at
last in sight of fulfillment.

Such a fundamental change in one’s life situation naturally has
many personal ramifications. More important, however, it is a
streamlining, integrating and invigorating process; it puts major ex-
ertion into proper alignment with paramount objectives.

Some medical men — perhaps in our own Class — have given up
a thriving practice to dedicate themselves to medical research. But
for that very reason their help may be invaluable in certain concrete
and complicated cases. Science today is not so rigidly compart-
mentalized between pure and applied. The important thing is
where the center of gravity is, where the heart is.

At any rate, that’s the way it has always seemed to me; especiall
since Harvard, where one is encouraged and taught — if he has
ears to hear—to look much more deeply into things than many
practical situations in life require, or —for long stretches of time
— even want.

I can only say that if it becomes my privilege and good fortune
to achieve the objectives I’ve indicated, it will be an honor to pass
along, within the limits of my ability, this tradition at least, among
other splendid ones handed down to us by Harvard.

Military service: U.S. Army, 1941-43. First half this period:
Infantry, 9th Division. Second half: special assignments, Head-
quarters First Army. Hobbies: Woodshop work.

[ 532]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MELVIN GEORGE GROVER

a

  

  

HOME ADDRESS: Johnson Road, Falls Village, Conn.

BORN: March 14, 1914, Andover, Mass. parents: George Robert Grover,
Margaret Cannon.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

marrieD: Helene T. Cahill, Aug. 8, 1940, Andover, Mass. cHiprex: Melvin
George, Jr.. May 13, 1942; Susan Elizabeth, Aug. 9, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Elmer James Grover, 731.

occupation: Advertising.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; University Club of Hartford; Hotch-

kiss Golf Club; Sales Executives Club of New York; Metropolitan Adver-
tising Golf Association.

SERVICE RECORD: U.S. Naval Reserve, lieutenant, gunnery
officer, USS Southard, destroyer-minesweeper.

JOHN ALBIN GRUEN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 672 Summer St. Abington, Mass.
OFFICE ADDREss: New Amsterdam Casualty Coy 2tt Congress St, Boston, Mass.

[ 533]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

BorN: March 30, 1914, Boston, Mass. parents: John Casinieri Grubinskas, Ana
Bagdis.

PREPARED aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934; 1935-1936. DEGREE: A.B., cv laude, 1935 (36).

MARRIED: Louise V. Kay, June, 1942, Brockton, Mass. cHiLp: Christine Louise,
May 1, 1947.

occUPATION: Supervisor, Engineering and Inspection Department, New Amster-

dam Casualty Company.

HERMAN GUNDLACH

   

HOME appREss: Woodland Road, Houghton, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Herman Gundlach, Inc., Houghton, Mich.

BORN: July 16, 1913, Houghton, Mich. parents: Herman Gundlach, Elvira
Zenner.

PREPARED AT: Houghton High School, Houghton, Mich.; Worcester Academy,
Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935-

Markiep: Barbara Jane Kettle, Radcliffe ’35, April 30, 1938, Atlanta, Ga. cHIL-
DREN: Gretchen, March 31, 1939 (7. Gilles Rivet, Sept. 3, 1958); Martha,
Sept. 4, 1941; Julie, Aug. 14, 1946; Janna, Oct. 28, 1950. GRANDCHILD: Julie
Janet Rivet, June 6, 1959.

occupaTION: President, Herman Gundlach, Inc., general contractors.

orFices HELD: Member, Engineering Dept., Sinclair Refining Company, Chi-
cago and Atlanta, Ga. 1935-39; General Construction Company (self),
Atlanta, Ga., 1939-41; 2d lieutenant to major, Corps of Engineers, A.US.,
US., England and Germany, 1941-45; registered professional engineer,
State of Georgia; president, Herman Gundlach, Inc., since 1945, Copper
Country Concrete Corporation, Douglass Houghton Hotel Corporation,
Great Lakes Boat Works, Inc., Dollar Bay, Mich., chairman of board,
Houghton National Bank; president and trustee, Board of Education,
Portage Township Schools, Houghton County, Mich.; director, Copper
Range Railroad Company, Houghton, Mich.; trustee and director, Good
Will Farm (Orphan’s Home), Houghton, Mich.; president and director,
Upper Peninsula General Contractors Association; student adviser of

[ 534]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

American Society of Civil Engineers, Michigan College of Mining &
Technology; sponsor, U.S. Bantam Hockey Champions, 1956, 1957, 1958;
member, various committees, local and state, Boy Scouts of America,
Chamber of Commerce, Community Chest Funds, Red Cross, ete.

MEMBER oF: Associated General Contractors of America; American Society
of Civil Engineers, Honorary Engineering Fraternity Chi Epsilon, Hough-
ton Rotary Club; Onigaming Yacht Club, Houghton; Miscowaubik Club,
Calumet, Mich.; Chippewa Club, Iron Mountain, Mich.

IMMEDIATELY following graduation, I realized a lifelong am-
bition to play in the National Football League. After first experi-
encing three weeks’ training with the 1935 College All Stars, pro-
moted by Arch Ward of the Chicago Tribune Charities and cul-
minating in the game against the Chicago Bears, I joined the Boston
Redskins for a short time until the management terminated my
contract. This was a shock to my ambition but has proved a mutual
benefit.

I was then employed by the Sinclair Refining Company in their
engineering department in Chicago, [linois, and shortly thereafter
was transferred to Atlanta, Georgia, where I was married to Bar-
bara Kettle in April, 1938. Our two oldest children, Gretchen and
Martha, were born in Atlanta where in 1940 I opened a general con-
struction business.

In September, 1941, I was called to active duty as a second lieu-
tenant, having held a commission in the Army Reserve Corps, and
was discharged as a major in 1945. I started my active service at
Tyndall Field in Florida and during my four and one-half years
of service spent considerable time in England and Germany, and
was decorated with the Bronze Star and two Campaign Stars.

After World War II, I returned to Houghton, Michigan, and
established our present building construction corporation, frankly
trying to capitalize on the fine reputation and good name bestowed
by my father in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. Our two young-
est daughters, Julie and Janna, were born here.

These hinterlands of Michigan, sometimes described as one of
the last frontiers in the United States and often called a Sportsman’s
Paradise, enjoy profound seasonal changes, snow falls having totalled
up to 286 inches and temperatures in summer sometimes exceed-
ing one hundred degrees. This has permitted the entire family to
enjoy a variety of activities in the form of skating, skiing, hunting,
swimming, water skiing, sailing and hshing. In addition, this com-
munity, although somewhat remote, enjoys the Michigan College of
Mining and Technology, an old institution in the Midwest, which

[535]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

provides a charming and cultural background not normally found in
similar communities. The college has a fine staff, outstanding new
testing laboratories and research personnel who not only cooperate
but welcome construction and engineering problems. This has
proved most helpful to our specializing in winter construction and
concrete work. The size of the college staff, the concert and lec-
ture programs and the sporting events now give a more enjoyable
cosmopolitan background to the entire community.

Our oldest daughter, Gretchen Rivet, resides at Waltham, Massa-
chusetts, and our granddaughter, Julie Janet Rivet, provides us an
additional excuse to travel to Boston, Jamestown, New York, and
other eastern Communities.

Although this community is remote and certain facilities and en-
jovments offered in some of the older and larger urban areas are
lacking, I have been amazed by the variety of advantages for family
life and the variety of opportunities in both community and busi-
ness activities. In many areas Harvard alumni are numerous; in this
area being a Harvard alumnus is quite exclusive, and as time passes
I am reminded more frequently of the values of my training there.

In the past twenty-five years my family, business and professional
life have proved successful, and I shall be grateful indeed for a con-
tinuation of my good fortune.

CHARLES FRIEDMAN HAAS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 12626 Hortense St., Studio City, Calif.

BoRN: Nov. 15, 1913, Chicago, Ill. parents: Gus Haas, Cicely Friedman.
paepareD at: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, IIL,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1935.

maraizo: Emilie Dreyfus, Dec. 29, 1936, Boston, Mass. cumpren: David, May

[ 536 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

12, 194:3; Anthony, July 13, 1943; Sylvia, Feb. 13, 1947; Michael, March
6, 1949.

occupation: Motion picture director.

MEMBER OF: Writers Guild of America; Screen Directors’ Guild.

AFTER leaving Cambridge, I came directly to Hollywood where
(like so many before me) I had a letter of introduction to Mr,
Carl Laemmle of Universal Pictures Company. Mr. Laemmle was
then a very old man, and had already decided to sell Universal, but
he was still a kind man, as always, and the letter served to get me onto
a motion picture lot in some undefined and unpaid capacity. I
worked in the production office, as an assistant director, as an assist-
ant cutter, and generally learned what I could until the studio was
sold about six or seven months later, This was during the depres-
sion and jobs were hard to come by, as we all remember. I worked
briefly as a reader at one studio, and as a writer at another, and then
I met a photographer from New York with whom I joined to at-
tempt a film in the documentary field. The two of us (and our
wives) worked for a couple of years to make a film about a frame-
up case connected with the organizing struggles of the California
waterfront workers — and a second film about the migratory agri-
cultural workers (before Grapes of Wrath). The latter film was
never finished, but I put the first under my arm, went to New York,
picked a name out of the phone book and got a job writing, direct-
ing and editing an industrial film for a New York company. From
the summer of 1939 to the winter of 1941, I divided my time between
industrial films and unemployment, the latter being easy to obtain.
Early in 1941, probably due to my membership in the Association
of Documentary Film Producers, I started receiv ing offers from
the Training Film Production Laboratory at W right Field, Ohie,
a Signal Corps unit attached to the Air Force. F inally, i in November,
1941, I went there to work on training films. For two Vears, first
as a civilian, then as an officer, I wrote, produced, and dirceted
films about flexible aerial gunnery, the B-29, bombsights, etc. until
in 1943 the unit was broken up and I was transferred to Signal C OT ps
Photographic Center, Long Island. There I worked on training
films for a while, until I was assigned to produce a weckly secret
film report for the various general staffs; this was a newsreel com-
piled from combat footage and other material, and a declassified
version was also edited for troops,
Early in 1946, a civilian again, T was hired as a producer by Uni-
versal Pictures Company, Naturally, six months later the company

[537]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

changed hands. Two of us from Universal went into independent
production, and made a very expensive and unprofitable film, which
I wrote and produced. We subsequently made for Lucky Strike
the first sponsored series of films on television — twenty-six half-
hours adapted from classic short stories. I wrote the screenplay for
several and directed half the films. Wiser, but not richer, I then
worked as a writer on feature films for various producers and studios
until around 1951 or 1952, when I switched permanently to direction
as I had always intended. Since then I have directed dozens and
dozens of television shows and nine or ten features. In 1954 I spent
a wonderful year working on a show in France, and my family still
is demanding to be taken to Paris. In the last year or so I have di-
rected four theatrical films for MGM, and innumerable hour and
half-hour films for television. According to my daughter, the only
important work I do is when I make a “77 Sunset Strip” or “Ha-
wauan Eye.”

In the course of all this, my wife and I, remembering our own
school days, at Beaver Country Day, and at North Shore Country
Day, respectively, joined with a group of parents in our area to start
a new elementary school for our children. Both of us have been or
are on the board of Oakwood School which, after a number of
difficult and uncertain years, has become an established local private
institution. We are very proud of it and of our part in creating it.

Our oldest son is now at the University of California in Berkeley,
the second in high school, the daughter in junior high, and the
youngest still at Oakwood. As to politics, I voted for Roosevelt
in my first election in 1936, and am still unreconstructed. As to
members of the Class of ’35, the only one I see frequently is Jules
Bricken, also a director and producer here in Hollywood. Once
or twice I have seen Edgar Peterson, although not recently. Of
course we have kept in touch with Dave Little, mainly through my
wife’s trips to Boston to see her family.

[ 538]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALBERT HABERSTROH

 

HOME appRESS: g Black Horse Lane, Cohasset, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Di-An Controls, Inc., go Leon St., Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: March 22, 1914, Newton Highlands, Mass. parents: Emil Frederick
Haberstroh, Katharine Webber.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Barbara Isabelle Cole, Sept. 24, 1942, Cambridge, Mass. (divorced
1954); Mary Eleanor (Moss) Kelakes, 1956. cHipREN: Frederick, June 3.
1948; Helen, Sept. 22, 1951 (both adopted); Charles Wesley Kelakes, July
21, 1950 (stepson); George Michael Kelakes, Aug. 10, 1952 (stepson).

occupaTion: Electronic engineering and manufacturing.

WHEN we graduated, twenty-five years ahead appeared to be an
interminable span, but looking back I see just barely time enough
to get the important things done. In that span I've worked for a
privately-owned power company, a publicly-owned Navy (where
I learned radar and electronics) and three electronics companies. |
am now engaged in the manufacture of electronic digital data-
processing components and systems in a small employ ce-owned
company.

Besides the eleven or more hours a day that keep me away from
home, I manage to squeeze in such recreation as skiung, sailing,
Planning Board and other town committces. Three years ago |
decided our beautiful carillon of fifty-two bells here in St. Stephen’ s
Church should be played more regularly, I now play it, with more
personal enjoyment than accuracy, on ‘Sundays, for weddings and
other special occasions throughout the year, Addi to that a delight-
ful family of three young boy sand you can see that [just have time
to do the important things, such as living a full life.

[ 539 ]

pe ere . LEE TTT RSET TET PTET NNER RnR CANN ie “TRS DIN PIN ro

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

JOHN TILTON HACK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4722 Rodman St., N.W., Washington 16, D.C.

OFFICE appREss: U.S. Geological Survey, Washington 25, D.C.

BORN: Dec. 3, 1913, Chicago, Ill. parents: Frederick Charles Hack, Clara
Albina Tilton.

PREPARED AT: Evanston Township High School, Evanston, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; A.M., 1938; PH.D.,

1940. .

MarrRieD: Clare Ferriter, Jan. 23, 1942, Greenwich, Conn. CHILDREN: Katherine
Ferriter, Jan. 10, 1944; John Tilton, Jr., Jan. 20, 1949.

occuPATION: Geologist.

MEMBER OF: Cosmos Club; Geological Society of America; other professional
societies.

puBLicaTions: “The changing physical environment of the Hopi Indians of
Arizona,” Peabody Museum Publications No. 25; “Geology of the Brandy-
wine area, Maryland,” U.S. Geological Survey; other technical reports.

AT Harvard College I acquired an absorbing interest in the science
of the earth. After a somewhat unsuccessful year in the world of —
business I returned to Harvard and went on to get my Doctor’s de-
gree in the Department of Geology.

After two short years of teaching at a small college in New York,
] joined the staff of the U.S. Geological Survey where I have been
ever since. In the same year that I joined the Survey I married
Clare Ferriter, then a portrait painter with a degree in Fine Arts
from Yale University (Class of ’35). She has continued her paint-
ing and has a portrait hanging at Harvard.

I count myself among the fortunate few who manage to do in
life what they most wish to do. I have been working in pure science
ever since 1952 and regard the opportunity as pleasurable, a privi-
lege, and important.

I have a wife, daughter and son of whom I am very proud and

[ s4o ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

who put up with me with considcrable patience, We have two
Siamese cats who put up with all of us.

CHARLES McLELLAN HADLEY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 167 Seaview Ave., Swansea, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Insurance Hadley, 56 N. Main Se, Fall River, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 17, 1913, Fall River, Mass. parents: Charles McLellan Hadley,
Carrie May Dennis.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MarRiED: Muriel Manning, May 13, 1943, Danielson, Conn. critpaen: Charles
McLellan, Jr., Sept. 3, 1947; Michael Manning, Oct. 2. toyo.

occUPATION: Insurance agent and broker.

OFFICES HELD: Director, since 1938, president, 1956-58, trustee, 1959. YMCA.
president, Fetherdic Tennis Club, 1937; director, 1949-51, secretary, 1949-
50, Fall River Rotary Club, director, 1951-54, president, 1952, Cole’s River
Club; director, 1955-58, president, 1956, Harvard Club of Fall River.

MEMBER OF: Adams Club; Cole's River Club; King Phihp Lodge, AF, & AM.
Rotary; Quequechan Club; Harvard Club of Fall Rivers Y.ALCA., Fall
River Fire Underwriters; Massachusetts Association of Insurance Agents;
Massachusetts and Rhode Island Brokers, New England Tennis Patrons.

FROM college right to my father’s insurance office. Just business,
tennis and squash untl 194, but at least on the tennis courts met
my wife who was women’s champion of Fall River and whose game
is still comparatively better than mine.

From 1941 until 1946, U.S. Navy; from the office directly to the
Newport Naval Base — not even a ninety-day wonder, but immedi-
ate boss turned out to be T. R. Penny packer, ’ 16, and the son of
Dean Pennypacker who really finagled (7?) my admission to Har-
vard. Newport until 1944 and then Noroton, Connecticut, San
Francisco, New Guinea, Australia, New Guinea and Morotai, "Frisco

[ 540 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

and home. Communications all the way — ensign and a graceful
kicking out as lieutenant commander, Resigned commission in 1957.

While in Newport had a nice apartment overlooking the water
and decided then and there that when I bought a home, would locate
where I would have a chance to again watch the water flow by and
in 1950 purchased house in Touisset (Swansea), Massachusetts,
where this could be done —there’s something so restful about it.
Even Hurricane Carol only got so far as to leave the prows of a
couple of rowboats on the front lawn.

As age and weight (240) increase and tennis gets worse, have
fun now taking my sons around the New England circuit, this
year for the first time, A. little sailing in a Beetle, a little fishing,
more grind in the business all the time. On the Fall River Harvard
Club’s School Committee. Big question— what with all these
geniuses going to Harvard, how will my sons make out?

The names of ’35 classmates as given in the Reports sound, unfor-
tunately, strangely unfamiliar. Guess I'll have to get that old album
out and give it a going over.

JOHN CECIL HAGGOTT

    

HOME aAbpRESS: 10 Marion Rd., Westport, Conn.

OFFICE apprEss: % National Broadcasting Co., 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York,
N.Y.

BORN: Aug. 23, 1913, Denver, Colo. parents: Warren Armstrong Haggott,
Willie Cecil.

PREPARED AT: East Denver High School, Denver, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MakkiED: Frances Harison Phinizy, Oct. 22, 1942, New York, N.Y. cHiLpren:
Richard, Sept. 5, 1943; Joan, Oct. 23, 1946 (died March 15, 1956).

occuPpaTION: Theatrical production, currently, independent producer working
through NBC,

[ 542 J

251TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF; Institute of Radio Engineers; Academy of Motion Picture Arts

& Sciences, Academy of Television Arts & Sciences; Society of Motion
Picture Engineers, Harvard Club of New York.

THE celebrated twenty-five years ago, when we all sought the light
toward a practical day, saw me trying to find a job, be it in finance,
architecture, construction, the newspaper trade or any other lov ely
field. Since none of these seemed to welcome me, I slithered into
entertainment, On the whole, I haven’t done badly. I’ve had a hand
in several plays and at least one musica] that have survived, I have
seen California and recovered. I am currently, and hope to remain,
in television. I had been mixed up in the broadcasting business for
some time before my daughter died; but since her death, and be-
cause of it, I have tried to think of ways to make a medium serve
its own true end. I have not seen success at this, but I propose to

keep trying.

JAMES DUNCAN HAGUE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4426 Garfield St. N.W., Washington 7, D.C.

BORN: July 21, 1911, Grass Valley, Calif. parents: William Hague, ‘oy, Fliza-
beth Hathaway Stone.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Mulcon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.

Marriep: Henriette Catharina Reitsma, March 3, 1951, London, Fngland.
CHILDREN: John Frederic, June 10, 19413; Henry Robert, April g. 194s (both
stepsons); William, Jan. 19, 1952; Ruth Flizabeth, Aug. 19, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Retired.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Evacuation Commission, Territory of Hawaii, July,
1941-September, 1942.

MEMBER OF: Retired Officers Association; Reserve Officers Association; Metro-
politan Club, Washington, D.C.; Harvard Club of New York; Pacific

Club, Honolulu, Hawaii; Junior Carlton Club, London, England, Bengal
Club, Calcutta, India.

[ 543 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ON entering Harvard, I found it not particularly to my liking,
While spending the summer in Europe in 1932, I became convinced
that war was almost inevitable. I therefore decided to leave Har-
vard after the autumn term of sophomore year and returned to
Europe, determined to see and enjoy as much as possible while
peace lasted. London became headquarters and from there I tray-
eled extensively on the continent of Europe, visited Egypt and
North Africa, spent many months in India, and went on to visit
briefly Burma, Malaya, the Dutch East Indies and China.

Back in England in the summer of 1934 I became interested in a
mining syndicate formed to develop a gold mine in Surinam, South
America, and thereafter, until the outbreak of war in September,
1939, I spent several months of each year in that country and the
balance in England and Europe.

The winter of 1939-40, I spent in Honolulu, Hawaii, recuperating
from a very bad attack of malaria, and to that agreeable place I
returned after several further months in Surinam in the summer of
1940.

In 1941, in connection with the development of plans for Civil-
ian Defense, an Evacuation Commission was set up, and I became its
secretary. With the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, this Com-
mission was charged with carrying into effect plans which had
been made —and frequently improvising new ones to meet the
demands of unforeseen situations. I remained as secretary to this
body until called to active duty in the U.S. Naval Reserve as a lieu-
tenant (j.g.). Duty stations varied from the Navy Department in
Washington, to Surinam as assistant naval observer, Calcutta, India,
as assistant naval liaison officer and a very brief but extremely in-
teresting temporary attachment to the U.S. Naval Attaché, Chung-
king, China.

In April, 1945, | was suddenly paralyzed from the waist down,
probably due to an unusual form of polio, although the exact cause
could never be determined. 1 was returned by sea to the U.S.A.
and remained in the hospital until January, 1946. After numerous
medical boards, J was finally retired for physical disability in Sep-
tember, 1946, and returned to Honolulu to make my home.

The years following were punctuated by several long trips to
South America and Europe, during one of which, in 1951, I was
married to a Dutch girl whom I had known since my first trip to
Surinam in 1934. By this marriage I acquired two wonderful sons
of her previous marriage, who have taken my name, while, in

[ 544 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the years since, we have added another son and a daughter, all of
whom keep me active and young. (My grey hair is an outcome of
my illness and in no way can be blamed on them!)

In 1958 we abandoned Hawaii as a place of residence and re-
moved to Washington, D.C., where I now occupy my time with
efforts, thus far unnoticed by the outside world, to write.

JOHN ROBERT HALEY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 246 Winch St, Framingham Center, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ray Brothers Co., Ashland, Mass.

BoRN: May 19, 1910, Winthrop, Mass. parents: John James Halev, Loretta
Donovan.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1935 (36).

MarRigED: Priscilla Louise Ray, June 21, 1941, Ashland, Mass. cuit: Priscilla
Seabury, Dec. 2, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Joseph Francis Haley, ’32; Justin James Haley, °43 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: President, general manager, Ray Brothers Co., manufacturers of
paper products.

OFFICES HELD: President, Greater Boston chapter, national vice-president,
Worcester Academy Alumni Association; member, Schools and Scholar-
ship Committee, Harvard Club of Boston; member, various business asso-
ciations, committees of United Fund, Red Cross, ete.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York; Harvard Business
School Association, Stone Horse Yacht Club, Harwichport, Mass.

AT long last, after several telephone calls from Frank Knowlton, I
shall now try to contribute something to the Class Report. Like
many of my classmates, I find it difficult to write about myself. I
started in the field of education just by chance and not by choice.
While I was serving as executive secretary to the chairman of Ameri-
can Association of Advertising Agencies (1936-37), mv boss pur-

[ 545 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

chased a school in Washington, Connecticut, and, from 1937 to

1942, | was headmaster of the Romford School.

Like many of my classmates, I went into the service and like

everyone had some interesting experiences. Commissioned in July,
1942, aS lieutenant, junior grade, U.S. Navy, I was ordered to the
first Navy indoctrination class at Dartmouth and everything was
really SNAFU, a condition which seemed to be in evidence my
next four years. After a trip to Norfolk, Solomon Islands, Mary-
land, and one day of navigation, I received orders as executive offi-
cer and navigator of L.S.T. No. 1 (Large Slow Target). The ship
was launched in Pittsburgh and we finally reached New Orleans via
the Mississippi and several emergency landings on the banks of the
Ole Miss. Eventually, we reached North Africa, and I was begin-
ning to learn something about a chart, stars, latitude at noon, ete.
We stayed in the Mediterranean, taking part in the landings of Sic-
ily, Salerno and Anzio. I took command of the ship at Anzio and
after a few months of ferrying supplies to the beachhead, we left
for Plymouth, England, to prepare for Normandy. Returning to
the States in December, 1944, I was assigned to the naval unit at the
University of South Carolina. Along with my Navy duties, I was
backfield coach of the football team, playing teams like Duke,
Alabama and Clemson. They do things a little differently down
there from the way they’re done in the Ivy League.

Being discharged from the Navy as a lieutenant commander in
November, 1946, I decided I would not go back into school work.
In 1946, I started in my present work. Realizing how little I knew
about business, I attended the Harvard Business School Eleventh
Advanced Management Program in 1947. As a hobby and some-
thing to do on weekends I took up football officiating, working in
several college games from 1949 to 1954. (Editor’s Note: These
officials work hard, getting a lot of criticism and rarely any credit.)

I gave up football officiating in 1954, as it was interfering with
our weekends at the Cape, where we spend our summers and al-
most every weekend through the fall and winter. Our daughter
being in boarding school, we usually take off, rain or shine. My
interests now are hunting (favoring duck and goose shooting) and
fishing, mostly after blues or tuna.

Like most parents we talk a great deal about education, schools,
etc., and wonder what is ahead for just the average student. The day
appears over, for the present at least, when the average student can
go on to college. Someone will have to start up some new schools

[ 546 ]

apoyo woneen WHEE
py nee I MITETRETE TTT AEE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and colleges for the average student. The colleges will turn out
scientists, chemists and physicists (sure, we need them) but we need
the all-around boy who will become a salesman, etc., to sell the
products we produce. Taking a view of world conditions today, it
appears that we must resign ourselves to living in a state of confu-
sion, facing each day with new hope, retaining our true values.

I recall a few years back when some Boston sportswriter brought
out an article on what’s wrong with Harvard football. After the
game in New Haven last fall that same writer should bring out an
article on what’s right with Harvard football. 1 am looking forward
to our Twenty-Fifth Anniversary Reunion and renewing old ac-
quaintances with classmates I haven’t seen for several years.

FREDERICK GARRISON HALL, II

ee oe A tng

z é . :
& me z
f i
‘ \

t o4 wr Fe!
{ bos

  

HOME apprEss: 8 Cushman Rd., Rosemont, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Hyper Humus Co., P.O. Box 387, Paoli, Pa.

BORN: June 15, 1912, West Orange, N.J. parents: Irving Kent Hall, ’o4, Helen
Macy.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MARRIED: Priscilla A. Bohlin, 1945, West Newbury, Mass. cHitpren: Pamela
Macy; Julie Carter.

HARVARD BROTHER: Garrison Kent Hall, °38.

OCCUPATION: President and treasurer, Hyper Humus Company, producers of
reed and sedge peat.

MEMBER OF: Franklin Institute, Philadelphia; Sports Car Club of America.

AFTER an all-too-short period at Harvard, I Spent two years at ac-
counting school and then worked as an auditor for various public
accounting firms in Boston and New York until I entered the Navy

[ 547 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935 :

in 1941. Three years in the Navy were excellent preparation fo;
marriage and two daughters —I’m still taking orders!

Following war service, | worked as chief accountant and assistant
treasurer for Baird Associates, Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts, for
about ten years. This was followed by two years as financial ana-
lyst and consultant, which led to my present status as president of
the Hyper Humus Company.

My principal regret is that I did not remain at Harvard for at
least four years. In general, the world has treated me kindly.

28, EE AARP NANTTE EEN ISS PENCE OY

ering Be to

JOHN VOGL HALLETT

    

ogee epee a2
apne eps AEG AAO AT PR RHEIN EERE POT ET RTO A ERE SIRT ae

CoS EES

HOME AppREss: 69 Sheridan St., Glens Falls, N.Y.

OFFICE appress: Imperial Color Chemical & Paper Corp., Glens Falls, N.Y.

BORN: July 6, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: George Hallett, Irene Vogl.

PREPARED AT; Whitman High School, Whitman, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1935.

MarRiED: Kathleen Mary Talbot, Nov. 29, 1936, Belmont, Mass. CHILDREN:
Jeffrey John, Aug. 2, 1941; Douglas Charles, Jan. 17, 1944; Richard
Edward, Dec. 10, 1949.

occupation: Director of research, Imperial Color Chemical & Paper Corpora-
tion, manufacturers of pigment colors, chemicals, wallpaper.

OFFICES HELD: President, “Y” Men’s Club, 1950-51.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Glens Falls Winter Club; “Y”
Men’s Club.

ea te SOILS A EYE PASE ETE SPEEA

ca rotenone ih, ONES

nedeine eosin

age:

A GLANCE at the organizations to which I belong divulges with-
out question that my life since graduation from Harvard has been

devoted largely to my family and my work —a situation which I
do not regret in the least.

Since leaving college, my life has been spent in Glens Falls and
at the Imperial. I started as a research and development chemist

[ 548 ]

220 Se On Lape at

_ eee ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

working first on organic pigments, and then later with organic
intermediates. This period encompassed the war years since Imperial’s
activities, particularly within the technical groups, were deemed
essential to the war effort. In 1951 I became assistant to the tech-
nical director, advancing to director of research on September 1,
1959»

I was married on November 29, 1936, to Kathleen (“Tinka”)
Mary Talbot, at Belmont, Massachusetts. We have three children,
all boys. Jeffrey is seventeen years old and a freshman at Wesleyan
University. Douglas, who is fifteen, is a sophomore at Glens Falls
High School, while Richard (aged ten) is a fifth grader.

Our community is not particularly Harvard-oriented, nor do
many of the eligible secondary school graduates apply for admis-
sion. Yet its name, as it should, is held in great esteem. It is one of
my fondest hopes that one of our boys will spend four years there

to discover, as I did, that it is an experience that is savored for a
lifetime.

LESTER DAVID HALLETT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 8 Euclid Ave., Natick, Mass.
OFFICE appress: Christian Science Publishing Society, Boston 15, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 5, 1913, Somerville, Mass. PARENTS: Lester Barbarie Hallett, Kather-
ine Gebelein.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: I931-1935- DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MarRRIED: Dorothy Evelyn Martin, May 21, 1939, Lowell, Mass. CHILDREN:
Carolyn, July 27, 1942; David Richard, April 26, 1945; Paul Stephen, Nov.
15, 1955; Anne Dorothy, April 7, 1959.

OCCUPATION: Circulation supervisor, Christian Science Monitor.

“VEN before graduation in 1935 I had a part-time job in the circu-

[ 549 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Our family consists of a seventeen-year-old daughter, followed
by a fourteen-year-old son. Then after a long unaccountable gap,
there is another son, aged four, and a second daughter, whose age
at this writing is nine months. The result is well-rounded experience
in everything from diaper-changing up to, and including, the latest
teen-age idiosyncrasies.

I have a distinction that many Harvard alumni should emulate:
I subscribe for the Harvard Alunmi Bulletin. For daily news I read
the Christian Science Monitor, My monthly periodical is The At-
lantic Monthly. In conclusion, may I offer these thoughts: The
experiences of twenty-five years cause us to take stock of where
we stand, also in what direction we are moving. If we have managed
to deal with complexities and frustrations to make them yield a
sense of accomplishment, satisfaction and peace, then indeed we
are successful. In any case, we still have a long way to go. “Veritas”
stands for vastly more than we have yet proved. May we and our

children go on to demonstrate its higher meaning for mankind’s
benefit.

 

HOME ApDbRESS: 2709 Augusta Drive, Durham, N.C.
OFFICE apprEss: Duke University, Durham, N.C.

BORN: Aug. 19, 1913, Spokane, Wash. Parents: Harold Atlee Hallowell, Anna
Blanche Williams,

PREPARED AT: Haverford Township High School, Brookline, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; a.M. (Duke
Univ.), 1937; PH.D. (Princeton Univ.), 1939.

MararieD: Sally Rubin, Jan. 31, 1941, Los Angeles, Calif. cHmpren: Carol Anne,

Jan. 7, 1942; John Hamilton, Jr., Sept. 25, 1944; Katherine Rebecca, Sept.
16, 1947-

[ 552 ]

eedeerarneyeyneen yan eaerey mee LY

PY NR REY TOMBE ROR PRIA ete I LEE AIDE LELAND EEE LOREEN LOE IE OE
es ATH AN onary my

he 8 epee EN eT ENED

BER RR POTEET REN ES TEI:

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occUPaTION: Professor of political science, Duke University.

OFFICES HELD: Editor, Journal of Politics, since 1956; director, Lilly Endow-
ment Research Program in Christianity and Politics, since 1957; local area
chairman, Program for Harvard College, 1958-59.

MEMBER OF: American Political Science Association; Southern Political Science
Association (vice-president, 1952); National Council on Religion in
Higher Education, American Society for Political and Legal Philosophy.

PUBLICATIONS: The Decline of Liberalism as an Ideology, 1943; Main Currents
in Modern Political Thought, 1950; The Moral Foundation of Democracy,
1954.

TWENTY-FIVE years ago it never occurred to me that I should
be living today in the South, a region in which, even after seventeen
years of residence, I still feel like an alien. But despite a lingering
nostalgia for New England I am fortunate to be doing what I had
always hoped and planned to do. One of the rewards of teaching is
the opportunity it provides for varied experiences. I started my
teaching career at the University of California at Los Angeles and
then moved during the war to a very brief career as a bureaucrat
in the Office of War Information. I came to Duke University to
teach in the Navy V-12 program and have been here ever since.
One summer I taught at Stanford University and one spring I went
to the University of Chicago to deliver the Charles R. Walgreen
Foundation lectures. Another summer I taught in Florida and this
summer I shall be teaching in Utah — an assignment unfortunately
that will make it impossible for us to attend our Twenty-fifth Re-
union. Perhaps the most pleasant experience for the entire family
was the year we spent in Germany where I went in 1955-56 as a
Fulbright professor to teach at the University of Munich. We came
back with ambivalent feelings toward the Germans but stimulated
by the experience. My wife fell in love with Italy and it was all
we could do to persuade her to leave Florence. If another oppor-
tunity arises this may be our “next” objective.

I have vicariously satisfied my own yearnings toward New Eng-
land by having two children there now. My daughter Carol I am
proud and happy to report is a freshman at Radcliffe and my son
John is in the Third Form at the Kent School in Connecticut.
My younger daughter, Kathy, attends the Durham Academy and
keeps us from becoming too lonely with her bubbling spirits.

[ 553 ]

SOT PACER ESET I Rea me

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

JOHN BREWSTER HAMBLET

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2965 Westbrook Drive, Cincinnati 38, Ohio.
OFFICE appRESS: Bethesda Hospital, Cincinnati 6, Ohio.

BoRN: Feb. 27, 1914, Lowell, Mass. PARENTS: Clement Arthur Hamblet, mov.
’97, Maud Hutton.

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 19353 M.D. 1940.
MARRIED: Hope Livingston Gurney, Feb. 14, 1948, Cohasset, Mass, CHILDREN;

Joan Livingston, May 31, 1949; John Brewster, Jr., June 27, 1951; Elizabeth
Gay, Dec. 28, 1954.
OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Pathologist, Bethesda Hospital, Cincinnati, Ohio; instructor,
Pathology Department, University of Cincinnati.

FOLLOWING college were medical school in Montreal, hospital
training in Boston, service with the O.S.S. in North Africa, France
and China, more residency training back in Boston, then actual
practice of pathology in Massachusetts and Connecticut hospitals
and for the past eight years here in Cincinnatt.

I met Hope when I was invited to be the fourth at bridge at the
home of another West Roxbury V.A. Hospital resident. Hope and
I were partners that night and soon made this relationship perma-
nent. We were married in the Episcopal Church, but became church-
goers only after we started taking the children and becoming deeper
involved than they were.

I have remained in the Reserves since Field Artillery days in the
Harvard ROTC and attend weekly meetings of the local hospital
unit. These and other activities fill the days and most of the eve-
nings. Life tends to be hectic, but is overall generous.

[554]

eh a PEPE MSR RISES Ae RT le Pam BETES

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HERBERT GARTHWAITE HANAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 427 Eden Rd., Stamford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Room 202, 342 Madison Ave., New York 17, N.Y.

BORN: April 29, 1912, Brooklyn, N.Y. parents: Herbert Wilmer Hanan,
Matilda Rheinfrank.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.

MarriED: Frances Wood Ladd, April 22, 1939, Cold Spring, N.Y. (divorced
1954); Barbara Pollard, 1955. critpren: John Mead, July 20, 1946; Sarah
Andrews, May 23, 1947; Deborah Ames, Jan. 25, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Investments.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Stamford Yacht Club.

THE deaths of my father and elder brother in 1933 caused me to
leave Harvard at the beginning of my junior year to handle family
affairs. The family shoe business was in such a tangle that I was
never able to return to complete my course. Therefore, I do not
know if I qualify for inclusion in this volume. On the chance that
you may wish to include a bit about those who did not graduate
for one reason or another I am writing this.

The years immediately following my leaving Harvard were full
of the problems of extricating the family shoe business (or what was
left of it) from the effects of the depression. In 1942 IT went into
the Navy as an ensign D-V(S) and spent about a vear and a half
at the section base at Southport, North Carolina. ‘Subsequently I
went to the Pacific and worked in the operations office of the
service force of the Seventh Fleet.

The years following the war were filled with the problems of
raising three youngsters, a divorce, a second marriage and a decision
to get out of the shoe business which I had never particularly liked
and into the stock market which I did like.

I have sometimes wondered what direction my life might have

C555]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

taken if circumstances had been different and I had been free to

choose my career. I was just beginning to really enjoy what Har.
7 , © 1 .

vard had to offer at the time I left but never found the time later

to continue the development of the interests that were budding at
that time.

VINCENT HERBERT HANDY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 361 State St., Albany, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New York State Dept. of Health, 84 Holland Ave., Albany,
N.Y.

BORN: June 18, 1913, East Orange, N.J. PARENTS: Thomas Frederick Handy,
Charlotte Petre.

PREPARED AT: Newark Academy, Newark, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cU72 laude, 1935; M.D., 1939; MPH.
(Columbia Univ.), 1946.

UNMARRIED.

occuPaTION: Physician, New York State Department of Health.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant clinical professor of Oncology, associate in medicine,
Albany Medical College.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; American Medical Association; New
York State Medical Society; Albany County Medical Society; American
Public Health Association; Public Health Cancer Association of America;
New York State Academy of Preventive Medicine; American Academy

of Preventive Medicine; American Board of Public Health and Preventive
Medicine (diplomate).

PusLicaTions: Articles on public health and cancer control in professional
journals,

LIKE many of my classmates, my one thought right now is that it
doesn’t seem possible that twenty-five years have gone by. The
photograph, however, bears this out, most realistically. But my
thoughts, attitudes and ambitions are still so much the same as they
were in college days that the quarter of a century that has passed

[ 556 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

seems merely evidence of chronological aging rather than psycho-
logical.

After graduation I went on to Harvard Medical School, receiving
my M.D. degree four years later. Then I had the usual two-year
internship and had begun residency when World War II broke out.
So, I entered the Army and served for over four years in the Medi-
cal Corps, much of this in New Guinea and the Philippines.

During the war, where my medical responsibilities were pri-
marily those of keeping the troops well rather than caring for the
men when they were sick, 1 decided to make a career of public
health and preventive medicine. I returned to Columbia School of
Public Health for one year to obtain a Master of Public Health
degree. Since that time I have been a full-time public health physi-
cian with the New York State Department of Health and am now
assistant director of the Bureau of Cancer Control.

My interests are many: some teaching, working with the American
Cancer Society, traveling, reading, swimming, learning to play the
accordion, etc, But my one hope is to see success achieved in solving
the cancer puzzle —a fitting reward for those research scientists

and public health physicians who are devoting their lives to this
enigma.

GEORGE WALES HARD

 

HOME AND OFFICE appress: Cliffton Farm, Stamping Ground, Ky.

BORN: Sept. 19, 1912, West Sayville, Long Island, N.Y. PARENTS: Anson Wales
Hard, ’06, Florence Bourne.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MaRRIED: Inez Reuland, Nov. 7, 1934, Kansas City, Alo. cHILDREN
Wales, Jr., April 22, 1939; Anson Wales, Oct. 2, 1941.

[557]

: George

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

OCCUPATION: Farmer — land owner.

OFFICES HELD: China Rep. G. B. Aircraft Company, 1932-33; test pilot, Mono-
coupe Corporation, 1933-34; Fed. Aeronatique Internat., 1933-35; chief
test pilot and director, Luscombe Airplane Company, 1933-35; Braniff
Airways, 1935-36; Singer Manufacturing Company, 1936-37; tobacco
grower, since 1937; member Scott County Airport Board, 1954-58; member
Scott County Fire Department Board, since 1958; Trans-Allegheny Cor-
poration, since 1954.

MEMBER OF: Racquet & Tennis Club, New York; Idle Hour Club, Lexington,
Ky.; Aircraft Owners & Pilots Association.

CHINA in early 1933 for an aircraft company and the rest of the
way around the world on my own. The Americas — North, Central
and South — in 1933 and 1934.

Married in 1934 and after roving to the Blue Grass in 1937 started
raising boys, cattle and tobacco.

1941 Saw my entire racing stock claimed in one day (one filly).

Air Force from August, 1941, to August, 1945.

In 1950— designed and built one-half scale model of a deep-sea
schooner, 700 miles from the nearest salt water. Sailed the Hara-
ship for two years on inland waters, then introduced her to Long
Island Sound and Great South Bay. She floats.

1960 — one son in the Air Force, one in Culver. Still farming —
still boating — still flying.

i WALTER ALDEN HARKEN

 

BORN: Dec. 14, 1914, Osceola, Iowa. parents: Conreid Rex Harken, Edna
Emery

PREPARED aT: Osceola High School, Osceola, Iowa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1936,
piep: Dec. 18, 1953, Osceola, Iowa.

[ 558 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WALTER ALDEN HARKEN spent four years with our Class.
While an undergraduate he played on Eliot House basketball, foot-
ball and baseball teams, the varsity basketball team and was a mem-
ber of the Rugby Club. Harken died of multiple sclerosis of the
spinal cord which developed in the summer of 1953. He was survived
by his father.

EUGENE HARRISON HARLOW

  

HOME ADDRESS: 373 Mountain Ave., Ridgewood, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Frederic R. Harris, Inc., 27 William St. New York 5, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 16, 1913, Liverpool, Nova Scotia, Canada. parents: Robie Freeman
Harlow, Eva Harrison.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cumt laude, 1935; S.M. IN ENG., 1936.

MarRIED: Marion Elizabeth Case, Sept. 3, 1938, Chicago, Ill. cumtprex: Ann
Kathryn, Jan. 16, 1940; Judith Elaine, Jan. 14, 1943; Robert Case, June 10,
1945; George Eugene, March 8, 1949.

occuPATION: Civil engineer; vice-president, Frederic R. Harris, Inc.; parmer,
Frederic R. Harris Associates, consulting engineering.

OFFICES HELD: Bulletin editor, 1945-48, member, board of governors, 1959.
Harvard Engineering Society; vice-president, Bergen County Society of
Professional Engineers, 1955.

MEMBER oF: American Institute of Consulting Engineers; American Society of
Civil Engineers; Society of American Military Engineers; Orpheus Club
of Ridgewood, N.J.; National Society of Professional Engineers, Engi-
neers Club of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Paper — “Subsidence of ... Long Beach Area, California,”
Transactions, ASCE, 1948; “Piers & Wharves on Steel Cylinders,” “Soil
Chart for Unit Weights,” “Locating Supermghways among Existing
Utilities,” March 5, 1953, Engineering News Reeord,

MY life since graduation has been made up largely of the following:
A year in the Big City with a consulting engineer doing some
design work and miscellaneous odd jobs.

[ 559 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Two and a half years in Chicago with the Portland Cement Asso-
ciation, in what was described as research into soil-cement mixtures,
My strongest recollection is one of brushing cylinders of the ma-
terial to see how much would wear off after cycles of wetting and
drying. The high spot of this period was marriage and becoming
lost in the coal mining area of Virginia during our honeymoon.

Return to the New York area with the same consulting firm —
Frederic R. Harris — during a period of great activity. Mushroom-
ing from a few people to over 350, the group designed floating
and graving dry docks and other waterfront structures through the
war years. Selective Service rated this activity ahead of military
duty. I became deeply involved in soil mechanics and foundations
and had a chance to do some traveling, became a home owner and
mower of lawns, and soon a house merchant as our family grew
from two to six. A year’ s tour in Philadelphia as resident engineer
on a dock construction job acquainted me with the aromas of the
lower Delaware, as well as the native intelligence of carpenters and
dockbuilders.

A three-year stretch in a joint venture on the design and con-
struction supervision of the New Jersey Turnpike. This was in
some ways the most satisfying of all projects, seeing the dream un-
fold and take shape through the cities and marshes — every bridge
and wall a conversation piece of interest to my motorist friends.
Other highway projects followed, and with them much zigzag
driving on location studies, organizing of teams to develop the de-
sign and to keep the contractors honest during the construction.

A three-year assignment in New Orleans rescued me from count-
ing New Jersey Cub Scout dimes any longer. The firm had a con-
tract for the development of new designs for offshore oil drilling
structures in the Gulf of Mexico. Here I tasted the pleasures of
short-haul commuting, the sailboating on Lake Pontchartrain, and
the struggle of finding other clients for the company in a new area.

Finally, back to the New York region, still with the same firm.
During the twenty years of this association, the founder died, and I
found myself the fortunate owner of part of the stock. This was
later traded off for something more negotiable but some of the
“melody lingers on.” So does the preoccupation with organizational
and administrative details that leads one at times far from engineer-
ing into finance and the quagmire of personnel relations.

I had drafted some sage philosophical observations from these
experiences, but upon reflection have relegated them to the circular

[ 560 ]

i

 

 

 

\
/ FEE NT MER LORIE MIRE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

file in the corner, where they belong. It is still too early to philoso-
phize or to see clearly how well one has done at his profession or at
home. With two beautiful (pardon me) young ladies and two
somewhat younger male dynamos to reckon with, the picture in
my crystal ball changes every week. Nevertheless, I can say this
much — if the next twenty-five years are like the last twenty-five,
I shall be glad to see them through.

RICHARD PRESCOTT HARMON

 

HOME apprEss: 187 Beech St., Eastchester, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Zeckendorf Campus, Long Island University, Brooklyn 1, N.Y.

BORN: Aug. 12, 1913, New York, N.Y. PARENTS: Christopher Harmon, Josephine
Prescott; GuarpIAN: Mabel Ellery Adams.

PREPARED AT: Chauncy Hall School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: S.B., 1935; ED.M. (Boston Teachers
Coll.), 1937.

MARRIED: Julia Cecilia Riordan, June 21, 1947, Roxbury, Mass. cup: Julie
Adams, July 31, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Assistant professor of education, associate supervisor of student
teaching, Long Island University.

OFFICES HELD: Chancellor, 1952, Deputy Grand Knight, 1953, Hingham Council,
Knights of Columbus; director, Military Intelligence Association of New
England, 1954; delegate, Public Relations Committee, 1958-59, Curriculum
Committee, 1959-60, Long Island University Faculty Organizations.

MEMBER OF: American Economic Association; American Association of Uni-
versity Professors; Military Intelligence Association of New England;
Air Force Reserve (lieutenant colonel).

TWENTY-FIVE years after sounds much more ominous than it
feels to me, although my wife frequently advises that ] have no
right to feel like a student when I am actually a middle-aged faculty
member, Oddly, at this distance, even course and divisional exams

[ 561 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

have acquired a hallowed glow which they did not possess when
we assembled for these ordeals in Memorial Hall. If, during Com-
mencement, we felt a pardonable virtue at having gained admittance
to the society of educated men, we surely tended to credit our own
efforts rather than those of our parents, teachers and associates,
Doubtless, in the intervening years since leaving the Yard we have
come to a more true evaluation of our own capabilities and of our
indebtedness to others. |

Turning from general philosophy to post-baccalaureate events,
I consider my early selection by a zealous draft board as potential

fodder for the Infantry equal in its determinative quality to my
admission to Harvard ten years earlier. My military experiences
with the Yankee Division on maneuvers in the back-country of
North Carolina, with the Counter-Intelligence Corps in New Eng-
land, and with the Office of Strategic Services dodging V-1 missiles
in London, have led me to doubt the aphorism that man is master
of his fate. This doubt gnawed with particular insistence during
the Normandy campaign, I wasn’t quite sure then, nor am I now,
that Harvard was particularly beneficent in illuminating the ulti-
mate issues of personal destiny. I believe that increased student re-
sponsibility and more continuous tutorial association for the senior
members of each college department would bring desirable improve-
ment in this area.

Having found that study and teaching afforded me a considerable
range of individual freedom and satisfaction, after the war I eagerly
accepted a post as instructor in history at M.I.T. Here, I enjoyed
several most congenial and stimulating years, made superlatively
happy by my marriage to Julia Riordan of Roxbury and the event-
ful arrival of our daughter, Julie Adams. After a few years in gov-
ernment service, during which I missed that sense of personal service
that teaching affords, I returned to college teaching at Long Island
University in Brooklyn. This young university is making giant
strides in the quality of its programs and I have found it stimulating
to contribute to the expansion of both undergraduate and graduate
curricula. Here, I have found Harvard’s traditional emphasis on
broad intellectual foundations invaluable,

As an educator I am gratified that so much public concern is now
directed toward American public education as contrasted with the
public’s “leave it to the educators” approach of our own secondary
school days. This policy of educational criticism by all observers,
whether trained or untrained, may put the educator on the spot

[ 562 ]

;
L

 

 

\ recency iment

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

but it bodes well for lifting American educational policy as well as
educational practice out of the doldrums.

ELMER HARP, JR.

 

HOME AppREsS: 28 Maple St., Hanover, N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Sociology & Anthropology, Dartmouth College,
Hanover, N.H.

BORN: April 13, 1913, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Elmer Harp, Bertha A.
Treiber.

PREPARED AT: Lakewood High School, Lakewood, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932, 1935-1938. DEGREES: S.B., ci laude, 1935 (38);

A.M., 1947; PH.D., 1953.

MARRIED: Elaine G. Groves, June 3, 1939, Cambridge, Mass. cumprex: John
Groves, Dec. 2, 1941; Geoffrey Groves, Dec. 15, 1947; Victoria Groves,
Sept. 1, 1951; Douglas Groves, Sept. 9, 1953.

occupPaTion: Professor of anthropology, Darunouth College.

MEMBER OF: Arctic Institute of North America (fellow); American Anthro-
pological Association (fellow); Society for American Archaeology.

PUBLICATIONS: Various technical papers and articles in professional journals.

HERE cometh a virtual stranger in your midst. I have often thought
that a full career with ’35 would have been a most pleasant affair,
but time has brought quasi-wisdom and much solid satisfaction, and
even if there could be another pass I'd be glad to have all things
again just as they were. Three years’ intermission in the college
sequence was as thorough a liberal education as I'll ever have, but
notwithstanding that I returned for more in the year you graduated
and finished at last in 1938. Hence, we are a divided crop. Not long
after that, a lovely wife and a period of country life, playa ing at
farming. When that lost its power to satisfy, off to the city —
Cleveland — for a taste of industry. Three years as a methods en-

[ 563 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

gineer with Lincoln Electric brought another increment of liberal
education and quite a little money, but life was still a squirrel cage,
The war was a graceful outlet. Joined up as a lowly ensign, man-
aged an assignment to PT boats, moved up from third officer to
boat commander during 1944 in the Mediterranean and 1945 in the
Philippines, and retired a lowly lieutenant (j.g.) when it was all
over. No heroism. Just an ordinary landlubber with the usual rib-
bons and some combat stars to remind me of the nights when I was
scared as hell. Exciting years, though, for those of us who came
safely through and had a home and family awaiting us.

That was the break. Back to Harvard for another round with
the first love, anthropology, and a year of graduate residence, grow-
ing fat in the peaceful environs of Cambridge. Then a job at Dart-
mouth while the Ph.D, thesis took shape, and we have been there
ever since because the modest beginning blossomed strongly. Pres-
ent balance —a still lovely wife, four fine children, home in a coun-
try village in the New Hampshire hills, and a chance to serve well
by bringing culture to the Indians. What more can one ask? I am
called a specialist in the archaeology of the North American arctic.
That stems from expeditions to the Yukon Territory in 1948,
Labrador in 1949, northern Newfoundland in 1950, the Coronation
Gulf region, N.W.T., in 1955, and the Barren Grounds of central
Keewatin in 1958. This sort of thing will continue as long as my
legs hold out. At present, we are all in Denmark for a year on a
Fulbright Research Fellowship, savoring nine months of living in
Copenhagen with a summer of European travel planned before
returning home next fall. The grand Reunion just happens to come
at the wrong time for me. Sorry to miss it, but drop me a notice

on the Thirty-fifth and the Fiftieth. Save the philosophizing until
then.

[ 564 ]

SEARO RN SE a RE EEO TOE st

Seta Naame Re or Secteomne Ree Bee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JUSTIN CECIL HARRIS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 465 W. 23d St., New York, N.Y.

OFFICE aDpREsS: Geller & Harris, 250 W. 57th St. New York, N.Y.

BORN: July 28, 1914, Boston, Mass. parents: Hyman Harris, Rose Florence
Gilman.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1935, MB.A., 1937-

MARRIED: Irene Holz Friedman, March 31, 1946, New York, N.Y.

occuPATION: Partner, Geller & Harris, certified public accounting firm.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; City Athletic Club; Kent Rod &
Gun Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Various tax and accounting articles published in professional
magazines.

MY business career, since graduating from the Business School, has
been spent almost entirely in the field of public accounting except
for the war years when I] was the financial and accounting officer
of a group of afhliated industrial corporations. For the last eleven
years I have been a principal in the certified public accounting firm
of Geller & Harris. In addition to the usual activities of a public
accountant such as auditing, business studies, systems installations
and S.E.C. registration statements, I have written articles on tax
and accounting subjects and have delivered papers on tax matters
at professional gatherings.

My private life and hobbies revolve largely around my activities
at my country house. For some ten years, my w ife and I have re-
paired each weekend, winter and summer, to this house which is
situated sixty miles due north of New York City in a beautiful
scenic area which is still largely wilderness despite the outward
pressure of suburban building. To hunt for deer, grouse and rab-
bits I have only to step out of the house; to fish for trout or bass
I have only to drive a mile or two, My wife and I enjoy our week-

[ 565 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

end country living to such an extent that we have taken no other

vacations in ten years except for a five-week tour of France and Italy
in 1958.

RICHMOND HARRISON

 

HOME apprEss: 795 Rock St., Fall River, Mass.
OFFICE apprEss: Borden & Remington Co., 115 Anawan St., Fall River, Mass.

BorN: April 4, 1913, Fall River, Mass. parents: Albert Alonzo Harrison, Cora
Bernice Vestal.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. .

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Kempton Harrison, 32 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: President, Borden & Remington Company; vice-president, Build-
ing Materials, Inc.

OFFicEs HELD: Trustee, Fall River Savings Bank; president, 1949, 1950, vice-
president, 1957-59, Fall River Country Club; treasurer, Quequechan Club,
since 1955, Southeastern Massachusetts Chapter, National Office Manage-
ment Association, (first term); Harvard Club of Fall River.

MEMBER OF: Rhode Island Country Club, Fall River Country Club, Quequechan

Club; Fall River Historical Society; Chemists Club of New York City;
Harvard Club of Fall River. ;

NEAR the end of four years at Harvard, and without getting my
degree, I left and entered the family business, the Borden & Reming-
ton Company, warehousing and wholesaling chemicals. My father
who was then president of the company died in 1946 and my brother
Kempton, ’32, succeeded him. I was made vice-president and treas-
urer. My brother died on December 30, 1958. A little over two
years ago there were three Harrisons still in the business, now I
am the only one. My brother left two boys who live in California.

I have enjoyed almost all phases of business except credit work.

[ 566 ]

|
'
£
i
$
b
4
i

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Constant worrying over possible bad debt losses created a great
deal of stress and strain.

My outside activities have included extensive charitable and
civic work. I have been secretary of the local Lions Club and
worked for the United Fund and its various predecessors for over
twenty years. I have been active on the committee at the Unitarian
Church and am the treasurer of the Quequechan Club, starting my
fifth year.

My father started me on the golfing trail at approximately the
age of ten. I would estimate having played more than 2,000 rounds
at more than fifty clubs. 1 have been on the executive committee
of the local club for more than twenty years and am now the vice-
president.

Oh, yes, women. My social life has included the courting of
three women, two for a period of approximately seven years each.
One of these days, who knows? But I am amazed to look around
and see that many of my friends are now grandparents.

BOIES CHITTENDEN HART

 

AppREss: Hotel Tramontano, Sorrento, Italy.

BORN: Aug. 27, 1913, Basin, Wyoming. PaRENTs: Boies Chittenden Hart, Ruth
Higby.

PREPARED AT: Avon Old Farms School, Avon, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., magna cm laude, 1935.

NO questionnaire returned.

[ 567 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

_JAMES KAULL HART

 

HOME appress: 125 McKinley Ave., New Haven, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bankers Trust Co., 16 Wall St., New York, N.Y.

BorN: Aug. 8, 1913, Newport, R.I. parents: Simon Hart, Lena M, Kaull.
PREPARED AT: Rogers High School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-193§. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; M.B.A., cus laude, 1942.
MARRIED: Virginia Hall, Dec. 24, 1936, New Haven, Conn, cHILDREN: Suzanne
H., Nov. 11, 1937; Barbara J., Aug. 7, 1941; Virginia H., Jan. 10, 1945.
OCCUPATION: Assistant vice-president, Bankers Trust Company; investment

research.
MEMBER OF: The New Haven Lawn Club.

MOST of the years since 1935 apparently have been spent preparing
for the privilege of commuting daily from New Haven to New
York to sit at a desk trying to determine why the prices of various
electronic stocks behave as they do at the moment.

Chronologically this preparation has consisted of graduate work
in biology at Harvard; several years doing nearly everything in a
small commercial bank; back to Business School; eight years on the
staff and faculty of the Business School, more commercial banking;
and, presently, the aforementioned daily struggle with the New
Haven Railroad. The majority of the war years were spent instruct-
ing an Air Force group and consulting for one of the sections of
the Air Force.

Prior to 1940 there seemed to be a lot more time for various po-
litical and social activities than there is today. The requirements of
earning a living plus the time consumed in being managed by a
wife and three daughters leave barely enough hours for a little bird
shooting and tennis.

[ 568 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD NEAL HARTLEY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3 Park Lane, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Humanities Dept., Massachusetts Inst. of Technology, Cam-
bridge, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 15, 1914, Lowell, Mass. parents: Richard Herbert Hartley, Beatrice
Cauchon White.

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933, 1938-1941. DEGREES: AaB. mragna cum laude,
1935 (41); A.M., 1942.

MARRIED: Charlotte Dexter Corlew, Sept. 10, 1942, Cambridge, Mass.

occupaTION: Associate professor of history, Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Advisory Council, since 1954. trustee, since 1958, New
England College, Henniker, N.H.; member, Management Commitee,
Saugus Ironworks Restoration, since 1954.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Historical Association; Economic
History Association; Economic History Society; Colonial Society of
Massachusetts, Newcomen Society in North America; First Iron Works
Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Ironworks on the Saugus, University of Oklahoma Press, 1937.

THE hiatus in my college career was the result of illness and lack
of funds, In that interval I fluctuated between unemplovment and
odd jobs ranging from the proof-reading of telephone directories
to the stoking of coal in the generating plant of an electric hight
company. Painful as much of it was, I have come to be grateful for
the experience and the more so, perhaps, as I encounter the pres-
ent generation of over-prosperous college students in my class-
room. Clearly the experience and inc reased maturity f figured i in my
getting far more from my second appearance at Harvard than ‘I
would have had I gone on in a straight four-vear sequence.

A fellowship enabled me to carry a year of graduate work, This
accomplished, T married the w onderful girl who is still my wife and

[ 569 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

WILLIAM LUDWIG HARTMANN

 

HOME AppRESS: 4320 S.W. Idaho Drive, Portland 1, Oregon.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2311 N.W. Northrup, Portland 10, Oregon.

BORN: June 11, 1914, Everett, Wash. parents: Rudolf Hartmann, Eugenie
Kaiser.

PREPARED AT: Everett High School, Everett, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1935; M.D. (Johns
Hopkins Univ.), 1939.

mMarkieD: Mary Stuart Yancey, June 28, 1945, Tallahassee, Fla. cumpren: Mary
Ann, April 3, 1946; William Ludwig, Jr., Feb. 6, 1948, Patricia Jean,
Aug. 24, 1950; Elizabeth Eugenie, Nov. 6, 1951; Stephen Rudolf, April 2,
1955.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Member, various committees, chairman, Maternal Welfare Com-
mittee, Multnomah County Medical Society; member, Community Coun-
cil-Health Division, Portland, Oregon; chairman, Professional Education
Committee, Multnomah County, American Cancer Society; chief, obstet-
rics and gynecology, Good Samaritan Hospital, Portland, Oregon, 1957.

MEMBER OF: Phi Chi Medical Fraternity; various medical societies.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles in professional journals.

AS the last twenty-five years are reviewed it is evident that I have
wasted a great amount of time acquiring an education — or rather
a professional education — or am I a tradesman, as some of our poli-
ticians insist? It is probably true that the years spent at Harvard
were confined too much to Mallinckrodt and environs; while the
disciplines to which I was exposed undoubtedly have helped me
become a better physician, it was too much —an overabundance, .
too long and too narrow.

After four years in medical —in the third of which I suddenly
appreciated how many Harvard opportunities [ let slip through my
fingers — there followed a solid year of work as an intern in my
medical school hospital. This was at once encouraging and dis-

[572 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

couraging. Following this, more training at a higher echelon, in
a large metropolitan hospital, where I learned that life was cheap,
poverty and disease handmaidens and plentiful. I survived the long
hours, lost twenty-five pounds and learned to laugh at those who
thought medicine was a quick w ay to make a fortune. From there
to seven months of pathology (where I learned the dead can sigh
on the autopsy table), and then to become a “fright surgeon” ‘in
Uncle Sam’s Air Force for three and a half years. Those years
were easy, no real danger, hardship or suffering. I listened to hun-
dreds of emotional problems and helped very few.

After discharge from the Air Force another four years were
passed in a completed residency in obstetrics and gv necology at my
medical school hospital. By the end of that time a world-renowned
scholar had convinced me I should spend my remaining years
teaching and doing research. (He was wrong.) Before acquiescing,
] had met and wooed successfully a lovely flower of the old South.
After the fourth of our handsome progeny arrived, it was obvious
that while I alone might thrive on full-time teaching and research,
my family couldn’t, and I cared too much to let them make more
sacrifices than I. After a variety of compromises, the great break
took place in 1954, and we moved to a city in which we knew one
person. The shingle was hung out. It was not €asy to start again;
but after two years and an ulcer, things began to come our way,
thanks to several new-found and sincere friends. By this time we
have entered into community activities and have an altogether
happy and satisfying life in our new environment.

Today I find that I have taken to bow ties; I have an abundance
of hair which I keep short to hide the gray; and being cholesterol-
conscious, I weigh less than at graduation from Harvard. [ am the
head (methinks) of a handsome family composed of my lovely,
steadfast wife and five lively, challenging children, and 1 am in-
tensely proud of every one ‘of them. 1 am happy in the practice
of my specialty and have many devoted and intelligent patients. I
play golf regularly and every week pound a plano in a small pro-

fessional group known as the “Dixie Docs" — eight physicians fond
of that square stutf known as Dixieland Jazz. Now that I have
mastered my specialty and am arranging for the comfort and
future of my family, | have turned (sooner than PE had hoped) to
reading the non-medical literature that 1 had alw avs planned, and
confess that I have in the last two years only begun to think bhe
and be, an educated man. All in all, I have been very fortunate

[573]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

and, despite a rare bitter disillusionment, I remain an eternal opti-
mist and look forward to another happy fifty years on this planet.

GEORGE HARRY HASELTON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3308 Cathedral Ave. N.W., Washington 8, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Department of State, Washington 25, D.C.

BORN: Jan. 7, 1909, Chicago, Ill. parents: George Harry Haselton, Angela
Charlotte Berg. .

PREPARED AT: Lake View High School, Chicago, IIl.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935.

UNMARRIED.

OccUPATION: Foreign Service officer; chief, Protection and Representation
Division, Department of State. .

OFFICES HELD: Member policy committee, Boys Settlement House, Chicago,
1936-37; member Citizens Voting Committee, Chicago, 1940; lieutenant,
junior grade, lieutenant, lieutenant commander, U.S. Navy, 1940-45; mem-
ber Red Cross Campaign Committee, 1951-52; member various com-
mittees, Community Chest Campaign, 1954-55.

MEMBER OF: Naval Officers Club, Bethesda, Md.; Badminton Club of Wash-
ington, D.C.; Foreign Service Association, Tokyo Lawn Tennis Club.

CAN twenty-five years have come and gone? It is hard to believe.
One knows that time passes, one sees it pass quickly enough; but
the individual usually feels that it doesn’t apply to him. Yet, here
we are, a generation away from our Commencement Day, a group
of oldsters—in the eye of an undergraduate — returning to our
Reunion.

The years have been crowded, they have been full, they have on
the whole been good. After graduation, I returned to Chicago to
take up the life of a businessman with Marsh & McLennan, nation-
wide insurance brokers. There, a pleasant side of life was living in
a well-appointed bachelor establishment, replete with Filipino cooks,

[ 574]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in company with other products of Harvard, Yale and Princeton.
and only the long arm of matrimony occasionally disturbed i
even tenor. Sometime members included classmates Bobby Jones
Harlan Pierpont, Dick Prouty. Then local politics, on a modest
scale, occupied my interest for a time and we tried, quite unsucceys-
fully, to bring in a city manager plan, but the city, alas, was almost
entirely unaware of our efforts.

Had the world remained quiet, I doubtless would have remained
a quiet business man in the Midwest, but in the late 1930's clouds
were gathering in Europe. I became interested and I applied for a
commission in the United States Naval Reserve. In 1940 they asked
me to enter on active duty and I turned awav from the business
world toward a new life. A A pleasant y year followed at Great Lakes,
Illinois, with the prewar Navy, w here everything was as quiet and
sedate as on a college campus. But in the fall of 194i, stall several
months before Pearl Harbor, I was assigned to the Naval Mission
at London, which was preparing the structure of what was to be-
come U.S. Naval Headquarters, Europe. Life perceptibly quick-
ened now, and with our entrance into war a number of interesting
assignments came my Way: as operations room officer, as one of the
liaison officers with the British Admiralty, a short stint with the
U.S. Marines, an even shorter tour on a British destrover in the
English Channel. War-time London, in between air-raids, was an
education in itself, and in the rather peculiar social conditions that
a war permitted, one consorted with expatriated Poles, Hungarians
and Norwegians, with the boys in the American Fagle Squadrons,
and with the casual R.A.F. pilots. Nearly three vears in and around
the British Isles, and then home again, quite ingloriously, aboard a
hospital ship.

At war’s end, the world didn’t seem ready to settle back into its
old ways, and for that matter, neither was 1. Foreign relations had
always been an interest of mine and PE thought that a year in the
State Department would provide a good transition back into private
life. The year has stretched to the present tine, and is still stretch
ing away. Mv first few years were interesting ones with the United
Nations Area, then politico-military matters, including nearly a
year in the office of the Secretary of Defense, followed by an assign-
ment in the Middle Fast section of the Department. After becom:
ing a forcign service ofhcer, Twas sometime later assigned to the
Embassy at Tokvo, and returned to Washington a little over a year
ago,

[srs]

1 sepa

PART PraRrETrRTTIP IE, Flan mane

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

In all this time, I have not been able to acquire a wife, which
considerably simplifies writing a questionnaire such as this, but
certainly lacks other advantages, It has seemed imminent at times
—at the very brink, to borrow a phrase — but so far, that happy
state has eluded me.

At this relatively mature juncture in our journey, I look back
upon the College with more gratitude and affection than ever. I
have found that Harvard goes with one, that its great gifts remain
with one and continue to shape one’s life. May it always be so!

GEORGE LEE HASKINS

 

HOME appress: Greenbriars, Paoli, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 3400 Chestnut St., Philadelphia 4, Pa.

BorN: Feb. 13, 1915, Cambridge, Mass. PaRENTS: Charles Homer Haskins, ’87,
Clare Allen. a .

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: AB., summa cum laude, 1935; LL.B., 1942.

MaRRIED: Anstiss Crowninshield Boyden, July 15, 1944, Boston, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Allen Haskins, ’36, M.B.a., 41. |

OccUPATION: Professor of law, University of Pennsylvania; consulting counsel,
Pennsylvania Railroad Company.

OFFices HELD: Henry Fellow, Merton College, Oxford, 1935-56; member,
Society of Fellows, 1936-42, lecturer in sociology, 1938-39, Harvard Uni-
versity; Lowell Lectures, Boston, 1939; associate, Herrick, Smith, Donald
& Farley, 1942; Coast Artillery, US. Army, 1942-43, captain, GSC, War
Department General Staff, 1943-46, Office of Special Assistant to Secre-
tary of State, 1946; assistant professor of law, 1946-48, associate professor,
1948-49, professor, since 1949, University of Pennsylvania; special attorney,
Legal Department, 19$1-54, consulting counsel, since 1954, Pennsylvania
Railroad; appointed by President Fisenhower to Permanent Commission
on Oliver Wendell Holmes Devise, 1956-58,

MEMBER OF: Royal Historical Socicty, London (fcllow),; Consejero del Insti-

[ 576 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tuto para Unificacion del Derecho Publico, Madrid (fellow); American,
Massachusetts, Pennsylvania and Philadelphia Bar Associations, Bar Awso-
ciation of the City of New York, Association of LC.C. Practitioners,
American Law Institute; numerous other learned and professional societies

~ in U.S. and abroad, Phi Beta Kappa, Somerset Club, Boston, Racquet
Club; Rittenhouse Club, Art Alliance Club, Quaker City Farmers, Jurtstic
Society, Philadelphia,

PUBLICATIONS: Tbe Statute of York and the Interest of the Covnnnons, 1936;
The Growth of English Representative Government, 1948, American Law
of Property, with others, 1952; Pennsylvania Fiduciary Guide, with M. P.
Smith, 1957; Law and Authority in Early Massachusetts, 1959; numerous
articles, notes and reviews published in U.S. and foreign journals on law.
history and government regulation of business.

FOR several years following graduation, it began to appear that
the statement in the Class Album that my intended vocation was
“law” might prove to be something less than accurate. A vear as
a Henry Fellow in the quiet quadrangle of Oxford persuaded me
that I wanted to continue with my college interests in history, and
I accordingly returned from England in “the autumn of 1936 to an
appointment at Harvard in the Society of Fellows. For three years
I went on with the study of constitutional and legal history, and
during that period taught a course in the Department of Sociology
and delivered a series of Lowell Lectures on the beginnings of
representative government. Early in 1939, two older friends, Chief
Justice Stone and Judge Bond of the Maryland Court of Appeals,
convinced me that to be adequately equipped for the further study
of legal history I should have a law degree, with the result that the
coming of autumn found me enrolled as a first-year student at the
Harvard Law School. For this purpose I was reappointed for a
second term of three years in the Society of Fellows, on the under-
standing that I would continue with research and w riting at the
same time. That obligation was fulfilled, but somewhat to “the dis-
may of my mentors I discovered that law was not only congenial
but fascinating. That discovery, together with the fact that few
academic appointments were being offered in the spring of 1942.
led to my admission to the Massachusetts bar that summer and to
my joining the firm of Herrick, Smith, Donald & Farley in Boston.
The year 1942 was hardly a year of stability, and within a matter
of months, I was in uniform serving successively as private and
corporal in the Coast Artillery Corps in North Carolina, at OCS
in Florida and, finally, as an officer on the War Department General
Staff in Washington. The ensuing years involved extremely in-

(577 ]

TTA TTI TR TEIN I TE TT rT TT ETT RP ana

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

whose produce, when not devoured by insects or withered by
blight, does much to help justify God’s ways to man.

STANLEY GRAVES HASKINS

 

HOME abpress: 237 Wayland Ave., Providence, R.I.

OFFICE ApprEss: American Viscose Corp., 630 Hospital Trust Bldg., Providence,
RIL

BoRN: Aug. 11, 1912, South Orange, N.J. parents: Henry Stanley Haskins,
Marian Graves Lathrop.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1035.

MARRIED: Mary Lovering, June, 1936, Manchester, Mass. (divorced 1944).
HARVARD BROTHER: Lathrop Stanley Haskins, ’26.

occupation: Assistant sales manager, New England Territory, American
Viscose Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Various offices in textile institutions and charity drives.

MEMBER OF: St. Nicholas Society; Colonial Lords of Manors, Mayflower
Descendants; Society of Colonial Wars; Harvard Club of Rhode Island;
Agawam and Hope Clubs, Providence; Yorick Club, Lowell; Northern

Textile Association; Southern New England Textile Association, Rayon
Peddlers Association, Providence Athenaeum.

LIFE is badly arranged. Upon graduation, an ingredient was lack-
ing: specifically, the wherewithal necessary for a twenty-five-year
pursuit of the pleasures attendant upon traveling, reading, music,
dogs, game birds, racquet games and a horse-racing stable. Since
1935, those diversions, for the most part, have had to be fulfilled
not on company time.

Thus, in 1936, a wife and a weekly sixteen-dollar stint as a Wall
Street runner, to statistician, to salesman, as a Long Island com-
muter — in evenings after squash. Good years. In 1940, the em-
ployment terminated; in 1944, the marriage, Of the latter, some-

[ 580 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

body once said, in effect: Marriage is a desperate thing. The frogs
‘in Aesop were extreme-wise; they had a great mind to some water,
but they would not leap into the well because they could not get
out again.

But of significance during the above five-year period were a
stretch of unemployment (during this period it was impossible
financially to accept a minor instructorship in Professor Munn’s
English Department), the attainment of the present business con-
nection, a term as private in the Infantry and subsequent transfer
into the Navy. Perhaps the last bears explanation. Aspiring to get
to Officers Candidate School, it appeared that a surplus of some
50,000 second lieutenants existed. Thus, the prospect of Cadre or
other horrible toil. More or less in jest, an application was submitted
to our Navy. Shortly, an official letter arrived bearing “Greetings
from President Franklin D. Roosevelt,” and appointment as lieu-
tenant (j.¢.). Whether from bewilderment or lack of anv prece-
dent, but after confused deliberation, the good officers at Fort
McClellan, Alabama, with shrugs of shoulder, stamped out an honor-
able discharge, and the procurement of the blue uniform was on.
Rather ridiculous.

Thence to LST’s, the Navy’s Large Sitting Targets, and the
Pacific, generally frequenting ‘the sack, except occasionally. such
as at Okinawa, where amusing things were liable to occur. As statf
communications officer, messages had to be decoded, such as the one
which arrived ordering the Flag to beach his group of twelve ships.
Compliance proved rather impossible inasmuch as the group had been
sitting on the beach for twenty-four hours, having disgorged Ma-
rines and equipment, and were awaiting orders to get the hell off.

A debt of gratitude is due the Navy ‘and World War Il. It pre-
sented the first protracted opportunity to exercise the ambition to
read and study. It was possible to enroll in the University of Wash-
ington and carry on by mail as self-styled student of anthropology
and the Russian novelists. Perhaps the Army deserves an assist for
permitting the racket in the first place.

At war’s end, I was fortunate to be steaming at full eight knots
to Honolulu, where ambition to get back ‘into business harness
dwindled almost to the vanishing point. The prospect of such
things as basketw eaving and exploration of some of the lesser native
crafts beckoned and gripped. But things come to an end, and
things close in, and homesickness sets in, At home there are parents,
dogs, others — and New England.

[ 581 ]

" TPT pte ee DIC "HO On —

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Travel, reading, night study (at Brown University), music, dogs,
hunting, squash, tennis, the race track. All continue spasmodicall
apace, subject to the vagaries of the textile industry. But the job
is not to be belittled. Selling enables the pushing aside of the shutter
and looking through the window into the truth of people’s lives,
People stimulate, gratify.

So, the last fourteen years: the epitomic highlights being the
autumnal search with dog for the disappearing ruffed grouse; mes-
merization by Berlioz in the Berkshires; the semi-annual sojourns in
Bermuda; the New Year’s pilgrimage to the ski regions as a non-
skier; a hilarious trip to Austria and Italy; the infrequent thrill of
seeing one of the stable flash past the finish line first, generally un-
wagered upon! And, of course, the drinking bouts. And, not least,
the influence of the opposite sex.

A philosophy? Perhaps, of sorts, and better described by some-
one else: “And laughter heals mankind and makes the darkness light
and ease pain; and it makes the eyes light up, and the soul throw off
its heaviness, and sends the blood quicker through the veins, so that
it casts out its evil humours.”

Finally: Harvard . . . without which and counterpart mankind
in idleness and vacancy reverts to violence and crime.

WENDELL MORSE HASTINGS

 

HOME appress: Box 2837, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia.
orrice appress: Arabian American Oil Co., Dhahran, Saudi Arabia.

BORN; Nov. 27, 1913, Brookline, Mass. parents: Russell Hastings, Florence
Anita Morse.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B, 1935(52).

[ 5&2 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MarRieD: Annette Jeanne Ebrard, Sept. 12, 1940, Clermont-Ferrand, France,
CHILDREN: Deborah, May 23, 1946, John Christopher, May 5, 1948. Margera,
July 25, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Nelson Hastings, '37, M.D. ‘40.

OCCUPATION: Financial adviser.

MEMBER OF: Schussverein; American Field Service.

FROM June, 1935, to June, 1943, | worked in the investment bank-
ing firm of Kidder, Peabody & Company in Boston, with skiing
and some gliding as sports. In 1940 I took time off to see the battle
and fall of France as a member of the American Field Service, serv-
ing with the French Army. In June, 1943, I went as a private in the
roth Mountain Division in Colorado, while my wife went to Africa
to drive an ambulance in the LeClerc Division. After stages in
various O.S.S. and British sabotage schools I was dropped to a
maquis in the Vosges and had the pleasure of being overrun by the
LeClerc Division of Patton’s Third Army with w hich my wife was
continuing her travels on land. We saw the victory in Paris.

The spring of 1946 found us too restless to settle back into a
Boston routine, so we packed off to London where I worked for
American Overseas Airlines and then for Pan American when it
bought us out. Not wishing to work in New York, I switched
again, after seven years, from International Airlines to an inter-
national oil company and since September, 1953. we have been resi-
dents of Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, where the headquarters of Aramco
are located, Our main diversion has been combing the desert for
potsherds. Very little archaeology has been done in Saudi Arabia,
which adds a fillip to our outings.

The best companions for travel seem to be those who have learned
courage and kindliness.

[583]

CONTR Rem RH ONEE MYNE HB a Toe

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

DAVID WESTON HAYCOCK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 919 Summit Ave., River Edge, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Great Lakes Carbon Corp, 18 E. 48th St., New York, N.Y,

BORN: Jan. 29, 1913, Alliance, Ohio. Parents: Ralph Whitney Haycock, ’o3,
Louise Gilmore Pineo.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933, 1934-1936.

MarrigD: Ellen Livingstone Mundhenk, Jan. 2, 1942, New York, N.Y. cHiepren:
Joel Weston, Feb. 16, 1949; Nancy Ellen, Nov. 7, 1950; David Ralph,
April 21, 1956; Ralph Winthrop, Oct. 17, 1959.

CLEMENT FRANCIS HAYES

   

yf

al
Bed

     

 

HOME appRESS: Rockmaple Avenue, Hamilton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS; Sheraton Corporation of America, q7o Atlantic Ave., Boston,
Mass.

BorN: July 25, 1913, Beverly, Mass. Parents: William Francis Hayes, Luetta
Frances Howes.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934, 1935, 1937. DEGREE: A.B, 1935 (37). ~
mMarnizp: Audrey Thelma Burnham, Aug. 1g, 1939, Beverly, Mass. CHILDREN:
[ 584 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
Clement Francis, Jr., April 18, 1941; Marcia Audrey, Oct. 17, 1944, Andrea
Howes, May 8, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Assistant to vice-president and director of project evaluation,
Sheraton Corporation of America.

MINE are the simple annals of the traditionally conservative New
Englander from whom no breathless saga of deeds of derring-do
or towering accomplishments will stir the envying pulses of his
classmates.

As a fledgling in the business world I spent three years, following
a belated college graduation in 1937, with the Western Union
Telegraph Company, in sales and management work.

During the fateful summer of 1939 I took to myself a wife who,
bless her heart, has continued to live with me and wink at my
foibles during the twenty short years since that August day when
we vowed to love and cherish, while a paranoiac Hitler, mouthing
hate and vengeance, readied his Panzer Divisions for the imminent
blitz on Poland and the ensuing years of darkness.

In the closing days of 1940, secure in the conviction that the
two of us and our son-to-be might find it too great a trial to exist
on a weekly income of $30.00, I moved on to Sylvania Electric
(and a head-swelling $35.00 a week!) for a nearly seventeen-vear
career. During it, in a rapidly growing industry, I gained know-
how and experience in a host of the company’s operations — from
office and credit management and accounting administration to the
distribution of its many products and the planning and activation
of an imposing network of distribution centers throughout the coun-
try. The later years with Sylvania were filled with travel — and the
opportunity to renew old college friendships. All this moving about
and its accompanying stimulation notwithstanding, my New Eng-
land roots continued to run deeper and grow more tenacious.

The year 1944 brought our daughter Marcia into the circle of the
family. In 1954, Andrea, our little one, made her tardy advent.
The year 1955 saw Clem, Jr., off to Mount Hermon for four years
and matriculation this fall at Tufts, with a degree in dental medi-
cine his goal,

In the spring of 1957, a new company policy brought with it the
decree that my department move forthwith to Camillus, in the
handsome Finger Lake region of New York State. Disinclination
for such a summary dispossession from my heritage stirred w eakly
at the start but soon crystallized into rebellion and a regretful
resignation.

[ 585 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Since August, 1957, I have been associated with Boston’s Sheraton
Corporation of America, the parent company which operates fifty-
four of the finest hotels in Canada and the United States, includin
four on the beach at Honolulu. Life with a fascinating and wholly
different type of organization than I had been accustomed to, and
with new associates for whom I have the deepest respect and affec-
tion, has taken on a fresh, new importance for myself and my family.
My sole regret stems from the fact that I did not discover Shera-
ton’s light earlier in the quarter-century since leaving Harvard.

The full-time job of earning a living, raising the children and of
making some small contribution to community activities has left
only fleeting moments for relaxation with the family. Fewer still
have been the opportunities for quiet contemplation and the de-
velopment of a personal philosophy which might be set down on
paper, though its elements rattle in my head. By the time our Fif.
tieth Anniversary rolls around I should be able to scatter its pearls,

JAMES MARTIN HEIDELL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 14 Fenimore Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Ladenburg, Thalmann & Co., 25 Broad St., New York, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 20, 1915, New York, N.Y. parents: Irving Heidell, Rena Sinn.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, Riverdale, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: 8.B., 1935; LL.B., 1938, s.m. (Columbia
Univ.), 1948. :

MaRRIED: Flora Siegel, June 26, 1952, New York, N.Y. cuipren: Elizabeth
Diana, July 26, 1953; Pamela Ann, Oct. 12, 1955; James Alexander, March
25, 1957.

occupation: Comptroller, Ladenburg, Thalmann & Company, investment
bankers.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York; New York County Lawyers; Munic-

[ 586 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ipal Forum of New York; Tax Commission Brokers & Dealers (member
of board); Controllers Institute.

LIFE since graduation from Harvard Law School in 1938 has fallen
into two quite distinct periods. The first, a bachelor one, which
started with two years as a junior lawyer. Thereafter, five years
from February, 1941, were spent in the Army by way of New York
National Guard. Started as a private and was made captain in
November, 1945. I consider the two years overseas in Military
Government a vital experience. The six months following my entry
into the German city of Frankenthal will be the most interesting
of my life. We entered with the infantry and stayed to watch a
civilian population individually battle for survival. Almost imme-
diately upon returning in 1946 I went with Ladenburg, Thalmann
& Company, as a backstop for the two men who handled their
accounting and taxes. By 1952 both my superiors had retired and
I acquired both positions. At about this time my independent estate
and tax practice started to build up. Meanwhile a five-month mar-
riage came and went. In retrospect, I am sure I took myself seri-
ously through all these years.

In 1952 a second era began, that of the family man. My wife is
some years my junior and our friendships are in many cases tied
to the age of our children and only this Reunion reminds me of
my antiquity. Incidentally, I think I have the last first child —
can anyone match July 26, 1953? The chores of houseowning
(most of which I avoid), the suburban pressures and the battle
against chubbiness seem very remote from depression days. I find
I have a built-in pessimism that those of a half generation later
just don’t possess.

The continuities between the periods would be a continuing in-
terest in athletics—my handicap still approaches mv postwar
eight; still can play singles; and still like to swim laps in a pool.
The other continuing interest has been my hobby of studying at
night. Courses without the goad of a degree seemed wasteful, so
I started with much needed accounting and in 1948 received a
Master’s from Columbia. Still single I started vaguely taking courses
at New York University Graduate School of Business Adminis-
tration and eventually reached the point of no return and [am now
browbeating my wife into editing, proof-reading and typing drafts
of a Ph.D. dissertation, “Individual Purchases of Tax-Exempt Securi-
ties, 1946-56.” I expect to receive the Ph.D. in 1960.

Most vacations have been by plane or boat off the continent,

[ 587 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

leaving the automobile and camping jaunts to the next few years
with the children.

RICHARD LEE HEILMAN

EN REI "
Epes
Se

 

HOME ADDRESS: 602 N. Emporia St., Wichita 14, Kans.
OFFICE aDpress: Boeing Airplane Co., Wichita, Kans.

BorN: Nov. 26, 1911, Denver, Colo. PareENTs: Louis Irland Heilman, Nola
Sparrow.

PREPARED AT: Ecole Alsacienne, Paris, France.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., #lagna cum laude, 1935; AM. (Univ.
of Kansas City), 1946.
UNMARRIED,

occupation: Bookkeeper, Boeing Airplane Company.

THE other day a co-worker at Boeing asked me, “Dick, are we get-
ting anything out of life?” Now, that’s a good question. It’s the
question this essay is supposed to answer. And the fact is, I can't
answer it. But I can match it with three other questions, equally
good, if not better. What have we a right to expect from life?
What are we contributing to life?) And what should we be con-
tributing? I can’t answer these, either.

A friend of mine, a bachelor like myself, owned until recently
an interest in an apartment house that was rented. Thus he had
room and income, and rarely worked or sought work. Last sum-
mer the house was sold. My friend took his share of the money,
bought himself a motor scooter and took off for parts unknown
and undesignated. He tried valiantly to get me to go with him.
In his last letter he said he was headed for Mexico City. Now, of
the two of us, is he the happier, traveling when and where fancy
dictates and not worrying about what will happen when the money
runs out, or am J, adhering to a strict schedule, working at a “re-

[ 588 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

spectable” job and trying to lay away security for the future? Let
us leave these unanswered, and perhaps unanswerable, questions and
turn to less philosophical considerations.

When I found myself confronted with the task of writing a
brief autobiography of the past twenty-five years, a feeling of un-
easiness, as of impending doom, came over me. Further, and
strangely, this feeling was familiar, but 1 couldn't place it. When
or where had I ever felt that way before? Now I’ve found it. It’s
the feeling I had once a week during the fall, winter and spring of
1931-32, each time I faced the task of putting some 250 words into
a semblance of reasonable order and on paper for freshman Eng-
lish. (P've forgotten the title of the course; English A, wasn’t it? )
In those days the problem of composition was further complicated
by the additional problem of choosing a subject. For this present
essay, the subject is not open to choice. It is too late now to do
anything about that.

When I left Harvard, I was bound and determined to be a school-
teacher, 1 spent many years trying and not succeeding. Pursuing
a goal is said to bring more happiness than attaining it. Be that as
it may, it doesn’t give much to brag about in an essay such as this.
It’s achievement one boasts of, not effort.

During the decade following graduation I was blessed (or maybe
cursed, | don’t know) with an income from two sources, an in-
terest in an oil well and stock in a corporation, which allowed me to
live, not high on the hog, but live, whether I worked or not. So,
aiming at school-teaching, I went to the State University of Iowa
to take a course on how to teach. Then I went to southern Califor-
nia to visit relatives. I liked it in California and staved there. And
there [ got my first teaching position. In a private school. Teach-
ing four hours a day. French and high school mathematics. 1 was
paid the princely sum of forty dollars a month.

I was in California when the war broke out. I was just coming
out of the church door that Sunday when somebody rushed up
and announced that the Japanese had bombed Pearl Harbor. Soon
thereafter Uncle Sam sent me a line. I didn’t like the bait but I had
to take it. However, when he saw what he had (a 4F), he wouldn't
even set the hook. So I remained free. Since the Armed Forces
wouldn’t have me, I joined two civilian services, the Aircraft Warn-
ing Service and the local Ration Board.

For some time my oil well had been withering away, Finally the
payments stopped altogether. Since this left me with not enough

[ 589 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

income to live on, even low on the hog, I took a full-time Position
at a small school a few miles north of Tucson, Arizona. Life there
was largely outdoors. Even classes were often held in the open
air, And I particularly enjoyed the horseback riding. I was in
Arizona two years. From there I went to Kansas City, Missouri,
and studied for a year at Kansas City University. I was then the
proud possessor of a Master of Arts degree in Education.

In 1946 J started teaching high school mathematics and French
at Cheshire Academy in Cheshire, Connecticut. This was the time
when secondary schools were full of GI’s taking advantage of their
educational opportunities. As I recall, about half of the enrollment
at Cheshire was GI’s. But in a few years they moved on into col-
lege and, with their departing, secondary school enrollment dropped
back to normal. And so did the number of secondary school faculty
members.

My one-line contribution to our F ifteenth Anniversary Report
was, “At present I am looking for a teaching position that doesn’t
require athletic coaching.” Well, I found it that fall at Massanutten
Academy in Woodstock, Virginia. That position lasted one year.

I came to Wichita to see for myself a phenomenon called Dia-
netics, which promised to be the salvation of the world. Anything
that good, I thought, I wanted to be in on.. If you don’t know
what Dianetics is, don’t worry. An acquaintance of mine suggested
that we go out and apply at Boeing Airplane Company. That was
in July of 1951. Boeing was at the height of producing B47’s, and
was hiring practically anyone. So I was hired. I’ve been there
ever since, Except for a few weeks at the beginning I have worked
“second shift,” from 4:45 P.M. until 1:30 the following a.m.

Now having rushed through twenty-five years and having arrived
breathless back in the present, let’s pause a minute. Since gradua-
tion I have lost neither health nor hair nor teeth. I am the only
person J know with thirty-two natural teeth and only about a dozen
fillings. To the one hundred twenty some-odd pounds I wore in
Cambridge, I have added nearly half a hundred, most of it in the last
ten years.

Extracurricular activities? Hardly any. Look: concerts, lectures,
adult education courses, lodge meetings, choir practice .. . you
name it, it happens in the evening during the weck, just at the time
when I’m at work. Hobbies? 1 like to raise tropical fish. However,
because of space limitations, I usually end up putting the fish in
a tank and just watching them. Getting a bigger apartment and

[ 590 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

expanding the hobby would be expensive. I have two tape recorders
which, considering how little they are used, were probably an
extravagance. I have a phonograph and a collection of about one
hundred records, mostly symphonies and opera overtures which,
considering the use they get, were not an extravagance.

The future? The future is not comfortable to contemplate. It
will, as we say to bolster our courage, probably be a challenge. Who
wants a challenge? It is my opinion, based partly on rumor, partly
on statements in local newspapers and partly on deductions from
well known facts, that the Wichita Division of the Boeing Airplane
Company (the main divisions are in and around Seattle) is a sinking
ship and I suspect that the head office wants it that way. How long
it will take it to go down I don’t know. You know the traditional
role of rats in a sinking ship? Well, ’'m seriously thinking of being

arat. Therefore, it is quite possible that by the time you read this,

Boeing Airplane Company and I shall have parted company. The
challenge is, what then?

ROBERT PEACE HELLER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 41, Kinnerton St., London, S.W. 1. England.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kentel Productions, Ltd., 36 Dover Sct, London, Wat, England.

BORN: Nov. 28, 1914, New York, N.Y. parents: Jacob Heller, Ray Rongy.

PREPARED AT: Boys High School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. Cun latte, 1933.

MARRIED: Jeanette Rabay Collins, Oct. 18 1946, New York, N.Y. qin:
Richard Kent, Jan. 28, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Managing director, Kentel Productions, Ltd, television con-
sulrants and producers.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa.

HAVING lived the past decade outside the United States, always

[59]

LIT Teme mar ETRE ORION ore ein. Mn

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

too actively to afford the time required for finding clear personal
perspectives, I feel bound to abstain from presenting a detailed ac-
count of my post-graduate life, save to speculate (pretentiously)
about having followed a tradition established by men like Beren-
son, Eliot and Reed, and then to think (wishfully) that my motives
have been similar to the highest and best of theirs.

GEORGE HENRY HELMERS

   
   

   

wef
Jeg

das

  

  

HOME apprEss: 4740 Roanoke Pkwy., Kansas City 12, Mo.
oFFIcE appress: Helmers Manufacturing Co., Kansas City 1, Mo.

BorN: April 11, 1913, Kansas City, Mo. parents: George John Helmers, Maude
Fisher.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury High School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932. DEGREE: M.B.a. (Univ. of Kansas City).
MARRIED. CHILD: Suzanne, 1950.

occupaTion: Vice-president, secretary, acting sales manager, Helmers Manv-
facturing Company, furniture manufacturers.

SINCE leaving school I have been employed by the Helmers Manu-
facturing Company. I matriculated at the University of Kansas
City in 1936 and graduated in Business Administration.

At present I am a widower and a grass widower and have a daugh-
ter out of my second marriage — Suzanne Helmers. She is currently
nine years old. Current sports are fishing, hunting and boating.

Most of my traveling takes me west or south, but when I get to
travel back east again I shall look forward to visiting the old campus
and an opportunity to meet former classmates.

[ 592 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HENRY HEMMENDINGER

  

HOME appress: R.D., Belvidere, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Davidson & Hemmendinger, 2857 Nazareth Rd., Easton, Pa.

BorN: April 1, 1915, Bernardsville, N.J. parents: Max Hemmendinger, Jean-
nette Harris.

PREPARED AT: Bernards High School, Bernardsville, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1935; A.M. 1937; PHD.
(Princeton Univ.), 1939.

MARRIED: Miriam Simon, Sept. 14, 1940, West Stockbridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
David, June 24, 1942; Carol, July 13, 1943; Mark, April 10, 1947.

HARVARD SON: David Hemmendinger, ’62.

HARVARD BROTHER: Noel Hemmendinger, LL.B. °37.

occuPaTION: Partner, Davidson & Hemmendinger, consulting physicists and
instrument manufacturers.

MEMBER OF: Optical Society of America; Inter-Society Color Council; Ameri-
can Physical Society; Society for Applied Spectroscopy.

PUBLICATIONS: About a score of publications, recency primarily articles on
color in Journal of the Optical Society.

DURING a period when the prevailing course has been ad astra,
my own has been steadily ab astris. In the past quarter-century, my
professional preoccupation has been with increasingly mundane
matters, and my present activity in the application. of objective
color measurements may seem far removed from my 1935 studies
in astronomy. During my first year of graduate w ork, I was fortu-
nate in being able to join ‘the Harvard-\LLT. 1936 eclipse expedition
to the USSR. which ‘provided the experimental material for my
1939 doctorate. The transition from studies of extro-galactic nebu-
Jae at Harvard to the Solar atmosphere at Princeton was followed
by two years at M.L-T. on a Bausch & Lomb post-doctoral fellow-
ship on interpretations of gaseous discharge phenomena in the labo-
ratory. This work, abruptly terminated in December, tog2, was

[ 593 ]

“0 RTE IPR RITE CY ERI MG = Rents

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

followed by O.S.R.D. research at the University of Rochester on
the development of infrared-sensitive phosphors. My physical de-
scent reached its nadir with the stimulating participation in the Nay
Operations Research Group in 1944-45; the end of the war found
me under the seas off Pearl Harbor as a civilian member of the pro-
submarine tactics group.

Although I came back after the war to the surface of the earth,
my professional activities were about to sink. Employment in 1946
as one of several physicists in a chemical research laboratory proved
a sterile and thwarting experience. Our frustration was nonethe-
less fortunate, since it forced two of us to evaluate for ourselves
what should be our proper role, and in 1952 we set up as partners
in a consulting firm specializing in the applications of spectro-
photometery and color measurements to color control problems.
Our work has subsequently been extended to broader fields of data
reduction.

The foregoing recital may suggest, and correctly, that I have in
recent years been largely preoccupied with the launching of this
new business venture. At the same time, our family has been setting
its roots on a few acres on the banks of the Pequest River about
ten miles south of the Delaware Water Gap. My acquaintance with
the local community admittedly comes largely through the eyes
of my wife, who as the county juvenile probation officer is actively
promoting the application of psy chiatric methods to the juvenile
problems and to the problem juveniles of a rural community. Our
older son has already been transplanted to the banks of the Charles
where he inclines toward mathematics and physical sciences. Our
daughter professes to have no roots and reports that the vacation
trip we made to the Southwest a few years ago has revealed her
chosen land. Our younger son has not fully revealed his intentions.

I cannot resist this opportunity to play the role of seer and also
to express some hopes for the future. I firmly believe that the pres-
ent emphasis on space and on space travel is a misguided one inso-
far as its objective is deemed to be a practical one. I do not believe
that any major constructive role can within the next century be
played by men removed from the gravitational field of the earth.
Admittedly, the obvious military potential of missiles must be
further developed, and it is clear that education, including particu-
larly scientific and technical education, must be strengthened. The
new capabilities arising from new knowledge should, however, be

devoted, insofar as they are not needed for direct military projects,

[ 594 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

not to “space travel,” but to the development or improved utiliza-
tion of energy sources (including not only nuclear but also solar
energy), and to the world-wide conservation and proper distribu-
tion of natural resources. To the extent that these problems are
presently considered, they are too largely dealt with as political
and economic matters, whereas they in fact deserve a large propor-
tion of our scientific and technological effort.

ROBERT HOUGHTON HEPBURN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 91 Pioneer Drive, West Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 85 Jefferson St., Hartford 14, Conn.

BORN: April 4, 1913, Hartford, Conn. parents: Thomas Norval Hepbum,
Katharine Martha Houghton.

PREPARED AT: Kingswood School, West Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 19353 M.D., 1939.

MaRRIED: Susanna Floyd, 1942, Boston, Mass. cumpren: David Powell, Aug.
24, 1951; Susanna, June 22, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Houghton Hepburn, ’33.

occupation: Urological surgery.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Urological Section, Connecticut State Medical Society;
assistant urologist, Hartford Hospital; senior attending urologist, Rocky
Hill State Veterans Hospital; visiting urologist, Newington Veterans
Hospital, McCook Memorial Hospital, Hartford; consulting urologist,
Memorial Hospital, Meriden (all Connecticut).

MEMBER OF: Connecticut Medical Society; American Medical Association;
American Urological Association; New England Section, American
Urological Association; American Society for the Study of Srerihty.

PUBLICATIONS: Various scientific articles in Journal of Urology.

AFTER finals in 1935, Bob Cummings and I circled the Globe, west
to east, Bob Russell going with us as far as Shanghai, Was convinced
that Americans should know more about the world, especially the

[595]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

* RUSSELL STURGIS HEPBURN

 

BORN: May 9, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Andrew Hopewell Hepburn,
Beatrice Sturgis.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934.

piep: March 31, 1934, Cambridge, Mass.

RUSSELL STURGIS HEPBURN spent three years with our Class,
While an undergraduate he was a member of the entertainment

committee and the freshman crew. He was survived by his father
and brother.

OTTO JOHN HERMANN, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 125 Terrace Drive, San Francisco 27, Calif.
OFFICE appress: Southern Pacific Co., 65 Market St., San Francisco 5, Calif,

BORN: June 19, 1914, Brookline, Mass. parents: Otto John Hermann, ’06, Alice
Hamilton O'Connell,

prepareD aT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B, 1935; M.B.a. (Stanford Univ.),
1947.

[ 598 ]

ot

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Joan Humphrey, Aug. 28, 1943, San Francisco, Calif, cup: Gregory
H., May 28, 1946.

occuPATION: Transportation; methods research assistant to vice-presidents of
freight and passenger traffic, Southern Pacific Company.

OFFICES HELD: Troop committeeman, Boy Scouts of America, since 1958,

MEMBER OF: San Francisco Chamber of Commerce; Society for the Advance-
ment of Management; Transportation Club, Harvard Club, Stanford Club
(all of San Francisco); Stanford Business School Club (San Francisco
Chapter); Railroad Systems and Procedures Association.

THE letter from the chairman of the Class Report Committee was
most encouraging: “Literary talent is not necessary. Be yourself.”
So, without literary talent, and being myself, I offer:

“Not necessarily a bare recital of what you did. ..”: As a
freshman I read somewhere that “. . . beaten paths are for beaten
men.” This little thought must have had some influence on my rash
choice of the decidedly unbeaten path that led to my selection of
physics as my field of concentration. After four years of that
rigorous academic discipline, culminating i in a div isional examina-
tion that disdained to sample knowledge but seemed designed to
force a luckless student to display the totality of his ignorance, I
faced Commencement and the world.

There was a year spent acquiring more immediately marketable
skills and looking for the right employment and finally beginning
what turned out to be a two-year stint in the lower clerical echelons
of the Boston and Maine Railroad. A growing conviction that the
grass was definitely better watered in the selling game led to a
promising start with Shaw-Walker Company in their Boston office.
After four years, the extended unpleasantness commonly referred
to as World War II terminated this pursuit of commercial business.

The U.S. Navy became my taskmaster for the next three vears
and a half. Columbia University for training and a commission in
the Reserve; American University at Washington, D.C, for more
training in bomb-disposal and allied skills, an aircraft carrier in the
Pacific and duty in the Coral Sea and around the Solomon Islands,
a fortuitous return stateside for repairs to the ship and marrage
for me. That was in the summer of 1943, and we had (mv bride
and I) the sum total of a four-day honeymoon and were also re-
stricted to a fifty-mile radius of San Francisco, It was no sudden
affair... the engagement pre-dated my involvement with the Navy.
Off again to the Pacific and Tarawa, Kwajalein, Fniwetok, Saipan,
Guam, Hollandia, Aitape, and as the ship headed for the Philip-
pines, I headed for the States and duty with a pre-comminioning

[ s99 ]

1 TST TPR RED ORE NROT

HARVARD CLASS OF 1936

detail of a new and larger ship of the same type. Subsequent duty
was at Newport, Philadelphia and Norfolk. When I wasn’t standing
a watch, I was getting used to married life.

Late in 1945, the Navy relinquished its iron grip on my destiny
and, at this point, it seemed desirable to acquire professional busi-
ness training. With a native Californian as my helpmate, I somehow
found myself at the Stanford Graduate School of Business and fol-
lowing commencement in 1947 (M.B.A. degree), at Southern Pacific
Company. A lifelong fascination with trains, interesting and chal-
lenging assignments (not to mention the subtle charm of San Fran-
cisco as a headquarters city), have all proved to be links in the
chain that has anchored me in my present situation.

“Your views on your career...” These are quite favorable,
“The friendly S.P.” is well known in the West among its neighbors,
favorably regarded by shrewd investors, intelligently managed, a
stable enterprise and good employer. Currently, I am thoroughly
immersed in extensive and extended preparations for the installa-
tion of a bevy of large-scale electronic computers of the commercial
variety. In the past, there have been bouts with proponents of
“Operations Research,” and several other breeds of business con-
sultants. In my specialty, we wage unremitting war on burgeoning
paper-work and strive in the meantime to avoid what has so aptly
been termed “paralysis through analysis.”

“... your family ...” This I acquired as the direct result of
venturing too near Radcliffe, some years after leaving Harvard,
on the occasion of some social function to which my younger sister
had invited me. It was one of those “at first sight” affairs. Our son
joined us in the middle of my sojourn on the Stanford campus. We
acquired our dream house some years ago and are slowly easing out
from under the mortgage. The heir apparent is in an excellent
school and doing well enough to justify commencing the “soft
sell” on dad’s alma mater. The Twenty-fifth Reunion offers a
ready-made opening move in this campaign.

“. «. on the state of the nation...” On this score, I find my-
self mildly resentful of the shrinking value of the dollar and of
over-restrictive governmental regulation of a vital industry (tail
transportation). Soon after this is written, we shall see whether
or not we can convince locomotive firemen who no longer have any
fires to tend, that they should accept an intelligently scheduled
“phasing out” of their anachronistic calling. We hope to be per-
mitted to cease charging rates that are higher than our own industry

[ 600 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

costs warrant, simply to protect our competition from loss of
business. There is, as always, a need to take action to secure a
better “state of the nation.”

“. .. on life, love, or the pursuit of whatever you have been
pursuing.” Concerning life: 1 confidently expect the years between
the present and the Fiftieth Reunion of our Class to be thoroughly
worth the living required to see them through. Concerning love: I
have no dispassionate views; and if asked to comment on the pursuit
of whatever I have been pursuing, I could only observe that youth
pursues what it will, but that maturity invariably pursues youth.

+ ROBERT HERRMANN
BORN: Jan. 22, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: Oscar Herrmann, Lalla Rookh
Weinze.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.
HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Roydon Herrmann, 732.

DIED: July 4, 1947, Washington, D.C.
ROBERT HERRMANN received an A.B. with our Class. At the

time of our Third Anniversary Report he wrote that he was secre-

tary of the L.R.H. Realty Corporation. The Secretary has no fur-
ther information about him.

LESTER JORDAN HERSHON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 140 Grant Ave., Newton, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Hershon Supply Co.,, Inc., 512 Massachusetts Ave. Cambridge
Mass,

BORN: Dec. 22, 1911, Cambridge, Mass. parents: David Hershon, Gertrude
Goldstein.

[ 601 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B, 1935.

Marriep; Gwendolyn Bernice Radom, Aug. 5, 1941, Los Angeles, Calif. cun-
DREN: Stephanie Robin, Aug. 25, 1944; Robert Bruce, June 19, 1949.
occuPaTion: President, Hershon Supply Company, Inc., retail appliance store,

MEMBER OF: Newton Squash and Tennis Club.

AFTER graduating from Harvard College I went to Harvard Busi-
ness School for one year, Then I went to work for my father who
had a small but well-established electrical appliance store in Cam-
bridge. Having my father for the boss enabled me to take the
unusual liberty of long summer vacations. As a result, I spent the
following six summers traveling. I went to Europe twice, then to
South America, Hawaii, Mexico and California: On my last trip to
California, I met a lovely young lady on a blind date and in true
Harvard manner swept aside all obstacles so that we were married
twelve days later.

When World War II started, I joined the Signal Corps. I spent
about six months in Philadelphia at the Philco School. I was then
sent to Kelly Field in San Antonio, Texas, and later to Clovis, New
Mexico, where I checked and repaired airplane communication
equipment.

After the war ended, I settled down to a normal married life of
raising a family and saving enough money to build a home. Life
has become less exciting now, except for my winter vacations which
I spend in Florida or California. I find it hard to believe that twenty-
five years have flown by so quickly since I graduated.

My hobbies are music, gardening and tennis. I follow Harvard
athletics closely, especially football, hockey and basketball. I am
very happy with the renaissance of football under the new coach,
John Yovicsin, and I like to watch the freshman football team to
see what budding talent Harvard possesses.

[ 602 ]

¥

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ABRAHAM HERTZBERG

 

HOME AppRESS: 8 Obry Drive, Scarsdale, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Metropolis Brewery, Inc., 11 W. 42d St, New York, N.Y.

BorN: March 1, 1914, Richmond, Va. parents: Louis Hertzberg, Annie Yelen.

PREPARED aT: Columbia Grammar School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: 8.B., cum laude, 1935.

MARRIED: Joan Naumburg, Aug. 25, 1939, Deal, N.J. coipren: David, Feb.
27, 1941; Joseph, Oct. 25, 1942; Daniel, Feb. 3, 1946.

HARVARD SON: David Hertzberg, ’63.

HARVARD BROTHER: Benjamin Hertzberg, M.B.A., °33.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and part owner, Metropolis Brewery, Inc., manu-
facturers of beer.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Religious School Committee, Jewish Community Cen-
ter, White Plains, N.Y., since 1954.

MEMBER OF: The Bohemians (New York Musicians’ Club); British Schools
and Universities Club of New York.

COMMENCEMENT DAY, 1935, was not the end of formal educa-
tion for me. I had the privilege of spending a year at Queens’ Col-
lege, Cambridge University. There, I continued studies in E nglish
literature, heavily laced with rowing on one of my college crews,
walking through the country on vacation and, as alwavs, a good
deal of talking. A very wonderful year. I came back to earth — and
America — with a year at the Harvard Business School.

Our family had recently entered the brewing business in New
York and (was it the help of the Business School? ) T was able to
land a job with my father. Except for the war years I have con-
tinued in this beery atmosphere ever since. We have several plants
in this country — Trenton, Chicago and Norfolk. We are also as-
sociated with breweries in South Africa and Isracl, both of which
plants we helped found — in the case of the Isracl brewery from
the sand up. It is a fascinating field, involving as it does, finance,

[ 603 ]

TT , spre ere empntart: § Aba

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

sales, production, advertising and human relations, all colored by
tradition and more than a bit of the craft atmosphere.

In 1939 Joan Naumburg and I were married and have enjoyed
(pale word) more than twenty happy years together. Our three
boys have been a strenuous joy. David is now at Harvard in the
Class of ’63. Joseph, at this writing, is sweating out his college ap.
plications, while Daniel is about to enter Scarsdale High School.

We moved to Scarsdale from New York in 1948. “Suburbia” js
a dirty word in some circles today — but we find the life very satis-
fying. In a community noted for its devotion to its public schools
and a tradition of community service, we have had many oppor-
tunities to join with our neighbors in varied activities — school,
Scouts, sports and church.

I have coached basketball for nine-year-olds— but then their
standards were not too high. And I even helped coach football,
holding one end of a ten-foot chain without substitution through-
out an entire game. I have slept out with the Scouts, clutching my
small bottle and sleeping pills inside the sleeping bag — and didn’t
catch a cold.

Less strenuous, I have been quite active in our synagogue affairs.
I had the pleasure of setting up and running our synagogue library
—and what a pleasure it is to buy books backed with a healthy
budget and no one looking over your shoulder! For some six years,
I have been a member of the Religious School Committee which
guides a 1400-pupil Sunday School, A particularly satisfying chore.
Gardening has been a means of keeping the waistline down and the
senses supple. I have given up squash, but tennis is still a favorite
summer activity.

Because of our business abroad, and inclination and opportunity,
Joan and I have been able to travel overseas on several occasions.
The best part of these trips has been driving our own car through
parts of Spain, Italy, France and Israel and once, with our boys, in
England and Holland. Travel in the States has been a matter of
motel hopping with the boys in the Massachusetts to Virginia area.

And isn’t it wonderful to be able to write unabashedly about
yourself —the most fascinating of subjects — without having to
hide behind the editorial “we”!

I have covered family, business, community and travel. Other
interests? New York is not as near entertainment-wise as the map
would indicate — but theatre and music are enjoyed from time to
time. And not on tape, My interest in literature continues and I

[ 604 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have slowly been building up my personal library, trying to find
good editions, typography and bindings for favorite books.

Life, of course, has not all been a matter of beer and skittles, but
apparently we have to face that which we cannot avoid, and enjoy
that which has been granted to us.

My feelings for Harvard are warm and appreciative as ever.
The memory of very pleasant recent Reunions makes me look for-
ward eagerly to the big one.

But where did those twenty-five years go?

JOHN JOSEPH HESSION

 

HOME ADDRESS: 390 Parkway Drive, Mt. Lebanon 28, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bettis Atomic Power Laboratory, Westinghouse Electric Corp.
Pittsburgh, Pa.

BORN: Aug. 29, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: John Henry Hession, Annie M.
Riley.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., magna cunt laude, 1935; EDM.
(Boston Teachers Coll.), 1936.

MarRiED: Anne Boyd Croxton, June 1, 1940, Washington, D.C. capren:
Warner Croxton, March 12, 1¢45; Anne Dearborn, March 28, 1949.

occuPATION: Research and development of nuclear reactor power plants;
supervisor, engineering publications.

OFFICES HELD: Head, Training Publications Section, Training Division, Bureau
of Naval Personnel, Navy Department, 1938-57.

MEMBER OF: American Nuclear Writers Society; Society of Technical Writers
and Editors; Toastmasters International, Phi Beta Kappa.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous Navy training books and articles for officers and
enlisted personnel.

THE darkness is light enough,” wrote Fabre, as he told of the
[ 605 ]

~“

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

is the extent of my gardening and bird-watching, indeed the extent
of my outdoor living.

Son Warner is the space candidate of the family — and is likely
to remain so. Maker of telescopes, his haven-finding art may be
practised in the outer universe. His sister, Andee, has been telling
me tonight of more mundane items: stamps, mytholog y, Bible read-
ings, Girl Scouts, and the like. Her lively imagination finds expres-
sion in art, dancing and music. Anne and I work at the garden out-
doors or indoors, or can be found at home many an evening with
friends or sewing or books or records.

The move to Bicentennial Pittsburgh three years ago continued
the link with the Navy and with training. We work with nuclear
scientists and engineers to prepare and publish the instruction
manuals for the officers and men who are operating the atomic-
powered submarines, cruiser and carrier. The Westinghouse Bettis
Atomic Power Laboratory developed the prototypes and the origi-
nal plants for the Nautilus and her thirty-odd sisters, for the Long
Beach and for the Independence.

Those of us close to industrial and defense research and develop-
ment appreciate the intensive program provided Navy crews to fit
them to operate the advanced plants that go into ships today: col-
lege and graduate level study in physics, chemistry and engineer-
ing. And remember this is but one corner of the technical man-
power requirements of the defense services. Little wonder that
Admiral Rickover pushed his education crusade.

We have had some opportunity to work with the Admiral and
his fine staff, especially in telling the story of the development of
the first major American nuclear plant for the production of elec-
tric power in a civilian, commercial generating station — the Ship-
pingport Plant on the Ohio River, furnishing power to the Pitts-
burgh area through the Duquesne Light Company. Westinghouse,
Duquesne, and the Atomic Energy Commission have built and
operated a successful central power station. The plant is more
than that — it is a laboratory to test and develop and prove the feasi-
bility of competitive atomic power stations here and abroad.

At Shippingport and at the many other civilian installations for
peaceful uses of nuclear power, we can set great store by the AEC’s
achievements. This is the direction, we pray, away from the atom-
izing of a Hiroshima.

‘Twenty-fifth Anniversary Reports —are they ever the vehicle

[ 608 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to trigger something as fruitful as the Commencement Address that
gave the West the Marshall Plan?

The big challenges are plainly writ: H-bomb piles for massive
retaliation, out-distancing population, the rich and the poor nations.
Will there be words in these pages to start a fire to force leader-
ship to master these issues? Can we urge our sager members to
lead such a crusade? Can next year’s Twenty-fifth reporters be
asked to concentrate on solutions to the end that there will be a
place for all the world’s grandchildren?

Let us not wait, as Catullus wrote —

usque dum tremlum movens
cana tempus anilitas
omnia omnibus annuit

till that day when gray old age
shaking its palsied head
nods in all things to all, assent
There are no easy solutions, and we must be wary, as the lumi-
nous serene Whitehead reminded:
Never swallow anything whole. We live perforce by half-truths
and get along fairly well as long as we do not mistake them

for whole truths, but when we do so mistake them, they raise
the devil with us.

+ KARL ADAMS HIGGINS

 

BORN: March 24, 1914, South Boston, Mass. parents: William Patrick Higgins,
Katherine Murphy.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

preD: April 11, 1941, Braintree, Mass.

[ 609 |

__ eee pening RE: EPIL! NE PELE LIEN! LOOT CE TAT EOE ITT |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935
KARL ADAMS HIGGINS spent one year with our Class. The

Secretary has no information concerning his activities after leaving
college. He was survived by his father.

EDWIN WESTGATE HILDRETH

pe pene esa

  
  

  

i

HOME ADDRESS: 98 Norman Ave., Cranston 10, R.I.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Leesona Corp., P.O. Box 1605, Providence, R.L.

porn: Aug. 18, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: Horace Edwin Hildreth, ’99,
Alice Lawrence Westgate.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MaRRIED: Kathryn B. Savage, Sept. 5, 1942, Belmont, Mass. CHILDREN: Susan
Marjorie, Sept. 3, 1944; Virginia Elizabeth, April 21, 1947; Mary Lu, Feb.
I, 1951.

occuPATION: Chief contract accountant, Leesona Corp.

OFFICES HELD: Associate director, Boston chapter, 1950-54, associate director,

1957-59, director, 1959-6o, Providence chapter, National Association of
Accountants.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Rhode Island; Bentley Alumni Association;

National Association of Accountants, Edgewood Yacht Club; Eden Park
Hoe Downers.

WHEN, under a barrage of letters and follow-up post cards from
our good Report Chairman, one sits down to the preparation of this
report, the first reaction is a sense of amazement at the rapidity at
which a quarter of a century has sped past. As you can see from
the vital statistics printed above, our three children are girls, so |
find myself, as Woodrow Wilson put it, “surrounded by petti-
coats.” Thus, family activities claim an over-riding priority of my
spare time, I am certain my classmates will agrce. But we wouldn't
have it otherwise, I’m sure.

Shortly after Pearl Harbor, I received a commission as ensign,

[ Gto |

_

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

USNR, but due to illness received a medical discharge the same
year. Feeling the Jack of formal training in accounting, I enrolled
in the night school at Bentley School of Accounting and Finance
in 1945 and graduated four years later. After holding several ac-
counting positions in Massachusetts, I joined Leesona Corporation
(formerly Universal Winding Company) in Rhode Island in 1955.
My main duties are the negotiation of government contract busi-
ness. Dealing with the government is a fascinating but sometimes
exasperating business. A veritable flood of regulations, rulings and
court decisions pour out of Washington; woe betide him who
fails to keep up-to-date on the latest dictum. Fortunately, other
duties, including some traveling, lend variety to the day’s work, so
that all in all I find my work stimulating and pleasant.

As to hobbies, I enjoy sailing our bettle cat boat in Narragansett
Bay (when the girls have not pre-empted it). I am also a “shutter
bug” or camera enthusiast, and enjoy skiing and square dancing.

Fk HOLLIS BOARDMAN HILL

 

BorN: Nov. 24, 1912, Newton, Mass. parents: George Quinby Hill, Clara Ware.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

piED: Dec. 25, 1935, Knoxville, Tenn.

HOLLIS BOARDMAN HILL graduated with our Class. While at
college he was a resident of Leverett House and from 1931 to 1935
was a member of the Pierian Sodality and the University Band.

[ 611 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

FRANKLIN GLAZIER HINCKLEY

 

HOME appress: 53 Mackworth St., Portland, Maine.

OFFICE apprEss: Linnell, Perkins, Thompson, Hinckley & Thaxter, 192 Middle
St., Portland, Maine.

BoRN: April 10, 1914, Medford, Mass. parents: John William Hinckley, Olive
Lyon Glazier.

PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; LL.B., 1938.

MarRIED: Myrna Irene Eldridge, Oct. 12, 1940, Chocolate Cove, New Bruns-
wick, Canada. cup: Franklin Glazier, Jr., May 3, 1946.

occupaTion: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of managers, Home for Aged Men, Portland,
Maine, since 1955; chairman, Board of Appeals, Portland, since 1957,
director, Portland Boys’ Club, since 1957; director, since 1958, vice-presi-
dent, 1959, Portland YMCA; member, advisory board, Salvation Army,
Portland, since 1959; president, Harvard Law School Association in Maine,
since 1959, commander-in-chief, Maine Consistory, since 1958; trustee,
North Yarmouth Academy, since 1959; vestryman, Trinity Episcopal
Church, Portland, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Woodfords Club; Portland Country Club; Great Chebeague Golf
Club; Portland Rotary Club (president, 1957-58); Fraternity Club (presi-
dent, 1958-59); American, Maine and Cumberland County Bar Associa-
tions, Ancient Land-Mark Lodge No. 17, A.F. & A.M. (master, 1953-54).

{ 612 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD CONVERSE HODSON

  

HOME appress: 5706 Ninth Rd., North Arlington 5, Va.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Universal Bldg. ., Florida & Connecticut Avenues, Washington,
DC.

BORN: May 29, 1914, Reading, Mass. Parents: Alexander William Hodson,
Delia Converse.

PREPARED AT: Reading High School, Reading, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1935.

MarRiED: Nettie May Hanoy, Jan. 16, 1940, Baltimore, Md. cumpren: Richard
Alan, May 26, 1941; Marjorie Jean, Feb. 1, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Assistant chief, Operations Division, Bureau of Safety, Civil
Aeronautics Board.

AFTER four years of preparatory work in history and literature,
I have spent the last twenty-five years in aviation. I was designated
a naval aviator in December, 1936, upon completion of a rugged
year of ground and flight training. The attrition rate at Pensacola
in prewar years was far higher than at Harvard: only two of four
from 735 made the grade. The next three years were spent on
active duty with various Navy units in Panama, San Diego, Nor-
folk and Annapolis. The highlight of these years was my “flight i in
a PB-Y patrol plane of VP Squadron 3 from San Diego to Panama
non-stop: 27 hours and 58 minutes in the air! Ac hat time, June,
1937, this was the longest mass flight in the history of aviation. The
Navy also provided me with one other lasting memory; amocbic
dysentery which was with me for years. Its rewards were, how-
ever, not unmixed: one of my hospital stays enabled me to meet
a most wonderful Navy nurse who has been taking care of me ever
since. (We were married three months after I was released to in-
active duty.)

From 1939 to 1947, T was with Pan American World Airways as
pilot-navigator, copilot and captain, The experience in these opera-

[ 613 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

tions spanned the great Jeap in aeronautical] progress from
lanes to zoo mph pressurized landplanes. I flew ro 100 mop
seap di d South America, b _ utes to P
Europe, West Indies an ’ oth in Civil] Neg

service and military contract operations. In the fall] of ; Schedul, d
the honor to fly the first scheduled landplane civil operate? fe
rom

New York to Hurn, England, the airport then servin L
In the fall of 1947, 1 decided that I could not fly the Atlanc
Iso be home with my family which then was four; I Je fe > and
xd joined the Civil Aeronautics Board. anAm
Until rgso0 I was in Illinois as an air safety investigator f,
ard. In this assignment I conducted field investigations of the
‘ier and general aviation aircraft accidents. This experie air
-inced me of two things: if it were not for people, flying would
solutely safe, and of all witnesses, the least reliable is the “eve”
they too often get “I” confused with “eye” and the results
ittle relationship to the facts!

n 1950 until 1958, I was in the Washington office of the
Bureau of Safety Regulation. My main objective here was
insure the highest degree of safety in air transportation b
lopment of safety regulations which were technically ade.
onomically sound, and administratively feasible. This is
ick when all interested persons consider that their approach
ier regulation will best promote the public interest; and
yersons include Jabor unions, airline managers, congress-
ery self-appointed aviation expert in the country!

vy 1958 to 1959, I was assistant chief of the Air Carrier
1 considerably increased responsibility for regulatory
pment and formal supervision of the Division's staff of
lists. While the monetary return of this service has not
I have gained some satisfaction from the receipt of sev-
superior performance of duty, in particular for the
regulations for the use of flight simulators for the
1e crews, rules governing airline emergency pro-
pment, and special civil air regulations designed 0
‘1on of jet aircraft into air carrier service.
59 and I hope still in 1960, I have been
I . ee e °

§ Operations Division, once again in the
‘on. This position involves the superv!
tier, general aviation, helicopter and jet ©
safety regulations, and air traffic contro’

a , ith 0
onal facets of civil aircraft accidents with

[ 614 ]

assistant
field 0
jon 0
per a
who

BOPP ESTEE nan... Pica
CONNER LOO NEE AI S20. rant gh peli naddp nro oan ER

ob}
d

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tive: Cause determination and the prevention of similar acci
ec ° ~

ents. Josing I have only one observation to make: four ears of
Jn cost Harvard in independence of thought, spirit a acting
de me probably the only one of 735 who could All ix
re the Report Chairman solicited information on n
romotion. Long live the unorganized man! gang

rurelag

ya
“None” whe
membership or P

MARTIN LEON HOFFMAN

     
 

; Ne /

ne

HOME ADDRESS: 63 Beatrice Circle, Belmont 78, Mass.
ofrice appREss: M & M Transportation Co., 250 Mystic Ave., Somerville, Mass.
BorN: Nov. 25, 1914, Boston, Mass. Parents: Samuel Hoffman, Eva Berson.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Sylvia Seevak, June 23, 1940, Boston, Mass. cuitpren: Stephen G.,
Aug. 23, 1942; Jonathan B., July 7, 1945; Leah R., Feb. 16, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Gershon Hoffman, 751.

occuPaTION: Vice-president, sales and traffic, M & M Transportation Com-
pany. |

OFFICES HELD: Member various committees, New England Motor Rate Bureau,
Inc, and Middle Atlantic Motor Carrier Conference, Inc., 1943-595 alter-
fate, Transportation Industry Advisory Committee to O.P.A., 1945, Mem-
ber, American Trucking Association National Traffic Committee, 1945-
48; member, successor committees to date; member, executive committee
and board of directors, New England Motor Rate Bureau, 1952-553 com>
Mitteeman, 1950-55, committee chairman, 1953-55, cubmaster, 1954-55, Pack
20, Cub Scouts of America, Arlington, Massachusetts; committeeman,

Mente ogy Boy Scouts of America, Belmont, Massachusetts, 1957-59: |

: lraffic Club of New England, Temple Lodge, AY. & AM,
atvard Club of Belmont.

HAVING been employed by M & M Transportation Company on
[615 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

a part-time basis after college classes, 1 had only to take a short step
to full-time employment with them after graduation. There I have
remained ever since. Nothing would appear more boring than the
recital of a career spent in one place. But if the recital is boring,
the work is definitely not.

The world of transportation is dynamic and kaleidoscopic. With
its variety of ever-changing problems the work of no two days is
alike. The complexities of transportation are of universal effect and
this is responsible for one of the collateral rewards of work in the
field. In the course of time I frequently hear from and have been
able to help many old friends temporarily beset with freight trans-

ort difficulties. .

The demands of business were not so pressing that no time was
left for romance. While still slender, I wooed, won and wed Sylvia,
better known as Tsippy. In the space of five years we had two
sons, and shortly thereafter settled on the Heights of Arlington.
Just when the boys were old enough to more or less shift for
themselves, and after a hiatus of almost ten years, our daughter
came along in 1955. I must say that her advent was rejuvenating,
although some of our waggish friends suggest that my rejuvena-
tion must necessarily have preceded her. So we sold our Arlington
Heights home, and bought a larger one on the brow of Belmont
Hill, but in reverse order. I found nothing in owning two homes
for five months to recommend the practice.

Each of the past ten years, we have taken a winter vacation dur-
ing Washington’s Birthday week for some family skiing in New
Hampshire. There is nothing like a day on the slopes to make
business cares disappear and to strengthen family ties. The only

drawback is the feeling of dismay born of being unable to keep up
with the off-spring as they, unhampered by visions of broken bones,
whiz past. The dismay, however, is short-lived, and soon gives way
to resignation. Once that milepost is reached, you've got it made.
As for the future, in the immediate offing are three graduations this
coming June: Leah from kindergarten, Jonathan from junior high
and Stephen (hopefully looking toward Harvard) from high school.

[ 616 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOSEPH LYNCH HOGUET

 

HOME ADDRESS: 188 Rockrimmon Rd., Stamford, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Shields & Co., 44 Wall St., New York 5, N.Y.

BorN: Aug. 31, 1912, New York, N.Y. Parents: Robert Louis Hoguet, ’99,
Louise Lynch.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MarRIED: Diana W. Dilworth, Nov. 21, 1942, New York, N.Y. cHipren:
David Dilworth, Aug. 16, 1951; Diana Logan, March 13, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Robert Louis Hoguet, Jr., ’31, MB.a., 33; Peter William
Hoguet, ’37.

MEMBER OF: Downtown Association, New York City.

I REMEMBER my last day at college in 1935 well. I took my last
exam the morning of June qth, and sailed for Europe that night.
Followed a wonderful summer bicycling in France and cruising in
the Aegean and Adriatic. Back in Cambridge in Straus Hall in the
fall as a proctor while going to Law School. The law and I parted
ways after one year, and | finally wound up working in the US.
Lines. In May before we got into the war I volunteered for active
duty and was assigned to the port director’s office in New York. I
met my wife there; she was one of the volunteer drivers and was my
chauffeur on various errands around the port. After the war broke
out I went to subchaser schoo! at Miami and finally got an S.C, on
which I spent eight months in the South Pacific. Later I had a P.C.
in the Caribbean and spent the last year on an A.P.A. as navigator
in the Central Pacific.

I went to work in Wall Street after the war and have been doing
general brokerage business in securities since then. My hobbies are
gardening and traveling. I plan to start skiing again now that my

[ 617 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

boy is eight. I am looking forward to the ‘Twenty-fifth Anniver-
sary Reunion and only wish I had been more active in class affairs.

MATSON HOLBROOK

    

HOME AppREsS: 720 Marion St., Denver 18, Colo.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Matson Holbrook Co., 730 17th St., Denver 1, Colo.

BoRN: July 27, 1911, Milwaukee, Wis. parents: Arthur Tenny Holbrook, ’92,
Bertha Matson Andrews.

PREPARED AT: Milwaukee Country Day School, Milwaukee, Wis.; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; A.-M. (Columbia Univ.), 1950.

MarrigD: Katherine Elizabeth Brumder, Nov. 5, 1938 (divorced 1954); Eliza-
beth Clark Devereux, May 29, 1954. CHILDREN: Matson Brumder, Sept.
22, 1940; Hester Katherine, June 19, 1942; William Andrews, March 29,
1946.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Arthur Andrews Holbrook, ’28, M.D. ’32; Herbert Tenney
Holbrook, ’30.

occupation: Management consultant.

OFFICES HELD: Usual charitable and educational committees; staff director,
Hoover Commission Task Force Paperwork Management, 1954-55.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, University Club of Denver; Society

of American Archivists.

CONTEMPLATING a personal report on the last twenty-five

years stirs up many thoughts. One, not germane, is that my dad,
"92, 1s about twice our age. This I find encouraging. Another is
the kaleidoscopic sequence since graduation.

Although the chronology of jobs seems strangely assorted, they
fit admirably into my present field. I started off as a tinsmith and
plumber in a young airconditioning firm, a fine product but for the
most part sold for less than it cost to make. This was valuable ex-
perience for household maintenance and in how not to run a busi-
ness. Then I was in credit and collections at Allis-Chalmers, fol-

[ 618 ]

pyr

~

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

lowed by joining a friend in his general insurance business in Mil-
waukee.

The Navy interrupted this pattern. First came district security
inspection out of Great Lakes and then overseas to Pearl Harbor
and eventually Guam, CIMCPAC, Advanced Intelligence Center.
The final nine months at Guam were especially rewarding. There
was a somewhat hectic period after the war which included about
a year in Paris with ECA (and Bob Cummings), an A.M. degree
from Columbia and in the early so’s entering the consulting busi-
ness in which I am now so engrossed. .

Cutting red tape in paperwork and records-keeping is a brief way
of putting it. I was vice-president of Leahy & Company i in New
York until we moved to Denver. These were pioneering years for
this area of management consulting work, a relatively new and
specialized field which I have had the good fortune of helping to
develop. Some national attention was gained im the work of the
Hoover Commission Task Force Paperwork Management, for
which I served as staff director during 1954-55. But for the most
part, our work was highly concentrated with relatively few and
quite large firms, well scattered across the country. Now I have
my own consulting firm and a payroll to meet. So much for busi-
ness.

I am blessed with three wonderful kids from my first marriage.
Young Mat, imaginative and resourceful, wanted and happily was
accepted at Williams where he is now weathering the strict aca-
demic demands as a sophomore. Utterly charming Hester graduates
this June from Colorado Rocky Mountain School (near Aspen and
obviously skiing). Willie, a captivating all-American bov of twelve,
is moving along at Milwaukee Country Day School. Each is a fine
individual, well on the road for the future,

Cherry and I were married in 1954 and moved to New Canaan.
New Canaan was wonderful but my travel (30% — 40% of the
time) and sixteen hours a week commute when in New York, plus
the general tempo, severely curtailed our getting around to doing
what we liked: fish, hunt, golf, garden, etc. We pondered care-
fully, concluded and made the major move to Denver.

In our first year here we have had good time for a full measure
of our interests. The “new way of life” is all that we had hoped.
For a philosophy, we tend increasingly toward doing those things
we wish to do, hoping to make some w orthy contributions and try-
ing for the simple and simplified ways of living,

[ 619 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

DAVID JUSTIN HOLDEN

HOME appress: yo Woodbridge St., South Hadley, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Music Dept., Mount Holyoke College, South Hadley, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 16, 1911, White Plains, N.Y, parents: Charles Emerson Holden,
Edna Louise Morgenroth.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Haverford College, Haverford, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREE: $.B., 1935,

MarRIED: Margaret Cordelia Harold, 1939, North Sandwich, N.H. cuHitpren:
Lawrence, Jan. 27, 19453 Jill, Oct. 3, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alan Nordby Holden, ’25.

occupation: Composer; associate professor of music, Mount Holyoke College;
conductor, Mount Holyoke College Orchestra; music educator, critic and
annotator, Charitauguan Daily; head, Theory Department, Chautauqua
Summer School of Music.

OFFICES HELD: Member, since 1948, president, Mount Holyoke College Chapter,
since 1952-53, American Association of University Professors; joint clerk
(with wife), South Hadley Preparative Meeting, The Society of Friends
(Quakers); judge, National Music Scholarships Awards in instrumental
music and composition for Boys’ Clubs of America, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: The Society of Friends (Quakers); Local 144, American Federa-
tion of Musicians; College Music Society.

pusLications: Musical compositions for orchestra, chorus, organ, piano and
voice; critical reviews of 325 musical performances and program notes for
210 symphony orchestra concerts.

ALONG with the ravages of time goes a sense of having also col-
lected some worthwhile experience as I look back upon twenty-five
years. And I think that I have gained a perspective on Harvard by
having spent most of this time living with music and earning my
livelihood teaching: in a professional school (the Boston Conserva-
tory of Music) and in an undergraduate college of distinction
(Mount Holyoke College). The clichés about Harvard’s excellence
and all their rephrasings seem to me really apply. So too do the
prevalent adverse criticisms. Harvard is not perfect, but it is
damned good! And I find a genuine pleasure trying to repay my
debt to Harvard’s education by entering into an intellectual life
and by spreading as well as I can to other students Harvard’s pro-
found meaning of freedom.

We can all still remember vividly how Harvard plucked us from
her bosom in 1935 and dropped us firmly into a world which dis-
tastefully regarded us as simply additions to the unemployed. Noth-
ing, in those days, seemed quite as useless to anyone else as music.
And I have wondered periodically since: what chances of fate and
what instincts led me to the position I am now in? For without re-

[ 620 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

garding the position of associate professor as in any way remarkable
or a road-end, I am truly on the road I had hoped to travel and
would not have it otherwise.

With a scant two years of work as a Juilliard Graduate School of
Music Fellow added to my undergraduate training, I tried to em-
bark upon a career of composer and teacher of music. Somehow,
in spite of temptations and offers to enter other occupations, | have
been able to remain in the field of music. Variously (in addition
to teaching theory, composition, musical history and literature
and fine arts), I have been in radio, publishing, private teaching,
publicity, criticism, research, public lecturing, staging, trusteeship,
management, choral and orchestral performance and choral and
orchestral conducting. It has been a jack-of-all-trades career and
not even a master of arts! It’s been fun, though. And just as I con-
sider music a medium for revealing insights into how human beings
tick, so also I find these occupations have revealed to me new facets
of music itself.

Two of the most impressive educational experiences I have re-
ceived since leaving Harvard have been marriage and children.
Peggy is a concert pianist and teacher, so that in a sense we are a
professional team with the advantages not only of mutual interest
but also of complementary viewpoints, Whatever our Quakerly
disharmonies might be, they have not arisen through professional
jealousies or disagreements; and we have found it natural to respect
one another’s musicianship and accomplishments. In the back-
ground of all this is a relationship which I would judge to be some-
what rare between married couples of our age. For we still pre-
serve a truly romantic love for each other. In spite of familiarity
reaching back over more than a quarter of a century, we are still
aware of exciting mysteries in each other — mysteries possibly
never knowable yet at the same time important. This blend of
known and unknown has grown in our relationship, kept our heart-
beats light and our blood singing.

Larry and Jill have taught me many things which formal educa-
tion cannot. Most obvious are the many practical experiences, the
interpersonal relations, the responsibilities and the revelation of
otherwise untapped wells of love and happiness which come from
rearing one’s own children. But I was thinking more of those mat-
ters which we actually do study in college: the development of
culture, of ethical and aesthetic values, of the capacity to reason,
of the sources of motivation and of imagination, How deeply alive

[ 621 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

to me now are all such matters as these unformed extensions of my-
self grow aware and become formed! The at first little biological
miracle becomes a primitive savage whose very senses register noth-
ing beyond rudimentary reactions. And in the first dozen years |
seem to see the acculturation of the ages unfold painfully yet deter-
minedly before me. I suppose the difference between our college
experience and this one is that in college we learn about such mat-
ters, and in our family we live them.

My musical compositions have won a modest measure of public
approval in both Europe and this country, even though I compose
slowly and do not make many efforts to get the results performed
or published. While composing, however, I receive a very strong
impression that I am an instrument guided by forces outside and
beyond; that the relationships I perceive not only between tones
but also between musical patterns and the emotions they symbolize
represent very mystical phenomena. The dedication I feel toward
education is, I believe, toward truth and values which are also
metaphysical concepts. To me music, life and education are closely
integrated. As spiritual experiences they enrich my meditations in
Friends’ (Quaker) Meeting.

With all this concentration upon music, I have welcomed the op-
portunity to become a member of a small club composed of faculty
from four colleges in this vicinity (Mount Holyoke, Smith, Am-
herst and the University of Massachusetts). We meet informally
every two weeks, some member presenting a paper of general in-
terest at each meeting. And since each member is the only repre-
sentative of his discipline, these meetings, papers and discussions
have contributed very stimulating and broadening experiences to
my life. In addition, I have recently joined a small group of col-
leagues at Mount Holyoke who believe that a dangerous madness is
motivating many public actions in our times. We have joined and
meet regularly in the hope of determining what we mean by sanity.

Perhaps it may be tempting to regard such a life as a typical
ivory tower existence and to mean by this an existence divorced
from reality. If “reality” is frenzied competition, pragmatic action
and defensive emotional tensions, I shall readily agree. During

periods when I enter such “reality,” I quickly come to know that
it offers me few satisfactions. I happen to believe that the ivory
tower is a more important part of “reality”; and that wise practi-
cal decisions can sometimes be made only from a position of re-
moval and after careful search, The search is as often within one-

[ 622 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

self as in the data he may accumulate, and contributions to society
may be no less real for being impractical. What, indeed, is less
practical than music; and yet what a monstrous industry it has be-
come!

LAWRENCE THOMAS HOLDEN

 

HOME AND OFFICE apprEss: Southern Boulevard, Chatham, N.J.

BORN: Sept. 13, 1912, Idaho Falls, Ida. Parents: Edwin McPherson Holden,
Ethel Thomas,

PREPARED AT: Idaho Falls High School, Idaho Falls, Ida.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-19323 1933-1934. DEGREE: B.ARCH. (Afass. Inst. of Tech-
nology), 1942.

MaRRIED: Dorothea Lagreze, July 25, 1936, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Lawrence
Thomas, Jr., May 14, 1939; Richard Theodore, Aug. 8, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Grenville Ross Holden, ’31.

OCCUPATION: Industrial design — self-employed.

OFFICES HELD: Member board of trustees, Far Brook School.

RECENTLY I had occasion to send for, and examine, my Harvard
transcript. At first I thought they had sent the wrong one. The
record was worse than my dimming memory recalled; and I was
amazed to discover that I was recorded “absent” from a class which
I never remember having even registered for, not to mention attend-
ing. Ah, student daze!

With superhuman effort, I did finally graduate from MELT. I
escaped the war by helping with the “design of radar, and later
worked at the Bell Telephone Laboratories, There I was happy
until they made me a supervisor; at this point T rebelled at having
to M.C. the “festivities” attached to such things as twenty-tiv e-year
dinners for my older fellow-workers, [also rebelled at the thoughe

[ 623 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

that someday I, too, would be the recipient of these ghastly over-
tures. I left.

Of course, my working career was much more checkered than
the above account would indicate. I think it might be summed u
by saving that the struggle was environmental, inevitable, and sel-
dom rewarding. [t is, perhaps, a commentary on our times, but the
fact is that the very “English” so painfully acquired at Harvard
was a handicap in the working world. It was a long time before |
could settle down in the comfort of bad grammar, colorless vocabu-
lary, and incoherent prose which ordinarily marks the man of dis-
tinction in industry. This literary effort will attest to the high de-
gree of success which I finally achieved.

For the past few years, I have been rather happy doing mechan-
ical design on a free-lance basis. Its primary advantage lies in the
fact that I can wage my own, rugged, individualistic war against
whatever seems worth fighting. I take special delight in the war
of the Income Tax, having finally discovered that where one does
not exist, the other is no problem.

A lot of history has oozed between the toes of the Class of 1935.
The depression, the “isms,” the wars, the welfare state, the atomic
era. The “big lie” has found a distinguished niche in the hall of
fame and the mind of man worships daily at its shrine. The pot of
homo sapiens has boiled up a new brew which gurgles like a lusty
infant anthropoid abandoned on the threshold of reason. Whether
or not all of this is important, the ages will decide. Our primary
function is to live, and along the way to pluck the blooms of fancy.
All in all, ’'m glad I passed this way; and now, with a curiosity some-
what detached, I can speculate upon the passing of our children,
their world, and even probe the mysteries of life itself. Perhaps,
now and then, I can be of some service in this mystifying helter-
skelter.

[ G24 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT LIVINGSTON HOLLINS

 

HOME apprEss: East Islip, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE appRESS: H. N. Whitney Goadby & Co., 15 Broad St.. New York 5,
’ ONLY.

BORN: Oct. 15, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: Harry Bowly Hollins, Jr.
’o4, Lilias Livingston.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MaRRIED: Lorraine Young, April 15, 1937, Weston, Mass. ctprex: Lorraine
L., April 3, 1939 (died Dec. 21, 1946); Jean L., Aug. 28, 1941; Judith L,
March 21, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Harry Bowly Hollins, 3d, °3:.

occupaTion: Partner, H, N. Whitney Goadby & Co., investment brokers.

orFices HELD: Director, Bayberry Beach Club; member fund-raising committee,
American Museum of Natural History.

MEMBER OF: Delta Psi; Mid-Occan, Links, St. Anthony and Great River Clubs.

IN the summer of 1935 I went abroad with William Boardman, ’3;,
A. de Bary Lyon, 735, and Phillip Cottrell, Trinity °35; we visited
the British Isles, France, Switzerland and Germany. In the fall of
1935 I worked in a gasoline station on Long Island for Socony
Vacuum. In April, 1937, I married Lorraine Young, honeymooned
in Bermuda, then joined H, N. Whitney & Sons, a brokerage house
in New York.

In the spring of 1942 I went into the infantry as a private. On
Christmas Eve, 1943, I sailed on a troopship, the General Alexander,
for the Mediterranean, at the time I was a heutenant in a rifle com
pany of the 85th Infantry Division, We landed in Africa at Cam-
blanca — then on to Italy. In the process of slithering through mud
and dodging shells on our way from Naples to the Po Valley, as
captain of a rifle company, T received the Silver Star, Bronze Saar,

[ 625 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Combat Infantry Badge and two Purple Hearts R
Rome fell into our hands on the day of the Norma y COincigg
Since the war I have been a partner in H. N. had iny
Company, an investment brokerage house. M pring adby g
are golf, shooting, and figuring out excuses for ta “pal hobbic

, ; ki
days as possible during the course of a year. | mur S many
some feeling of pride that I have become an expert ; admit With
hobby. the latte,

JAMES EDWARD HOLLIS, JR.

 

= AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 62 Lloyd Ave., Providence 6, R.1.

: May 29, 1913, North Scituate, Mass. PARENTs: James Edward Hollis,
Aarion Almore Hall.

RED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.

2D: Priscilla Paul Janney, Dec. 30, 1944, Bryn Mawr, Pa. CHILDREN:
iscilla Janney, Dec. 2, 1946; James Edward, 3d, Nov. 21, 1948; Stephen
ll, Aug. 14, 1950; Kimber, April 21, 1952; Robert Morris, March 29,
4.

ION: President, Ideas, Inc., new product development.
HELD; Secretary, American Textile Machinery Association; vice-pr™
, Worcester Eisenhower Club; trustee, Worcester County Ins
Savings; deputy commissioner, Massachusetts Department mT e
‘e; Massachusetts Coordinator of Atomic Energy; chairman, *
tts Commission on Atomic Energy.

oF: Agawam Hunt Club; Kittansett Club; Woods Hole Gol “
ett Yacht Club, f
'UGH I left Cambridge substantially ahead of Che ah
I prefer to ignore my head start in the wonder ity
*sS to maintain my undeserved reputation for Je ma
zically, various production and sales jobs 19 tex

[ 626 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

nery at Crompton & Knowles in Worcester
chin

m ; gave me my b .
1s bounty from 1933 to 1941, while my prima y bache
I

ry pleasure stemmed
] (sic) services and sports (outdoors),

ce of a serious miscalculation on my part 3

Deni easly i '4t and he following twelve months, era weet,
Fout days; eleven hours and 33% minutes were spent as an enlisted
man at the Newport training station learning to sleep im a ham-
mocks wash clothes, avoid go braid, scrub floors, hate regulars,
joaf unnoticed and drink. When I realized finally that my constitu-
ron was inadequate for the rigors of an enlisted man’s shore duty,
Lac quired a commission in the Coast Guard and promptly went to
sea. An early indication of life’s contradictions — the fighting de
water Navy would not let me out of Newport while the peaceful
shallow water Coast Guard had me buffeted, blasted, bombed and
bullied all over the ocean. After a terrified year tiptoeing around
the North Atlantic on the Weather Patrol ship Menemsha, 1 was as-
signed to a seminar In seasickness as the commanding officer of
LCI(L) 321 and directed to go over and invade North Africa.
Thanks to my unusual navigation ability, I was several months late
for that invasion but did manage to find Sicily, Salerno and Nor-
mandy in the next year and a half —\ followed an ROTC man.
Fortified with four battle stars, two bar scars and a startled look of
incredulity that we even won any battles, let alone wars, 1 com-
pleted my service at the Eastern Sea Frontier Headquarters in New
York as the unlikely officer in charge of Air/Sea Rescue small craft.

Having finally convinced Priscilla Janney to rehabilitate me by
marriage late in 1944, we returned to Worcester and Crompton &
Knowles where I progressed through sales engineer, manager of
carpet loom sales, sales service manager and management staff as-
sistant during the next ten years. While acquiring two girls and
three boys we managed to be fairly active in the PTA and Unitarian
Church notwithstanding enough golf to let Priscilla carry me
through the Massachusetts Club Pair championship in 1956. What
with our bouncing brood and four years completing the might
school of industrial management at Worcester Polytechnic Insti-
tute, there was little time to read.

During 1955-56, I commuted to Boston as the Deputy Commis-
toner of the Massachusetts Department of Commerce in charge of
industrial development, This work was fascinating under Governor

erter since the economy was booming and the leading technical

C : e e wy y + 7 * s ~
Ompanies had strong interests in the great concentration of scien-

[ 627 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

tific brains in metropolitan Boston. Even I acquired
aura as the \fassachusetts Coordinator of Atomic INE 4,.
the first chairman of the Massachusetts Commission f Cand
Energy with a “Q” clearance, no less. When jt becan Or tome
that the policies and methods of Governor Furcolg dir *PParen
stantially from those of Governor Herter, I resigned to er ‘
growth business of F iberglas boats. After a year of scice INO the
tion, production, engineering and cost control as assistant Mo.
Dyer (president of The Anchorage, Inc.), I decide to to Bill
own luck. Hence, Ideas Inc., which ts just starting to blossc,, my
the Mark 1 mallet putter, a Fiberglas catamaran “Scatcat OM With
anti-submarine device, and a couple of others still in the mill a new
There are times when I wonder where we have been goin

last twenty-five years, what with hot and cold wars; the & these
life of influence, inflation and special interests; not to mentions.
odd —to me, anyway — values of integrity, decency and pur ome
However, a quick recollection of the kind and the good, j e i:
mented by the growing response of our five sprouts, leaves me
consumed with eagerness to get on with the work and see what
we can do with the next twenty-five.

Developmen Mig

DUNBAR HOLMES

 

OME avoxess: 11 Draper Rd., Wayland, Mass. Mass
me ones: Hill, Barlow, Goodale & A dams, 53 State St. Boston | vb
N: Oct, "fy 1912, Boston, Mass, pares: Hector McIntosh Holmes,

Helen Lincoln Dunbar,
LPARED AT: B . : ‘
clmone Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

ARS IN COLLEGE:
LEGE: 1931-1936, DEGREES: ' , we
skeen: Batty 2 1935. DEGREES: AB, 19355 LM 1938 ee CUILDREN?
YG, Bell, Dec. 18, 1948, Chestnut Hill, Mass:

[ 628 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Lincoln, Nov. 7, 1949; William Dunbar, Nov. 15, iso, Graham, March

, 1953-
23 o Lawycr-

caro Lecturer, Northeastern University School of Law 1949-51;
OFFI ctr, 1950-59, president, 1954, 1955, Big Brother Association of Boston,
member, exccutlve committee, sINCe 1950, counsel, 1950, 1951, Civil
viberties Union of Massachusetts, vice-president, Massachusetts Squash
Association, 1950; member, Town of Wayland Board of Appeals,

Racquets ;
1951-585 trustee, Massachusetts Savings Bank, since 1954; director, New
England Citizens Crime Commission, since 1955, member, Boston Legal

Aid Society, since 1957; director and clerk, United Unitarian Appeal,

since 1958. .
MEMBER OF: American, Massachusetts and Boston Bar Associations; St. Botolph

Club; Badminton and Tennis Club.
pUBLICATIONS: “Constitutional Privileges of Witnesses —The Law,” 1953,

“Folmes-Sears Letters on a Recent Article,” 1954, The Bar Bulletin, pub-

lished by Boston Bar Association.

[ SPENT the summer of 1935 bicycling in England and faltboat-
ing with Tommy Hunter in Austria. I entered Harvard Law
School in the fall and enjoyed three very happy vears there. For
the first time in my life 1 was thoroughly absorbed in my work and
my mind was really being trained. Law study is intensive but does
not have to be inordinately time-consuming, thus leaving oppor-
tunity for squash and skiing, bull sessions and a reasonable amount
of frivolity. During the summers I served as a tennis instructor
and as a tutor, both summers on the beautiful coast of Maine. A
final trip to Europe, bicycling in Scotland and Ireland, and my
student days were over; or so I thought until the war came.

Having always loved the sea, I applied for the Navy. Being
afflicted with seasickness, I secured a shore job. I couldn't stand
that and applied for sea duty, erroneously assuming that I could
always get back ashore. I was sent to Miami where they trained
you for subchaser duty in six weeks. My first ship, a 110-foot sub-
chaser, was already to go, except it had no officers save me. Tagreed
to take over and within two days, with the help of a drunken chief
whom I should have left in jail, T managed to run through a low
bridge, with unfortunate consequences for our shiny new mast.
After the Naval Inquiry, we were ordered to the Mediterranean, a
trip of forty days by slow convoy. The Germans were sall in

orth Africa and there was plenty of excitement. TE have vivid
recollections of the invasions of Sicily and Salerno, of w atching an
ur raid on Bizerte from the safety of a tennis court ona nearby

Wl, of an unsuccessful attack on a British sub, of Palermo in ruing

[ 629 ]

SS Nem he

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

of our sister ship being blown to bits just after we decided to
the night away from the dock. The rest of the war was 4 1 S

but I never did get back to shore.
The years since the war have passed quickly. | finally fou

girl I had sought so long, and the rest followed inevitably _ © the

boys, a nice spot in country-becoming-suburbia, and com three

by the dozen. I’m settled in a routine life and like it, | even en:

puttering around the place. I expect things will remain about ,

same for the next twenty-five years. the
I've enjoyed my work. The satisfaction comes from solvin

practical problems in an efficient and practical manner rather th

from grappling with intellectually exciting law schoo] question,

It is usually possible and preferable to find ways of avoiding them

The mechanics and economics of the profession interest me greatly

Law is by its nature a time-consuming hand operation which i

becoming more and more expensive in relation to other goods and

services which can be mechanized in varying degrees. Conse.
quently, its cost is often appalling to the client, and its rewards ip.
creasingly unsatisfactory to the practitioner.

Sports have been a source of considerable enjoyment for me,
Before marriage and leaving the city, I played a lot of competitive
squash, traveled around to tournaments and held a low State rank.
ing. To me, certain sports, especially tennis, have an aesthetic
quality. I derive the same thrill from a flat backhand down the
line or a well-controlled ski turn that a violinist gets from creating
a perfect tone. My only luxury is a tennis court on my place, and
my greatest joy is in coaching my three boys who, fortunately,
share my enthusiasm.

I believe that lawyers have a special responsibility in the continu-
ing struggle to preserve those liberties and principles which are
basic to our system of government and our way of life, and which
are constantly threatened with encroachment by well-meaning, but
I believe mistaken, people concerned with security, morality and
other desirable objectives. The problem is one of appreciating the
importance and significance of individual liberties and other prin-
ciples basic to a free society, of recognizing the implications ©
their infringement, and of exercising balanced judgment in weighing
the damage caused by their violation against the real needs of se
curity and other conflicting values. In the past ten years, I have
devoted a considerable portion of my thought and time 0 this
effort and expect to do so in the future, The McCarthy ¢4 IS

[ 630]

Pend
Ct-down

?

H ANN IVERSARY REPORT

257

__« put we are now entering upon a time of INCreasing

ding» - . the separation of Church and State, a question
rtant than the Fifth Amendment.

 

110 Berkshire Pl., Lawrence, N.Y.
Holmes & Healy, 70 Pine St., New York 5, N.Y.
New York, N.Y. parents: Jabish Holmes, 79, Marie

HOME ADDRESS:
orrice appress: Healy,
porn: May 24, 1914,
Neff Humes.
preparep AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: S.B., 1935; LL.B. (New York Univ.),
1938.

marniep: Marguerite Ballantine, Aug. 8, 1938, Hewlett, N.Y. (divorced 1947)5
Evelyn Ogden Hatch, March 20, 1948, Hampton Bays, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Emlen Williams, Jr., Nov. 18, 1939; Peter Ballantine, Nov. 20, 1942; Jabish
Herbert, March 8, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Jabish Holmes, ’21.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

MEMBER OF: Rockaway Hunting Club, Cedarhurst, N.Y.

  

| 631]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

CHARLES LAWRENCE HOLT

 

HOME abpRESS: 230 Foreside Rd., Falmouth Foreside, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 27 Deering St., Portland, Maine.

3oRN: Oct. 3, 1912, Lawrence, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Lawren .

Amelia Whiteway. °¢ Holt, Annie

REPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934. DEGREE: M.D., 1938.

‘aRRiED: Sarah Gertrude Beck, Dec. 16, 1933, Derry, N-H. cuipren: Law-
rence Wright, Feb. 28, 1948; William Faulkner, Feb. 27, 1949; Eric Strand
March 10, 1950; Nancy Lucinda, Nov. 26, 1954. ,

SUPATION: Physician in private practice; specializing in internal medicine,

ICES HELD: Senior attending physician, Maine Medical Center, Portland;

visiting physician, Mercy Hospital, Portland; general chairman, Maine

Medical Association Centennial Session, 1953.

ABER OF: National Board of Medical Examiners (diplomate); Board of

Internal Medicine (diplomate); American College of Physicians; American

Medical Association; Maine Medical Association; American Heart Asso-

>iation; Portland Country Club; Harvard Club of Boston; Cumberland

sounty Medical Association; Portland Medical Club. ;
caTIONS: Medical articles in New England Journal of Medicine, Medical
limics of North America, American Heart Journal, Modern Medicine,
surnal of Maine Medical Association.

OWING my junior year at the College I was faced with the
on of going on to my senior year for the purpose of getting
achelor’s degree, or taking a gamble on applying to Harvard
al School for admission.

ok the gamble (influenced considerably by the fact that
arried — a rare stunt in those days — and was anxious to “B*
in the field of medicine) and by some strange quirk of iat
cepted for entry to the Medical School. Four of the he
>piest years of my life were spent struggling through ve.
School course, By the grace of God I graduated and!

[ 632 ]

2 5TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

M.D. degree in 1938. Following this L interned at h
husetts General Hospital, the House of the Good Samari.
Massa ow a part of the Boston Children’s Medical Center) and the

tan » General Hospital. ;

Man owing a brief episode of private practice in Portland, Maine
r ed the 67th General Hospital, A.US., and spent three miser-
oin ears in England as neurologist of the neuropsychiatric service

able y éyth General Hospital Unit (1200 beds), and shared responsi-

of t he fot running two large prison wards containing both sane and

bY otic inmates. Our hospital had the dubious honor of beinc

Pe onl y American hospital in the British Isles with prison ward

facilities. . ,

After the war I decided to spend some time in academic medi-
cine and accordingly obtained a research fellowship in internal
medicine at the Evans Memorial of the Massachusetts Memorial
Hospitals. During this period I worked with Dr. Franz Inglefinger,

Dr. Chester Keefer and Dr. Joseph Ross. During the same period

(1946) I was also assistant in medicine at the Boston University

School of Medicine. Following these assignments I obtained a yob

at the Massachusetts General Hospital with Dr. Paul White and his

group as fellow in medicine assigned in cardiology.

At the end of 1947 I returned to private practice in Portland,
Maine, and have remained here since, not having been asked to
leave as yet. As part of my questionable glory and contribution to
society, 1 was the first physician in Maine to be licensed by the
Atomic Energy Commission, and with this qualification helped set
up the radioisotope department of the Maine Medical Center. 1 also
started the first medical division of the already functioning tumor
clinic at the same hospital. Because of the pressure of so much work
and due to an extraordinary loss of time from illnesses (very un-

becoming to a physician), I resigned from the above-mentioned
posts,

ceive

From 4 more personal point of view, my wife and I were blessed
with the birth of a son in 1948, after a long wait, we having been
married in 1933. To our great surprise and joy, a sccond son was
1 In 1949 and a third in igs. In 1954 a lovely little daughter
Joined the family, Being associated with three rough and tough

r s a . . ~ .
others, her only female characteristics lie in the field of anatomical

What do I
Most frustrati

think of the practice of medicine? [have found it a
ng, discouraging profession. Being by nature a sensi-

[ 633 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

tive character, I am overwhelmed by the condemnation and
crucifixion of the enure profession by the American pr “tual
American journalists in general, who assign the sins of a é ess and
whole body of the profession — this in spite of the fact thar fo the
there is no single group of people who contribute m ore on q © date
able basis and who give more of themselves. T resent being con Charj.
5 make medical decisions on the basis of “avoiding a lawsuip? polled
an on the basis of what is fundamentally medically and poet
rically correct. But the threat of $100,000 to $200,009 suits ( ao
+ is) being handed out so freely by our Courts takes the Cour w,
blood out of even the most sturdy in spirit. age

ARTHUR DAVID HOLZMAN

       

\ %

yoz Dorset Ave., Chevy Chase 15, Md.

Jifice of the General Counsel, Dept. of the Air Force, the
ashington 25, D.C, |
Boston, Mass. PAaRENTs: George Augustus Holzman, Augusta

Latin School, Boston, Mass.
931-1934. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1935 (34); LLB, 1937.
Silverman, June 27, 1935, Providence, R.I. cHILp: Judith,

general counsel of the Air Force.

der, U.S.N.R., since World War II; foreign corres
‘ast), 1947-51, Mutual and Columbia Broadcasting Sys
Publications, Pathfinder Magazine. |

ess Club, American Society of Military Comptrollers
narrator, LP documentary album, “Israel is Born,

when venturing forth from Cambridge, that
charted for me was a long meandering 0%

[ 634]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REpORY

__ imless rambling th 5
. owhere an aim g rough time and
jead 8 abv ous destination or purpose. The wandering track bea
without he globe erratically. it penetrated Asian jungles and
erse Alpine cliffs, probed fjords in Alaska and Norway, fol-

climes Jordan. to Dead Sea caves, circled the “Yay Mahal by

Jowe" | ht; ascended the North Cape by midnight Suny Crossed the
zon, the Rhine and the Bosphorus; skirted beaches at Copaca-

Ama ad Waikiki. It paralleled bar rails from Singapore’s Raffles

ba Kowloon’s Peninsular to TVeheran’s Park and Karachi’s Metro-

ane It entered DP camps and diplomatic receptions, the hut of a

Prev farmer, the marble palace of a Shah.

1N*D

At times it led to monuments of man’s quest for the ultimate —

to a shrine in Kyoto, a mosque im Amman, a temple in Delhi, a Wat

in Bangkok, a church in Rome, a synagogue in Jerusalem — and to

the steps of a marble tomb in Red Square. At times it led to wars

and threats of war —to a South Atlantic Naval Station, a batile-

feld in Israel, a border checkpost in Berlin, K-16 in Korea, a cur-

few in Cyprus, the flightline of a Chinats squadron poised to pro-

tect Quemoy. It coursed through seas of human faces—on a
Saturday night at Tivoli Gardens, at Carnival in Recife, a Durga

Puja religious festival in India, a military victory celebration in
Tel-Aviv, a Sunday afternoon on the Champs Elysees, a beery
binge at Munich’s Oktoberfest. It picked its way past other, in-
dividual faces — homeless Hindus sleeping each night on Calcutta’s
sidewalks, delicate Yemenites airlifted to an ancient homeland after
2000 years of dispersion and persecution, poverty-stricken mothers
selling their daughters’ flesh in the shadow of Teheran’s sumptuous
palaces, Piccadilly prostitute faces, Seville B-girl faces, Tokyo
massage-pirl faces, San Juan Skid-Row faces.

Along Fate’s flexuous path 1 acquired a wife, begat a child, \ost
it hair, gained twenty pounds, became a one-time-some-time jack
nats a lawyer in Boston, a newscaster on radio, a civil serv-
Ne} ; : . : Tae
i N Washington, an actor ina movie, a commander in the Navy,

Orr . .
coll “spondent in the Middle East, a narrator on an LP record, a

ect ~.* eo. . .
ve colonist at the Dead Sea, My greatest ambition 1s to add

34
‘rcheologist” to that list.

eddres '935~1960 has brought me neither fame, fortune, not hued
Search ee the realization that there are far more problems in
1960-1 *t solutions than 1 ever envisaged I 1931-1935: Perhaps

8 ‘ 8
°§ Will provide some of the answers.

| 635 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

GEORGE MURRAY HOPKINS

 

HOME apprESS: Ballston Lake, N.Y.

OFFICE apprEss: General Electric Co., Waterford, N.Y.

BorN: Dec. 7, 1912, Brooklyn, N.Y. PaRENTS: George G. Hopkins, Lisa D,
Bloodgood.

PREPARED AT: Burnt Hills-Ballston Lake High School, Ballston Lake, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; M.F. (Yale Univ.), 1937.

MarrigpD: Vernice B. Orlop, 1938, Ballston Center, N.Y. cHiLpren: Richard
M., Jan. 28, 1943; Susan J. and Sandra A. (twins), March 4, 1948.

occupation: Production engineer, Silicone Products Department, General
Electric Company.

AFTER graduation I started the summer session at the Yale Forestry
School and got a Master’s degree in June of 1937. I then went to
work as assistant in research for the New Hampshire Forest and
Recreation Department. After the 1938 hurricane I began work-
ing for the U.S. Forestry Department on timber salvage. In March,
1941, I was transferred to the Plumas National Forest in California.
In December I was hired by the Ordnance Department to work at
Picitinny Arsenal, Dover, New Jersey. At the end of the war I
came to the General Electric Company at Schenectady where sili-
cones were being Pilot Planted. In May, 1947, the silicone opera-
tions were moved to a new plant at Waterford. After a few rough
years the business grew enough to become an independent depart-
ment. During most of this growth period I was a production fore-
man and had also such duties as fire chief and suggestion board
member, More recently my chief activity has been production
engineering (making the equipment work).

My hobby is farming. I have a one-hundred-acre farm and run

a bunch of Angus (forty to fifty), a couple of Guernseys and some
chickens.

 

[ 636 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

As a member of the Ballston Center Presbyterian Church J teach
a Sunday School class and have been a trustee, elder and benevo-
lence treasurer.

ROGER BROOKE HOPKINS, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2 E. Gittings Ave., Baltimore i2, Md.

OFFICE apprEss: Fidelity Baltimore National Bank, Baltimore 3, Md.

BORN: July 25, 1912, Baltimore, Md. parents: Roger Brooke Hopkins, Josepha
Mathilde Noel Crosby.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1935.

MarRIED: Isabelle Jenkins Whedbee, Oct. 5, 1940, Baltimore, Md. cHILDREN:
Roger Brooke, 3d, March 25, 1942; Elizabeth Manly, Sept. 16, 1958.

occuPATION: Trust officer, Fidelity Baltimore National Bank.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Club of Maryland, 1941-42, Instructive Visit-
ing Nurse Association of Baltimore, since 1955; vice-president and chair-
man, Finance-Executive Committee, James Lawrence Kernan Hospital for
Crippled Children, Baltimore, since 1956; trustee, Emanuel Chambers
Foundation.

MEMBER OF: Elkridge Club; Merchants Club of Baltimore, Baltimore Security
Analysts Society; Bachelors Cotillion (member, board of managers).

A SHARPLY worded post card has greeted my return from a
Columbus Day weekend in New England calling my attention to
the fact that only forty-five members of the Class of 1935 have
sent in their biographies (and only some 24s days till Reunion! ).
More power to these forty-five! “They either have allotted more
time than I have to this task, or else they have hired or married a
good ghost writer.

That one has elected to pursue one's life in the same location
where he was born might be felt by some to preclude a life of dra-
matic interest. As a matter of fact, I not only have continued to

{ 637 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

live in Baltimore where I was born, but on the same plot of ground,
We did over the stable on my family’s place as a temporary dwell-
ing when we were married in 1940 and have, with later embellish-
ments, continued to live there ever since. My wife continues to tell
people it’s still only temporary, but I suspect that even she is be-
ginning to suspect that in this age of change anybody that lives in
one place as long as one year, much less twenty, is permanently
settled.

Not long after graduation — after putting in a couple of years
in the bond department of a local bank —I made an effort to get
out into the big world by applying for the U.S. Foreign Service.
As I recall, I was among 600 or 700 candidates standing for written
examinations, among 100-odd who stood for orals, but not among
fifteen or twenty who were finally accepted. Fortunately, any re-
grets I felt were shortly thereafter assuaged by finding a bride; so
I returned to the investment business and settled down in the role
of a family man, etc., etc.

Having thus settled down, wed and produced a son, I was given
my chance to see the world — courtesy of the U.S. Navy. Before
I received my discharge, early in 1946, I had been as far east as the
Mediterranean and west as New Zealand and the Philippines. In
1947 I moved out of investment banking into trust investment work,
a field in which I have been ever since.

Gradually one becomes immersed in a seemingly larger and
larger number of activities business, charities, social — not to
speak of car pools, lawn-mowing, do-it-yourself activities around
the house, interrupted with vacations to the White Mountains with

occasional forays further afield to Montana or Bermuda.

Service to the community through membership on the boards of
a number of charitable institutions has been a never-ending source
of satisfaction. The Emanuel Chambers Foundation has been an
especially interesting and a unique experience. Emanuel Chambers
was the major-domo, first of the Baltimore Club and later of the

Maryland Club, and the confidant of hundreds over a span of forty

or more years. At his death he left an estate of more than $100,000,

said to have come from tips and other information given him by
members. In his will, Emanuel stipulated that the income was to go
to deserving members of his — the colored — race. His first trustees
were all men who had known and loved him for years. In the
twenty years since his death more than $200,000 has been given
away and at the same time the principal has increased threefold. It

[ 638 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

has been a privilege to have served as one of FEmanuel’s trustees and
to have played a small part in bettering the relations between races.

Perhaps the most exciting recent event was the arrival, in 1958,
of a daughter, sixteen and a half years after her brother — by that
time a junior at Hotchkiss School. Needless to say, this has brought
a refreshing breath to our lives, while at the same time giving us
split personalities as we try, on the one hand, to get one child into
college and on the other hand try to get pablum into the other.

It is regrettable that so little of these twenty-five years has been
connected with Harvard and Harvard classmates. With a few out-
standing exceptions, contacts with classmates have been sporadic —
a chance meeting in the Washington airport, an evening at the bar
of the Hotel do Pacifique, Noumea, New Caledonia (1943 or ’44)
or glimpses at Harvard-Princeton football games. Perhaps with
the experience of the coming Reunion and (fingers crossed at time

of writing) a Harvard Son, future contacts will be more frequent
and closer.

ROBERT SPAULDING HORMELL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Bellevue Ave., Melrose 76, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1152 Beacon St., Brookline, Mass.; 8 Porter Se, Melrose, Mass.

BORN: March 25, 1914, Brunswick, Maine. parents: Orren Chalmer Hormell,
AM., ’og, Elizabeth L. Spaulding.

PREPARED AT: Brunswick High School, Brunswick, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B, Clem lade, 19355 MD, 1030

MaRRIED: Catherine Frances McManus, Jan. 18, 1931, Wakeficld, Mass cut-
DREN: Jane Elizabeth, Nov, 21, 1992; Robert Gregory, Nov
George Garner, Dec. 25, 1949; Mark, Oct. 22, t9s5.

occuPATION: Medicine; orthopedic surgery.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor of orthopedic and fracture surgery, Boston Univerniny
School of Medicine, visiting orthopedic surgeon, Massachusetts Memorial

[ $39 ]

1 2d, Oy,

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ospitals, Boston City Hospital, Robert Breck .
eet Vakefield Hospital, Malden Hospital, N. ow ne a, Hospital M
Hospital, Stoneham, Mass. n Sanatoriyy
MEMBER oF: American Academy of Orthopedic Surgery; A ;
of Surgeons; American Rheumatism Association; America, S23
ciation; Massachusetts Medical Association, n Med
pusiications: “Notes on History of Rheumatism and Goyt”
Arthroplasty of the Knee,” 1952. ,

ILLOWING college, the years through 1939 were spent
-d Medical School. Postgraduate training began with nt Har.
3oston City Hospital on the Harvard (Fifth) Surgical S, Years
inued in orthopedics at the Massachusetts Genera] Hew
Thildren’s Hospital. In May, 1942, my training was interme
November, 1945, by military service. This army servi pred
- ” . . ce was

1 New Caledonia and Okinawa doing the work of an orth
1 handling battle casualties and casualties among base tro i"
1947, more months were spent at Children’s Hospital ond
1 Brigham Hospital, Boston. Iwo years as a fellow at
chusetts General Hospital followed and on January ,
zen and a half years after graduation from college, the
aining ended and practice began.

necessary period of training in medicine is no hard-
or most of us a matter of pride, if for our wives and
1uite a different matter. The last ten years have fol-
ern of practice and teaching of the earlier years in
e is the recurring challenge of diagnosis, constant
2 anxiety and fear which the patient offers, the de-
rion of restoration to health. Medicine and ortho-
lar suffer because we have no tangible product

cs). Our only dividends can be the patient's re-

N Coll
Ica] Ase’

I 94 Ts “Nylon

pays a heavy price for their father’s engross-
Vet we have enjoyed the growth of our four
uring the summer months which we spend at
at Freedom, New Hampshire. With family
ed and built our cottage and each summer
iere. The present finds our daughter plan-
xt fall, after a happy and successful care
. Bobby who goes Into high school 0
Cs. George, at ten, is busy building Me
four, is an atonal singer with the Joua¢

[ 640 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

kindergarten. Their mother’s other

: Career js
tce 10 ‘ - apt to ¢
ice me to come — workin Oon-
yo ne for some ti g with the Parent-1 eachers
associations:

CHARLES SNEAD HOUSTON

 

HOME ADDRESS: Pitkin Green, Aspen, Colo.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Aspen Clinic, P.O. Box 216, Aspen, Colo.
porn: Aug. 24, 1913, New York, N-Y. parents: Oscar Remple Houston,

Nellie Snead Macdonald.
prepARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; M.D. (Columbia Univ), 1939.
marriep: Dorcas Laidley Tiemeyer, July 2, 1941, New York, NAY. cannes:
Dorcas Scott, 1945; Robin Macdonald, 1948, David Lewis Rafiner, 1952.
occupation: Physician: internal medicine, cardiology.
oFFices HELD: President, New Hampshire Heart Association, director, Colo-

rado TB Association; various civic posts.

MEMBER OF: American College of Physicians, American College of Cardiology,

New Hampshire and Colorado State Medical Societies; American Medical
Association, Colorado Tuberculosis Association, Colorado Heart Asso-
ciation,

PUBLICATIONS: Five Miles High, Dodd Mead & Co., New York, 1939, K-2 The
Savage Mountain, McGraw-Hill, 1954 (translated into Spanish, French, Japa-
nese, Norwegian, Italian, German); ten medical papers on high alunade
physiology, five mountaincering articles for Swiss and American Journals,

TRYING to reflect intelligently on the past twenty-five yeats is 4

panful and difficult process, The pattern—or lack of one —in

One's life is still too vague to be seen clearly, and the temptation

‘0 generalize js great. One ts too young still to be truly Prilosophie,

yet some glimmering of truth is in sight. |

wi Went through Harvard unaware fot the most part ot what \
Missing. The wonderful things 1 did get have remained cleat

[641 |

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

he twenty-third Advanced Management
LAWRENCE REID HOUSTON acended Business School in 1953. Sports —tenmig em ot
a pT, Hlarva Hobby — gardening. >

swimming,
rhe ‘li
and sa! ing

     

CHARLES KING HOWARD

 

ADDRESS: 3114 R St. N.IVV.,, Washington 7, D.C.

appress: Central Intelligence Agency, Dept. of State, Washington Dc
Jan. 4, 1913, St. Louis, Mo, parents: David Franklin Houston Hele,
, n

 

l,
at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; LL.B. (Univ. of Virginia) |
: HOME ADDRESS: 263 University Drive, Menlo Park, Calif.

orrice appress: American Can Co., San Francisco, Calif.

fean Wellford Randolph, 1939, Charlottesville, Va. cuitpren: David
porn; June 29, 1911, New York, N.Y. Parents: Morton Albertson Howard,

ace, 1947; Deborah Jean, 1948.
| General counsel, Central Intelligence Agency, Department of Edna Virginia King.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
. . . YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. cu laude, 1935.
g to 1943, practised law with White & Case, 14 Wall marriep: E, Virginia Gardner. CHILDREN: Noel Jane, Feb. 1, 1943, Susan Lee.

York City. HARVARD BROTHER: Lee Perot Howard, °35.
nto the Army as a private, April, 1943; assigned to occupation: Personnel work, American Can Company, container manufac-
‘e School, Fort Benjamin Harrison, Indianapolis, In- turers.

d to Advanced Finance School, also at Fort Benja-
In 1944 and left there to go to the Judge Advocate
er Candidate School in the Law School, University LEE PEROT HOWARD

raduated from OCS and commissioned first lieu-
944, and assigned to the Office of General Coun-
itegic Services (OSS); went to Italy in September,
iicer for the OSS Mediterranean Theatre; went to
1945, and became deputy chief and legal adviser
: East Theatre; promoted to captain in 19453 Te
ron October, 1945, and became general counsel,
Unit, Department of the Army, successor ™
il counsel of the Central Intelligence Group)
946, which was succeeded by the Central In
cated by the National Sccurity Act of 1947)

nsel of CIA to the present time.

 

144 | 645 |

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935
porn: Dec. 31, 1912, Yonkers, N.Y. PARENTs: Morton Albe

Edna Virginia King.
prepareD AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934; 1935-36. DEGREE: A.B., 1935 (36).

UN MARRIED. . ,
warvarp BrorHER: Charles King Howard, "35.

occuPATION: Free-lance writer.
MEMBER OF: Y.M.CA.

\FTER graduation was unemployed for a while. Finally got
1 the Madison Eagle in New Jersey, a weekly Newspaper. wk
road in 1938 and drove a group of girls on the Grand Tou; Win
outbreak of war became a newsbroadcaster for Paris Mon fg
French short-wave government station, for broadcasts to North
rica, and through Saigon to the Fast. After the fall of France
red to the United States via Spain and Portugal by bicycle
rked then on the Daily News in New York, left it to enlist
Army in April before Pearl Harbor. Wound up in the Signal
ficer school at Fort Monmouth where the brightest student
llow from Yale, named McGeorge Bundy. Then entered
relligence, became head of the French translation section,
ion of North Africa ended the importance of French
, and I shifted to the OSS. Became a counter-intelligence
surope, where the principal duty was to keep enemy
agents with short-wave radios from talking behind
idiers’ backs. The messages, which the Germans
from their agents, came from us.
1othing very exciting —a trip out west to see the
‘west. Both wonderful. And now for three years I
king on a book about Harvard and Yale which I
> rewarding. My father, two uncles, and three
» Yale. But you may be sure that Harvard gets
f It. Dot

4

[ 646 J

we

rts
on Howa, d
3

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FISHER HOWE

 

Foreign Service, Dept. of State, Washington 25, D.C.
Winnetka, Il. parents: Lawrence Howe, ’o7, Hester

apprEss: 0
poRN: May 175 1914,

Davis. .
PREPARED AT? North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, Il.

yEARS IN COLLEGE: 193171935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.
marrieD: Deborah Froelicher, June 4, 1945, Colorado Springs, Colo, cares:

Flizabeth, Aug. 23, 1951; Shippen, Nov. 15, 1955. |
HARVARD BROTHERS: David Leavitt Howe, 37, Lawrence Howe, Jr "42, Richard

> .
Warren Howe, “45. | .
occuration: U.S. Foreign Service; counselor of embassy, Oslo, Norway.

memser oF: Metropolitan Club, Washington, D.C.

HARVARD’S shock treatment: after twenty-fiv e years you will
search your soul and publicly discuss your predatory existence,
fulfillments and failures. All right, John Shrinkerman.
Comely, long-suffering wife, two manic offspring and 1 are ad-
justing, without too many compensating manifestations, to the
skiing and skaaling diplomatic life of Oslo, Norway, our first, if
belated, overseas post in the foreign service, Except for a wholly it-
rational national compulsion to eat dinner at four in the afternoon,
Norway and Norwegians are highly rewarding,
We rarely see Chicago and Winnetka, the early hy per-nommal en-
vironmental influence. The five years, 1935-49, following college,
Were spent as a textile salesman for C. & P. Coats-Chatks Thread
Company, travelling around the United States (New York, Colo-
Tado and Arizona) and England (Yorkshire), A yeat ot so sadying
and teaching (Webb School, California) were indulgent and tua,
nd fhough, Four yeats (1941-45) in the Orhee of Straregre
“Vices and the Navy — in Britain, Corsica and Ceylon — were

| 647 |

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

exciting and lucky: unlike most I never had a frustratin

Bat enough, too. & Moment

We were married after the war and found our e

State Department and diplomacy. I have been with the Beat ‘tthe
© Dew

artment since 194s. We have few covetous yearn

. in Ss f
nney marts or for teaching. Almost none, that is, ( 8S for th,

“A d
ok.) | Bs
e obsessive life of Washington ts, however, our sublj
sve a house and some friends and shall return

Not too many. A set of tennis, a gin and

Mal po
al,

after other Posts

tonic, and thoy

VOLNEY WEBSTER HOWE

     

St., Gardner, Mass.
ardson & Co., Inc., 268 Central St., Gardner, Mass.
_ Mass, PARENTS: Henry Franklin Howe, ’o1, Edith

chool, Gardner, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Academy,

GREE? A.By 1935.

, Sept. 30, 1937, Gardner, Mass, CHILDREN:
»; Henry Franklin, Dec. 24, 1946.
broker, |
chardson & Company, Inc.; deacon, F
and member executive board, Henry Hey °

an ef
Gardner Savings Bank; director, Coll

a | etts
Chamber of Commerce, Massachus

nce
Worcester North Board of Insura

rst

otary; various sporting clubs.

“ in
becomes when accumulating

. : i j
, easily tell the truth; no one will believe him anyway,” Plomay

2§ TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

nts and impressions for presentation in the Mperishab
choue enty-fifth report! Even the recollectio . “ Prose

. m of far
C 4 4 MIE Seems
fa = as I recognize with gratitude the countless blessings whe
rece fallen into my lap. # Sion

pave major accomplishment of the past twenty

The “Ave years has

ae d retention (

he acquisition (1937) and re XO date) of th
ben [ had courted assiduously since the age of ateeen ‘Only one
b .

¢ her many contributions to a pappy Marriage is the ability to
make the old man and the kids laugh out loud during those times

when laughter | is the only strective therapy. Consequential ac-

com lishments include a daughter, how twenty-one and a suadent ar
the U niversity of Colorado, and a thirteen-year-old son, Their in-
terests, activities, achievements and problems are a soutce of won-
der, pride and concern to us. | ertainly, they Manage to Keep us in
4 constant, sympathetic turmoil,

After graduation from college 1 attended the Business School for
a year and left, with marriage in mind, to take a job with the Hev-
wood-Wakefield Company of Gardner, where L worked for eight
years with regular but oh! so small increases in salary wnt World
War Il. The U.S. Navy installed me as a gunnery officer transport
ing troops to the various theatres of war. From a personal stand-
point this was a fairly bloodless operation, but it dad take me to
other parts of the world and added many pages, both tage and
hilarious, to the book of experience.

Six frustrating years followed in a small, highly successtul Lamily-
owned manufacturing business until 1952, when L rebelled aad
went back to Harvard! Two nights a week of classes n Sever and
Harvard Halls learning the fundamentals of property woatsace
provided the springboard for changing my catcer st age Lory,
Not the least of my pleasures during this period was the OPPOT
nity to observe with the detached amusement and envy of Moe gex-

headed alumnus the antics of these coeducational walergin

ates, In 1954 1 became an associate of C.F. Richardson (Compan,

Inc, a general insurance agency, and in 1957 Wought K oot Wt
better or worse, lock, stock and barrel, We ate gtowtag Sloowly Wet
teadily, and plans are now in the works for oxy apse WHA WI
probably double the business and headaches.

Now Lam “my own bossy” answerable only to the wiiee Os
Proyecs, the vagaries af the companies anna L peNTEreak LS MOE,
Moods and needs of MY custamrets, the pornpers prorat ENNIS uh

[ SoH, ‘48 ° ‘ wa ar A vo
Pofessional associations, the banks (htother\, lest, suis, A

\ 649 \

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

rdinances and the opinions of the guy sitting next to
oO

me ;
coffee bar. Working with and for people has been the most chit
lig.

. leaves all too little 4;

j xperience of my life, but . © tin
hobbies of hunting, fishing, pistol shooting and, believe
ET osaphy? My powers of expression are dismall

I fumble and bumble along taking each day as it comes, ho i
can make it just a bit better than the one just past, failin

© for

privilege of enjoying life as it 1S.

LLEWELLYN HOWLAND, JR.

 

ppress: 53 High St. South Dartmouth, Mass.

poress: W, & L, Howland Insurance Agency, South Wharf, South

mouth, Mass.

n. 8, 1912, Jamaica Plain, Mass. parents: Llewellyn Howland, '0,
» Waldo.

aT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
OLLEGE: 1931-1933.

sarah Ives, April 28, 1934, Salem, Mass. CHILDREN: Sarah, Aug. 16,
1. Fric J. M. Godfrey, May 24, 1958); Llewellyn, 3d, Aug. 21, 19375
‘ves, Sept. 11, 1940, GRANDCHILD: Spencer K. Godfrey, 2d, March

: Llewellyn Howland, 3d, ’60.
HER: Waldo Howland, ’30.
[nsurance and real estate broker,

33, with language pro in prospect and with prosperity
ye around the corner, I set forth into the business worl
about banking. Because of my exalted position as an
enger” for a Boston bank, I pulled down the prince'y

[ 650 ]

i
t Or No
in

h to b ily thareeeeedeently
and succeeding only often enoug to be eternally thankfy] for the

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

lary of $12-50 instead of the slightly less lordly $8.50 of
weekly = ex bankers, known as “floor messengers.” After a couple
ne YOu “yelivering messages through winter blizzard and summer
of yous and 1 was well versed in Boston office and street locations,
concl uded that the banking business was not for me.
Jso che next two years a Canadian gold mine consisting of one
old and ninety-nine per cent hot air fortunately (before
E air was gone) offset my losses in two small independent

gil the ne en gaged in operating a string of gasoline filling stations.
Co ght the good battle morning, noon, and night, but without
we

how of nearly enough capital. It was exciting, for a time
kno 1], but in the end disastrous.
operuls

Having lived in Marblehead with my growing family SINCE 1934,
+ was my good fortune in 1937 to become associated with Mr.
i

Benj amin C. Tower, realtor, of Boston, as his North Shore repre-

entative. Prosperity was still very much around the corner, but 1
enjoyed my work, also became an insurance broker, and occasion-
I made a dollar. In 1941 we reluctantly left our good frends in
Marblehead and moved to South Dartmouth, Massachusetts, where
I had spent pleasant summers in my youth and where my father and
brother were then living.
During the first year in South Dartmouth we built a house and 1
struggled to establish my own real estate and insurance brokerage
business. At the same time my brother, Waldo, was hard at work
operating a new yacht storage and repair yard on Padanaram
Harbor, South Dartmouth. Before either of our enterprises was
more than launched, Waldo joined the Navy and 1 was left to mind
the infants. I then learned what it was to be fully occupied, and in
spite of the disastrous hurricane of 1944, Waldo, instead of the banks,
continued to own the boatyard and the brokerage business showed
a profit,
After the war my brother and I joined forces and after fourteen
a et -
aa . working in the same office, living next door to cach other,
ease, i ing in each other’s successes and failures, we still remain
n 1 Y . ‘ . °
£0 to ably polite to one another. We still have some little way to
partners, our ancestor, who celebrated fifty years of harmonious
called 'p with his brother by building and operating 4 whaleship
“¢ Concordia, " -
Ince ou .
my re creat Move to South Dartmouth and up until wo years As
a WW} ‘ ‘ yr me ¢*
ame, Ror th and civic duties were, you might say, one and the
those fifteen years T suddenly left startled guests \ott

[ 651 |

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

telephone conversations in mid-air, jumped from m
dashed from my tub to respond to our local fire a]
those years I also served as Clerk of the fire distric

departments are fast disappearing from the America

like to record my praise of those that were well run. In
in spite of some unfounded comments to the contrary oe
ment was (and is) excellent, and the firemen are experi
what is more, put out fires. And here is what the taxpay
then the call department is no more: thirty men on ¢
ur hours a day, seven days a week, Sundays and holida
-a total annual payroll of around $7,000.
Jur three children have been a great pleasure and delight to
> 1935, when the first one was born. We were fortunate to ‘
ro send each of them to private boarding schools in the genera
n area for the last four years of their school careers, This, |
broadened their outlook and made for lasting friendships
dest child is married to, of all men, an Eli banker, and We
ve a delightful grandson. Our son is in his last year at Har.
J our youngest, a daughter, 1s in her first year at Benning.
ce.
st twenty-five years have been interesting and happy.
cashore village may be less eventful than city life, but it

ompensa tions,

b
arm, Foes

t. Since c

Ce

DAYTON WOOD HULL

 

ett St. Kensington, Md.
tate, Washington 25, D.C. : | Uynt
it, NJ. parents: Robert Chipman H ull, Eshic H

| High School, Rochester, N.Y.

§. DEGREES! A.By 1935; AM. 1938; PIP

[ 652 ]

1938

Me pe he eam te 0 Ep ante ete

ten of

n scene, | wor

r Case,
Ip.

€ncedq a P
er will Miss
all twenty.
YS Includeg
%

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

e Gidley Carter, July 10, 1937, Nonh Db
ARLE: orah Robin, April 10, 1939, Carter Chipman. Mune
EN Henry, May 28, 1946, John Tucker, May 19, 1956 ch 17,
son: Carter Chipman Hull, 63. .
pARVARD w: Chief, Allowances Division, Department of State
ooouRAt ELD: President, 1945-47, member of governing body, Greenbelt Con
rvices.
se wnerican Society for Public Administration,

pRE- Iggr,
Charles a

oFFIces
sumer Ss

MEMBER OF
WHEN living at Lowell House I enjoyed taking the “ Alpha” ana

womeg2” symphonies of Beethoven and playing them at full vol.
me in the music room. Tonight, listening to the ste
UW

crashing of sound in my own living room, it isn’t hard to re-create

ehose undergraduate years. It is easier for me than most, 1 must
confess, for | made one of my infrequent visits to Cambridge just
this past September when “Chip” moved into the Yard as a mem-
ber of the Class of 763. I am pained to note that the Questionnaire
our Class sent does not have space for Radcliffe daughters, almost

four years ago I drove up to Radcliffe to enter Debbie in the Class
of 60. How many Harvard-Radcliffe fathers are there, 1 wonder?

With a major in government and a degree from Littauer, it should
come aS a surprise to no one that 1 went to work in Washington in
the fall of 1938. Under the government big top my career has
resembled a series of leaps from one flying trapeze to another:
Farm Credit Administration, National Youth Administration, back
to Farm Credit, to the Civil Service Commission, the Office of De-
fense Transportation, and the Petroleum Administration for War.
With the war I simply changed gray flannels for blue. One Fri-
day I was the director of personnel for PAAV., next Monday
Lieutenant Hull was in charge of employment for the Bureau of
Ships. One of my problems was supplying enough engincers to
satisfy one Captain Hyman Rickover, not an eastly satished man
even then. |
With the war’s end, after a bricf stint in the National Housing
Agency, I succumbed to the lures of foreign travel with the De-
partment of State. As the family drove to New York fot embarka-
“lon to Greece, six-year-old Chip replied mournfully to an inquiry
Sto where we were from: “We have no home!” Bat today the
Hull family is settled ina pleasant suburb of Washington. TL spend
‘everal weeks each year visiting Foreign Service posts in all parts
0 ‘AT . ~ . Ney
" i World, as my job requires me to keep track of Tying costs
n Jie 2 * ve vay cea ft
Conditions in the 6oo cities around the world where federal

[ 653 |

Teophonic

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935
employees are stationed. Classmates are every wher,

Randy Kidder in Paris, Fisher Howe in Oslo, Bob M

bon — naming just a few in the Foreign Service.

I suspect that a civil servant, whether on the domestic or f.
de, doesn’t differ too much from the employee of any |, Oreign
te corporation. We suffocate in red tape, and help crea te TSC pri.
Ye Carry out programs of which we sometimes don’t wholly of
-e; we strive to find out what policy the boss wants to f
-onclude that he hasn’t one; and we overly concern
satus symbols. But the great redeeming advantage 0
vork over private 1s the sense of importance of the
- insignificant our own contribution.

vil servant in foreign affairs has an even less enviable ub.
than his domestic counterpart, He is thought of as a
inking cookie-pusher, or, if he is fortunate, as an Ugly
‘This grotesque caricature of life among the diplomats
Asia was required reading for Department people.)
of my twenty-year acquaintance, America can be
e calibre of its civil servants. There are bad apples
ut the number of good ones in each government
gingly high.
lege placement officers told me this fall that in-
ent careers 1s ebbing. Parents of college-age
-
ler a service to our government by encouraging
Opportumues and the satisfaction that a Career

er federal, state or local, can offer.

e abroad
Cllvaine oo

In Lis.

Ya

doy
Oursely eg
f govern.
Product,

/ COUTANT HUMSTONE

 

Old Greenwich, Conn.

2 51TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
. The Chase Manhattan Bank, go Wall

. Se,
orF ice ap 255 1913 New York, N-Y. Parents: Milara Cae NN,
: JuY *iot Dickerman. % Humstone
porn Amy Eliot |
02,

+. Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
prepane COLLEGE? 1931-1935. DEGREES: AB., 19353 LL®., 1938,
years Anne Moussot, July 6, 1950, Washington, DC,
MARRIED er: Millard Humstone, ’36, mamr., 41.
HARVARD on: Banking; administration of trusts and estates, The Chase Man.

ank. ;
ELD: Member of committees, community and church drives.
. New York State Bar Association (Banking Law Section), Harvard
{ New York, Field Club of Greenwich. >

orrices 4
MEMBER oF
Club 0

\FTER graduating from Harvard Law School in 1938, 1 went to
work for the firm of Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett in New York
city. I lived in the city and after the usual training period as a
“Jaw hound,” passed the bar examinations and began to specialize
in estate and trust work.

Then came the war. 1 spent two and a half years in this country
with the 26th Division on coast patrol, maneuvers and traming. ‘n
August, 1944, We finally went to France and joined the Third
Army, ending up in Bavaria. | like to travel, but this was not sight-

seeing at its best.

In 1946 I returned to my job, but the following year gave up the
practice of law and turned to banking. Since that time L have been
engaged in the administration of estates and trusts at Vhe Chase
Manhattan Bank. 1 enjoy the work and manage to keep busy.

When I returned from the service 1 gave up living in New York

City and moved back to Greenwich, Connecticut, which had been

my home during most of my early life. In those days the New
Haven Railroad ran quite smoothly, and 1 even enjoyed the two
hours or more that 1 spent on it each working day, Untortanatery,
conditions have deteriorated to such an extent that the commuter
how faces countless delays and annoyances.

. In 1950 1 ceased being a bachelor and married a ar from Wast-

ington, D.C, This was one of my better decisions, Although xe
have no children, we are happy.

As] have already mentioned, 1 ike to travel, Between 1994 ant
'938, I visited France, Italy, Switzerland, Begun, Holand, Ger
Many, Austria, Hungary and Czechoslovakia during, sonnet Vere

\ . e xX
vt After the war 1 seemed to gravitate toward northern Nox
No 8 . . ‘
Sand and Canada for awhile, but in May, 1g, why wile an

| 655 |

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 19035

spent three weeks in Spain. Last summer we visiteg the C
Rockies. anadian
My other principal hobbies are gardening, tennis and
\We have a small Fiberglas boat and can sail from our ow s
In winter we like to skate and go to concerts, 1 place.
I look back on my Harvard days with a great deal of Satisface:
ind believe that a Harvard education gives one a capacity Action
ore out of life. O get

ailin ;

THOMAS HARRISON HUNTER

    

ss: Cismont, Va.
sss: Dean’s Office, School of Medicine, University of Virginia,

=sville, Va.

», 1913, Chicago, Ill. parents: Edwin Llewellyn Hunter, Argyra
White.
elmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

IGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1935; B.A. (Univ. of
', 1937; M.D. cum laude (Harvard Univ.), 1940.

Elizabeth Fulcher, March 6, 1942, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
‘gan, Dec. 1, 1944; Elizabeth Anne, Dec. 2, 1945; William
2 23, 1948; Thomas, March 2, 1952; Peter, Sept. 30, 1954.
essor of medicine, dean of Medical School, University ©

ial consultant, U.S. Public Health Service, since 19533 TP"
National Research Council for American Society for Clint
1, 1955-58; member, Board of Overseers, Harvard Univer-
president-elect, Association of American Medical Colleges
signet Society; Phi Beta Kappa; Boylston Medical Society
na X1; Trinity Hall Association, Cambridge; Aula Club;
en Society; ODK; American Academy of Arts and Scl-
American Society for Clinical Investigation; Centra
al Research; Southern Society for Clinical Reseate™
Club of Keswick,

[ 656 J

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

i icles on Bacterial Endocarditi .
‘ Various artic Ocar 18 and in Ceci¥
poof Medicine, W. B. Saunders Co. (with R.F. Loeb), 1951 * A Text.
poe :

down at age forty-six to attempt a succinct surve

y-five years is a distinctly shockin of

Ti
si ast twenty-© ¢ . h & experience. |
rhe beer! suspecting or some time that 1 was no longer a youn
é -

hav ds of incipient presbyopia, creaky musc\ _
roun . Y scles and jomt

an one wing a football with my boys, an unwanted deference on

after art of certain young professors of medicine and the Vike

the P? change has been so imperceptible, however, and life has

Creeping ly occupied, that full comprehension of the fact is sull

n $9 . : .
bee yite possible. 1 hope this refractoriness, however, does not
not 4 mply actual senility, but how does one know?

rily i ;
ence a Jast Report in which 1 alluded to a magnificent three
urs if England after graduation, followed by Harvard Medical

* nook, five years at the Presbyterian Hospital in New York in
white pants and two more at the imposing institution as an in-
scructor in medicine, | moved to St. Louis, having meanwhile ac-
yired a medical wife and the beginnings of a family which is now
composed of four boys and a girl, After five vears in St. Louis
where 1 worked in Barry Wood's Department of Medicine, and also
in the dean’s office at Washington University School of Medicine,
] was invited to my present position as professor of medicine and
dean at the University of Virginia School of Medicine. We have
lived in Charlottesville for nearly seven years now and with the
single exception of the integration-segregation issue, have found
life here thoroughly delightful. The Jeffersonian tradition sul per-
vades the university to a remarkable degree and life here has been
less caught up in the whirl of mid-twentieth century rat race activ-
ty than most communities have. This is not to say, however, that
Charlottesville is a dreamy and utterly quict eddy in the stream of
life; it is a remarkably cosmopolitan little community in which the
medical school is very closely knit to the university.
In Tecent years various outside jobs have kept me in the ar and
Tees airports across the nation more of the time than Like,
hese other responsibilities, however, have proved not only inter-
eS . ere
ae but very rewarding, Amongst them have been various jobs
§ . . . : .
t “onsultant to the U.S. Public Health Service which has then me
0 § 1 ‘ ’ ‘ - . : .
s ns thirty-five of the nation’s cighty-five medical schools on
“C «« ’ » ee ‘ . . . - . 8
uted project site visits”; work with the Association of Amen-
. olleges has helped Hineasurably to broaden my a

erie - 8 . e ‘" .
Petience with Medical education in other medical schools, and wy

[ 657 |

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

tour of duty as an Overseer has proved perhaps the Most en:
of the lot. ‘To be able to see something of the inner work.
Harvard University 1s a great treat and provides not only wanes of
sources of amazement, but a continuing pride in, and respeer 18
this magnificent institution. for

We live in the country in an old farmhouse, sine far

Anne, who is a graduate of Johns Hopkins Medical, is
sart-time in genetics at this medical school, My oldest
- now fourteen and primarily concerned with high
I, although he and my thirteen-year-old daughte
nmer in France visiting a professor at the Sorbonne who has «
dren in their general age range. Although many of our frie st
d their eyebrows at our letting two youngsters go off to Eur ; §
eir own, it proved to be a howling success, and for them a tr e
eXperIence. y
7e been to only one Harvard Commencement since my gradv-

argely because my own academic activities have usuall
d with the date, but the Twenty-fifth has been set aside

alute must, which I hope will be the case with most of our

Yabla

m. My Wife
now Workin

Son, Charl
School foo.

spent Jas

es,

IANIEL THOMAS VOSE HUNTOON, II

 

St, Beverly Farms, Mass.
Corp. 17 Lewis Wharf, Boston, Mass.
ton, Mass, parents: Edmund James Baker Huntoon,

cademy, Deerfield, Mass.

5+ DEGREE: A.By 1935.

May 30, 1942, Boston, Mass, CHILDREN: Edmund
44; Daniel Thomas Vose, Jr., Jan. 7, 19473 Chis
949.

[ 658 J

3 5TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

president, Interlux Corporation, manufactur

uPA n10N* rers) agents an electromic fichd. B company and
o manuface ember, various local charity commitices, sin
ces HEL ‘ion Post, 1955-60, local Cub Scout Pack, 1955~fo,
Jocal Le Funds, Inc. (Boston Anvestment “Trusty, Northeast Ca TSEOF,
T rustecd Inc., Louve Ray Corporation; president and ivector, tenertng

Ce 194%, Weasurer,
orf

pributors>

ation. . .
Coren Somersct Club, City Club Corporation (both of Boston), Man.
MEMB ver Yacht Club, Manchester, Mass., Myopia Hunt Club (associate)

ER
cea Hamilton, Mass.

\MMING up twenty-five years of one’s Vife in fifteen minutes

5 a bit of a problem. To make this SUMMAary Mteresting to a
sma e who might read it with the question, “1 wonder what
ha ened to himr .” is even more difficult. 1 shall, therefore, write
ee report pretty much the way 1 have led the past Dwenty-five
ears of MY life — “I do my best, and 1 don't WOITY too much
about what others may thin -

From the business standpoint, things haven't gone too badly, |
was much too impatient and too much of a promoter to last long
in my first job —the trust department of a Boston bank. Various
small manufacturing businesses which | bought or helped form were
very interesting and some turned out better than others. The net
result was most stimulating and often resulted in a ling.

The war years started for me in 1940, as an army private in a
National Guard regiment. After switching to the Navy in i932
(the food was better), 1 remained attached to naval and marine
aviation through the invasion and occupation of Okinawa. The

© . P ~ v . es
wars end found me a licutenant commander, ESNR, with a wite,
a son, no job, no home, no plans — par for the course.

Having no love for city life, we moved thitty miles north of
Boston to what was then “the country.” but now is becomnng
suburbia. An old large wooden house has been our home and we
Te very happy in it with our three boys. Summer ts wonder
With sailing, racing, tennis, etc., for the hovs, and colt for wy wite
an . ce e . w * ;

d myself. Winter finds me driving north with what boys Lean
§ rl Y - . eer . . . 7 .
Pring loose from schools to ski, They ski well, Vi query, rad
We S . . . ° wes s °

pend a week every spring at Mt. Vremblant, Canada, so tat

the b "e » - . ‘
ii OYS can have continual lessons under ideal but EAPENNE CON
lons.

SU

Altl 4 Co

ami ‘ough Kany not hea popular belied at ts tune Lydo), os

UNV tee f.! "4 ‘ . . »
Yy Its friends, ideas and Prayeegs, cle WOE OF OUT SOUT ES Ot

| 439 |

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

pappiness Living in a small town and helping with Constry..:
programs for the town and its young are most r €warding, — “"ve
As [ reread what I have written, there seem to be very fe
2nding accomplishments. However, if the next twenty. out.
sanywhere near as kind, happy and interesting as the past tweets
Aave been, I shall consider myself twice blessed, enty.

EDWARD ANDREW HURLEY

 

7 St, Cambridge, Mass.
High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass,
lve, Mass. PARENTS: Dennis Francis H urley, Annie

‘and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.
DEGREES: A.B, 1935(36); ED.M. (Boston Coll.),

ites, Cambridge High and Latin School.

as a field representative for Vita-
’ teaching profession as a tea cher at
bridge, During World War II, |
instructor of instrument flying
rce in 1945, | worked as a col
Administration. In 1948 1 ¢0-

of social studies at Cambridge

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES PHILLIPS HULSE, yA.

 

ADDRESS: 13 Pine St., Belmont 78, Mass.
HOME ADDRESS: Office of George L. Rabb, 100 Sate St Boston 9, Nass.
om April 19. 1913; Columbia, Mio. PARENTS: Charles Pitligs Hause, oa,
BOR Florence Bigalow Johnson.
ogepareD AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 193171935+ DEGREES: AB Chan laude, 1935, 1B, 1g.

UNMARRIED.

occupATION: Lawyer. |

orrices HELD: Associate member, Advisory Board for Selective Service Regie
trants, Belmont, Mass., 1940-425 aid raid warden, Belmont, Mas. v9a-asy
treasurer, Young Men’s Republican Chub of Belmont, Mass, 19-29,

weMBER OF: Massachusetts Bar Association, Harvard Lax School Assocation,
Social Law Library, Boston, Larvatd Club of Balmonn, Sons 2d Dasdh-

ters of the First Settlers of Newbury, Massachoserts, Boston VACA,
SINCE starting the practice of law carly Ww 1939, L have been WRK
the same office in Roston, except during absence for somes in
World War Hi, during which, aftet graduation from Lndoetnns
tion School at the Naval Air Station at Quonser Point Rhode
land, in October, 1942, Lwas attached to the Nava Ae Trent
Service as an ait transport officer and Later as Tard uber, L838
“ationed at Jacksonville, Florida, Norldlk, Virgina, Ronen.
ne Maryland; Philadelphia ant Withow Grove, TemegQowy,
Mt Lyautey, French Morocco, Amaya, Wath, WNart, Os
Of ‘ . | ‘vf | . mA AAAS LS
Hd} ANd Honoluly, Vawatt, ‘Through the var, hase hoe 0
(A819 ‘ x ’ ‘ a . ‘ . . ‘ . Ny ys ,
nal Sohciting for rhe Cornnrutiny Hund, NwetanA Cs,

UWation Nem. To ys neoe \
On Atmy, Heart aunt and Cancer nd.

\ by |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

JOHN FREDERICK HUTCHINSON

   

HOME apprEss: Venice Yacht Club, P.O. Box 865, Venice, Fla.
OFFICE appRESS: Venice Marine Service, P.O. Box 1593, Venice, Fla.

BoRN: Dec. 9, 1911, Lexington, Mass. parents: John Chester Hutchinson, Lucy
Richardson.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935.

MarriED: Patsy Renaud, Feb. 10, 1934, Washington, D.C. cHipreNn: John
Frederick, Jr., Sept. 13, 1937; N. Putnam, March 3, 1939.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Venice Marine Service.

MEMBER OF: Venice Yacht Club; U.S. Power Squadron, Venice, Fla.

SINCE 1934 I have been involved in various activities, none of them
earth-shaking, but mostly interesting and enjoyable: 1934-40, se-
curity sales, Hayden Stone Company, Boston, 1940-45, American
Airlines operations, Rochester, New York; 1945, instructor in the
Air Transport Command at New York; 1946-47, general manager,
Long Island Airlines, Southampton, New York, 1947-51, opera-
tions manager, Northeast Airlines, New York; 1951-57, real estate
sales, Houghton Associates, Inc., Mamaroneck, New York.

I’m married to the same gal I started with and that too is inter-
esting and enjoyable. We raised two boys without too much
strain. One graduated from the Air Force Academy with the first
class in 1959 and is now a jet jockey. The other likes to jump out
of airplanes and is a paratrooper.

In 1957 we decided to live a little before it was too late; so we
boarded Scoter, our thirty-seven feet of floating home, and took off
down the inland waterway to Florida. Four months later we tied
up at Venice Yacht Club and except for temporary and short
cruises, here we remain. Since 1958 I have been vice-president of
Venice Marine Service —a job that should have the title “Vice-

[ 662 |

~

ans al

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

resident in charge of everything one can think of.” One day in
the obscure future we shall cast off the lines and take another look
ground.

ALVAN HYDE, JR.

 

HOME ADpREss: 29 Maple St., New Haven, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad Co., New Haven,
Conn.

BoRN: Aug. 17, 1912, Ware, Mass. parents: Alvan Hyde, Lucy Pond Hail.

PREPARED AT: Ware High School, Ware, Mass.; Taft School, Watertown, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1935.

occupation: Cost analyst, New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad Com-
pany.

AFTER receiving a certificate in transportation from the Yale

Graduate School in 1936, I went to work in the operating depart-

ment of the New Haven Railroad, where I remained until 1942.

From 1942 to 1946 I was in the Army — 89th and 83rd Divisions,

captain FA and GSC, Since 1946 I have been in the operating and

accounting department of the New Haven Railroad.

[| 663 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

WILLARD EDWIN INGALLS, JR.

Fetter ives ees
&

   

appRrEss: 355 Nahant Rd., Nahant, Mass.
sppress: General Electric Co., 1100 Western Ave., Lynn, Mass

pril 23, 1914, Boston, Mass. parENTs: Willard Edwin Ingalls, 07, Mar

Mary Lee.
at: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass.

ILLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.
fancy Brooks, Oct. 26, 1940, Winthrop, Mass. CHILDREN: Shirley
April 8, 1942; June, June 16, 1947.

HER: Edmund Francis Ingalls, ’38, M.B.a., ’4o.

Aanager of production control, General Electric Company,
chairman, Tennis Committee, Thomson Club, 1957-60.
homson Club, Nahant, Mass.; General Electric Management

Lyan, Mass. |
‘N year was not the best for “career” searching,
a job was a better short-term goal. The IBM runs
ils were mussing in those days. After some “‘train-
with Western Union, Sears Roebuck and CIT, I
ral Electric in 1941. I am now the production
the gear subsection of the medium steam tur-
gear department, located at the River Works
‘tS,
sn pleasant and our activities together have
essary after the pressure type of work manu-
es. My elder daughter is a freshman at the
setts, Her questions regarding the adjust
responsibilities make the last twenty-five
. ; ]
part of my activities since graduation
, , te
ching my children and other young

ve
s for many years. In between I ha

[ 664 ]

ee RERNIT G ier rianivetpape Meter: wemcvemetiee 8 cA NOY ERO

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ite a few tournaments with various degrees of Success.

play tast. FE" years 1 have conducted lessons on a scheduled basis

The Thomson Club in Nahant for members and their children,
olitics are mainly Republican, although 1 find merit in any
ent official who will not spend my taxes foolishly.

five years indicate that Harvard prepared well for the
and the good years. We could use more “Veritas” in

ed ind

at €
My P
overnm
e Twenty-
h years
eee yorld today.

CHARLES GILBERT INGERSOLL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 366 Meridian St. East Boston 28, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Campbell X-Ray Corp., 110 Cummington St., Boston, Mass.
porN: Nov. 19, 1910, Gloucester, Mass. parents: Walter Frederick Ingersoll,

Sarah Ingersoll.
PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.
OCCUPATION: Engineering.

NO questionnaire returned.

| 665 |

NTs cee a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

OSBORNE FALCONER INGRAM

 

HOME ADDRESS: 274 Beechwood St., Cohasset, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Eastern Gas & Fuel Associates, 250 Stuart St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: April 24, 1915, Boston, Mass. parents: George Murdoch Ingram, Eunice
R. Osborne.

PREPARED AT: Cohasset High School, Cohasset, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1935.
MaRRIED: Marjorie June McDiarmid, Dec. 19, 1936, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:

Judith Ann, May 8, 1938; Alan Falconer, July 18, 1940; Martha Osborne,
Sept. 29, 1948.
HARVARD SON: Alan Falconer Ingram, ’62.

occuPATION: Public relations director, Eastern Gas & Fuel Associates, diversi-
fied heavy industrial concern.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee and Graduate Board secretary-treasurer, Harvard Crim-
son, since 1947; vice-president, Massachusetts Industrial Editors Association,
1951; director, Rotary Club of Cohasset, 1954-57, 1959-60; member, since
1953, chairman, since 1954, Cohasset School Committee; member, various

committees, Second Congregational Church, Cohasset and local and area
Red Feather Drives.

PUBLICATIONS: Newspaper copy; trade magazine articles.

MY working life since graduation has had three parts — ten years
of newspaper reporting, three years of Navy service and twelve
years of industrial public relations. 1

The newspaper reporting was for the now defunct Boston Post,
first at Harvard, then the city of Cambridge, the county courts in
East Cambridge and, after the war, as a staff reporter on general
assignments. This was generally interesting, varied work, but not
overpaid . . . and since I was not gifted with a crusading spirit or
truly creative talent, I couldn’t seem to get much sense of accom-
plishment from it. I have sometimes since thought much better of it.

The Navy interlude was short but perhaps more stimulating to

[ 666 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

me than for most. I was an Air Combat intelligence officer in anti-
submarine warfare and had the good fortune to be with a single
squadron for thirty of the thirty-cight months I was in the Nay v.
We had three Atlantic area cruises and formed some friendships
that are only now beginning to fade into limbo,

I went back to newspapering a little reluctantly after the war
but left it in 1947 to join the firm I am now with, first to edit the
company’s magazine and later to take on public relations responsi-
bilities. The company’s activities are diverse and 1 have learned
some of the nuts and bolts of the coal, gas, shipping and coke plant
businesses, as well as much about corporate organism. Again, though,
I’m afraid that I don’t have a feeling of much substantial accomplish-
ment, but am now convinced that this is my fault and so relax and
enjoy it all.

The family part of my life has consistently been more satisfying.
I have an unbelievably compatible wife w ho has suffered patiently
_ for years with more household discomfort than most would put up
with for a week. We have three children who have made us proud
by everything they have done. Our elder girl graduates this June
from Colby; our son is completing his sophomore year at Harvard
and the younger girl is in grade school.

We returned in 1940 from living in Cambridge, to live in Cohasset
where I had grown up, and to take care of or be taken care of by
my elderly father in his later years. Since about 1950 I have been

“through the chairs” of suburban community activity and hope
that the pace is now slowing down. I have been chairman of the
local school committee for the past six years, which has given me
a rather extensive exposure to public education problems. Perhaps
I'm complacent, but I prefer to think I have the historical perspee-
tive in not joining in the general alarm about the schools. I'm sure
our schools can be improved, but we have recently been suffering
through a McCarthyism in education which indiscriminately con-
demns all, and makes schools the scapegoat for our society's own
failings. Fortunately, Dr, Conant’s wise counsel has helped to stem
the hysteria but he needs the help of all thinking people.

Sound progress in education, as in all our endeavors, will come.
I believe, when our nation decides to ignore “the competition,” stop
thinking in terms of “catching up,” and sets goals of its own...
noble goals of human destiny that it apparently displayed to the
world in the early nineteenth century when we were the model for
all new nations, With individual freedom, justice and humaneness

[ 667 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 19365

on our standards, we need fear no “competition,” for no missile
could prevail against the hosts at our side.

TREADWELL LEWIS IRELAND

  

   

HOME appress: 1420 N.E. go Ct., Pompano Beach, Fla.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 3581 N. Federal Highway, Pompano Beach, Fla.

BorN: July 17, 1913, New York, N.Y. Parents: Howard Rogers Ireland,
Madelon Eleanor Casey.

PREPARED AT: Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935.. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; M.D. (Long Island Coll. of
Medicine), 1939.

MARRIED: Colette Marie Charlotte Torchet, July 30, 1945, Paris, France. cHi-
DREN: Emilienne Marie, Aug. 12, 1950; Marianne McLellan, March 23,
1956.

occupation: Physician — private practice of internal medicine.

MEMBER OF: Medical societies and internal medicine associations; American
College of Physicians (associate); Civic Improvement Association; Ameri-
can Legion; Volunteer Fire Department (fire surgeon); local Franco-
American Society; Parent Teachers Association.

AFTER three years at King’s County Hospital, I was a battalion
surgeon (45th Division) in Algeria and Sicily, then with the Third
Auxiliary Surgical Group to Britain and Normandy Beach. I mar-
ried in Paris; while assigned to a station hospital, we tried setting
up housekeeping in Strasbourg and Karlsruhe, but it was too soon
after the peace with Germany to make this practical. I then finished
my pathology residency, and since have practised internal medicine,
first on Long Island, then in Florida, where the arthritis of one of
my family has become arrested.

On some of the blocks in my community there is no one under
sixty-five. Fortunately, I had for several years attended post-gradu-
ate courses at Montefiore Hospital (Bronx, New York), an institu-

[ 668 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tion which exemplifies the use of scientific knowledge and broad
humanitarianism in the care of the aged and chronically ill. Thus,
] am content to work with the aged and their problems, as a doctor,
as the medical advisor to their local civic association, as the service
officer of their Legion post, facilitating surveys, etc.

Perhaps as a result I feel somewhat that my own approach to life
is a bit antiquated. I believe that, to understand function, one must
first know structure. I feel that the classical studies of structure
(pathological anatomy and chemistry, bacteriology, etc., in medicine,
draftsmanship in art; accuracy and care in composition in litera-
ture) should balance our modern emphasis on the more dynamic
approaches to understanding. I believe the words of Jesus, ‘and of
such as Jefferson, Thoreau, Whitman, should be listened to more
often. I would remove any barrier, such as political, between the
peoples of the great democracies.

I wonder whether this tropical rain forest climate, slowing its
residents down physically and mentally, inevitably affects their
culture. The “developers” here pretty up nature as much as possi-
ble, but it is too vast and exuberant for them, so that fortunately
Florida retains as a whole its primeval allure. To have the time to
pursue this with my family is my most pleasurable anticipation.

++ PIERRE WASHINGTON IRVING

 

BORN: Sept. 4, 1911, New York, N.Y. parents: Louis duPont Irving, ‘o7,
Antoinette Erhardt.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

pieD: Reported dead in the summer of 1933.

PIERRE WASHINGTON IRVING spent one year with our
[ 669 ]

. Pe et ema

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Class. In the summer 1933 he sailed out of Manasquan, New Jersey, .
with two other boys bound for Nantucket on a small but seaworthy
boat, the Postscript, which had cruised safely in West Indian waters.

Neither the boys nor any trace of the boat were ever found. He
was survived by his father.

SOLOMON ISENSTEIN

 

HOME appress: 1105 Dunoon Rd., Burnt Mills Pk., Silver Spring, Md.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Immigration and Naturalization Service, 119 D St, NE,
Washington, D.C.

BORN: Jan. 30, 1913, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Israel Isenstein, Jennie
Pozarna.

PREPARED aT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: a.B., cum laude, 1935; LL.B. 1938.

MarRIED: Vivian R. Shandles, June 1, 1947, Philadelphia, Pa. cHmp: Susan
Gail, Oct. 21, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Harry Hyman Isenstein, ’29.

occuPaTION: Attorney, Office of the General Counsel, Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

OFFICES ‘HELD: Chairman, Board of Education, and member Board of Governors,
Beth Israel Synagogue, Washington, D.C., 1947-52; Har Tzeon Synagogue,
Silver Spring, Md., 1953-54; Ohavi Zedek Synagogue, Burlington, Vt.,

1954-59; treasurer, Joseph Frank Lodge, B'nai B’rith, 1954-59.
MEMBER OF: B’nai B’rith.

UPON graduating in 1935, I attended the Harvard Law School,
graduating in 1938, and was admitted to the Massachusetts bar that
same year. After two and a half years of struggling at the private
practice of law, I joined the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization
Service of the Department of Justice, where I am still employed.
My headquarters have shifted from Boston to Philadelphia to Wash-
ington to Burlington, Vermont, and now I am back in Washington

[ 670 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

again. My work is very interesting, involving as it does the destinies
of human beings. As stated by Mr. Justice Brandeis in Ng Fung Ho

. White, 259 U.S. 276, deportation may result in “loss of both
property and life; or of all that makes life worth living.”

I have participated in many important deportation proceedings
against notorious racketeers and subversives. On the other hand, |
derive as much satisfaction from the part I have taken in facilitating
the admission into the United States of worthy aliens or adjusting
the status in this country of aliens deportable on technical grounds.

After having lived in Boston, Philadelphia and Washington, I
much prefer Burlington, Vermont, with its small population of
30,000: While the winters are long with temperatures falling to
thirty-five degrees below zero, the air is clean and crisp. My
daughter particularly enjoyed the heavy snows and the ice-skating
and skiing. My wife and I delighted in watching her and others in
these activities, which were much too strenuous for us. The sum-
mers in Burlington were short but most enjoyable with the many
possibilities for pleasure offered by beautiful Lake Champlain and
the gorgeous Green and Adirondack Mountains. We plan to re-
turn to Burlington when I retire from government service.

Most of my avocational activities have revolved about the syna-
gogues where I have functioned as chairman of the board of educa-
tion. My wife shares this interest with me and served as president

of Hadassah in Vermont. I also like to putter around in my garden
and am a duffer on the golf course.

JOHN DAVID IVERS

 

HOME ADDRESS; It Suzio Drive, Meriden, Conn,
OFFICE ADpREsS: Ivers Brothers, 66 E. Main St

[ 671 ]

. Meriden, Conn,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

porn: April 14, 1914, Meriden, Conn. parents: David Ivers, Katharine A
Hickey.

PREPARED AT: Meriden High School, Meriden, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A-B., 19353; LLB. (Boston Univ.), 1939.

MarrieD: Louise M. Cahill, 1944. cHrtpren: Katharine, 1945; David, 1946;
Ellen, 1948; Neil, 1949; Stephen, 1950; Alice, 1952; Mark, 1954; Paul, 1935;
Margaret, 1958.

occuPATION: Paint distributor; mayor, Meriden, Conn.
OFFICES HELD: Member, Meriden Board of Safety, 1949-51; director, Catholic
Diocesan Bureau, 1955-59, American Red Cross, 1956-59.

AFTER college graduation I studied law and received the law de-
gree in 1939. Having passed the bar I joined a law firm in New
Haven. A short period of working for all experience and no money
sent me into claim work at the home office of the Aetna Life Insur-
ance Company. For two years I sat eight hours at the same desk
in the same office doing the same work and then couldn’t stand
any more. I decided to return to the practice of law in my home
town, Meriden. Just about the time my office was furnished and
ready to open, circumstances forced me into taking over the man-
agement of the family business, a painting contractor business, and
hardware store. At first, I thought I would practise law too; but
when the limited number of hours in a day forbade doing both, I
chose the business,

Since then I have lived the normal small town life and enjoyed
every minute of it. Marriage, an ever-increasing family and busi-
ness responsibilities have kept my good wife Louise and myself
close to home, enjoying the simple pleasures.

Hobby-work has been limited to repairing broken windows and
mending broken lamps for an energetic family of wrestlers and
ball-tossers. Reading has been my greatest pleasure in my spare
time.

Always keenly interested, but never really active before, in poli-
tics, I decided to take the plunge last November and was elected
mayor of Meriden on the Republican ticket. (Fellow-classmates
on their way through our city will be entitled to keys for the next
two years and probably no longer.) Strangely enough, I was elected

after campaigning as a conservative at a time when there is supposed
to be an open season on this breed of animal.

1 have a warm affection for the Harvard of twenty-five years
ago but cannot say the same for the Harvard of today. We were
fortunate to have attended college in the days of President Lowell.
He and his predecessors would have been alarmed at the direction

[ 672]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Harvard has taken under the President Pusey presidency. The
willingness to protect Fifth Amendment teachers and fellow-travel-
ers indicates to many of us that Harvard has lost its way temporar-
ily in its pursuit of truth. When the Schlesingers, the Shapleys and
the Furrys are revered by a university, that university has lost its
heritage for the time being. We hope Harvard will soon regain its
former greatness.

RICHARD NIELS IVERSEN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1177 Summit Drive, Cleveland 24, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Weatherhead Co., 300 E. 131st Sc, Cleveland, Ohio.

BoRN: Dec 9, 1912, Billinghurst, Sussex, County of Horsham, England. Parents:
John Salskov Iversen, Margrethe Gigas.

PREPARED AT: Avon Old Farms, Avon, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MarRIED: Virginia Trowbridge Bush, Sept. 21, 1942, Cleveland, Ohio. crtLpREN:
John Stuart, Nov. 4, 1944; Jill, April 12, 1936; Peter Conrad, Aug. 18,
1948; Margaret Virginia, Aug. 18, 1950.

occuPATION: Manufacturing; research and development engineer, The Weather-
head Company.

AFTER college I spent almost ten vears in an attempt to undo the
effects of having been educated w ithin the confines of a “special”

class. There was rebellion against the values of a governess, a Dan-
ish preparatory school w here my father was educated. There was
also rebellion against an English ‘Grammar school, the Herlufsholm
school in Denmark (the only private school in an otherwise social-
ized country) and Avon Old Farms, outside of Hartford, Connecti-
cut, a school for the “poor little rch bey.” Twas a fish out of
water. When I came to Harvard I realized that, more than anv-
thing else, I needed to know what the score was. To that purpose

[ 673 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

I left Harvard and criss-crossed the country, working at many jobs
ranging from superintendent of a pilot glass plant for Crown Corn
and Seal Company to able-bodied seaman and bos’n in the Merchant
Service, arriving at the conclusion that I was essentially a poet,
scholar, painter, inventor and dreamer.

In the process, however, I had other jobs and read extensively in
various fields of industry. Due to the opportunity given me by my
present employer, Mr. Albert J. Weatherhead, Jr., of The Weather-
head Company, with whom I have spent the past thirteen years, |
have investigated the technology and use of high temperature air-
craft and missile metals and their alloys, as well as the development
and designing of new products for automotive, industrial, aircraft
and missile use.

Since my marriage to Virginia Bush (Smith ’33), I have had four
children: Jack, Jill, Peter and Peg, each so lovable and so contra-
dictory it is impossible to convey my synambient clear love for their
being. As parents, I am quite certain you will understand what I
mean. We bought an old home (after an adventurous start in a
garage apartment in Cleveland Heights), did not remodel it and
have successfully resisted the do-it-yourself era.

The most difficult problem I sense in the coming years of progress
for America will stem from the fact that America was founded on
the individual. Organization demands sublimation of the individual.
America’s strength depends on organization. Where do you draw the
line between the momentous strength of organization and the
strength of the individual? Therein lies the function of tomorrow’s
leaders.

[am truly thankful to Harvard for giving me a pivot about which
my spiritual and material world can find its orbit.

[ 674 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES LEWIS JACK

eo

    

HOME ADDRESS: 8 Navajo Ct., Walnut Creek, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Corp., 300 Lakeside Drive, Oak-
land, Calif.

BORN: Dec. 9, 1913, West Newton, Mass. parents: Lewis Harlow Jack, xo,
’98, Mary Alice Harvey.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newtonville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: S.B., 1935; M.F. (Yale Univ.), 1937; MB.
(Harvard Univ.), 1941.

MarRiED: Corinne Powell Wilkin, April 11, 1942, Cleveland, Ohio. canvpren:
Pamela, July 1, 1943; Peter Harvey, Sept. 23, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Assistant to director of purchasing, Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical
Corporation, aluminum production and fabrication,

PHILIP ARCHIBALD JACKSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: §7 Hancock St., Auburndale, Mass.
OFFICE apprEss: Churchill Lobster Products, P.O. Box 755, Portland, Maine.

BORN: Oct. 4, 1913, Waltham, Mass. parexts: Joseph Arthur Jackson, Laura
Winifred MacLellan.

[ 675 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

PREPARED AT: Waltham High School, Waltham, Mass.; Tilton School, Tilton
N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1935.

marrieD: Ruth Nichols, Dec. 7, 1940, New York, N.Y. cHILpREN: Nancy
Nichols, May 18, 1944, Janet Phyllis, Nov. 7, 1945.

occupation: Vice-president, Churchill Lobster Products, lobster selling, proc-
essing, freezing, etc.

FOR various reasons, mostly financial, I was unable to continue
in the Graduate School, Department of Sociology, working for
higher degrees. I have often wondered what would have happened
had I remained in the academic world, in either teaching or research.

Tutoring, during college days one of many occupations engaged

in to earn money, became after graduation a full-time activity. The
tutees, mostly Harvard undergraduates, were heterogeneous, rang-
ing from those with not enough grey matter to be in college to some
of the most brilliant minds encountered by me then or since. To
do intensive teaching one had to comprehend the subjects much
better than merely to do well on exams. Therefore, I gained much
from this endeavor. The most rewarding tutoring experience ever
enjoyed by me was the successful awakening of a dormant intellect.
I believe most teachers would agree.

My three war years were spent in the Navy, as a petty officer
on shore, mostly in New England. The work was in enlisted per-
sonnel — testing, classifying and assigning. Even within the rigid
bureaucratic framework, it was possible and gratifying to arrange
better utilization of talent and skills and thereby to help in the war
effort although far from the shooting.

Much of my business life has been spent in the paper business, in
both manufacturing and distribution. This includes several years
working for a close friend, John MacLaurin, Class of 1937, The
areas were export, purchasing, cost and sales analysis, supervision
of salesmen, etc.

Since late 1957, I have been working for Churchill Lobster
Products in Portland, Maine, run by Grover Churchill, Class of

1934. The company is small, but growing rapidly, and my duties
are varied. In the midst of the ichthyological traditions of the live
lobster industry, our company is almost unique because of innova-
tions in processing, packaging, freezing, etc. — all of which are re-
garded as impossible and probably indecent since “Grandpa did not

do it that way.” Because of a supply limited by Nature, we do not
yet pack for retail distribution but our products (including genu-

[ 676 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ine Maine lobster tails — not crayfish) have no doubt been eaten
by many classmates on airlines and in select restaurants. The live
lobster industry is interesting but also exasperating because it is
one of the few existing where such non-economic and non-predict-
able factors as whimsy or personal feeling on the part of one indi-
vidual can upset the entire price structure on either the buying or
selling end. A provocative doctoral thesis could be written on
Homarus Americanus, Churchill and 1 would be happy to contrib-
ute both facts and opinions.

My non-occupational and non-familial activities remain unorgan-
ized (disorganized? ), non-communal and passive in participation.
If one were better integrated and fully comprehended the short
time left to our age group, one would become more selective and
concentrate on getting some final answers to the ultimate prob-
lems. To me, intelligent living, on both a personal and social plane,
has many prerequisites including: recognition and scrutiny of value
judgments, a skeptical but healthy inquiring mind, ability to both
analyze and synthesize. I am deeply grateful to the Harvard train-
ing which has been of immeasurable help in all of these areas. In-
cidentally, it is amusing to observe how may business, professional
and political leaders, openly contemptuous of the “academic”
world and its approach, will seize upon a recently popularized but
diluted psychological or sociological concept, known for genera-
tions or centuries, adopt and distort it, and temporarily consider it
to be the final Rosetta stone.

Like other parents, we love and have great expectations for our
two daughters, Our personal experience may be encouraging to
some having a child with a “handicap.” Our elder daughter was
born blind; initially this seemed a catastrophe, but, thank God, she
has become — mostly because of her mother's loving but not over-
protective care —a ‘brilliant, well- integrated voung “lady. She will

soon, we hope, with her sister, be at Radclitfe to get her Harvard
education.

[ 677 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

FRANCIS JACOBY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 325 Kedzie St., Evanston, IIl.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 914 S. Wabash Ave., Chicago 5, Ill.

Born: May 26, 1912, Cohasset, Mass. parents: Ernest Jacoby, Alice G. Hovey,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.

MarRIED: Louise Baker, April 18, 1944, Gulfport, Miss. cuiLp: Luanne Ahlbrand
(stepdaughter).

HARVARD BROTHER: Ernest Jacoby, °32.

OCCUPATION: Sales manager, Chicago Seating Company, contract furniture.

IN the spring of 1931 in talking with my tutor in England I asked
his help in filling out the questionnaire as to ‘why I wanted to go
to Harvard.” His reply went something like this — “Just tell them
that you feel that you know of no better way to complete your
education mentally, spiritually, socially, physically, and economi-
cally.” It was an excellent answer then, and I feel that its principles
applied to one’s analysis of twenty-five years (that’s a helluva long
time) are still good. So here goes in a few words with a proper
spacing of the years and the various results:

1932-42 — Spiritually, virtually dead. Physically, rather good at
tennis, sailboat racing. Economically, top experience in learning
the art of business from some of the best of the day. Mentally,
stimulated by courses in business, accounting, navigation, and real
estate. Socially, quite active and developed excellent friends and
contacts,

1942-46 — Economically, on the way down. Spiritually, on the
way up with a revised interest and belief and faith in prayer. So-
cially, rather limited. Physically, hardened, Mentally, learned art
of instruction according to Army plus publication of manual on
celestial navigation.

[ 678 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1946-60 — Economically, work, work, and then more work!
There are a few other items involved in an economic revival, but
those three are the most important. My most thrilling sale was a
quarter-million-dollar yacht to a member of the Spanish Royalty.
Outside of that and a bit of luck in real estate, most of my time has
been spent trying to figure out a profit pattern for contract sales
of furniture, etc., to schools, colleges, hotels, and motels; still seek-
ing and working. Spiritually, without some foundation along these
lines, the successful work pattern referred to above I believe is more
difficult. Fortunately, I became associated with a group in Phila-
cep and one here in Chicago, both of whom have influenced

life tremendously and have been of great inspiration and
strength. Socially, during the Jast thirteen years I have made some
wonderful friends in New England, Philadelphia, and here in the
Chicago area, as well as in other parts of the eastern area of the
United States where I am traveling at present. Physically, golf and
swimming have been my principal sources of health balance. Here
in the Midwest, the winters are rather long, but fortunately my
travels just by chance take me to warmer climates sometimes dur-
ing the winter months, In golf, my favorite partners are two
pros about sixty-three years young who are excellent teachers, As
for swimming, the lake (Lake Michigan, that is) is a few blocks
away, and for some thirty days in the summer it is very pleasant.
Mentally, up to the moment, I haven't strained the brain. It is
really rather difficult to read worth-while stuff, but I try to get in

a couple of good books a year. The rest of the mental pic ture is

working out deals and angles.

Summary: Twenty-five years should make a vast change in a
person. Sure I’m twenty-five years older, some few hundred hairs
less, but basically I Jove life just as much as I ever did. I love people,
a good joke, and also a good time, and I am particularly looking
forward to one tremendous reunion of the best damn Class that
ever attended the greatest institution in the business.

[ 679]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

RONALD BARRIE JAMIESON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1908 Ualakaa St., Honolulu, Hawaii.
OFFICE appRESs: Judiciary Bldg., Honolulu, Hawaii.

BORN: June 4, 1913, Honolulu, Hawaii. PARENTS: William Jamieson, Margaret
Quinan.

PREPARED aT: Punahou School, Honolulu, Hawaii.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: S.B., Cum laude, 1935; LL.B., 1939.

MaRRIED: Brooke Greaney, Sept. 1, 1944, Honolulu, Hawaii. cHmpren: Mar-
gan, Aug. 18, 1946; Dara, Nov. 18, 1955.

occuPATION: Judge, Circuit Court, First Circuit, State of Hawaii.

OFFICES HELD: Deputy attorney general of Hawaii, 1944-47; judge, Circuit
Court, First Circuit, Territory of Hawaii, 1952-53; referee in bankruptcy,
US. District Court, Hawaii, 1956-59; judge, Circuit Court, First Circuit,
State of Hawaii, since October, 1959.

1 HAVE been president of the Honolulu Council of Social Agen-

cies, a director of the Honolulu Community Chest, a trustee of The
Palama Settlement, etc.

I was admitted to the bar of Hawaii in 1939. Since graduation,
I have been to Europe twice, in the summer of 1936 and early in
1952 before going on the bench, I have two fine daughters.

[ 680 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OSCAR WISNER JARRELL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 59 Coolidge Ave., Needham gz, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jarrell-Ash Co., 7 Farwell St., Newtonville 60, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 21, 1914, Ottawa, Ont., Canada. parents: Joshua Oscar Jarrell,
Clara Wisner Van Zandt.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: 8.B., cum laude, 1935.

marrieD: Dorothy Macbeath, 1935, Newtonville, Mass. (divorced 1939);
Susan Perkins, Dec. 20, 1940, Guayaquil, Ecuador. cumpren: Peggy, Feb.
5, 1943; Stephanie, June 24, 1945; Kent Wisner, Dec. 7, 1950, Timothy
Seymour, June 14, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Treasurer and director, Jarrell-Ash Co., manufacturers of emis-
sion spectrographs and other scientific instruments, consulting mining
geologist.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman and other offices, since 1955, Boston section, American
Institute of Mining, Metallurgical and Petroleum Engineers.

MEMBER OF: Society of Economic Geologists; Mineralogical Society of
America; American Institute of Mining, Metallurgical and Petroleum
Engineers; Sigma Xi; Mining Club of New York City; Harvard Club of
New York; Longwood Cricket Club; Longwood Covered Courts; Needham
Tennis Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Salesite, a New Mineral from Chuquicamata, Chile” (with
Charles Palache, co-author) and “Marshite and other Minerals from
Chuquicamata, Chile,” American Mineralogist, 1939; “Operaciones de la
Cotopaxi Exploration Company a Macuchi, Ecuador,” Anales del Promer
Congreso Panamericano de Ingenieria y Geologia, 1942, Santiago, Chile;
“Oxidation at Chuquicamata, Chile,” Economic Geology, 1944.

SIMPLE to set down dates, jobs held, names of wives and children;
but how complicated and elusive the attempt to recall now the
reasons and emotions that directed and encompassed the bare facts

of twenty-five years. Was this or that event planned, and for the
noble motive we now assign to it, was there a more culpable pur-

[ 68: ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Spent eighteen months exploring old mining districts. At Grants-
ville, Nevada — total population: myself, an engineer and two Sho-
shone Indian helpers (it had a population of 3500 in 1844) —a cable
reached me from Circe in the guise of a South African geophysicist,
Would I come to New York and help set up new Canadian and
United States geophysical prospecting companies? We gave it a
good try, which included getting mixed up in the Albertan oil
boom. The companies were finally sold out so the original investors
got their money back and one group of clients ended up with a
nice gas field.

By this time (1951) the travel was not so romantic. The family
had been camp followers too long; in one year Peggy had been in
four different schools. Most of my meager savings had gone into
the Jarrell-Ash Company, of which my brother was president. So
it was logical to return to Boston, settle in one place and, I like
to think, supply some business judgment to an organization that is
otherwise crawling with top-notch scientists. The mining con-
tinues: [ am retained by two investment groups for advice on min-
ing securities and perform occasional consulting jobs, but the field
work has practically ceased. Distant travel, on vacations or busi-
ness, has not been abandoned as long as we can locate a good “sitter.”

Now we are established in the suburbs, perhaps like the majority
of ’35. I do not believe I am much good with the children but at
least I try; around the house I am useless. Certain of the frantic ef-
forts in suburbia seem self-created to avoid boredom. Committees,
I hate ’em! On the other hand, J have much admiration for useful
civic activity and wish I had more time, patience and talent for
it. My tastes — frankly selfish ones — are to get in as much tennis
as possible and to take some bit parts in amateur dramatics.

Perhaps by instinct and not by planning | was able to get out of
my system at an early age that restless itch that many of us have
for distant places and varied ways of living, The era may well
have ended when one could be a jack of several trades — geology,
geophysics, mining investments and manufacturing. Surely the
future belongs to the specialists who stay in one place and one job.

[ 684 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CARL ERVING JOHNSON

    

SR
HOME ADDRESS: 35 Bay State Rd., Wellesley Hills 81, Mass.

OFFICE apprESs: United Shoe Machinery Corp., 140 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: April 23, 1913, Brockton, Mass, Parents: Charles Ephraim Johnson,
Alma J. Anderson.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREE: LL.B, (American Univ.), 1941.

MaRRIED: Priscilla Esther Barlow, Sept. 25, 1948, Dedham, Mass. CHILDREN:
Nancy Ellen, July 1, 1950; Lucinda Carol, June 12, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Patent attorney; assistant to head of Patent Department, United
Shoe Machinery Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Town Meeting Member, Wellesley, Mass., since 1958.

MEMBER OF: District of Columbia Bar, Massachusetts Bar; American and
Boston Patent Law Associations.

AFTER Cambridge I went into the home office of a Washington,
D.C., life insurance company. There I gained at least a funda-
mental knowledge of the business by working in several depart-
ments, a disinclination to become an insurance salesman and the
realization that mere security isn’t worth so much after all. I'd
managed to complete law school evenings when, in late "41, the
Navy signed me up. I saw the world, but only as it can be seen
from an “LSD” (large steel desk). Bureau of Ships logistics and
Lend-Lease matters proved very interesting, though not exactly a
foundation for a naval career. 1 bowed out in 1946 as a lieutenant
commander. Thus ended, after twelve years, what was to have been
a week’s visit to our capital.

To get into legal matters professionally and to employ my en-
gineering training at long last, I espoused patent law as my specialty
and came to United Shoe Machinery Corporation at Boston. Even
before the indefinite anti-trust laws and United's business practices
of long standing were adjudged not to be in consonance, an in-

[ 685 }

rc ~

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

dustrial diversification program had been started. I accordingly
have dealt in patent matters ranging from shoe machinery
(which can be rather intricate) to some ordnance, automatic elec-
tronic assembly equipment and, more currently, “strain wave gear-
ing,” a novel mode of motion transmission.

In returning to the region of the Charles I’ve closed a circuit in
other ways. With a “better half” from Wellesley 738, we've es-
tablished an active and happy home. Our days are full with two
daughters with whom we’re re-exploring many things in general,
and the New England countryside and its seasonal traditions in
particular, not to mention some joint rooting for Harvard.

FRANCIS EDGAR JOHNSON, JR.

 

HOME appress: “Kirtleton,” Far Hills, N.J.

OFFICE ApprEess: M. W. Kellogg Co., 711 Third Ave., New York 17, N.Y.
BORN: Sept. 4, 1912, Orange, N.J. PARENTS: Francis Edgar Johnson, Elga Horn.
PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935. ;
MarRRIED: Helena Edey, June 28, 1941, Edgartown, Mass, CHILDREN: Cynthia

Noel, Sept. 20, 1942; Helena Benedict, Feb. 1, 1945; Francis Edgar, 3d,
Nov. 20, 1948.

occuPaTION: Assistant vice-president, chief of staff, Contract Operations, M. W.
Kellogg Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Borough Planning Board, 1948-50, Borough Council,
1950-53, Peapack-Gladstone, N.J.; manager and director, London (Eng-
land) Branch, Kellogg International Corporation, 1954-58.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Edgartown Yacht Club; Somerset
Hills Country Club; Essex Fox Hounds Club; American Society of
Mechanical Engineers; American Management Association; English Speak-

ing Union.

WHEN I left the confines of Harvard for the big world outside,
[ 686 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I didn’t have the foggiest notion what I was going to do. There-
fore, when I was offered an opportunity to work in the office of a
United States company in Paris for a year, I leaped at the chance.
At least I could postpone the fateful decision for a while. Life in
Paris taught me several things — some of which I will not mention.
French became a second language to me, and I came to realize that
a person is not necessarily born to pursue only one particular line
of work. One is capable of adapting to almost any line provided
he is interested and happy. After I returned to the United States,
therefore, I ignored my liberal arts background and started work
as a student engineer with the M. W. Kellogg Company in their
factory in Jersey City, which manufactured equipment for the oil
refining industry. Within three years I was on my way back to
Europe as an oil refinery estimator — stopping first in Italy and
then in England. After two years in England in various capacities,
I was managing a team of United States development engineers in
an oil refinery in Wales when Britain declared war and all develop-
ment work was suspended. I told my English friends I was just
going back to America to get my gun, but I found a different at-
mosphere in New York when I landed there from a refugee-laden
ship. America was going to stay out of this one!

My company thought that the development work we had been
doing in England could be adapted to the making of toluene from
petroleum. Toluene is the stuff that is represented by the last “I”
in T'NT and is particularly desirable when one part of the world is
getting ready to blow up the other. I was made project engineer
in charge of the design of a toluene unit. Within a year my com-
pany was involved not only in toluene but in ammonia butadiene,
aviation gasoline, and many other plants for the government. I was
made engineering coordinator for all our government contracts ex-
cept one. This one was a big one — the design of the main atomic
bomb project at Oak Ridge, which occupied the attention of a good
part of our organization and placed a heavy burden on the rest of us
to keep the other important defense projects going.

While all this was going on, romance entered the picture and in
June, 1941, I married Helena Edey (who, among other attributes,
is a portrait painter), and we embarked on the responsibilities of
raising a family — two daughters and a son, When the war ended,
I was made executive engineer of the company —a position I held
until 1953 when I was sent back to my old stamping grounds in
England as director and manager of the company’s subsidiary —

[ 687 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Kellogg International Corporation. During my four-year tenure
in London, this office was built up from a small group of people to
its present strength of 500 engineers and technicians. I also had the
rather frustrating but ultimately successful experience of formin
a French subsidiary in Paris. The French certainly have a flair for
red tape.

After four years in London, my three children had become so
thoroughly British that my wife and I felt we must make the hard
decision whether to stay on indefinitely or to return to the United
States. We both are Anglophiles and would have considered it a
fine thing if the children had remained British. We, however, be-
lieved that one cannot split one’s allegiance without possible serious
repercussions. If we were to return to the United States at some
time in the future, better to do it before too many permanent ties
had been established. I asked for and received a transfer back to
New York in the beginning of 1958. At this point, the company
decided to send me back to the Harvard Business School for the
three-month Advanced Management Program. This turned out to
be very worth while, but it felt strange to return to the banks of
the Charles as a student again after twenty-three years, After my
session in Cambridge, I was made assistant vice-president and chief
of staff of contract operations.

If the above saga proves anything (and I am sure it does), it is
that engineering is nothing more than applied common sense, and
one does not necessarily need an engineering degree to apply it. I
am heartily in favor of a broad liberal arts training for our chil-
dren before we let them start specializing in any particular field.
After one starts his business career, there is little opportunity to
acquire the academic background that I feel represents our greatest
advantage over our Russian adversaries.

[ 688 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

STOWELL FRANCIS JOHNSON

   

La

HOME ADDRESS: 33 Summer St., Weston, Mass., Wykeham Road, Washington,
Conn. (temporary).

OFFICE ADDRESS: Grieve, Bisset & Holland, 42 N. Main St., Waterbury, Conn.

BorN: April 29, 1912, Waltham, Mass. parents: George Francis Johnson,
Marion Louise Rice.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; M.B.A., 1937.

MARRIED: Virginia Chase, July 3, 1941, Weston, Mass. (divorced 1955). CHILD:
Deborah, Feb. 24, 1944.

occupation: General manager, Greve, Bisset & Holland, department store.

MEMBER OF: Masons.

AFTER being graduated from the Business School, I started my
tour of the country in the department store field — New York,
Boston, Syracuse, Dayton, Providence, Columbus, Miami, Palm
Beach and Waterbury, Connecticut, where I am now located,

During my traveling I married, put in three and a half years in
the Quartermaster Corps as a captain, had a daughter, returned to
the retail business, was divorced and now live in the beautiful coun-
try hills of Connecticut as a bachelor enjoying a farm and a quiet
country life.

I have little time for socializing because of my long hours of work
combined with the taking care of a farm. At least, I am busy all
the time and enjoy my vocation and avocation, My health is good
and I have been pointed out as growing old gracefully .

[ 689 ]

Sop rwe
‘TTP P YIP Nay Pf PYARSRPFOFWPRNEVPRSSTERRSPP-SE ORRIN na

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

+k LESLIE D. JOHNSTON

 

BORN: Oct. 2, 1913, Haverhill, Mass. parents: Saville Johnston, Laura Dakin.

PREPARED AT: Brighton High School, Bnghton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

marrieD: Madeline B. Irvin, May 15, 1937, Cambridge, Mass. cxitp: Lloyd
D., April 18, 1940.

pieD: May 11, 1958, Belmont, Mass.

wipow: Mrs. Leslie D. Johnston, 68 Prospect St., Belmont, Mass.

LESLIE D. JOHNSTON spent one year with our Class. For our
Twentieth Anniversary Report he wrote that he was sales manager
for the Puritan Sanitary Supply Company, Cambridge, Massachu-

setts, dealers in wholesale heating supplies. He was survived by
his wife and child.

MARIUS EARLY JOHNSTON, JR.

    

HOME appRESs: 43 Burditt Ave., Hingham, Mass.
OFFICE ADpRESS: Derby Academy, Hingham, Mass.

[ 690 |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Jan. 10, 1913, Lexington, Mass. parents: Marius Early Johnston, Nancy
Coleman Carnegie.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; M.B.A., 1937.

marrieD: Helen Anna Stockamore, July 20, 1935, Gloversville, N.Y. cHiLpren:
Anne Chiles, June 6, 1938 (7, Timothy Edward Keating, June 20, 1959);
Marius Early, 3d, March 1, 1941; William Coleman Carnegie, Dec. 17,

1949.

occuUPATION: Latin teacher; head of Latin Department, Derby Academy.

MEMBER OF: Hingham Yacht Club; Harvard Club of Hingham, Hingham
G & S Society, Ltd. (co-president).

SHORTLY after graduation I was married and the summer passed
only too quickly. Harvard Business School opened to find Helen
and me in residence in Holden Green and so I entered my gradu-
ate studies without even crossing the River except for classes. This
seems to have had some symbolic significance as it now appears
that I remained on the College side of the stream in spirit as well —
only crossing over when necessity demanded while my interests
and life were gradually to become more and more entwined with
academic pursuits.

Thus over a ten-year period my path lay through the jungles of
cost accounting at Dennison Manufacturing Company and the
swamps of rate setting for Bethlehem Steel at both the Fore River
and Hingham Yards near Boston. During this period I became
aware that it is sometimes better to travel incognito, One can, in
some places, avoid a lot of unpleasant arguments by not mentioning
that Harvard degree.

By this time I had accumulated two children and a large pile of
household goods which we moved to Lexington, Kentuc ky, with the
idea of either farming or going into business there. The net result
of this experiment was to prove that the shortest distance to a given
point is sometime the long way around for within less than a year
I was offered a job teaching Latin right back in Hingham which I
had so recently left. Thus it was that I embarked on my teaching
career at Derby Academy in Hingham, Massachusetts, having at
last reached the destination that had been unknown to me for so
many years.

Now, starting my fourteenth year at Derby, I find that I would
not change my title of head of the Latin Department for anything
business could offer and that in spite of the fact that the title doesn’t
mean very much since I am the entire Latin Department. [I also
teach shop and other subjects from time to time, all of which

[ 691 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

keep me much busier than business ever did. As a result I h
little time for outside activities when school is in session but,
the other hand, the vacations are better. Too bad someone ca
manage to find a way to combine business pay with school vac
tions!

This vacation time plus some savings enabled me to take my far
ily to Europe in the summer of 1957, where we drove some 30
miles in a Ford bus—a trip which brought back many memori
of German A, Fine Arts 4F, French 6, 30, 9, 8 and others even 1
cluding Navy Sci. (college credit) since we went by boat bot
ways. This last course has also come in handy ever since m-
daughter Anne married into the Navy. Tim 1s an Annapolis gradu

ate lieutenant (j.g.), now in submarines, and so I do remember a bi
of the language. When Anne says “Negative,” she is not discussing
photography — she means it. ,

For hobbies and amusements I keep busy with Harvard football,
sailing, photography and an occasional martini. All of these leave
me very happy to have made the big circle trip back to academic
activities (j.g.), for Derby like Harvard has a venerable history,
being one of the oldest day schools in the country. Some of my

students have even managed to get into Harvard —a feat which
many of us of 1935 might well find difficult these days.

RALPH EDWARD MacDONALD JOHNSTON

 

HOME AvDRESS: 3846 W. Congress Pkwy., Chicago 24, Ill.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1955 W. Madison St., Chicago 7, IIL.

BORN: Jan. 20, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: David Aubrey Johnston, Annie
Wilhelmina MacDonald.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

[ 692 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934, 1935-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1935(38); LL.B. (Boston
Univ.), 1951.

MARRIED: Frances B. Briscoe, Jan. 19, 1947, Boston, Mass. cHmoren: Adriane
Rhea, Nov. 9, 1948, Avia Gail, Dec. 4, 1949, Ralph Edward MacDonald,
Jr., Nov. 7, 1951; Vanessa Lynne, Oct. 29, 1954, Guy Anthony, July 1,
1956; Jocelyn Anne, March 7, 1958.

OccUPATION: Community organization and welfare worker, Cook County
Department of Public Aid.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Democratic Ward Nine Committee, Boston, 1940-44;
executive secretary, Governor’s Council, Massachusetts, 1949-53.

MEMBER OF: Old South Historical Society; Phillips Brooks House Association,
Omega Psi Phi Fraternity; American Legion.

SHADES of Harry Pulham! It hardly seems possible that twenty-
five years have passed so quickly. To paraphrase a bit from a popu-
lar song, “They may have been a headache but they never were a
bore.”

My career, if it may be dignified by that title, has been a con-
glomeration of the heterogeneous and the incompatible. Since my
last report I have been an income tax assessor in Boston, an investi-
gator in Washington and a community organization and welfare
worker in Chicago. Living in this explosive midwestern metropolis
is as comfortable as riding a bucking bronco, but like Jimmy Galla-
gher, I’m still hanging on.

As a youngster I traveled extensively in the Caribbean when
visiting with my mother her home in St. John’s, Antigua, British
West Indies. While my children have not sampled ocean travel,
they have been air-borne at less than six months of age.

My social convictions, such as they are, have been colored deeply
by what Professor Allport calls, “The bigot in our midst.” My
fond if futile hope is that my children w ill not be subject to some
of the same painful experiences.

Politics beckoned to me through the Roosevelt First Voters in
1936, which I headed in Massachusetts for the Negro division. \ly
sympathies have remained unchanged. Kennedy, ahoy!

Vignettes: Freshman football scrimmaging with Herman Gund-
lach, tasting the spirits of the times with Makonnen Desta whom I
hope some day to visit in an official capacity; mentioning to ex-
Governor Bradford at lunch that I was coached briefly: by his
brother “Tiny”; trying to keep up with Arthur Pier en route to
the new Lecture Hall; Red Jenkins and his sweet potato whistle,
celebrating repeal with fellow-members of the German Club ar the
Statler; having Frank Knowlton and his Milton Brownies meet the

[ 693 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Jate Governor Dever; being honored with Arthur Pier as Clas
Marshal for the 1949 Commencement.

Paul Lawler sent me a Christmas card with a picture of the John
ston Gate. One day I hope to accompany my sons through tha
hallowed portal.

Ave et salv

ARTHUR MORSE JONES, JR.

oe

  

ER ORL SPRL LG NREL CE

Voie Rperagmenie

 

HOME aporess: “Linden Cottage,” Manchester, Mass.
OFFice aporess: First National Bank of Boston, 67 Milk St., Boston 6, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 11, 1913, Manchester, Mass. parents: Arthur Morse Jones, 07,
Mary Lovejoy Wetherbee.

PREPARED aT: St. George’s School, ‘Newport, RI.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MarrieD: Anstiss Dana, May 2, 1942, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN: Duncan
Dana, Sept. 29, 1943; Anthony Morse, March 3, 1947; Jeremiah Walcott,
March 22, 1951; Anstiss Derby, Sept. 20, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lawrence Wetherbee Jones, ’41.

OCCUPATION: Banking; manager, advertising and public relations, First National
Bank of Boston.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, St. Paul’s Church, Fairfield County, 1952-56; director,
Alumni Association of St. George’s School, since 1958, Travelers Aid
Association, since 1959, Magnolia Library Association, Financial Adver-
users Association of Boston, member, Public Relations Council, Museum
of Science, Boston, since 1959; chairman, Public Relations, United Fund,
Boston, 1960, Troop Committee, B.S.A., Manchester.

memobeR oF: Harvard Club of New York, A Republican Institution in the
Town of Boston, Banks North Gun Club,

AFTER an undistinguished undergraduate career, capped by the
distinction of being the only senior to receive his diploma un-

capped, I spent a summer traveling i in Europe. The economic cli-
miate being somewhat raw at the time, it seemed prudent to prolong

[ 694 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

education as much as possible, so T exposed mysclf to the Law
for a year, It didn’t take. T then turned to politics and worked in
Republican National Headquarters in C hicago during the Landon
campaign. As the sunflower wilted abruptly in the carly November
frosts, so did dreams of fat political perquisites. I decided it was
time to cut out the dilettantism and get under cover Fast.

I was fortunate in being able to secure remunerative emplov-
ment almost immediately in the messenger room of the J. Walter
Thompson advertising agency in Chicago (although Possibly a
salary of fifteen dollars per weck might not qualify as “remuncra-
tive”). On such a modest income, my - social life was understandably
uncomplicated, a lot of volunteer night work writing on accounts
handled by other writers paid off the next spring with a promotion
to the copy department and the only 100% raise of my career.

There followed a pleasant if relatively uneventful five years, as
I inched up the ladder rung by slippery rung and got a thorough
grounding in the techniques of adv ertising. Socially, Chicago in
those days was a wonderful place for a young bachelor. Fntrance
requirements to most events were a college “degree and a dinner
jacket. The good food spread so bountcously on the tables of the
“butcher to the world” looked (and tasted) like manna to the man
who customarily ate on a dollar a day. This pleasant pace was
brought to a jolting hale when, returning one evening from a
glorious day 1 in the duck blinds on the Hlinois River, we stopped i in
at a tavern for a cheering glass to learn that the Jap had bombed
Pearl Harbor.

And so to the heart of our national confusion, Washington, to
work in the newly-formed General Salvave Section of the WPB,
while I continued in a year-old endeavor to get the Navy to over-
look a decided myopic condition, Household Scrap Was our prov-
ince — tin cans, fats, old tires, toothpaste tubes and the other dere-
licts of our confidently wasteful economy. Undertaking the for-
mation of local scrap drives in forty -cight states, [ spene a lot of
time “in the field” (that marvelous W ashington euphemisin for any
place outside the District) meeting governors, addressing legislators,
haranguing meetings of junkmen —a fascinating group!

Somewhere along in here [ took two weeks out to get married at
Christ Church in Cambridge, a move T have schdom had caine to
regret.

Shortly after, the Navy relented and PE was adinitted through the
family entrance — furtively and by night. After a vear working

[ 695 ]

ALLELE LT LL EC ELIOT CNN tM EES: ney UN &

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

offer from a rival agency to act as vice-president and supervisor
of three important national accounts. After two years or so, I be-
came convinced I had made a great mistake. I seemed to be out of
town more and more, seeing my family less and less, working longer
and longer hours. By this 1 time, too, the family had become quite
disenchanted with life in Exurbia. I came to an amicable agreement
with my employers and withdrew my support of their operation.
Not too long after, a position opened in public relations in the First
National Bank of Boston. With a considerable sigh of relief we
sold our house, packed our bags and fell back on previously pre-
pared positions in Manchester. We had come full circle in eight
years — the poor man’s H. M. Pulham!

Today, with thinning top and thickening midriff, I stand on my
Early American porch and survey my to-be-ancestral acre with
something akin to satisfaction. It is winter and a clean blanket of
snow hides the drifts where the snowdrops and the crocuses and
the jonquils will come to take the winds of March with beauty.
There is majesty in the clump of tall pines at the end of the garden,
magic in the tracery of the linden trees against the gray, spent sky.

Faintly through the door behind me comes the clatter of the chil-
dren at their evening meal; from the other side of the house comes
the deep bark of the shepherd who has spied an unfamiliar passerby.
It is echoed by the staccato note of the dachshund, Unter. There
is a sleepy cluck from the bantam house; then all is silent save for
the crunching of the wayfarer’s step in the snow.

The Evening Star has lit her lamp and a thin fingernail of moon
swings aloft. I think briefly of things — of schools, and taxes, and
children’s shoes; of work done and work awaiting; of electronics,
nucleonics, ballistic missiles and the whole atomic Pandora’s box;
of the integrity of the individual and of the encroachment of the
State; of the trend in our society from the elevation of the soul and

the intellect to the near-beatification of the material; of the boy next
door but one who pulls wings off flies and of man’s inhumanity to
man. I think . . . and realize ruefully that what seemed at the time
an adequate education has not equipped me to understand, far less
to cope with, most of these things,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANK WILLIAM JONES

 

HOME appress: Crane Road, Charles, Ill.

OFFICE appREss: 104 S. Michigan Ave., Chicago 3, Ill.

BORN: Oct. 4. 1912, Milwaukee, Wis. pareNTS: Frank William Jones, Esther
Olin Whipple.

PREPARED aT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; 8.8. (Northwestern Univ.),
1940; M.D. (ibid.), 1940.

MarRRIED: Mary Lindsay Gifford, April 10, 1942, Chicago, Ill. cuitpren:
Lindsay Anne, May 12, 1947; Elizabeth Gifford, March 26, 1949; Peter
Whitcomb, March 25, 1950, Frank William, Jr, Dec. 7, 1951; Laura
Whipple, July 22, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Whipple VanNess Jones, ’32.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

MEMBER oF: American Medical Association; Chicago Medical Society; Nu
Sigma Nu; Geneva Golf Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Several scientific papers.

EACH of us assumes his life is packed with fascinating experiences
which might make the usual novel seem dull. Mine seems such
to me, but I am not a novelist: therefore, a brief résumé in chrono-
logical order must suffice.

After graduation in 1935, the Harvard-Yale tennis team played
in England and we ended a delightful summer of tournament play
and partying by beating Oxford and Cambridge for the Prentice
Cup.

I entered Northwestern Medical School in the fall, and with the
exception of washing dishes in our fraternity one year for room
and board, I had four uneventful years. Summers were spent as a
counselor in a boy’s camp in New Hampshire. During my intern-
ship, I met Mary Lindsay Gifford who ts now the lov ely, beauti-
ful Mrs. Jones with four red-headed children and one that looks
like me.

[ 699 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

The war years were happy ones in the sense of not suffering.
Two years were spent in Denver with a short jaunt in Miami Beach,
and the last two years in England with the Eighth Air Force.

Since 1946, I have been practising internal medicine in Chicago,
and for the last six years, I have lived on twelve acres about forty-
five miles west of Chicago, in the Fox River Valley. Life has been
very sweet, and may it continue to be so.

PETER WHITE JOPLING

 

HOME apprEss: C No. 14, Bywater Road, Annapolis, Md.
OFFICE appRrEss: Westinghouse Electric Corp., Baltimore 3, Md.

BORN: Nov. 21, 1912, Marquette, Mich. Parents: Morgan White Jopling, ’o6,
Sara Perry Meigs.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 19353 M.B.A. 1937+

MarrieD: Carol Farrington, April 6, 1940, Cleveland, Ohio. curtpren: Morgan
White, March 7, 1941; Hannah, Dec. 14, 1942; John Perry, April 15, 1944.

occupation: Industrial engineer, Westinghouse Electric Corporation.

orFices HELD: Member, 1951-57, president, 1953-57, Kent County Board of
Education; member, board of directors, Kent & Queen Anne’s Hospital,
1947-54.

MEMBER OF: Aberdeen Creek Chowder and Penguin Sailing Association.

[ 700 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LEE PAXTON JORDAN, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1801 Tahuna Terr., Corona del Mar, Calif.

OFFICE apprEess: Wan Ide-Jordan Lumber Sales Co., 513-A Security Bldg.,
Pasadena, Calif.

BORN: Sept. 17, 1913, Fort Worth, Tex. parents: Lee Paxton Jordan, Mary
Louise Brown.

PREPARED AT: Los Angeles High School, Los Angeles, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935.

MARRIED: Joan P, Beswick, Feb. 7, 1945, Jesmond, Newcastle-on-Tyne, Eng-
land. cuipren: Wendy Mariann, June 26, 1952; Mark Paxton, Sept. 5,

1956.

occuPaTION: Lumber broker.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Southern California; Delta Upsilon; Lake and
Colorado Business Association; Farm Bureau, Wholesale Lumber Asso-
ciation of Southern California.

RECEIVING wedding invitations from the daughters of two of
my old Harvard roommates and discovering that some of the Class
had become grandfathers was a shock from which I hadn't fully
recovered when the heaviest blow fell with the arrival of this form
and a request for the story of my life covering the twenty-five years
which have undeniably passed since we left Cambridge. Twenty-
five years! It doesn’t seem possible, Looking back, however, I can
truly say that they have been good years. Most have been happy
and productive, and many have been exciting.

On my return home to Los Angeles from college, my insurance
career got under way with Swett & Crawford and later Marsh & Me-
Lennan. The most fun, I think, was underwriting for Lloyd's. Those
were bachelor days with weekends and vacations devoted to fish-
ing, sailing, photography and skiing. Always, of course, I was look-
ing for the girl but could never quite find the right one.

On June 7, 1941, in spite of three years of high school ROTC and

[701 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

two of Naval ROTC at Harvard, and while the Navy was trying
to process a line commission for me, I was “selected” for twelve
months Air Corps training under the new Selective Service Act.
The twelve months developed into five years of doing a Cook’s
tour of England, the entire Mediterranean area, France and Ger-
many, during which I finally met the girl in England, After over-
coming the opposition of her entire family we were married — one
of the trickiest maneuvers of the war! Then back to the U.S.A,,
arriving after V-J Day, and separation as a major.

I returned to Marsh & McLennan and the insurance industry.
After a short while I left Marsh & McLennan to set up my own
brokerage. We were living in Sierra Madre near Pasadena when
in 1952 our daughter, Wendy, was born. By 1954, although the
insurance business was growing nicely, my old Texas blood began
to stir and [ simply couldn’t resist the opportunity to sell the busi-
ness and trade our home for a ranch near Corona called Willow-
brook. No smog, and country living! I learned to farm and to
raise cattle. I also learned to repair broken tractors, broken fences,
broken mowers, broken barns, broken hay balers, broken pumps
and everything else that it is posstble for farm hands to break. As
Wendy was reaching school age we found a good manager to put
on the place and moved back to town.

At last we found time to draw the plans for the house we had
been wanting to build. It is now completed, we have moved in
after many delays, and we hope to live here at least until the chil-
dren are grown.

I have gone into the wholesale lumber business with a friend
who has been in it for many years. Because we are in an area of
exploding building activity and because it operates as a fast-mov-
ing, free market I find it a stimulating and challenging business.

Life is never dull with small children around, especially with one
who outmenaces Dennis. We enjoy swimming, sailing, and, when-
ever time perimts, a day at the ranch with congenial friends.

[ 702 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

REID JORGENSEN

 

HOME apprEss: Water Island, St. Thomas, Virgin Islands.
OFFICE ADDREss: Old Harbor Master’s Bldg., 37 Dronningens Gade, Charlotte
Amalie, St. Thomas, Virgin Islands.

BORN: March 22, 1914, Tokyo, Japan. parents: Arthur Jorgensen, Lona Irene
Bergh.

PREPARED AT: American School, Tokyo, Japan.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934.

MARRIED: Virginia M. Phelan, Feb. 1, 1941, New York, N.Y. (divorced 1950);
Nancy Galt Perkins, Oct. 31, 1953, New York, N.Y. cumo: Reid, Jr.
June 18, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Gordon Lockwood Jorgensen, 34.

occuPaATION: Finance; resident manager, Virgin Islands Branch, Richard J.
Buck & Company, members, New York and American Stock Exchanges.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Virgin Islands Yacht Club.

MY departure from Harvard in the middle of junior year was a
source of dismay to my parents, and a mystery to some of my
friends; not, however, to the dean and me, though our versions dif-
fered. His had our “connections severed” owing to my failure to
appear for mid-year exams, while mine emphasized rather an urge
to trade the academic life for one more closely connected with the
world of affairs. Be that as it may, my feelings toward the college
have always been full of warmth and respect — likewise toward the
dean. (De mortuis, nil nisi bonum.)

The world of affairs in 1934 was not inviting, and I spent a dull
period of aimless apprenticeship in a spanking blue uniferm with
brass buttons, as page boy and guide at the NBC Studios in Rocke-
feller Center. Luckily, the gloom began to lift in 1935, and I landed
a job in the research department of a large Wall Street brokerage
house and, soon thereafter, in the buying department of a long-es-
tablished investment banking firm.

[ 703 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

+ SIMON LESLIE JOSEPH

 

BorN: Oct. 31, 1913, Liverpool, England. parents: Louis Joseph, Annie
Solomon.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.

piep: About June 18, 1933, on Mt. Washington, N.H.
SIMON LESLIE JOSEPH spent two years with our Class. He died

from exposure when he became lost in a blizzard on Mt. Washing-
ton. He was survived by his parents.

LAWRENCE HAROLD KAHN

se TEEN RR

    

La i icici ce tei swing

HOME apprEss: 26 N.E. 25th St., Miami 37, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: City of Miami, 3343 Pan American Drive, Miami 33, Fla.

BORN: March 21, 1912, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: Clarence I. Kahn, Marie Taper.
PREPARED AT: Boston English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREES: S.B., 1935; LL.B. (Univ. of Miami), 1935-
MARRIED: 1936 (divorced 1950). cHilp: David Stephen, Dec. 16, 1942.
occupation: Supervisor of public transportation, City of Miami, Fla,

[ 706 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Florida and Dade County Bar Associations, Transportation
Association of America; General Employees Association, City of Miami;
American Legion; Harvard Club of Miami.

MY point of view is similar in nature to that of our reputed uni-
verse: expanding all the time.

I believe I have, so far, scored two firsts: In the way of military
service I organized and trained the first infantry cannon company
in our army, and in medicine, I am reputed to have had the first
known cure of subacute bacterial endocarditis via antibiotics in the
United States (that is, I was the lucky patient).

Of all 3,000 classified jobs in the city of Miami, mine is the best
in every particular. I control and regulate all forms and agencies
of public transportation (including bus benches) on all operational
levels, and was recently instrumental in setting up “Football Park
Ride” which on New Year’s day alone kept more than 750 vehicles
out of the congested Orange Bowl area. This goes on all the time.

BARNET Z. KAMICH

 

HOME appREss: 11 Garwood St., South River, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Raritan Arsenal, Metuchen, N.J.

BORN: Aug. 31, 1912, Berditchev, Russia. parents: Zylyck Kamich, Laika
Grinshteyn. .

PREPARED aT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Afass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-193§. DEGREE: S.B, IN IND.CHEM., 1935.

MarRieD: Ida Perlmutter, July 13, 1946, New Brunswick, N.J. cumpren: Stuart
Allen, Nov. 13, 1947; Bruce Marshall, April 3, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Ordnance engineer.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Ceramic Society; Har-
vard Engineering Society; American Ordnance Association, Society of
Technical Writers and Editors; Association of American Teachers of
Slavic and East European Languages.

[ 707 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

AFTER leaving Harvard, I walked down the Charles to M.LT.,
where I stayed for three years as a research assistant. While there
I began to dislike my field of concentration — chemistry. I began
to do literature surveys and translations from Russian and Ukrain-
ian. From Tech I went to Esso in New Jersey as a research li-
brarian, With the coming of the war, I joined the Army as a civilian
ordnance engineer, specializing in publications of United States and
foreign ordnance material.

My position involves much travel to various army installations.
I manage to look up members of my Class who live in the various
cities I visit. In these twenty-five years, I have abandoned all
thoughts of changing things and have become a contented burgher
in New Jersey. Since Sputnik I went aloft, I have been using all
my free time to translate Russian and Ukrainian scientific docu-
ments for various scientific agencies of the federal government.

I am active in the Association of American Teachers of Slavic
and East Furopean Languages. The long-name but small organiza-
tion is working overtime to popularize East European languages in
American schools. I am planning to send both of my sons to Har-
vard, and am still carrying a green bag.

LEWIS WILLIAMS KANE

 

HOME AppRESS: 20 Dudley Lane, Milton 86, Mass.

orFice aporess: Room 902, Warren Bldg., Massachusetts General Hospital,
Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 32, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: Samuel Lawrence Kane, Sonya
Frances Shore.

prepareD at: Gardner High School, Gardner, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; M.D., cum laude,
1939-

[ 708 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Barbara Elizabeth Russell, Dec. 4, 1939, Boston, Mass. cutpren:
Peter Truesdell, July 5, 1941; Christopher Russell, July 29, 1943; Hugh
Russell, July 4, 1946; Oliver Truesdell, March 21, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Albert David Kane, ’37; Manuel Edward Kane, '43; Milton
Robert Kane, 45 (deceased).

occUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Workman fellow, 1939-40, assistant in bacteriology, 1941-42,
physician to medical students, 1944-46, Harvard Medical School, member,
Measles and Mumps Commission, Surgeon-General’s Office, 1942-45;
assistant professor of medicine, Tufts College Medical School, 1948-51;
member, advisory board, Massachusetts Department of Health, Boston
Health Department; vice-president and trustee, Boston Tuberculosis
Association; chief, Medical Service, Milton (Mass.) Hospital, member of
staff, Massachusetts General Hospital, New England Deaconess Hospital,
Milton Hospital; consultant, Pratt Diagnostic Clinic, 1947-50.

MEMBER OF: Badminton and Tennis Club; Boston Yacht Club, Multon-Hoosic
Club; Pan-American Society; Harvard Club of Boston; American Medical
Association; Massachusetts Medical Society; American Trudeau Society;
Society of American Bacteriologists, American Board of Internal Medi-
cine; Aesculapian Club.

PUBLICATIONS: More than thirty publications on various aspects of medicine;
contributed to two textbooks of medicine.

SEPTEMBER, 1935, produced only minor changes in my routine
—1I crossed the Charles and was academically transplanted to the
Harvard Medical School. After four years of monastic life, I was
awarded my M.D., cum laude. As a result of research on the chemi-
cal composition of bone conducted during my spare time at medical
school, I was awarded the Workman Fellowship with the intention
of spending six months abroad. Shortly thereafter, due to the
European phase of World War I], all traveling fellowships were
cancelled, and instead of England my work continued at the Harvard
Medical School. Several months after graduation, I married Barbara
Russell of Boston and shortly thereafter started my medical intern-
ship at the Massachusetts General Hospital. Our first of four sons
was born during that time. Following the completion of my intern-
ship, I returned to Harvard Medical School with the intention of
doing research for one year. During that time, I became associated
with Dr. John F. Enders, who had just undertaken a study of mumps
which had proved to be one of the major problems during the re-
cruitment phase of World War I. With our entry into the w ar, we
were asked to continue this work, first under the ‘Surgeon General's
Office and later with the Office of Scientific Research and Dev elop-
ment. Our efforts led to the mumps diagnostic blood test, skin
test, and vaccine first used by the Armed Forces and now in com-

[ 7°9 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

mon use throughout the world. Perhaps even more important, this
research laid the groundwork for subsequent investigation on polio-
myelitis and the polio vaccine.

After the war, I had to make a difficult choice between going on
in pure academic research, far removed from the patient, or under-
taking the practice of medicine. My four years in a laboratory were
rewarding and allowed the development of a scientific and inquir-
ing approach to medicine, but I missed the personal relationship and
the responsibility of caring for the ill. After much soul searching,
I decided on the practice of medicine and became associated with
Dr. George R. Minot, Nobel Prize Laureate in Medicine. I also
returned to the Massachusetts General Hospital from the Harvard
Medical Schoo] and undertook some research on the newer anti-
biotic agents. I have continued to practise at the Massachusetts
General Hospital, where my office now is. As chief of medicine
at our community hospital in Milton, Massachusetts, I have had an
opportunity to observe medicine from both the academic and com-
munity level. I have never regretted my decision, and the enthusiasm
with which I anticipate each day’s work is no less now than when I
first started. Having participated in academic research, teaching,
clinical research, and the practice of medicine, I feel my medical
life has been full and rewarding. I also feel the broad field of medi-
cine allows the pursuit of things that are intrinsically noble and
great.

My hobbies are many, ranging from a study of Biblical and
modern French literature to deep sea fishing. I even completed a
novel during my summer vacations which is, alas, as yet unpublished.
The pursuit that I have enjoyed most has been our family fishing
parties and picnics on our thirty-foot boat out of Eastham on Cape
Cod. My wife and four sons are avid fishermen and our combined
catch consists of bass, Atlantic salmon, bluefish, sailfish, marlin,
dolphin, barracuda, kingfish, etc. Two years ago, I took my oldest
son fishing off Bimini, during which we hooked into several marlin
and as a result all other fishing seems tame to him. At this stage
of our career, one is considered venerable enough to be allowed a
modicum of philosophical rambling (otherwise known as the gar-
rulousness of old age). In order to simplify instruction, the young
are taught that white is rigidly white and black incontrovertibly
black. To avoid confusion in the formative years, the existence of
various gradations of grey is denied. This rigid approach which
may be necessary in the education of the young fosters the develop-

[ 710 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ment of a rigidity of personality that becomes a trap during maturity
from which some are never pliable enough to escape. Such persons,
captives of their rigidity, unable to meet the mixed problems of a
rapidly changing world, are those whom we as physicians are see-
ing in increasing number with various psy chiatric complaints.

PAUL JOHN KANSTEINER

 

ADDRESS: 1153 W. Dean Rd., Milwaukee 17, Wis.

BORN: Feb. 22, 1913, St. Louis, Mo. Parents: Walter Henry Kansteiner,
Virginia Nash.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MARRIED: Janice Johnson, Jan. 31, 1935, Chicago, Ill. cHmpren: Karen, July
22, 1939; Meryl, Sept. 24, 1944; Paul John, Oct. 12, 1945.

OccuPATION: Manufacturing.

NO questionnaire returned.

LEON ROBERT KAPLAN

 

HOME ApDpRESS: 192 Fuller St.. Brookline 46, Mass.

[zie]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

OFFICE appRESS: Metropolitan Furniture Co., 640 Centre St, Jamaica Plain
Mass.

BORN: June 28, 1913, Boston, Mass. Parents: Morris Kaplan, Bessie Ruth
Bravman.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1935.

MarRIED: Eva Stone, March 3, 1946, Boston, Mass. cHmpren: Barbara Ruth,
March 3, 1947; Rhoda Irene, March 11, 1949.

occupaTioN: Owner, Metropolitan Furniture Company, furniture and appli-
ance business.

OFFICES HELD: President, Jamaica Plain Board of Trade.
MEMBER OF: National Retail Furniture Association; Apartment House Owners

Association; Kappa Nu Fraternity; Temple Kehillath Israel, Brookline,
Mass.; Temple Israel, Nantasket, Mass.

LIKE a great many classmates at graduation, I found myself with
a Harvard diploma and no job. The four years behind me were
rich with memories I shall always treasure. But after graduation,
the world-wide depression outside Harvard seemed gloomy indeed.
Despair was rampant. While pondering an unpredictable future, I
remembered President Conant’s advice at graduation to “Have Faith
in Yourself.” J coupled his wise words with a little poem I had
read somewhere which was timely and inspiring:

When you've lost every vestige of hope

And you think you are beaten and done

When you've come to the end of your rope

Tie a knot on the end and hang on!
I gradually emerged from my feeling of frustration and despair to
a mental state of hope and optimism thanks to the faith I developed
in myself.

I began to flounder about in the business world selling air-con-
ditioning and insurance. I finally found my niche in the furniture
and appliance business two years after graduation. In 1937 I
founded the Metropolitan Furniture Company which I own and
manage. It has proved a never-ending source of pleasure and happi-
ness. An interesting phase of this business has been the furniture
rental business which I pioneered. This has kept me in contact with
students at the College and Graduate School throughout the years.

My family includes a gracious and charming wife, Eva, and two
beautiful daughters, Barbara Ruth and Rhoda Irene. We spend our
summers at Nantasket Beach, Massachusetts.

I am thankful for all that has gone before. I look forward to

what is ahead — the children growing up, the problems and oppor-
tunities of the future — with faith and confidence. |

| 712 |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARRY ELLIA KATSEFF

 

HOME ADDRESS: 132 Clark Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jane Clare, Inc., 151 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 28, 1908, Boston, Mass. parents: Morris Katseff, Celia Grossman.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935 (36).

MarRiED: Anne Ger, June 11, 1939, Boston, Mass. cHitpren: Wilma Claire,
Dec. 16, 1941; Marcia Jane, June 14, 1943.

OCCUPATION: President and treasurer, Jane Clare, Inc., women’s wear and
greeting cards.

AFTER graduation there was no job to be had, as far as I could de-
termine, in my field of concentration, so I became a member of the
Personnel Division of one of the newly-formed government agencies,
the National Youth Administration. After approximately seven
years of interesting work, I resigned to take a more interesting po-
sition as labor economist with the U.S. Department of Labor where
I spent four more years. I then went to the Wage Stabilization
Board as an industrial relations analyst and when this agency was
terminated by congressional action, I became manager and part
owner of Clatoy Products, Inc., of Boston, a toy manufacturing es-
tablishment. This venture collapsed after about four years w hen a
similar Japanese-finished product of the toy we made sold in. this
country for slightly less than our raw material and labor cost. I
then operated a gift and greeting card shop and now [ am at Jane
Clare, Inc. — women’s wear and greeting cards,
Things I should have done before graduation:

(a) Studied more.

(b) Read more.

(c) Made more money.

(d) Taken part in more activities, recreational and orherw ise.

[713]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

(e) Kept up on current events.

(f) Kept down on my weight,
Things I should have done after graduation: see (a) (b) (c) (d)
(e) (f) above.

  
 
   
  
  
  
   
     
   

THOMAS JOSEPH KEARY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1232 Savoy St., San Diego 7, Calif.

oFFice appress: U.S. Navy Electronics Laboratory, San Diego 52, Calif.

BorN: Feb. 17, 1914, Rockport, Mass. parents: Thomas Joseph Keary, Nellie
Agnes Shea.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., #agna cum laude, 1935; A.M. 1938;
PH.D., 1941.

MarriEp: Catherine Palma Bianchi, Oct. 11, 1947, Minneapolis, Minn. cHIL-
DREN: John Joseph, Aug. 3, 1948; James Thomas, Oct. 13, 1951.

occupaTION: Scientific research; supervisory physicist, U.S, Navy Electronics
Laboratory.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Physical Society; International Sci-
entific Radio Union.

pusLicaTions: “A Study of the Angles of Arrival of Radio Waves Reflected
from the Ionosphere” (Doctorate thesis, Harvard University, May, 1941);
“Shaped Beam Antennas,” with L. C. Van Atta, chapter 13, M.LLT. Radia-
tion Laboratory Series, vol. 12, McGraw-Hill Book Company, N.Y., 1949;
“The Random Occurrence of Meteors in the Upper Atmosphere,” with
H. J. Wirth, Journal of Geophysical Research 63, 67, March, 1958; “Sta-
ustical Characteristics of Forward Scattered Radio Echoes from Meteor
Trails,” with H. J. Wirth, Proceedings of the International Radio Wave
Propagation Conference, October, 1958, at Liege, Belgium, Academic
Press, London, 1959.

IN setting down my autobiographical notes, I find that I can con-
veniently divide my life since graduation into three periods, The

[714]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

first covers from graduation to mid-1941; the second from mid-
1941 until the end of 1945; the third covers from early 1946 until
the present.

Until mid-1941 I remained at the University where I continued
studies at graduate level, instructed in physics and communication
engineering and tutored in the division of physical sciences. These
were years in which I learned to appreciate the spirit of scientific
inquiry and to enjoy research in the physical sciences. This period
culminated in June, 1941, when I received my Doctorate and joined
the staff of the M.I.T. Radiation Laboratory.

The years 1941 through 1945, I spent at the M.I-T. wartime Radia-
tion Laboratory where I participated in the exciting development of
radar and specialized in the design of microwave antennas. During
six months of this period, in the latter half of 1943, I was at the Tele-
communication Research Establishment in England. These were
busy years in which I experienced the stimulation coming from asso-
ciation with many of the leading physicists of the United States and
United Kingdom, At the conclusion of this period, I had the pleas-
ure of being a contributing author to one of the volumes of the
Radiation Laboratory Series of books. With the ending of World
War II and the dissolution of the wartime Radiation Laboratory, I
moved from Massachusetts to Southern California.

Here in San Diego I have been engaged in scientific research at
the U.S. Navy Electronics Laboratory, My scientific interests lie
largely in radio physics and the relatively new radio astronomy. Oc-
casionally, I give a semester series of technical lectures for the Depart-
ment of Engineering of the University of California as part of the
UCLA off-campus graduate program here in San Diego. Occasion-
ally also, Iam a consultant to a small electronics company in San Diego.

In 1947 I married and now have two sons in grammar school. In
1951 we built our home on Point Loma in San Diego. Our family
vacation habits usually result in two short vacations each year — one
in the summer and another at Christmas time. We enjoy exploring
the West, including the California coast, the Sierra Nevada range
and the Rocky Mountains, About every five vears we make a cross
country automobile trip to visit relatives and friends in eastern
United States. In connection with my work I frequently visit the
East Coast of the United States and hence occasionally visit Cam-
bridge. Also in connection with my work I visited the United Kiny-
dom in 1948 and continental Furope in 1958.

My leisure time at home is occupied with a large number of home

[705 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

rojects ranging from gardening to amateur brick-laying. Of course,
I also inevitably participate in the projects of two lively boys.

JOSEPH FRANCIS KEATING, JR.

 

HOME ApDpREss: 88 Woodmere Rd., West Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE appress: H. W. Steane Co., 150 Park Ave., East Hartford, Conn.

BORN: Nov. 14, 1914, Clinton, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Francis Keating, Antoinette
Connaughton.

PREPARED aT: Clinton High School, Clinton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Ann M. Tully, Aug. 16, 1947, West Hartford, Conn, CHILDREN:

Carolyn, Feb. 27, 1941; Joseph Francis, 3d, and Jo-Anne (twins), Aug. 28,
1948.
OCCUPATION: Packaging — sales.

MEMBER OF: West Hartford Exchange Club; West Hartford Knights of Colum-
bus; West Hartford Board of Tax Review.

AUGUSTUS MAVERICK KELLEY

 

HOME AbpRESS: 136 W. 75th St., New York 23, N.Y,

[ 716 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: 400 W. 23d St., New York 11, N.Y.

BORN: Dec. 25, 1913, Riverdale, N.Y. parents: Nicholas Kelley, '06, Augusta
L. Maverick.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933. DEGREES: A.B. (Univ. of Chicago), 1935; AM.
(Columbia Univ.), 1937.

MARRIED: Eva Kocerova, 1958, New York, N.Y.
HARVARD BROTHER: Nicholas Kelley, Jr., °31, LL.B. "34.
occupaTION: Bookseller, specializing in economics,

WORKED at National Bureau of Economic Research, 1939-40.
In army, 1940-45, Fifth General Hospital, England and France.

Went into second-hand book business about 1947. Have been broke
ever since.

HUBERT JAMES KELLEY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 54 Radcliffe Rd., Wellesley 81, Mass.

OFFICE aDpRESS: H. Gorin & Leeder, Management Trustees, 10 Post Otfice Sq.
Boston, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 1, 1914, Belmont, Mass. parents: James W. Kellev, Cecelia F.

Leahy.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 193I-193§. DEGREES: A.B. 103$3 MBA. 1937.

MarRigD: Barbara M. Riley, Dec. 30, 1941, Boston, Mass. catpreex: Hugh,
Feb. 17, 1947; Donald, Sept. 15, 1948; Peter, Aug. 21, 1952; Barbara, Aug.
14, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Real estate manager.

MEMBER OF: Hatherly Country Club, Scituate, Massachusetts.

I CANNOT give the Class much information about my occupation,
since I have just resigned as New England real estate representative
of the Gulf Oil Corporation to join H. Gorin & Leeder Company,
which owns substantial business and residential properties in Boston.

[717]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

I have spent these twenty-five years in the Boston area except
the war years when, thanks to the Harvard military: science pro-
gram, T was called to jfuty as a second lieutenant in the Arm
Quartermaster Corps. I served in Washington briefly and then in
Europe for three and one-half years, winding up as a lieutenant
colonel. After the war I joined Gulf Oil Corporation, for which [|
worked primarily on its real estate program until now.

As to family life, we have four children, all of whom go to the
Wellesley public schools, the oldest being in the eighth grade. We
have summered at North Scituate, Massachusetts, since 1952, and
outside of the beach itself our greatest interest is golf. I am proba-
bly the worst golfer in the Class of 1935, but easily the most en-
thusiastic. My other hobby is a spinet organ which I started play-
ing three years ago without knowing a thing about any musical
instrument. Unfortunately, it shows. However, I thoroughly enjoy
it and can entertain any captive audience with loud voices.

Our travels have been confined to the eastern seaboard except for
a wonderful three weeks Barbara and I spent in Europe last spring.
We flew from Boston to Rome, hired a Fiat and drove all over
Italy, Switzerland, Austria and southern Germany. We can’t wait
to do it again but we shall have to. ;

My other interests include a tour of duty as a cubmaster which
was enjoyable, but I never could learn the Cub Scout oath. I have
also for several years coached a Little League team but I notice
each year it gets a little harder to bend over to warm up the pitch-
ers.

Aside from these things I do enjoy reading, particularly sub-
jects I wouldn’t look at when I was in college. This year as a result
of our trip I have concentrated on Roman history and the history
of the Catholic Church. Why these things had no appeal when |
had time to study I do not know, but, at least, Harvard taught me
where to look for the information. All this makes me sound like a
serious fellow. Alas, it isn’t true.

[718]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN FRANCIS KELLEY

 

ADDRESS: 20735 Devonshire Blvd., Chatsworth, Calif.

BORN: Sept. 28, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: John Edward Joseph Kelley,
’03, Helena Dignan.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

NO questionnaire returned.

DAVID MOULTON KELLOGG, JR.

 

HOME AbpREss: 181 Boston Post Rd, Weston 93, Mass.

BoRN: Nov, 29, 1910, Glen Ridge, N.J. parents: David Moulton Kellogg,
Julia Goedecke.

PREPARED aT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MarRRIED: Marion Valleau Fuller, March 23, 19g0, Stamford, Conn. criuprrs:
Anne Valleau, March 16, tggt; David Moulton, gth, Dee. 3, 19433 Stephen
Brewster, Aug. 27, 1949; Peter Fuller, June 8, 1933.

[719 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

HARVARD BROTHERS: Stanley Goedecke Kellogg, '35; John Winthrop Kellogg,
°36; William Alexander Kellogg, °36.
occuPATION: Manufacturers’ representative.

IN what I suppose must be termed a “complacent” attitude, I have
felt that I was leading an interesting, although not terribly exciting,
life. But faced with the task of outlining “this, my life,” in black
and white, I am suddenly aware that there are few if any aspects
that could possibly be of interest to anyone.

My first eight or so years after leaving Harvard were spent in
the stock brokerage business. Not much accomplishment here, but
I learned a few facts of life, financially speaking, and also that golf
could be shot in the seventies, with a little luck. Then, three years
of living in Georgia proved that “southern hospitality” is not over-
rated, and that bourbon is superior to Scotch. Following this period,
a couple of years of extended business traveling merely emphasized
a point I had always known —that New England was where I
wanted to work, and enjoy life and a family. That’s where my
twenty-fifth finds me, as I hope my thirty-fifth and forty-fifth will
also. Of course, the inevitable changes are taking place: in tennis,
doubles have replaced singles, Cranmore has supplanted the Mount
Washington headwall; and I prefer raising chickens and tomatoes
to raising Cain.

Our two youngest sons sleep with Harvard banners over their
beds, and “boola” is a nasty word; but, sorry to say, our eldest is
succumbing to the Andover influence and seems headed for Yale.
We trust that attending the Reunion will straighten him out.

STANLEY GOEDECKE KELLOGG

 

HOME appress: High Mowing, New Ipswich, N.H.
[ 720 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: Capitol Products of New England, Inc., 44 Maple St, Dover,
N.H.

BORN: June 12, 1912, Glen Ridge, N.J. parents: David Moulton Kellogg, Julia
Goedecke.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Jean Melville, Nov. 26, 1938, Weston, Mass. cHiLprReN: Gillian, Dec.
8, 1939; Stanley, Feb. 6, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHERS: David Moulton Kellogg, Jr., °35; John Winthrop Kellogg,
"36; William Alexander Kellogg, 736.

OCCUPATION: President, in charge of sales, Capitol Products of New England,
Inc., manufacturers and distributors of alummum combination windows
and doors.

OFFICES HELD: Community Council, Weston, Mass., 1946-47; trustee, New
Ipswich Congregational Church, since 1956; director, since 1956, president,
1958-59, Souhegan Country Club.

MEMBER OF: Society of First Division; Pi Eta Associates.

THREE hundred dollars saved from odd jobs around college enabled
me to put off job hunting while I wandered around Europe, first
with Tom Hunter, then with Vic Balboni, and later alone, Arriving
home five months later with fifty cents in my pocket, I took the first
likely job — sales work for Buckley & Scott Company of Boston,
a heating engineering firm.

During the next nine years I worked my way to manager of one
of the departments, and married an attractive and capable girl, who
not only added two prodigies to the ever-growing Kellogg clan, but
who also designed and built the “castle” in which to raise them.

_ Finally the war invaded this idyllic scene and much to my dismay

I was shipped to Europe and shoved into the front lines of the Six-
teenth Infantry, First Division, where for nine eternal months we
slogged through all kinds of terrain, in all kinds of weather, against
all kinds of Germans. With the cessation of the war came a period
with military government, followed by two wonderful months at
Grenoble University in southeastern France. Then home for Christ-
mas.

Harvard Business School’s ninth advanced management program
convinced me I should branch out in business, and with a friend I
started my own sales company, But after nine years of varying de-
grees of success, I left to manage the metal products division of the
D’Arcy Company in Dover, New Hampshire. In 1957 we separated
this division and formed Capitol Products of New England, of which
Iam currently president in charge of sales,

I have moved the family seat to a hill just over the Massachuserts

[721]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

border in New Hampshire, where the air is noticeably fresher and
cleaner, and where someday I can sit back, relax and enjoy the
view — that is, when my wife will let me. Meanwhile, my daughter
and son are both learning independence at the University of New
Hampshire.

On the whole, life has been very good to me. I have been blessed
with a fine family and a sufficient number of friends, My business
and town affairs have brought me in contact with men and women
of stimulating mind and character. To all these I owe what little

progress I have made down the road toward wisdom and under-
standing.

ROBERT SALMONS KELLY

 

HOME appREss: 39 Walnut St., Red Bank, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wilbur B. Driver Co., Newark 4, N.J.

BorN: Nov. 4, 1913, New York, N.Y. PaRENTs: / James Allison Kelly, Elizabeth
Hyde Reimer.

PREPARED AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932. DEGREES: a.B. (Colorado Coll.), 19353 4M. (ibid.),
1937-

MarrieD: Ronda Bell Teel, Dec. 26, 1946, Irvington, N.J. CHILDREN: Cornelia
Collins, Jan. 21, 1948; Elise Thwing, Nov. 4, 1951; Robert Rodney, June
¥, 1958.

occupation: Chief chemist, in charge of classical and spectro-chemical con-
trol laboratory, Wilbur B. Driver Company, manufacturers of electrical
heating, electronic and special alloy, wire and strip.

MEMBER OF: President, Metropolitan Section, Colorado College Alumni, 1959;
councilor-at-large, Central Subsection, North Jersey Section, American
Chemical Society.

MEMBER OF: Beta Theta Pi, F. & A.M.; American Chemical Society; American
Society for Testing Materials; American Institute of Chemists; American

Association for the Advancement of Science; Society for Applied Spec-
troscopy.

[ 722 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

TO my report of 1955, I might add two significant items: the addi-
tion of a son and heir to our family tree and the acquisition of a
piece of property, complete with twenty-year mortgage, in the
North Jersey shore area.

Having joined the ranks of “harried” commuters, I find living”
tranquil enough (maximum allowed in the jet age). My job, house
and family occupy most of my time, with some left over for church,
alumni activities and technical meetings.

1 do recall, with pleasure, the last meeting of members (New York
area) of Harvard 1935 and would like to see it repeated in the near
future. Can’t make your Reunion because I plan to attend my
“second’ college conclave in Colorado this fall.

PIERCE BURNHAM KENYON

  

HOME ADDRESS: 709 Park Ave., Spring Lake Heights, N.J.
orFice appress: U.S. Army Signal R & D Labs, Fort Monmouth, NJ.

BORN: June 6, 1913, North Attleboro, Mass. parents: Herbert Thomas
Kenyon, Ruth Pierce.

PREPARED AT: Bennett High School, Buffalo, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932, 1946-1948. DEGREE: A.B. 1935 (48).
MarRigED: Ruth Estelle Provost, Oct. 13, 1956, Hewlett, N.Y.
OCCUPATION: Radio engineer (meteorological instrumentation).
MEMBER OF: Vestry, Church of St. Uriel the Archangel, Sea Girt, NJ.

THERE'S little of interest to augment the facts above. The end of
our freshman year found me not bright enough to win scholarships
and not clever enough to coin money. So I led a bare existence until
1935 when the government became aware that its navy needed per-
sonnel and opened up recruiting.

I often felt I had traded one intellectually bare existence for an-
other but regular paydays were encouraging. The travel was not

[ 723]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

quite as advertised; in fact the more interesting voyages were a few
transcontinental train rides. Ships and dirty ports seem to have too
close an affinity. My enlistment expired in June, 1939. Although the
“limited emergency” was still to come, nevertheless Hitler, Tojo,
Mussolini and Stalin were already on their separate, poorly disguised
warpaths. The “defense” jobs were not yet plentiful, so I extended
my enlistment for two years. Much of this time was spent in the
Caribbean Sea, where the ports are dirtier than California’s, but the
weather is more uniformly mild. “Lend-lease” and “Bundles for
Britain” were accompanied by mostly clandestine anti-submarine
warfare.

By June, 1941, the draft had started, so it was pointless to leave the
Navy then. Why trade a clean bunk for a muddy foxhole? My
next enlistment was due to expire in June, 1945, but was perforce
extended a few more months, I spent most of the war in the South
Pacific on destroyers. It was the creeping war until the Marshall-
Gilbert campaigns; the bold war thereafter through the western
Carolines, Ryukyus to Yokohama.

Politicians and sociologists can rave against atom bombs as they
please, but probably none of them would have cared to participate
in the alternatives of landing on the Nip’s home islands or the China
coast and also seeing their voters and students come home many
years later than they did, if at all, As it is, of course, hindsight sug-
gests that we may have come home too soon anyhow.

I felt I was returning to the same Harvard I had left twelve years
before, except that nobody knew what a goodie was, not even the
goodies. The admissions committee didn’t rejoice to see me back,
probably expecting me to flunk most courses and be an emotional
problem. The placement officer promised he couldn’t find a thirty-
five-year-old much of an opportunity if I graduated. He didn’t. It
wasn’t easy to get through, even with choosing courses which re-
quired a minimum of writing and a minimum of remembrances of
material from twelve years before. But it wasn’t a complete grind.
I didn’t feel like a misfit. Most of us were limited to government
subsistence plus small savings if any. So most of our social life was
in the House plus an occasional beer at Cronin’s. Nobody that had
been in the war seemed very young to me, even those ten years my

junior, but perhaps that came from my own twelve years of arrested
development!

Our spot on the Jersey shore is quite a compromise, The big
cities are close enough to be almost convenient but remote enough

[724]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to keep us beyond suburbia. The ocean is near enough to temper the
temperature in summer and winter but distant enough (seven blocks)
to dissipate the “sea dust.” Enough people live and work here all
year to keep us from being a summer colony, yet I can live modernly
but near enough to my work to lunch at home.

Quiz Question: How can a man who is professionally absorbed in
acquainting himself and others with the thoughts and imaginations
of many of the world’s great minds pay any substantial attention to
an activity, “rigged” or not, where the only idea involved is that of
buying the sponsor’s products?

HARRY FREDERICK KERN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 120 East End Ave., New York, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Foreign Reports, qt E. 42d St., New York, N.Y.

BORN: July 7, 1911, Denver, Colo. parents: Harry Frederick Kern, Alice Jane
Robertson.

PREPARED AT: East High School, Denver, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935.

MARRIED: Janey Campbell MacKenzie, Dec. 27, 1939, Princeton, N.J. CHILDREN:
Rosemary, Nov. 4, 1948; Nathaniel, March 13, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Director, Foreign Reports.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Overseas Press Club; National Press
Club; Japan Society; Asia Society; Pilgmms, Council on Foreign Rela-
tions.

CASTING the mind back to 1935 is rather like looking through the
wrong end of a telescope, so perhaps it is better to begin with the
last few years. The last few years for me actually started in 1956
when I left Newsweek magazine, where I had successively been
foreign editor and editor-in-chief of the international editions, I

[ 725 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

then founded an organization of my own, Foreign Reports. We are
advisers on international affairs to private business, with offices in
New York, Beirut and Tokyo, It sometimes seems to me that I have
spent a good part of these four years in airplanes, since I am obliged
two or three times a year to visit Europe, the Middle East, South-
east Asia and Japan. The simplest way to do this is to go around
the world. Such is my fate for four or five months out of the year.
Those who envy foreign travel can have my place when the plane
is delayed for two days in Dhahran or when the man in the Bangkok
customs — with the temperature in the go’s — wants to open up the
tin of caviar I am taking from Teheran to Tokyo as a present for
the Prime Minister of Japan.

While time spent inside airplanes is unrewarding, there is a good
deal to be said for the pleasure of finding friends all around the
world. Cairo in the fall and the spring is always pleasant and |
count the Egyptians from President Nasser on down as among the
most delightful companions to be found any place. The hospitality
of the Saudi Arabians has got to be experienced to be believed. So
also has the frigidity of the weather in the desert in the winter. One
December, just after the Suez attack, I was invited by King Saud
to join him at his hunting camp a few hundred miles from Riyadh.
I came away with a gift that was most welcome: a heavy coat lined
with sheepskin.

Japan probably has played more part in my life than any other
single country. It hardly seems possible going to Tokyo today to
realize what a wreck of a city one encountered fourteen years ago.
I have since become a connoisseur of saki, Kyoto gardens, hot baths
and geisha (who are not what you think). Harvard, by the way, is
still to the Japanese the college of colleges. They were appalled
when President Conant went to West Germany as ambassador in-
stead of to Japan.

In the time I am not engaged in foreign travel, I live in New
York. J am not, however, reconciled to becoming a New Yorker.
The daily struggle with the taxis, subways and busses grows ever
tougher and certainly the climate doesn’t improve, I have at least
escaped becoming a commuter, although I have been trapped into
taking a place on Long Island for the summer.

Some day I hope to start keeping the diary that I should have be-
gun twenty-five years ago and write a book about my visits to Presi-
dent Nasser, King Saud, the Shah, Prime Minister Kishi and the
rest. However, writing for publication ended when I left News-

[726 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

week, But I fear, as Frank Knowlton can testify, I have not ceased
to be a deadline writer.

As for my personal life, as the vital statistics show, in 1939 —
to quote Sir Winston Churchill’s book, My Early Life —“I married
and lived happily ever afterward.”

GEORGE THOMAS KEYES

 

HOME apprEss: East Pepperell, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Simonds Saw and Steel Co., Fitchburg, Mass.

BoRN: March 11, 1911, Pepperell, Mass. PARENTS: George Thomas Keyes, “89,
Emily Brown Eaton.

PREPARED aT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935-

MARRIED: Lucy B. Stone, April 30, 1938. CHILDREN: George Thomas, Jr., Dec.
18, 1940; Richard B., April 7, 1942.

occupation: Product manager, Simonds Saw and Steel Company, manufacturer
of small tools.

OFFICES HELD: Member executive committee, Wildlife Conservation, Inc. since
1950; director, Reece Corporation, since 1953; wustee, Community Memo-
rial Hospital, Ayer, since 1954.

MEMBER OF: Brookline Country Club; Eastern Dog Club; Harvard Varsity
Club; Wildlife Conservation, Inc., Owl Club; North Middlesex Athenaeum
and Sporting Club.

IN June, 1935, correctly figuring that this would be my last ex-
tended vacation, I spent the next six months in utter and blissful
relaxation, fishing and camping; then followed an appendectomy.
January 1, 1936, found me in the employ of the Simonds Saw &
Steel Company of Fitchburg, Massachusetts. At Simonds I worked
on many jobs involving the manufacture of files and hacksaws and
metal bandsaws. After a year or so of making tools in these cate-
gories, I was advanced to the metallurgical ‘department, a job I

[727]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

was well fitted for by my college field of concentration: anthro-
pology. The fruition of these early efforts finally landed me in
the position of product manager in charge of these lines, a job in-
volving all aspects of manufacture and sales, Needless to say, it
necessitates traveling a great deal of the time, a chore both burden-
some and rewarding, as one realizes that Boston may be the Hub
of the Universe, but that U.S. industry has attained its magnitude
in many areas far removed from New England’s shores.

The pleasures of married life started for me in April, 1938. Simul-
taneously, a do-it-yourself program was inaugurated, which appears
to become larger in scope with each passing year. Partly, this is
because we live in the country where services are somewhat unpre-
dictable, but mainly because several of these chores have become
hobbies, such as woodworking, gardening and forestry.

The arrival of two boys in the early forties did very little to
alleviate the chore level, I soon learned, but enriched our happiness
to the very fullest. As the children grew older, we seemed to be
drawn still further north into the country on our vacations; with
the result that we purchased with the Edward Farleys (Harvard
’36) a school house, two abandoned farms and 300 acres of Jand in
the hills of Vermont. Long weekends and vacations find us in this
veritable Valhalla, shooting, fishing, skiing and canoeing, doing all
the things that only this sort of place can provide.

A vivid June memory in undergraduate days was one of the
Twenty-fifth Class Reunioners marching across Anderson Bridge.
I wondered at the time if it were at all possible that I would ever
live to reach such a state of veneration and decay. Now, twenty-
five years later, I still fancy myself quite youthful and able to offer
my children sportive competition. However, a quick look in the
mirror, or the results of a short tennis game, show that I too have
reached a certain stage of venerable obsolescence. This does not
prevent me from looking forward with great anticipation to trudg-
ing across Anderson Bridge myself this June.

[ 728 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDGAR HAYDEN KEYS, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1654 Jersey St., Quincy, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Physicians and Surgeons Clinic, 1101 Maine St., Quincy, Ill.

BORN: Sept. 3, 1913, St, Louis, Mo. parents: Edgar Hayden Keys, Elizabeth
J. Rauh.

PREPARED AT: University City High School, University City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 1035; M.D. (Washington Univ.),
1939.

MmarRiED: Katherine Stuart, June 29, 1940, Webster Groves, Mo. CHILDREN:
Peter Hayden, Jan. 5, 1943; John Nicholas, Nov. 18, 1946; Elizabeth
Stuart, May 27, 1950.

occuPaTIon: Physician; obstetrician and gynecologist.

OFFICES HELD: Active staff member, consultant in gynecology, past chief, Dept.
of Obstetrics and Gynecology, St. Mary's Hospital, Quincy, Ill; active
staff member, consultant in gynecology, chief of obstetrics and gynecology,
Blessing Hospital, Quincy, Ill; lecturer in obstetrics and gynecology,
Blessing Hospital School of Nursing; chief, Mobile Hospital for Civil
Defense; medical director, Blessing Hospital for Disasters (Civil Defense);
member, executive committee, Joint Advisory Committee, School of
Nursing Committee, Health and Welfare Committee of Student Nurses,
Blessing Hospital; ex-Cub Scout master; member, Scout Troop Com-
mittee.

MEMBER OF: Quincy County Club; University Club of St. Louis; American
Medical Association; Illinois State Medical Society; Adams County Medi-
cal Society; American Board of Obstetrics and Gy necology (diplomate) ;
American College of Surgeons (fellow); American College ‘of Obstetricians
and Gynecologists (fellow); St. Louis Gy necological Society; Central
Association of Obstetrics and Gynecology.

PUBLICATIONS: “Heart Disease in Pregnancy,” 1941, American Journal of
Obstetrics and Gynecology.

AFTER graduation from Harvard I returned to my home town of
St. Louis and entered Washington University School of Medicine.
from which I was graduated in 1939. During my senior vear in med-
ical school I met Katherine Stuart who had graduated from Smith

[729]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

in 1935. Our college years had been spent but a few miles apart, but
we had never met. Our marriage took place on June 19, 1940, just
after my first year of internship. After nearly two years of residenc
in obstetrics and gynecology at Barnes Hospital, I entered the Army
by way of the Reserves and membership in General Hospital No. 21
(Washington University). Four years of military service followed,
three of which were spent in Africa, Palestine, Persia and Italy. Our
first son was born while I was overseas. Rank at discharge was
major,

Following the war, I resumed my residency and during this two-
year period son number two arrived. On completing hospital train-
ing, we located here in Quincy, Illinois, where I joined a group
practice as obstetrician and gynecologist. This consists of a group
of voluntarily associated physicians, practising as a group, but pri-
vately, We feel that this has been the best way to bring specialists
to a community which ordinarily would not support men in the
narrower but still valuable specialties and subspecialties.

Since practising in Quincy, our daughter, the third child was born.
Now the eldest boy is off to Shattuck School in Minnesota, for his
last two years prior to college. He and I share the hobby of automo-
bile tinkering — he with elderly but lovingly re-worked Fords, and
I with Jaguars (cars, not animals). The second son is in junior high
school and the girl is our lone grade-schooler.

Much has been expressed in the past concerning the satisfactions
achieved in the practice of medicine; therefore I shall state merely
that I love it and would not want to do anything else. Being in a
small community has the definite advantage of giving more time to
my family, and less time to traffic jams. Furthermore, the much-dis-
cussed modern problem of “juvenile delinquency” is practically non-
existent here.

My wife and I both enjoy travel. Medical meetings have taken us
all over this country and in 1957 we embarked on the high adventure
of a European tour. A small car was purchased overseas, and we set
out on our own, picking our own routes and sights, and trying to
see the various countries and their peoples as they are and not through
the eyes of American tourists staying in large hotels filled with other
American tourists,

Our politics are Republican (non-stuffy, I trust), and religion
Congregationalist. As for social, religious and political convictions,
I feel that rather than becoming set in my ways an
become more elastic and certainly more olen shoughts, I have

[ 730]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RANDOLPH APPLETON KIDDER

vr: . 4

  

HOME ADDRESS: 2400 Foxhall Rd., N.W., Washington 7, D.C.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of State, Washington, D.C.; American Embassy, Paris,

France.

BoRN: July 6, 1913, Ipswich, Mass. parents: Alfred Vincent Kidder, ’08, Made-
leine Appleton.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B.. cum laude, 1935.

MaRRIED: Dorothy Douglas Robinson, Feb. 5, 1938, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Michael Randolph, April 24, 1939; Charlotte Appleton, Dec. 6, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Alfred Kidder, 2d, ’33; James Kidder, 45.

OCCUPATION: Foreign service officer, Class I; counselor for political affairs,
American Embassy, Paris.

OFFICES HELD: During my foreign service career ] have been vice-consul,
consul, consul general, first, second and third secretary of embassy, and
deputy chief of mission.

MEMBER OF: Metropolitan Club and University Club, Washington, D.C.; King
& Queen Rod & Gun Club, Stevensville, Va. ; Chevy Chase Country Club,
Chevy Chase, Md.; Travellers Club and Racing Club de France, Paris.

THIS account is being written under the shadow of forthcoming
NATO ministerial and Western summit meetings — the calendar
leading up to June 12 is littered with goings and comings of the
Great, at which I am in the category of those who also serve who
only stand and wait. The only thing which can be seen clearly from
my vantage point as Counselor for Political Affairs, Embassy, Paris,
is confusion. That is not meant to be facetious — it is alwavs so be-
fore the clouds lift, most particularly as great events come close.
However, it is interesting to think that all my studies and profes-
sional activity since | graduated from college have been preparing
me to live in a reasonable state of equilibrium with just such con-
fusion.

I spent the first years after college trying to get into the Foreign

[ 731]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Service: summer courses at the Universities of Grenoble in France,
Jena in Germany, and Harvard in Cambridge — the rest of the time
was at the Ecole des Sciences Politiques in Paris and at cram school
in Washington. My future mother-in-law said I couldn’t get married
until I had passed my examinations for the Foreign Service or had
some sort of job; I accomplished marriage and Foreign Service both
in the spring of 1938. I have been in the Foreign Service ever since.
None of this do I regret. It has been a fascinating, constantly chal-
lenging, often exhausting but greatly rewarding life. We have been
lucky. We've been sent places we would never have chosen but
their interest has more than made up for any problems they may
have brought with them.

We started out in Montreal where our son, Michael, now in the
Navy, was born, From there we were sent to Australia. We spent
well over four years in Sydney and in Canberra—a thoroughly
delightful, hospitable country. Moving from Australia was a real
wrench; we felt totally at home there. When we arrived the Phoney
War was under way; when we left, the Japanese were on the run.
Next, to Belem, the port of the Amazon, as consul. That was the
beginning of five years in Brazil and three years in Washington in
charge of Brazilian affairs. Once again we lost our hearts to our
hosts. Belem was memorable for many reasons. One is pertinent to
this Report — and that was the advent late one evening of a U.S.
Navy officer who came up the long drive towards my house, through
rows of sad papaya trees and even sadder pineapple plants, to find
me showing my chickens —saddest yet—to a Brazilian student
nurse. Be that as it may, Natty Goodhue’s presence later that day
at the American consul’s New Year's Eve celebration was notable.

We moved to Rio de Janeiro in mid-1946 and remained there for
three glorious years. As far as I am concerned there is no sense of
humor to equal the Brazilian— the Portuguese language as the
Brazilians speak it is a never-ending delight. From Rio we were re-
called to the autumn session of the U.N., then at Lake Success, Two
problems arose immediately; first, I was assigned to maintain liaison
with the delegations of a number of Spanish-American countries but
I spoke no Spanish — and unfortunately still don’t. Second problem:

1949, as you may remember, was the year of the great water short-
age in New York City. ‘That was an especially bitter pill for my
wife and me. We had had water shortages in Australia and in Bra-
zil—nearly ten years of it—and one thing we were looking for-
ward to on our long-awaited return to God’s own country was

[ 732 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

plenty of water. As I recall it, the going ration was something ap-
proximating two inches for the daily bath. The U.N. was my first
experience in the wonder-world of multi-national diplomacy, some-
thing which is now, only ten years later, standard fare.

The turn of 1949-50 found us back in Washington, which we have
now definitely adopted as home. Three years in Brazilian affairs and
a superb year as a student at the National War College — then off
again, this time to Saigon, where I served successively as first secre-
tary, deputy chief of mission, and finally chargé @affaires. My serv-
ice bridged a period of the history of southeast Asia through w ‘hich it
was a privilege to live; it was a period of tragedy and of ‘hope. The
battle of Dien Bien Phu marked the half-way period of our stay;
the early struggles of the young government of Ngo Dinh Diem
took up the last months of our assignment, Back in 1935 to Wash-
ington, where | spent three years as special assistant to the Deputy
Under-secretary for Administration. In June, 1958, the Fourth
French Republic came to an end and the Kidders arrived in Paris
where they had first met in 1936. We have had an unbelievably
interesting year and a half, so far, watching the birth and vigorous
progress of the Fifth Republic. That is an cighteen- hour-a- day job.

FREDERICK GRIDLEY KILGOUR

 

HOME appress: 107 Haverford St., Hamden 17, Conn.
OFFICE appRESS: Yale Medical Library, 333 Cedar St, New Haven 11, Conn,

BORN: Jan, 6, 1914, Springficld, Mass. parents: Edward Francis Kilgour, Lil-
lian Bess Piper.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Springfield, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.
MarRRIED: Eleanor Margaret Beach, Sept. 3, 1940; Williamsport, Pa. crmpeen:

[ 733 ]

eS on eR

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Christopher, Aug. 30, 1944; Martha, July 13, 1946; Alison, June 6, 1948;

Meredith, Sept. 3, 1951. ,
occupaTION: Librarian and teacher of history of science and medicine.
OFFICES HELD: Executive secretary, Interdepartmental Committee for Acquisi-

tion of Foreign Publications, Office of Strategic Services, 1942-45; deputy

director, Office of Intelligence Collection and Dissemination, Department

of State, 1945-48; librarian, Yale Medical Library, since 1948; lecturer in

history of science, Yale University, 1950-59.

MEMBER OF: American Library Association; Medical Library Association;
History of Science Society.

PuBLicaTions: About a score of periodical articles and co-author of Engineer-
ing in History (1956).

AT graduation, I had been working in Widener for nearly a year
and I stayed on for another seven. In the latter part of this period,
I did part-time graduate work in the history of science and spent
summers at the Columbia School of Library Service. Neither effort
yielded another degree, for the war not only interrupted but also
terminated these pursuits.

From March, 1942, until September, 1945, I directed an opera-
tion in the Office of Strategic Services that acquired all types of
foreign publications for intelligence purposes, principally from
enemy and enemy-occupied areas. In all we got in about three-
quarters of a million separate pieces and did a fair amount of find-
ing out what the other fellow was going to do. After the shooting
was over I was awarded the Legion of Merit, There followed three
years of intelligence activities in the Department of State where the
job became increasingly uninteresting with each passing month, so
I finally left in September, 1948, to go to Yale.

During the past dozen years I’ve done some teaching: one course
in Yale College, 1950-59, and now a half course in Quinnipiac Col-
lege, a small (1200 enrollment) school in my home town. However,
my principal activity has been librarian of the Yale Medical Library,
a collection of more than 300,000 items, which is but somewhat
less than a fifth the size of Widener in 1935, but the largest medi-
cal school library in the world. In addition to being a librarian |
alm sometimes a reader, and here I confine myself largely to histori-
cal materials. The majority of my publications have appeared in
the last decade.

My family consisting of a wife, a son and three daughters is, I
am sure, the standard suburban menage, but we try in little ways
to be different rather than like. We contribute some time and effort
to community activities; 1 am a member and past president of the

[ 734]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

local Democratic Club; we attend the Congregational Church.
From time to time I have hobbied at such activities as gardening
and photography. In high school I was on a rifle team and recently
I have begun to shoot again along with a couple of my youngsters.
But I do not look forward to competing in national matches.

Tacitus was probably right when he wrote: “The desire for fame
is the last desire that is laid aside even by the wise,” but I found
that I had to do so long ago.

EDWIN NELSON KIMBALL

   

HOME ADDRESS: 3459 Devon Brook Drive, Bloomfield Hills, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Chrysler Engineering Division, Box 1118, Detroit 31, Mich.

BORN: Dec. 16, 1912, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: George Cook Kimball, ’oo,
Elizabeth W. Leeds.

PREPARED AT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Madeleine Rippingille, Nov. 29, 1957. CHILDREN: William S. Morse,
March 28, 1941; Edward V. Morse, July 12, 1943 (both stepsons).

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Kimball, 731, s.M., °32.

OCCUPATION: Staff executive, Management Planning Department, Chrysler
Engineering Division.

OFFICES HELD: President, Zens Kimball & Company, Ambler, Pa, 1946-48,
partner, Walker & Kimball, Builders, Cornwall, Conn, 1948-50; secretary,
Layman’s League, Unitarian Church, Birmingham, Mich, 1954.

MEMBER OF: Village Players, Birmingham, Mich.; Pine Lake Country Club,
Pontiac, Mich.

TODAY has been a beautiful December Sunday. I jumped out of
bed slowly, feeling the effects of a late session with my father-in-
law, discussing automobile problems ¢irea 1902. Fach of us is in-
clined to punctuate a point with a drink and T was trving to make
several points. Before dressing I devoted a moment to considering

[ 735 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

KERMIT REGINALD KIMBALL

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 31 Fresh River Ave., Hingham, Mass.

BORN: Aug. 31, 1912, Bangor, Maine. PARENTS: Hyland Forrest Kimball, Abi-
gail G. Verplast.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: a.B., cum laude, 1935; C.P.A., 1941.

marriep: Adelaide Frances Wilbur, Aug. 7, 1937, Portsmouth, N.H. cnttpren:
Dianne A., Sept. 19, 1938 (7. Chester P. Keefe, June 14, 1958); Kermit
Reginald, Jr., Sept. 15, 1941.

occupaTion: Certified public accountant,

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, High Street Cemetery Association, Hingham, 1947-
58; treasurer, 1948, auditor, Evangelical Congregational Church, Hing-
ham; president, treasurer, manager, Hingham Little League, Hingham

Babe Ruth League, 1953-58; president, treasurer and auditor, various
PTA’s.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Society of Certified Public Accountants, American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants; National Association of Cost

Accountants; Hingham Theatre for Children; Wompatuck Community
Center; Fo’c’s'] Club of Hingham.

PROFESSIONALLY: In 1935 I enrolled in the evening division of
Bentley School of Accounting and became an office boy in a firm
of certified public accountants. Through grim determination and
sheer brilliance I advanced, during the next decade, to the position
of accounting clerk in the Boston headquarters of a mining company.
Financially, my progress was even more fantastic — my income in-
come increased over 700% in ten years (from $12 a week in 1935
to $84.13 a week in 1945).

Having conquered the world of business and finance, I next
turned my attention to the field of education. In 1945 I became a
teacher at my old alma mater (Bentley, not Harvard) and for the
next five years expounded all known theories of accounting to my
spellbound students. I also propounded not a few theories of my

[ 738 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

own... which makes me think that rather than spellbound, my

students were perhaps sleepy. In any event, I decided that my theo-

ries needed testing outside the classroom, and so by 1949 I was in the
ractice of accounting as a principal.

The first thing I learned out on my own was that businessmen
were far more interested in income taxes and their avoidance than
in accounting theories and skillfully prepared accounting statements.
To bolster my rather sketchy and disorganized knowledge of the
subject of taxation, I decided that a formal course of action was
necessary. Since being a teacher was more profitable than being a
student, I became an evening instructor of taxation for the next two
years.

In 1953, one of my clients hired me to straighten out a few things
and for the next five years I was controller and miserable most of
the time, Nine a.m. trudge up Federal or Summer Street with the
rest of the herd. Five p.m. back down to the South Station. All we
needed was dogs barking at our heels.

Now I am back in practice for myself and teaching accounting
two evenings a week. Happy as a bird. If I weren’t such an eternal
optimist, I might harbor the sobering thought that I am right back
where I was ten years ago.

Personally: Since I bought my house in 1945 I have not played
golf, gone sailing, skiing, bone fishing, or riding (horseback). I
have never been south of Palm Beach, north of Noeanda, P.Q., west
of Niagara Falls, nor east of the Atlantic Coast of USA.

The pretty girl I conned into marrying me and I have been busy
with two children and eight acres in the country. Gardens, weeds,
insects, wood for fireplaces, jeep and snow plow, chain saw, lawns,
cesspools, roto-tiller, landscaping, horse briars, wild cherry trees, etc.

If I were really pinned down, I would have to admit that for the
most part the last twenty-five years have been ok.

[ 739 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

FRANK HERBERT KINGSLEY

 

ApprEss: P.O, Box 669, South Swansea, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 31, 1913, Fall River, Mass. parents: Frank Herbert Kingsley, Mabel
Spooner.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931~1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1935 (37).

MARRIED: Grace Pratt, June 25, 1938, Swansea, Mass. CHILDREN: Edna, Aug.
9, 1940; Frank Herbert, Jr., April 6, 1942.
OCCUPATION: Building supplies.

NO questionnaire returned.

JOHN CARL KINGSTON

 

appress: Fundo Santa Rita, Casa Blanca, Chile.

BORN: Aug. 17, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: Carl John Kingston, Caroline
Loskamp.

PREPARED AT: Beverly Hills High School, Beverly Hills, Calif.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935,

[ 740 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
MaRRIED: Janet Wilson, June, 1935, Weston, Mass. ciitpren: Carl John, May
4, 19373; Peter, May 28, 1939; Michael, May 29, 1941; Susan, Jan. 17, 1945.
occuPATION: Ranching.

NO questionnaire returned.

+ WILLIAM GURNEY KIRBY

 

BORN: Nov. 25, 1912, Whitman, Mass. PARENTS: James Thomas Kirby, Helen
Cullahan.

PREPARED AT: Whitman High School, Whitman, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: aB., cum laude, 1935.
pieD: Dec. 3, 1942, Oxford, Ohio.

AFTER graduation Kirby spent two years at the Graduate School
of Arts and Sciences. He had studied music in England and was
widely known as an organist, pianist and director. He was director
of the University Glee Club at Harvard and had served on the
faculty at Boston College. At the time of his death he was professor
of music at Western College, Oxford, Ohio. He was survived by
his father, two brothers and a sister.

[ 741 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

AUGUST MARTIN KLEEMAN, JR.

  

  

HOME apDpDRESS: 82 Maple Ave., Warwick, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 Colonial Ave., Warwick, N.Y.

BoRN: Aug. 26, 1913, Irvington, N.J. PARENTS: August Martin Kleeman, Ottilie
Blum.

PREPARED aT: Columbia High School, South Orange, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: S.B., 1935; M.D. (Cornell Univ.), 1939.

MaRRiED: Josephine Wood Beck, 1938, New York.

occuPATION: Physician.

oFFices HELD: Attending staff, St. Anthony’s Hospital, Warwick, N.Y.

MEMBER OF: Orange County Medical Society, New York State Medical
Society; Twilight Club, Haines Falls, N.Y.

AFTER graduating from Cornell University Medical College in
1939, I served at St. Vincent’s Hospital in New York City until 1942.
Then followed three years in the U.S. Air Force as flight surgeon,
from 1942 to 1946; I did air evacuation work in the E.T.O. Since

1946 I have been engaged in the general practice of medicine in
Warwick, New York.

[ 742 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT MANSFIELD KNOWLES

   

HOME ADDRESS: 27 Victory Ave., South Portland, Maine.

OFFICE appRESS: Morse, Payson & Noyes, 57 Exchange St., Portland, Maine.

BORN: Sept. 24, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Leroy Sunderland Knowles,
Bessie A. C. Mansfield.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MARRIED: Barbara B. Bodge, Sept. 24, 1936, Boston, Mass. cHmpreN: Sandra
Taylor, Dec. 31, 1941; Robert Mansfield, March 18, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Insurance consultant, Morse, Payson & Noyes.

FRANK WARREN KNOWLTON JR.

 

HOME aAppreEss: 41 North St., Grafton, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Royal McBee Corp., 27 W. Mountain St., Worcester 6, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 5, 1912, Weston, Mass, PARENTS: Frank Warren Knowlton, 113.
’02, Isabelle Riese.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: M.B.A., 1939.

marrieD: Heéléne Sigourney, Feb. 1, 1936, Cambridge, Mass, chitpren: Sabra,
May 4, 1940; Lindsay, Feb. 18, 1943; Frank Warren, 3d, Sept. 25, 1948

[ 743 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Almy Knowlton, ’36.

occuPaTION: District manager, Data Processing Division, Royal McBee Corp.

OFFICES HELD: Class agent, Harvard Fund, 1943-51; secretary, Milton chapter,
American Red Cross, 1943-44; instructor, Rhode Island State College,
1943-45; director, Boston and Providence chapters, National Association
of Accountants, 1944-47; vestryman, junior warden, senior warden, St.
Michael’s Episcopal Church, Milton, 1945-54; vice-chairman, Milton Com-
munity Chest, 1946, Harvard Class Committee, 1950-55; treasurer, Massa-
chusetts Squash Racquets Association, 1953-54, executive committee, St,
Mark’s School Alumni Fund, 1954-56, placement chairman, executive
committee, president, Harvard Business School Club of Worcester, 1956-
60; director, Bourne and Grafton Taxpayers Associations, 1954-57; regional
chairman, Harvard Business School Fund, 1959; ranking committee, US,
Squash Racquets Association, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Royal Ocean Racing Club (life); The Buzzards; University Club
of Worcester; Harvard Clubs of Boston and Worcester; Harvard Varsity
Club; Worcester Y.M.C.A.; U.S. Squash Racquets Association.

pusLicaTions: Articles on data processing for trade publications, and light
verse for special occasions.

IF 1960 were the end of one way of life, and the beginning of
another, how easy it would be to account for the past twenty-five
years! Had everything followed a plan, there at least would be
some logic for what has happened. The chronology would then
be a cinch, but how dull life would have been! Looking backward,
without coming to a full stop, produces only fragmented images,
but Satchel Paige counseled against this practice —“It may be
gaining on you,” he warned. How can the years since college be
encapsulated, when there is still so much unfinished business — kids
to be educated — small pleasures and ambitions to be satisfied?

In retrospect, 1935 seems like yesterday. I still don’t regret that
first summer after college as paid captain of a little yawl in Marble-
head. A 1925 Packard phaeton which Bowen White had sold me
for a song at graduation provided mobility and glamor to help me
win the hand of the daughter of a Harvard alumnus (how vener-
able he seemed three years after bis Twenty-fifth!), Other high-
lights of those early years: three weeks of perfect cruising weather
in 1937 which Lainie and I somehow captured for voyaging down
the Maine coast and in waters south of Cape Cod — our trip to
Bermuda in 1938 — the wonderful years in Milton where we lived
for thirteen years at the edge of the Blue Hills — the fun of acting

in several plays at the Milton-Hoosic Club — the long and happy
relationship with St. Michael’s Church.

To Stone & Webster and Blodgett I am indebted for giving me
[ 744 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a start in business in the fall of 1935. But investment sales were not
my mug of brew; so in February, 1938, I entered the Harvard Business
School, from which I was graduated in 1939. This was followed by
five and a half years with Remington Rand in punched-card ac-
counting, managing their Providence office during the war years.
What scarecrows and refugees from the draft we had going for us
in sales at that time! For two of those years ] taught accounting
nights at Rhode Island State College. Early in 1945 T took a civ il-
ian job for six months in the Research and ‘Development Section of
the Quartermaster General’s barracks in Washington, trying to sell
better protective clothing and cold-weather gear to the Army
Ground Force brass. I regret my inability to serve in the armed
forces during World War II. Despite my four years of “Navy
Sci” at college, the desk-side admirals had no use for a bag of bones
with lousy vision.

After demobilization, I came back to Milton with an assignment
from Addressograph-Multigraph to brainstorm applications for a
new punched-plate tabulating machine. But after fourteen months
both my employer and I wrote this venture off —the equipment
was short on capacity and flexibility, or else I lacked the power of
positive thinking and the zeal of a huckster. Then on to New York
City in 1947 for four months as sales manager for Necessities Lim-
ited, a shaky venture run by a financial rascal who had managed to
get nation-wide distribution of footballs and basketballs covered
with a coated cotton fabric, no two of which assumed the same
shape, and with bladders that refused to recognize inflation. Later
we added huge beachballs with harlequin covers that regularly ex-
ploded as I trundled samples by air over the Rockies. The days of
ersatz merchandise were numbered. I got out just in time.

In May, 1947, I joined Royal McBee which has kept me on the
payroll ever since. In the past three years, much of my ume has
been spent promoting our “electronic brains,” digital computers
for scientific and business data processing. It is late to be d abbling
in the sorcery of mathematics, but I'm just a middle man w ho
doesn’t have to invent anything except the happy utopia where de-
mand meets supply. For the past twelve and a half vears my time
has been pretty much my own while faithfully assaying the ‘tricky
path of mediocrity, which would make it senseless to tire me, and
madness to upgrade or uproot me too far from eastern Massachu-
setts, In a national organization, this isn’t always an easy task,

Since the summer of 1954, we have lived in Grafton, a delightful

[ 745 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

leasure that with stark horror I wonder what life would have been
without them. After 25 years I still stand in awe of the intellectual
stature of our great University, and its services to mankind. In re-
cent years I have been closer to the Business School than to the
College. There are almost 200 “B’-school alumni in Worcester
County, and last year 83% of them set some sort of record by con-
tributing to the Business School Fund. Where else could you find
any faction of Harvard Alumni so happily brainwashed?

In conclusion, as our kids go out into a more competitive world,
I wonder if they realize that their heritage is top-heavy with crea-
ture comforts. Our own Chris Herter has warned us about being
too much absorbed in the mere enjoyment of a prosperous life be-
hind our defensive curtain of nuclear power. If, as he so well states,
“the fateful competition with Communism has placed a first claim
on the energy and interests of us all,” are we stiffening up to that
challenge? 1 doubt it. Although a chronic optimist in most things,
I fear that as a great nation we are on the skids. I hope [’'m wrong.
Perhaps it’s just my ulcer. Perhaps I’m just underestimating the
moral fibre and sinews of another generation that graduates in "60
as we cclebrate our festive Twenty-fifth. Rocky, I hope you're on
the ballot in November!

JOSEPH GEORGE KOLODNY

P
:
i
.

   

HOME abpress: 40 Central Park South, New York 19, N.Y.

OFFice appress: Ciba Pharmaceutical Products, Inc., 556 Morris Ave., Summit,
N.J.

BORN: Nov. 24, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Julius Kolodny, Etta Gotz.

prepareD aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: AB, 1935; L1.B. (George Washington
Univ.), 1950.

| 748 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Beatrice Levitch Rudack.
OCCUPATION: Patent attorney, Ciba Pharmaceutical Products, Inc.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; American Patent Law Association;
New Jersey Patent Law Association.

GRADUATION in 1935 found me, with my classmates, mired in
the midst of the depression. For me, things were catch-as-catch-
can through 1940, a period spent mostly as a teacher of chemistry
and mathematics in the Boston Public Schools, then in the dev elop-
ment of test methods for wool in the U.S. Customs Service. In
1941, I left Boston for U.S, Defense Department work in Fall River,
Massachusetts, then went to Picatinny Arsenal, Dover, New Jersev,
as an explosives chemist. I left Picatinny Arsenal in 1947 to become
an examiner in the U.S. Patent Office and matriculated, at the same
time, at the George Washington University Law School in Wash-
ington, D.C. After receiving my LL.B. degree in 1950 and being
admitted to the District of Columbia bar, I became associated with
E. R. Squibb & Sons, New York City, as a patent attorney. I left
that company in 1953 to become associated in private practice with
the firm of Connolly, Cooch & Bove in Wilmington, Delaware. In
1957 I severed my connection with that firm and am now associated
with Ciba Pharmaceutical Products, Inc., as patent attorney. Ciba
is an international company with home offices i in Basel, Sw itzerland.
The company is a leader in the resin, dyestuff and pharmaceutical
fields. My work enables me to enjoy life on the Continent period-
ically, particularly in delightful Switzerland. My beautiful wife
and I live in midtown Manhattan, in the midst of all the goings-on,
and try to enjoy all the advantages of the world’s largest metropolis.

HERBERT HARRIS KORNBLIET

  

HOME appress: Mill Road, Falmouth, Afass.

[ 749 ]

el SOT TT Ta eae TEN UNRREE YY Sess,

——___

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

OFFICE appress: Grossman’s, Falmouth, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 17, 1914, Chelsea, Mass. PARENTS: Isidore Kornbliet, Dora Barron.
prepareD at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1935(36).

Marriep: Sylvia Baker, May 30, 1938, Boston, Mass. cuHmpren: Wilma Dvara,
Oct. 16, 1942; Ronna Irene, Feb. 2, 1951.

occupation: Manager, Grossman’s, lumber and building materials yard.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and trustee, Cape Cod Synagogue, 1949-59; vice-
president and member board of directors, Falmouth Kiwanis, 1950-59,
member, Falmouth U.S.O. Committee, 1956-59.

MEMBER OF: Cape Cod Harvard Club, Kiwanis International; Amvets; Marine
Lodge, AF. & A.M; B'nai B'rith.

THROUGH the years since 1935, I have had to search for many
things, but probably the most difficult and unrewarded search has
been for that intriguing, topical, opening sentence to my personal
history for this Class Report. Between the haze the years have cast
over past events, loss of any literary skill learned in English A, and
sudden realization that the events of interest to me and mine might
be somewhat less scintillating when printed for all to read, I suf-
fered for many months what seemed to be a complete mental block
and a physical inability to write a word. The last reminder from
the Report Chairman that there was no more time for delay did the
trick, but I am going to miss those illustrated dunning notices the
editor has been sending me,

After graduation, I went to work in New York City and lived in
bachelor quarters with a classmate in Brooklyn Heights, while spend-
ing the next few years with an insurance company and a finance
company. I was married in 1938 and shortly thereafter moved to
Paterson, New Jersey. In 1940 we returned to Boston and I be-
came associated with Grossman’s, a building materials firm. When
my oldest daughter was a year old, 1943, I joined the Army and
spent my service time with the Combat Engineers in this country
and then in England, France, Germany, and Austria, where we were
when the war ended, A few months on occupation duty in South-
ern Germany and then home.

I returned to the lumber and building materials business and in
1947 moved to Falmouth on Cape Cod as manager of our new yard.
It was a novel and interesting change as we had never lived in a
small town before. In 1951 our second daughter was born here and
now our oldest is a high school senior and making plans for college
next year. We have our own home and with it the usual pleasures
and problems. We like our summers with the influx of friends,

[750]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

swimming, boating, and the heightened activity of a resort town
in July and August. Each year, with new roads, Boston gets closer,
and we go whenever we can for an evening or a weekend, Days
I] spend helping people build houses and many other projects, and
my wife is part housewife, chauffeur, social worker, and very
competent public relations officer. Evenings at home or doing
the simple things a small town offers — friends, PTA, service clubs,
town meetings, etc. Our family of four and dog, Koko, has been
very much a close-knit group through the years. There seemed
little point in sending our children away for the summer when we
live a short walk from one of the finest beaches in the world. Our
oldest daughter, Wilma, did get to a sailing camp one summer and
has continued her interest in small boats and swimming. We have
had time for a few skiing vacations together, and though still in
the novice class enjoy it as much as experts. Wilma has recently
been active in a temple youth group and has met many fine young
people from all over New England and southern Canada. Next
year she will be away at college, and my wife and I are already
preparing ourselves to miss her greatly. Of course, our nine-vear-
old, Ronna, will be with us for a while and her gentle kindliness
and bright interest in music, books, and dancing will help to fill
the void. We have been fortunate in our daughters, who though
different from each other are alike in their goodness, fine princi-
ples and ideals, and bright future promise. They have been and
will be, I am sure, a source of much love and pleasure for Sylvia
and myself.

Harvard was and still is different things to different people but
always continues to grow in stature and to reflect some of her own
glory on all ever associated with her. I think that one of the main-
springs of Harvard’s strength and growth is the courage to think
progressively but soundly on a grand scale, yet never forgetting that
the whole is the sum of its parts. The College constantly reminds
each of us that though no longer there physically, we are spiritually
still part of each other and always will be. I am glad to have it that

way, and my family and I are looking forward to next June and
renewal and strengthening of our Harvard ties.

[751 ]

NTT LCT ATT TT TE TTT aI OTE aS TSENORE Ras S/ 2 dm Lat erecreete

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

HAROLD MILTON KOWAL

. KO
hi

  

HOME appress: 74 Alberta Rd., Brookline, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: National Labor Relations Board, 24 School St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 15, 1915, Boston, Mass. parents: Joseph Kowal, Rebecca Kessin,
prepared AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933. DEGREE: LL.B. (Northeastern Univ.).

Marrigp: Esther Rubin, Oct, 30, 1943, New Orleans, La, CHILDREN: Robin,
April 20, 1949, Adam, June 21, 1951.

occupaTION: Supervisory attorney, National Labor Relations Board.
orFices HELD: President, West End House, Boys Club.

THE passage of twenty-five years is easier to summarize than to
accept, Still harder to accept is that the meaning of “Veritas” still
escapes me and precisely at a time when that same passage compels
one to approach its metaphysical meaning, at least, more seriously
than when young,

For a considerable part of this time I have been an attorney, prin-
cipally a practitioner in labor relations, and have acquired, I suppose,
a considerable insight into the relations of employer and union in
all areas and sizes. If there is a truth to be acquired here, it must be
that it is related to conflict, a thought which I find necessary but
hardly endearing.

Conclusions, more positive and encouraging, emerge from my
condition as husband, father of two, and householder. These years
have been delightful. A love of music has led to the acquisition of,
but no expertness with, the cello. All in all, I suspect that our motto
should be that BEAUTY IS TRUTH.

[ 752]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT KRAMER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3121 N St., N.W., Washington 7, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Office of Legal Counsel, Dept. of Justice, Washington 25, D.C.

BorRN: Aug. 17, 1913, Davenport, Iowa. parents: Robert E. Kramer, Juanita
G. Mapes.

PREPARED AT: Davenport High School, Davenport, lowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; LL.B., Magna Cum
laude, 1938.

marriED: Mary R. Gaston, March 22, 1941, Washington, D.C. cumpren: Mary
Elizabeth, Oct. 18, 1943; Lucy Mapes, Oct. 19, 1945; Robert Gaston, Sept.
13, 1949.

occuPATION: Professor of law, Duke University Law School; assistant attorney
general, Office of Legal Counsel, U.S. Department of Justice.

OFFICES HELD: Legislation editor, Harvard Law Revtew, 1937-38; editor, 1947-56,
Law & Contemporary Problenis, Journal of Legal Education; American
editor, Business Law Review, 1951-56; visiting professor of law, 1950,
Stanford University, 1956, University of Wisconsin, 1957-58, University
of North Carolina, 1958, New York ‘Univ ersity, 1939, Northwestern Uni-
versity; member, executive committee, Association of American Law
Schools, 1959; lieutenant colonel, U.S. Army, Ordnance, Reserve; vestrv-
man, St. Clement’s Church, Alexandria, Va.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Bar Association; Federal Bar Associa-

- tion; American Law Institute; bar of New York, District of Columbia,
and U.S. Supreme Court.

PUBLICATIONS: Federal Estate and Gift Taxes (with C. L. B. Lowndes); articles,
reviews, forewords, in various law reviews, Encyclopaedia Britannica, pro-
fessional journals.

AFTER graduation from college, I entered Harvard Law School in
September, 1935. Upon receiving my law degree | went to Wash-
ington, where I worked as an attorney for the National Labor Rela-
tions Board for about two years in the review and appellate litia-
tion sections. In September, 1940, I began a one-year tour of duty in
the Army as a second licutenant, stationed in W ashington, at the

[ 753 ]

“ eT ERR TE NIRS MAN ICT NN

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Office of the Chief of Ordnance. Here I did legal jobs connected
with wartime procurement. There followed a short break of civilian
legal work in the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice,
and then in January, 1942, I returned to the Army and spent the
next four years on duty in the Office of the Chief of Ordnance,
Here one of my chief jobs was that of legal adviser to the chief of
the research and development division, for which I received the
Legion of Merit.

In February, 1946, I went to New York City as an associate in
the law firm of Paul, Weiss, Wharton and Garrison. Then in Sep-
tember, 1947, I joined the faculty of the School of Law at Duke
University, Durham, North Carolina, Here I taught such subjects
as legislation, federal taxes, jurisprudence, administrative law, and
conflict of laws; edited several legal journals; and wrote the usual
articles, books, reviews, forewords, etc. that legal scholars produce
and few others read, Also I had the pleasure of spending summers or
semesters as a visiting professor at other law schools in New York,
the Middle West, and the West Coast. I continued active service in
the Army Reserve, and also served on various university councils and
committees, the most interesting of which, perhaps, were in the fields
of school law and geriatrics.

In September, 1959, | took a leave of absence from Duke in order
to return to Washington, where [ presently am at the Department
of Justice, having been appointed as an assistant attorney general, in
charge of the Office of Legal Counsel. This office (with the awk-
ward title) prepares all the opinions of the attorney general, gives
informal advice to various government agencies, and assists the at-
torney general in performing his duties as legal adviser to the Presi-
dent and as a member of and legal adviser to the Cabinet. When I
leave my present post here in Washington, undoubtedly I shall re-
turn to the routine of teaching, reading, research, and writing of the
academic life which I have found so congenial for the past dozen
vears. Meanwhile, I find the unexpected change to the turmoil of
the capital quite stimulating and most enjoyable. Washington is as
pleasant a place to be in as I know, and my work has endless variety,
with much that is exciting and fascinating, and with a staff and asso-
ciates who know their jobs and do them well. As for my social, po-

litical, or religious convictions, they are sufficiently indicated by
what I have already set down.

[754]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

VICTOR HORSLEY KRAMER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3125 Aberfoyle Pl., N.W., Washington 15, D.C.

OFFICE apprEss: Arnold, Fortas & Porter, 1229 19th St. N.W., Washington 6,
D.C.

BORN: Feb. 8, 1913, Cincinnati, Ohio. parents: Simon Pendleton Kramer,
Minnie Halle.

PREPARED AT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1031-1935. DEGREES: AB. cum irude, 1933; LLB. (Yale
Univ.), 1938.

marrieD: Miriam Tickton, June 29, 1941, Detrom, Mich. cumpren: Ruth, Sept.
11, 19433 Edith Deborah, Aug. 18, 1945; Stephen Pendleton, Aug. 2, 1947.

occuPATION: Lawyer; partner, Arnold, Fortas & Porter.

OFFICES HELD: Attorney, 1938-57, chief, General Litigation Section, 1951-57,
Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice.

MEMBER OF: Emma Willard School Fathers’ Association; Yale Club of New
York; National Capital Democratic Club, American and Distnct of
Columbia Bar Associations; Yale Law School Association of Washington.

PuBLIcATIONS: “The National Institutes of Health: A Study in Public Adminss-
tration,” 1937; contributor to numerous legal periodicals.

AFTER graduating, I entered Yale Law School from which I re-
ceived an LL.B. degree in 1938. While at Yale, [ worked harder than
ever before or since, save for exceptional stints during the course of
trials. For example, I recall that I worked during the Christmas holi-
days in 1936 on an article for the Yale Law Journal on the Robinson-
Patman Act. Incidentally, that Act is as dithcule for a businessman
to abide by as it is for asc ulptor to obey the Second Commandment.
After taking the Ohio bar examination, in July, 1938, I joined the
Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice i in Washington,
D.C., as a special attorney (the title was governmentese for “voung
lawyer”). In charge of the Antitrust Division was Thurman Arnold
who had taught us at Yale Law School. Thurman Armold not only
revitalized the antitrust laws, he also restored to the Departinent of

[755 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Fortas and Porter. The Arnold, of course, was the same Arnold who
had headed the Antitrust Division, fifteen years earlier. I have en-
joyed and been professionally enriched by the association with m
new partners. Strangely enough, I consider them to be among the
finest lawyers in the country.

We were asked to discuss our “social, political, or religious convic-
tions.” The author of this phrase (was it Frank Knowlton?) seems
to suggest that we discuss only one of these three. Fair enough. Al-
though I believe I am a good Jew, I have no religious convictions;
and I see no conflict in the two propositions. | am a Democrat but I
won't discuss these convictions. This leaves for discussion my social
convictions, Well, first of all, I believe in society. Life would be un-
bearable without society. Second, I think that the majority of Ameri-
can adults find much of life unspeakably dull and lonely. Perhaps
one solution would be to develop an elixir to prevent them from be-
coming adults, After Lolita, is it not clear that life at thirteen years
of age can be an intriguing experience? As for the rest of us — we
pray that we shall continue to find fulfillment in love for our work
and our families.

EMIL ARTHUR KRATOVIL

 

HOME appress: 2 Zaccheus Mead Lane, Greenwich, Conn.
OFFice appress: Carpinter & Baker, 99 John St. New York 38, N.Y.

BORN: Aug. 16, 1914, New York, N.Y. parents: Emil Stephen Kratovil, Rose
T. Krbecek.

PREPARED AT: Classical School, Springfield, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935.
MarRieD: Louise DeWolf, Oct. 1, 1938, South Dartmouth, Mass. cHILDREN:

Emil Arthur, Jr., Oct. 10, 1940, Edward DeWolf, Dec, 18, 1944; Stephen
Carr, March 18, 1947; David Ward, Oct. 10, 1949.

[758]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: President, Carpinter & Baker, marine underwriters.

OFFICES HELD: First vice-president and director, American Institute of Marine
Underwriters; director, Unity Fire and General Insurance Company, Na-
tional Cargo Bureau, Inc., United States Salvage Association, Inc. Peirce
& Kilburn Shipyard Inc., Carpinter & Baker, Carbak Company, director
and member, Management and Underwriting Committees, American Hull
Insurance Syndicate.

MEMBER OF: Indian Harbor Yacht Club and Field Club, Greenwich, Conn.,;
Edgartown (Mass.) Yacht Club, Down Town Association, New York
City; Harvard Club of New York.

TWENTY-FIVE years ago seems like the path described by two
parallel lines disappearing into infinity. It is so long ago that clear
memories have dimmed. One is left with a myriad of fun remi-
niscences and wonderfully roseate memories of four years at Cam-
bridge before entering the so-called cold, hard world. In any event,
twenty-five years and four sons later, recollections are indeed pleas-
ant, and we are all looking forward to a superb time at the Reunion.
In Harvard, all my work and ideas were bent toward one goal —
namely, medical school. During senior year, it became evident, due
to the economic squeeze, that medicine was out for me. The sum-
mer of 1935 found me in downtown New York on John Street —
“training” as they put it in a marine underwriters office. That train-
ing consisted of a contest with others in the same boat to see how
many pencils each could wear out in a week. Training programs
in that business were embryonic then and, unfortunately, very little
time was spent by the higher echelon in imparting any real knowl-
edge or background of the business. This continued for some time
with very little material advancement.

Despite the lack of worldly goods and the “Depression Thirties,”
a marriage took place on October 1, 1938, when a certain young
lady named Louise De Wolf of South Dartmouth, Massachusetts,
traded her name for that of Kratovil. It was tough sledding but
withal a most wonderfully good time. We first lived in Kew
Gardens, Long Island, and the World's Fair on Flushing Meadows
of 1939-40 afforded us the opportunity to become an amateur road-
house and forerunner of motels. The advent of our eldest son, Emil
Arthur, Jr., in October, 1940, changed our perspective. Shortly
thereafter, we forsook the meadows of Long Island for the hills of
Connecticut. Before one knew it, Pearl Harbor occurred one
sunny Sunday afternoon. In one quick breath, I found myself in
Washington working for the War Shipping Administration under
the direction of Admiral Land as the so-called cargo underwriter

[759]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

of the War Risks scheme of the U.S, Government. Louise and Tovi
were back home in Massachusetts with the house in New Canaan
packed up and in various attics, As a matter of fact, on moving
day, with me in Washington, it was suddenly discovered by Louise
that another huge van was needed to clean out the garage. That
fact I was not allowed to live down for many a month. The pace
in Washington was somewhat more than fierce, and I remained with
the War Shipping Administration until May of 1943. At that time,
I put on a blue suit and naturally and happily thought I was on my
way to fight the war in proper Navy fashion. However, after
eight weeks of deck officer’s indoctrination at Princeton, I was
ordered to report to C.N.O. in Washington and was assigned to
the Joint Chiefs of Staff as a Navy logistician. I turned out to be
the “juniorest” staff officer the Joint Chiefs had seen for quite a
while, which turned out to be a story in itself. After a few weeks’
period, 1 was convinced that this was a semi-permanent assignment
and there wasn’t a thing I could do about it. Therefore, a call went
out for the family, and we spent the rest of the war until June of
1946 in various houses in and around Washington. During that
time, in December, 1944, our second son, Edward DeWolf, was
born.
In 1946, some pounds lighter, considerably more chastened and
a bit wiser, I returned to John Street in New York —to the same
firm I had left in early 1942 — and once again took up residence
in the marine underwriting business. From that date to this, it has
been the usual struggle that I’m sure will be understood by the
majority of those in business but with a good deal of fun and enjoy-
ment both in and out of business. In 1952 I changed my affiliation
and joined my present firm in the same field, by name, Carpinter
& Baker. The last seven years have been extremely rewarding and
have seen the fruition in part of many ideas and ideals through a
lot of hard labor. These post-war years have also seen the birth
of two more sons — Stephen Carr in March, 1947, and David Ward
in October, 1949 a purchase in 1947 of a partially-remodeled
carriage house in Dobbs Ferry, New York, and then a return to
New England, as it were, in 1952. In 1953 we purchased a not-too-
old and not-too-new house in Greenwich, in which we have been
most happy and which we are still rebuilding under a succession of
Russian five-year plans. Meanwhile, the boys have been growing
up. Tovi was graduated from St. Paul's in 1958 and now is a:mem-
ber of the Class of 1962 at Williams. The second lad, Ted, is on the

[ 760 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

point of graduating from the Rectory in Pomfret, and the other
two are at school in Greenwich, We all like the water exceedingly
and are fortunate in having a couple of boats — an old cutter and
a small open launch. Our summers are spent on the Vineyard,
Edgartown to be exact, and the entire family enjoys itself to the
utmost. All in all, I can only hope and wish that life has been as
kind to my classmates as it has been to me in that I have a most
wonderful family, a reasonable success in business, and a very full

life.

WILLIAM FOWLE LADD

 

HOME ADDRESS: 23547 Hatteras St., Woodland Hills, Calif.

OFFICE AppRESS: United Air Lines, Los Angeles International Airport, Los
Angeles, Calif.

BoRN: Oct. 30, 1912, Woodmere, Long Island, N.Y. parents: William Fowle
Ladd, Cornelia Lee.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MARRIED: Beatrice Greenough, 1935 (divorced 1939); Leora Middleton, toys
(died Jan. 7, 1960). cHitp: Gabrielle, June 4, 1936 (#7. Scratford Morss,
57).

HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles Haven Ladd, °39; Daniel Ladd, “41.

occupation: Airplane pilot.

SPENT several unsuccessful years learning that I was not cut out
to be a stockbroker (this during the depression) and reverted to
my first ambition, aviation, Had been a member of the Harvard
Flying Club, and in 19g1 joined United Airlines, firse serving in
Seattle, Washington, as co-pilot.

In May, 1942, went overseas as second lieutenant to pick up
survivors of Doolittle’s Tokvo Raiders in China, but as they were
badly scattered, stayed on to be one of the first pilots to fly the

[ 761 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Himalayas between China and India. In fact, I flew one-third of
the total tonnage in June, 1942. Returned to the U.S.A. eighteen
months later and flew hospital evacuation for the remainder of the
war. Separated as captain in 1945 and returned to United Airlines.
Now lieutenant colonel in Air Force Reserve. DFC with cluster,
Air Medal with cluster, Presidential Unit Citation, Pacific Ribbon,
two battle stars.

Have lived in Southern California since 1946, most beautifully
happy with my wife Leora Middleton Ladd, until her recent death.

RICHARD LAGREZE

 

HOME appress: 3 Stanley Oval, Westfield, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Procter & Gamble Co., Staten Island, N.Y.

Born: Dec. 13, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: George Hermann Lagreze,
Catherine M. Haffenreffer.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 1935; M.B.Ay 1937.

Makrrigp: Edith Chapman Johnson, May 8, 1943, Staten Island, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Jonathan Richard, Feb. 12, 1949; Katharine Gillet, May 19, 1950; Paul
Chapman and Christine Harman (twins), March 10, 1952; David Stewart,
March 25, 1954.

occuraTION: Production group manager, Procter & Gamble Company.

OFFICES HELD: Executive committee, Harvard Business School Association
1936-37; vestryman, St. John’s Episcopal Church, member Republican
Town Committee and School Building Committee, president Essex Men’s
Club, all of Essex, Connecticut, between 1947 and 1952.

IN a way, I find myself starting my commercial life all over again.
Having left the manufacturing side of Procter & Gamble to go to
war in 1940, | have just recently returned to this company after a
highly educational and unprofitable excursion as an entrepreneur.

Other than a real devotion to the Navy, which had its start even

[ 762 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

earlier than ROTC, my interests have been ever toward the smatier
organization. The five- -plus years of service, ending when I was a
division commander of six fleet mine-sw ecpers, Were interesting ones:
up and down the east coast, two tours of duty keeping the Bermuda
channel clear, a Jengthy one out of Brazilian ports, escort duty out
of Iceland, and then the African, Salerno, Anzio and southern France
operations. I got as far as the west coast en route to post-VJ day
sweeping-up operations when the call for domesticity became too
strong, and I withdrew. The girl whom I had unsuccessfully courted
as a civilian had succumbed to the uniform, and we were married
between Brazil and Iceland.

We started a quest for that small business of our own and found
it in an embryonic woodworking operation in Essex, Connecticut.
Post-war housing as it was, we were fortunate in being able to rent
the living quarters in the Florence Griswold House in Old Lyme
in return for acting as curators for the Association. Business pros-
pered and we moved across the Connecticut River to Essex after an
exciting time building a house overlooking the river. These were
good days; life was full of activities in a small yet quite cosmopoli-
tan town with many natural adv antages — especially the Sound.
These were the building years —a home, an elementary school, a
parish house, a business; life’s main problems and challenges revolved
about consolidating gains and building for future consolidations.

Any situation seems eventually to define its own limitations; idyllic
as it now appears in retrospect, the prosperous furniture company
was no exception. We sold our interest to provide the stake for an
attempt at revolutionizing the entire industry through the mass pro-
duction of a line of interchangeable parts w hich could be assembled
in every sort of way depending on the whims of the customer or her
decorator. After three years of heroic effort on the part of a numn-
ber of people, not excluding my wife and family, like most revolu-
tions, this one proved itsclf ‘untimely .

After some soul-searching, we decided that this was the ave of
the large corporation, and were flattered to be asked to rejoin P&G.
In Westfield, New Jersey, we are having our first real experience in
suburban as opposed to country living, and find it fascinating, Our
late-started family of five are all now a substantial part of the ¢lemen-
tary school a block aw ay, and we are becoming more and more in-
volved in P.T.A., Cubs, Brownies and allied activities. I revtlenly
look upon it as a sort of interlude prerequisite to a return to the
greater challenge and stimulation of smaller business and country life.

[ 763 ]

EL OT TLC CCE CL REECE eTR ARON NNN! ti 11 nlite,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

WENNER VAHLE LAISE

 

BorN: Feb. 14, 1913, Philadelphia, Pa. paRENTS: George Walter Laise, Johanna
Vahle.

PREPARED at: Germantown Academy, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932. DEGREE: B.MuS. (Yale Univ.), 1936.

pigp: May 30, 1940, New York, N.Y.

AFTER one year at Harvard with our Class, Laise transferred to
Yale where he received a certificate in the theory of music in 1934
and a Bachelor of Music degree in 1936. He held the Lockwood
Scholarship in organ playing, He was a member of the instrumental
and vocal clubs while at Harvard and a member of the University
Glee Club at Yale. From 1936 to 1938, he was advertising manager
of the Eisler Corporation in Union City, New Jersey, and for the
next two years was organist, composer and teacher in New York
City and Philadelphia. His memberships included the American
Guild of Organists, American Composers Association, Oak Lane
Presbyterian Church, Philadelphia, and St. Bartholomew’s Church,
New York City, where he was assistant organist during 1939-40.
He was survived by his parents and two sisters.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN PAUL LAKE

   

ier
HOME ADDRESS: 621 Beverly Drive, Omaha 14, Nebr.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Continental Grain Co., Omaha 2, Nebr.

BORN: Nov. 19, 1913, Kansas City, Mo. parents: Fred Wrghtman Lake, Lena
Bixman.

PREPARED AT: Northwestern Military and Naval Academy, Lake Geneva, Wis.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931~1932.
MaRRIED: Gretchen Z. Niemann, April 3, 1946, Denver, Colo. catupreN: Wil-

liam Kenn, July 17, 1942 (adopted); Nancy Sue, March 6, 1948, Penny
Lou, Sept. 21, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Grain merchandising; trade in grain of all kinds.

WILLIAM MATHER LAMONT

 

HOME appress: Route 1, Aberdeen, S. Dak.
OFFICE ADDRESS; 4o8 Capitol Bldg. Aberdeen, S. Dak.

BORN: July 11, 1913, Aberdeen, S. Dak. paresis: Maunce Brereton Lamont,
Margaret Mather.

PREPARED aT: Central High School, Aberdeen, S. Dak,
YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1931-35. DEGREE: S.B, 193s.

[ 765 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Marriep: Frances Baily Stiles, Oct. 6, 1937, Aberdeen, S. Dak. cHILDREN:
William Stiles, Oct. 20, 1938; Nancy Brereton, May 9, 1943; Frances Mar-

garet, Jan. 9, 1947; Frederick Mather, Dec. 17, 1952; Laura, March 27, 1959
(died March 27, 1959).

HARVARD SON: William Stiles Lamont, ’60.

occupation: Partner with brother, Robert B. Lamont, in farming, ranching,
investment in real estate, mortgages, stock.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Farmer & Merchants Bank, Aberdeen; director, Citizens
Bank of Mobridge, South Dakota.

MEMBER OF: Rancheros Visitadores, Santa Barbara, California; Helena Wilder-
ness Riders, Helena, Montana.

IN 1935, I joined the family firm in the real estate and mortgage
business; attended the Art “Students League in New York City,
studying sculpture, during 1936 and 1937; married, in the fall of
1937, and rejoined the family firm. I spent 1944 and 1945 in the
Army, with the rank of corporal in a chemical maintenance com-
pany, receiving an expense-paid tour of France and Germany.

In 1950, following the death of our grandfather, the senior mem-
ber of our firm, my brother and I abandoned the brokerage part of
our business and started farming. At present we are operating over
tooo acres of cropland and 3000 acres of grassland, which, together
with our other business affairs, keep us well occupied. This year,
for the first time in ten years, because of a crop failure which left
us free of harvest work and because of my brother’s assumption of
the management of our cattle, | managed to find a little time to
paint. I find I am pretty rusty at it, but with the intention to spend
three or four months a year at it from now on, I hope eventually
to paint something to satisfy me.

Our children are well spread out in age. Our elder son hopes to
graduate from Harvard this year (a long, tough battle), and our
younger, now in the first grade, hopes to be a member of the Class
of 1975. Our daughters, now in junior high school and high school,
have not definitely planned their college programs. My vacations
the past ten years have been horseback trips with friends in Cali-

fornia and Montana, squeezed into my schedule when farm work
is slack.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN STANLEY LANG

 

HOME ADDRESS: 103 Union St., South Weymouth 90, Mass.
OFFICE aADDREss: Second Bank-State Street Trust Co, 111 Franklin Sc, Boston
6, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 30, 1913, Washington, D.C. parents: Harold Locke Lang, Lillian
Adelaide Stanley.

PREPARED aT: Aspinwall High School, Aspinwall, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: AB., cum laude, 1935.

MARRIED: Barbara Grieves, Aug. 31, 1940, Boston, Mass. cum: Peter Win-
ward, Dec. 4, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Harold Bickford Lang, 36, M.p., “40.

OccUPATION: Assistant vice-president, Correspondent Banking Department.
Second Bank-State Street Trust Company.

I AM still in the banking business. The State Street Trust Com-
pany, with which I was associated, merged in 1955 with the Second
National Bank of Boston, forming the Second Bank-State Street
Trust Company. I joined a new ly- -~created department solely con-
cerned with correspondent bank relations. My work is extremely
interesting and varied. I try to be out of our shop two or three
days every week calling on the banks that carry balances with us
and also those that should! This is not monotonous work and calls
for imaginative selling, diplomacy, and tact. [ am working on all
three! Occasionally, I am away overnight, just enough to keep in
touch with the customs of those cities not located on the Charles
River.

Upon General Hershey's urging, I spent three years in World
War Il, finally attaining a memorable promotion from a “T-three”
to a buck sergeant in the Air Transport Command, Finance Sce-
tion, at Orly Field outside of Paris. This was a rigorous assignment
involving six months of proximity to such a lovely city during a

[ 767 ]

—_— ee hc ere ean Rg oT! Rm, =

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

very long and magnificent spring. In due course, I moved on to
Berlin where I was discharged at the request of the Treasury De-
partment “for the convenience of the Government” and assigned
to a fascinating job in military government working for the Division
of Investigation of Cartels and External Assets, which in English
meant trying to ferret out what the Germans had done with the
assets of many of their larger companies, such as hiding them in
neutral countries. We also tried to divine some of their cartel re-
lationships with the English, French, and others! I then shed my
buck stripes and was permitted to dress and act like a gentleman,
a major no less, although I was a civilian and hence no leaf! It was
pleasant living in the compound at Frankfurt where I rattled about
in an I.G. Farben executive’s house replete with servants. |
thoroughly enjoyed his requisitioned hospitality, but I was glad
to get home and see for the first time my son, Peter, who was then
eighteen months old! What a thrill that was!

We continue to spend weekends and vacations at our place in
Truro, Cape Cod, where we sate ourselves with sailing, sun, sand,
and swimming — time for ticks and tennis, too! Pete and his cousins
are the fourth generation of our family to get sunburned on our
beach, so naturally we take more than a casual interest in the proposed
National Park, even though we shall be untouched directly by it.
A toned-down version we feel is much in the public interest. Our
social life is modest and our travels ditto. We do manage to get
up to Concord, New Hampshire, now and again to visit Pete as
he has left us this year to become a third-former at St. Paul’s. We
have Harvard hopes! I have been active in the local Episcopal
Church serving as vestryman, chairman of the Finance Committee,
and chairman of the Building Committee which drew up a long-
range plan for expanding both the church and parish house in four
phases, two of which have already been completed as a result of
capital fund drives, Like many bankers, I seem to get involved in
civic matters, one of which is serving as assistant treasurer of the
United Community Services of Metropolitan Boston under treas-
urer Tom Gannett. My wife and I love New England and par-
ticularly the South Shore with its nearness to the Cape, but we agree
heartily with our fellow travelers that the new Southeast Express-
way is a poor substitute for the late lamented Old Colony Railroad.
A way of life has gone. Bring on Ye Newe Monoraile!

[ 768 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD EHRENSTROM LANGENAU

 

HOME ADDRESS: 399 Pascack Rd., Westwood, N_J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fritzsche Brothers, Inc., 76 Ninth Ave. New York, N.Y.

BORN: Aug. 13, 1914, Brooklyn, N.Y. parents: Martin Gustaf Langenau,
Matilda H. Ehrenstrom.

PREPARED AT: Adelphi Academy, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Doris M. Perrine, Feb. 9, 1945, Brooklyn, N.Y. CHILDREN: Edward
Ehrenstrom, Jr., Oct. 28, 1946; Anitra, May 14, 1948; Lorraine, May 30,
1951.

occuPATION: Chemist, vice-president, Fritzsche Brothers, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: First vice-president, Essential Oil Association of the United
States, 1960; achievement officer, Cub Scouts, B.S.A.

MEMBER OF: Chemists Club, New York City; American Chemical Society;
American Association for the Advancement of Science; Ciuzens Advisory
Committee for Schools, Washington Township.

WHEN I graduated from Harvard I intended to pursue medicine,
but “the best laid plans of mice and men . . .” In 1936 I found my-
self working as an analytical chemist in a very highly specialized
field — essential oils. Ever since, I have been trying to explain to
my neighbors, to my friends, and to my acquaintances that essen-
tial oils have nothing to do with petroleum, with the fats, or with
the fixed or animal oils. (Essential, in this sense, is derived from the
French essence, which in turn comes from the philosophical concept
quintessence. The term refers to a group of volatile oils derived
from certain botanicals, spices, flowers, and other plant materials.)
These oils are used for flavoring and for perfumery; they are im-
portant in an advanced civ ilization. You cannot escape our ‘industry .
When you brush your teeth on arising or when you sip a cordial
before retiring, remember that the flavor results from the presence
of essential oils. Baby powders and embalming fluids are made more

[ 769 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

acceptable to our noses by the fragrance of essential oils — truly,
from the cradle to the grave!

In this specialized industry, I am quite well known. Over the
years, about a score of scientific papers dealing with essential oils
have appeared over my name. J am the author of a chapter on analysis
in Guenther’s standard six-volume work, The Essential Oils. At
present, I am vice-president of Fritzsche Brothers, Inc., a firm well
known in our industry. (I have spent the last twenty-four years
informing my neighbors, my friends, and my acquaintances that
“Fritzsche” is spelled with a “-tz-” and ends in a “-sche” and that
there is no relationship to the famous Barbara Frietchie.)

A few notes about my personal life and views may be in order.
I have been blessed with a charming wife and three fine, healthy
children. I realize my inadequacy as a parent and can now appreci-
ate the capabilities of my mother and father. I have come to real-
ize the importance of the Christian way of life and have tried to
teach some of the simple fundamentals to the children in our Sun-
day School (officially it is called Church School, but to me it al-
ways will be a Sunday School). My belief in the importance of the
individual and in our competitive capitalistic society has never
been stronger. I marvel at the greatness of the concepts upon which
this country was built. I feel a great debt of gratitude to our
American heritage and to Harvard as an integral part of that herit-

age.

ROBERT VOSE LANGMUIR

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2310 Santa Anita Ave., Altadena, Calif.
OFFICE AbpRess: California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, Calif,

BORN: Dec. 20, 1912, White Plains, N.Y. parents: Dean Langmuir, Ethel
Ivimey.

[770 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1935; Puo. (California
Inst. of Technology), 1943.

MARRIED: Bertha Lee Lord, May 19, 1939, Pasadena, Calif. camprex: Alan,
Aug. 19, 1940, Ann, Oct. 6, 1943.

occuPaTion: Professor of electrical engineering, California Institute of Tech-
nology.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of editors, Physics Today, 1952-54, secretary,
Cal. Tech. Chapter, American Association of University Professors, since
1957-

MEMBER OF: American Physical Society; Institute of Radio Engineers; American
Civil Liberties Union; Society for Social Responsibility in Science;
American Association of University Professors; Adlai Stevenson Club;
Sigma Xi.

PUBLICATIONS: Many technical papers in physics and electrical engineering
professional magazines, book, Electricity and Magnetism, now im press,
about fifteen patents in various fields.

MY professional life has all been on the borderline between physics
and engineering. Before the war I was engaged in the development
of analytic mass spectrometers at Consolidated Engineering Corpora-
tion in Pasadena. During the war I was in magnetron development
at G.E. Research Laboratory (for jamming enemy radar). After the
war I joined in the design, construction and operation of the first
electron synchrotron in this country at G.E., Schenectady. Follow-
ing this I went to Cal. Tech. where I helped construct a very large
electron synchrotron and joined the Physics Department there in
1948,

Teaching, research and other academic duties have kept me busy
since then. I became associate professor of electrical engineering in
1952 and full professor in 1957. Outside consulting work for Con-
solidated Engineering Corporation and Ramo-\Wooldridge Company
has been very interesting and has helped immeasurably in keeping
the wolf from the academic door. I enjoy academic life greatly and
would not change it for any other way of life.

My hobbies are those of a lazy man: much reading, a great deal
of listening to Bach and Mozart, the conversation of good friends and
the consumption of large quantities of Bourbon whiskey. My poh-
tics are clearly Democratic as I have voted in every election I could
and only once voted for a Republican (Earl W arren). My religious
convictions are best described by the word “none.”

In October, 1956, I joined with nine other faculty members in
suggesting (in a press release) that cessation of A-bomb tests was a
good thing. This, to our great surprise, caused a great Commotion,

[771]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

injected this issue into the presidential campaign and caused the
president and trustees of Cal. Tech. to become quite annoyed with
us. Everything quieted down after the election, but the stir that was
aroused by this simple idea was amazing.

My family life has been fairly uneventful. It is quite surprising to

find that young children do in fact grow up and become responsible
adults,

THEODORE EUGENE LANNEFELD

 

HOME appress: 17 Hancock St., Lexington 73, Mass.
OFFicE aporess: General Latex and Chemical Corp., Cambridge, Mass.

BoRN: Feb. 14, 1913, Chicago, Ill. parents: Walter Fugene Lannefeld, Emiline
Jophes.

PREPARED aT: Arlington High School.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935, DEGREE: A.B., 1935. ; . ;
MARRIED: Margaretha Simkins, April 28, 1936, CHILDREN: Judith Virginia, April

1, 1937; Nancy Joyce, June 14, 1940; Susan Elaine, Nov. 4, 19443 Leslie
Claire, May 6, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Chemical sales,
MEMBER OF: American Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists; Russell

Lodge A.F. and A.M., Past Master; Church of Our Redeemer (Episcopal),
Lexington, vestryman; United States Power Squadron.

SO twenty-five years have passed since those carefree days (didn’t
believe they were then) and here J am recalling the gains and losses.
They are truly all gains, starting soon after college with a very dear
wife who is my companion and comforter as well as my spur to
greater things. Then on over the intervening years to four lovely
daughters. The oldest, Judith, finished school this year to make her
own way in the world as an occupational therapist. The second,
Nancy, will soon be married and bring us another gain, our first
son-in-law, Susan and Leslie have several years of school to go.

[772 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

We have tried the suburban life and added a farm in the country
as our escape hatch for several years. This seemed so good that we
went over to the farm life completely in Townsend for a while, but
found one can’t work in the city and keep up with community duties
and run a farm, even as a hobby. So back to Lexington we came and
then added to our activities by personally building our own sum-
mer home on the shores of the Annisquam River in Gloucester. In
this undertaking my wife worked as my assistant, swinging the
hammer and saw with real proficiency. Some day we shall move to
Gloucester year-round.

As if I didn’t have enough to do with two houses to maintain, I
went through the line as lodge officer and then with time to spare I
became active in church work, which can take all the time one will
give. However, I shall never regret one instant of it.

So through the years we have gone with our activities keeping us
truly young and happy and with the pleasant thought of many more
to come when we enjoy the families of our children.

CHARLES WESLEY LANNING, JR.

proce ee
¥ . ,
é

: :

: ra be 4

‘ = §

&

' meg ’

; “Se a

  

L

HOME ADDRESS: 33 Hickok Ave., Bethel, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Danbury State College, Danbury, Conn.

BoRN: Aug. 11, 1913, Cooperstown, N.Y. parents: Charles Wesley Lanning,
Florence Marie Hill.

PREPARED AT: Cooperstown High School, Cooperstown, N.Y.; Phillips Execer
Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931~-193§. DEGREES: $.B. (Juilliard School of Music), 1930;
s.B. (State Univ. Teachers Coll., Potsdam, N-Y.), togr; am. (Ohio Univ,
1949.

mMarrieD: Alice Theresa Jay, October, 1943, Buffalo, N.Y. (divorced tayq).

OccuUPATION: Assistant professor of music educanen, Danbury State College;
teacher of piano, music theory and other related courses.

[773 ]

—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Danbury Music Centre, Danbury
Concert Association.

AFTER leaving Harvard, I settled down eventually to a teaching
career in music which was interrupted by service in the A.US,
during World War II, and by a brief venture into the music store
business (not to be recommended to music lovers). About ten
years ago I came to Danbury to teach and I have enjoyed my asso-
ciation with the musical life at the college and in the community.
I am a member of the board of directors of the Danbury Music
Centre which organized and sponsored various amateur musical
groups in the community, and the Danbury Concert Association
which plans for the professional concert artists who visit our com-
munity annually.

On the eve of our Twenty-fifth, I am thankful to be living in
this lively, stimulating atmosphere in this lovely part of Connecti-
cut and to have such good friends here — and I am looking forward
to seeing old friends in June.

ABRAHAM TEN EYCK LANSING

   

HOME ADpRESS: 62 Spruce St., Southport, Conn,

oFFIce appress: Robert L. Bliss & Co., Inc., 60 E. qzd St. New York 17, N.Y.

porn: April 12, 1913, Watertown, N.Y. parents: Stuart Douglas Lansing,
Carrie Sherman Bagley.

PREPARED AT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

Marrigp: Elizabeth Carleton Hubbard, June 26, 1937, Cornwall, Conn. cun-
DREN: Elisabeth Ten Eyck, May 13, 1942; Lydia Brewster, March 8, 1946;
Robert Ten Eyck, Sept. 21, 1947; Mary Hubbard, May 2, 1949.

occupation: Vice-president, Robert L. Bliss & Company, Inc. public relations
consultants.

[ 774]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Pequot Yacht Club; Public Rels-
tions Society of America.

I MUST be looking at the past twenty-five years through the wrong
end of the telescope. They seem so short. Maybe I've led a shore
life. Anyway, here it is:

Since 1935 I have been variously a news-writer (Providence
Journal, Time), a blue-water sailor (U.S. Navy, 1942-45) and,
since shortly after the war, public relations consultant to a diverse
list of clients ranging from men high in public life to corporations
high in their fields. At present my work has me immersed in the
problems of a Hartford insurance carrier, a major producer of
motion pictures and a front-rank company which sprang in the
Fifties full-grown from the thigh of Jupiter Electronicus, has both
feet planted on the solid ground of commerce, both hands on
guided missiles, and both eyes on the stars of space.

One of the most fascinating and satisfactory experiences of my
life — professional or private — has been this: helping the Arkansas
Gazette to fight its way out of massive problems created by its un-
deviating defense of law and order, in the teeth of Governor Orval
Faubus and the majority of Arkansans, during the school-integra-
tion crisis at Little Rock —an explosive situation which embraced
the gravest constitutional dispute this nation has faced since 1860.
Happily, the Gazette has emerged from this donnvbrook with two
Pulitzer Prizes, the Freedom Award, a secure place in the main-
stream of American history —and black ink on its books. Under
its publisher, Hugh Patterson, the Arkansas Gazette (b. 1819) will
long remain not only the oldest newspaper west of the Mississippi,
but also an exemplar to the American press of all the things a news-
paper ought to be. Its Pulitzer Prize-winning executive editor,
Harry Ashmore, will be well remembered in years to come when
people will ask, “Who was that fellow with ‘the funny name? —
the governor who hollered for the National Guard to keep nine
colored kids out of school.”

So much for the present. What about the past? During the
war I logged a lot of miles on the high seas (75,000 in 1944 alone,
screening aircraft carriers), had a lot of fun and a little not-fun.
It was a stimulating and revealing time. The damndest people did
the damndest things, with ease and grace; great honor, gallantry
and kindness popped out from behind the most unlikely fagades;
duty was unflinchingly done because it was duty — for its own
sake and not because it was ordered; men were at their best. I came

[775 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

out feeling sorry not for the dead but the wounded, regrettin
the thing that makes war impossible — its affront to the comin
tion

humaine.
In the beginning of these twenty-five years, I married the mo
st

beautiful woman in North America. She responded by wri:
some forty books for children and producing four lively, handsa.
and intelligent readers for same. Iam happy to state, howey er th
her readers number in the thousands and our children do not. ‘s at
are forty when it comes to decibels and tuition. Our

What else does one say? I am happy, healthy, busy and y
alterably opposed to self-serving nonsense in business, Politics and
the arts. It seems to me that the future of America lies in being more
vigorously objective and less bewitched, bothered and bewildered
by pies in the sky. This goes equally for the righteous liberals and
for the righteous conservatives (whose pies in the sky include lower
taxes, abolition of unions and the re-incarnation of William Me.
Kinley).

On balance, I would say that so far I have led a happy and lucky
life — filled with love and decorated with things of great personal
fascination to me. I could be richer and I could be smarter. But [
couldn’t be more blessed with the general fortune of living. And
for this I am properly grateful. After twenty-five years, | regard
the past with awe, the present with interest, and the future with a

sanguine curios! ty.

+ JAMES PHILLIPS LARDNER

 

orn: May 18, 1914, Chicago, Ill. parents: Ringgold Wilmer Lardner, Ellis

Abbot.
REPARED aT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

[ 776 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

yn COLLEGE: 1931-1934.
probably died in 1938 in Spain.
AMES PHILLIPS LARDNER, the son of Ring Lardner, American
thor and humorist, spent three years with our Class. He was a
*e orter for the European edition of the New York Herald Tribune
and was sent tO Spain as a war correspondent for that paper. In
April 1938, he resigned that position and enlisted in an international
prigade artillery unit fighting with the Spanish government forces.
He was wounded, hospitalized and then returned to the front lines
early in September. He disappeared September agth and was re-
orted to have been captured by the rebels. It was reported with-
put confirmation that he had been executed by the Moors who had
captured him.

EARS
pied:

+ LEWIS WALTER LATREMORE, JR.

 

BORN: June 10, 1913, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Lewis Walter Latremore,

Nancy Carrier (Mrs. Whitman).
PREPARED AT: Winchester High School, Winchester, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B. IN MECH.ENG,, 19
MarRiED: Rose Beausang, April, 1939.
DIED: Sept. 7, 1939, Chollas Heights, Calif.

LEWIS WALTER LATREMORE, JR., graduated with our Class.

While in college he was manager of the varsity boxing team during

his junior year and a member of the Minor Sports Council and the
Harvard Engineering Society, Following his graduation, he began
naval training at Squantum, Massachusetts, and in 1937 became a
naval aviator. At the time of his death in a plane crash, he held the
rank of ensign in the Naval Reserve and was assistant engineering

[ 777

35+

nerve AIS EON RI SIN oe

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Patrol Squadron 9, Naval Air Station Cor
9

d pilot of
officer and Pp urvived by his wife.

. ’ ona
California. He was $ do,

JEROME RODOLPHE LAVALLEE

 

ess: Box L, Navy 2145 FPO, New York, N.Y.

n: May 18, 1912, Lowell, Mass. PARENTS: George Omer Lavallée, Emma

Lucas.
arED AT: Worces'
SIN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935:

ter Academy, Worcester, Mass.

questionnaire returned.

PAUL FREDERICK LAWLER

 

ss: §3 Abbott Rd., Dedham, Mass.
ss: Shawmut Research Co. 75 Federal St., Boston, Mass. na
12, 1913, Brookline, Mass. parents: John F rederick Lawler, An
“rim.

Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

[ 778 |

ser a peace ganna . ree. meters een ors

  

  

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
sans 18 COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: AB., cum laude, 1935, Mm 1
+ MBA, cum laude,

1937+ .
asARRIED: Mary Alberta Collins, Sept. 20, 1941, Boston, Mass
ston, Mass. CHILDREN:

Frances Mary, Mar. 23, 19435 Ellen Margaret
Anne, Jan. 7, 19473 Mary Patricia, Dec. 8 route Phatie & ‘ede Phizabeth
Oct. 195 195% John Albert Sixtus, May 15, 1956. p Frederick Albert,
HARVARD grorHeR: Richard Francis Lawler, mwa, "41
CUPATION: Proprietor, Shawmut Research Com mr. OY] : .
oc Research and Service Corporation. pany * Vice-president, A\ed
yweLp: Class of 1931 representative, Boston Lati
i . ’ atin .
various positions in church organizations. School Association,
pUBLICATIONS: “Records for the Control of Growing Manufacturing E.
prise,” Harvard Business School, 1947; “The Use and Dis wition of
Ships and Shipyards at the End of World War lI,” (co-author), Gov °
ment Prinung Office, 1945; “Making Paper,” for Industries that Supple
the Navy Series; “A Report and Plan for Action for the Tremont Sue ;
West Street-Lemple Place Area,” 1958. eeK-

OFFICES

FOR me, the past twenty-five years have been a period of prepara-
tion. What will happen yet will be more interesting than what has
happened to date. Thus I am not writing any detailed account of
the present moment.

As indicated above, I have a wife and six children, with whom

Tam well pleased.

LOUIS LEAMAN

 

HOME ee: Lok
orm, Apbeess: 26 Columbia St. Brookline 46 Mass.
i. CE seus ’ . e a . .
one shone Magic Chemical Co, 121 Crescent St, Brockton, Mass.
N: Dec. 28, 1913, Boston, Mass NTS
. Boston, Mass. parests: Abraham Leaman, Ge .
Rotman, . Gertrde
PREPARED ars . Loo.
YEARS D at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,
“ARS IN COLLEGE: |
LLEGES 1931-1935. DEGREES: ABQ QV. MED, (Boston “Teachers

Coll.), 1936,

\ 779 |

Sep RR Mgt Eats Utne ORE IR “tec OT ete oa
Seems sen,

TE

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Marriep: Esther Y, Schwartz, July 6, 1941, Boston, Mass. cxitp: Salem Joseph,
Dec. 15, 1942.

occupation: Technical director, Magic Chemical Company; marketing research
and development of new products.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; National Association of Corrosion

Engineers; American Society for Testing Materials Committee C-24 on
Joint Sealants.

pusLications: Papers on rubber and latex rheology in Rubber Age and Rubber
World.

THE first decade of my professional work was divided into two
periods: one stretch of teaching in the Boston school system, and
the other in chemical laboratory bench work — both rather dull,
The war years found me “frozen” in an essential occupation, find-
ing substitutes for scarce materials in rubber manufacturing.

During the last fifteen years, I have gravitated into the adminis-
trative end of the chemical manufacturing industry — chiefly in
marketing research, (I have felt the lack of a Ph.D. degree rather
keenly, from an intellectual as well as from a professional view-
point.) During the first few years in my present position, I de-
veloped and introduced a long list of products in the field of ad-
hesives, plastics and paints. This project then evolved into the
problem of finding customers for all these products. With utmost
modesty, I can say that I have been highly successful as a “swivel-
chair” salesman, I have introduced some rather unique marketing
methods, and I have learned quite a bit about the “market place”
(although the lab is still my first love). This work has given my
company a rate of growth appreciably higher than the average for
the chemical industry. My company is not quite as microscopic as
it was twelve years ago. On the whole, this job has been quite ex-
citing and stimulating. I have also managed to squeeze in some
consulting work for an engineering company.

Now, as to a man’s other side of his life, his family — my wife
has been typically self-effacing by saying that my work should
occupy the greater part of this sketch. I hope that J am not being
trite when I say that Esther has been a generally charming and
understanding person. In addition, she has achieved a measure of
recognition for her many years of selfless devotion to work for our
people. The other third of my family is Salem, at present a junior
at Boston Latin School. (Not a chip off the old block.) Life 1s
never dull here at home — what with his trumpet and piano playing
and his talkative nature. (Harvard should have given a course on

“Managing Adolescents, Theory and Practice.”)

[ 780 J

»

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Well, a philosophical discourse is customary here — and perhaps
a thought or two on “what Harvard has done for me.” What kind
of quarter-century would a “Harvard” man have lived, if he
had not attended Harvard? Given a certain level of intelligence
and intellectual tendencies, would he have accomplished just as
much on an intellectual level? In the usual hustle and bustle of
everyday living, such a man might not have been able to develop
a rich intellectual life (this is of greatest importance) even if he

had wished to do so, unless he had had a start during his college
years. To me, Harvard was four years of highly stimulating and
rewarding intellectual living —and this when the outside world
was full of bitterness and social upheaval.

To sum up, the past quarter-century has been for me, as it prob-
ably has been for many others, a period of intense activity, mental

stimulation, and of the usual joys and sorrows of man, in his work
and in his family.

JOHN PALMER LEARNED

 

HOME ADDRESS: 296 High St., Newburyport, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Towle Silversmiths, 260 Merrimac St.. Newburyport, Mass.

BorN: Nov. 2, 1912, Newburyport, Mass. parents: Henry Coolidge Learned,
Adelaide Root Palmer.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-193§. DEGREE: A.B, 1935.

MarRieD: Kathryn Rutherford Morris Morrison, July 18. 1943, Newbury port,
Mass. cHitprEN: Marsha Rutherford Morrison; Melinda Benner Morrson
(stepdaughters); Lauchlan Morris, Feb, 2, 1945; Langdon Hunt, Dee. 16,
1947.

occuPaTION: Credit manager, Towle Silversmiths,

OFFICES HELD: President, Newburyport YMCA, 1934-573 director, Old New bury
Historical Society, 1955-38; trustee, Newburyport Public Library.

[ 78: ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Oldtown Country Club, Newbury,
Mass.; Fortnightly Club of Newburyport.

AFTER graduation I returned to Newburyport where I took a posi-
tion with the Towle Silversmiths. Except for the four years that I
spent in the Navy, I have been here ever since.

My navy experience included nine months as an ensign, USNR, in
the Bureau of Naval Personnel in Washington, a year on the USS
Prairie, A.D. 17, which was first stationed at Argentia and then at
Pearl Harbor. Then I transferred to the USS Herald of the Morn-
ing, A.P. 173, a romantic name for a troop transport attached to the
Third and Seventh Fleets in the Pacific area. We made five invasion
runs including Saipan, Palau, Leyte, Lingayen Gulf and Iwo Jima.
I was released from active duty in September, 1945, with the rank
of lieutenant.

During my tour of duty in Washington, I met Kathryn Ruther-
ford Morrison. We were married July 18, 1943, in Newburyport.
Our daughter Lauchlan was born in Palo Alto, California, while I
was at sea. Our daughter Langdon was born two years later in
Boston.

I have taken part in innumerable financial drives and have served
on the boards of a number of local organizations, For two years I
was president of the Newburyport YMCA. I have been ward cap-
tain in several mayoral campaigns and have also served as chairman
of the Republican Committee for Ward Six.

The routine prescribed by the above business and charitable in-
terests has been alleviated by such recreation as is provided by
gardening — of which there has been too much — and skiing, sailing,
boating and fishing — of which there has been too little.

An enumeration of one’s activities cannot possibly reveal the
challenge in life itself nor its problems and pleasures. While the best
years may now lie behind, the experience of living will have by now,

I trust, strengthened this not-yet-too-ancient body for whatever lies
ahead.

[ 782 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

NATHAN LEARNER

 

-, - f
4 =~
{ wZ

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 40 Samoset Ave., Quincy 69, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 13, 1915, Boston, Mass. parents: Joseph Learner, Ida Sack.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933, 1934-1935. DEGREE: 11.8. (Northeastem Univ.),
1940.

MaRRIED: Molly Zussman, June 29, 1947, Boston, Mass. cut: Judy Hya, Dec.
4, 1950.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: President, Dorchester Civic Club, 1949-30, Quincy Lodge, B'nai
B’rith, 1959-60, member, board of directors, Temple Beth El, 1955-58; vice
chancellor, Presidents Lodge, Knights of Pvthias, 1959-60.

MEMBER OF: Temple Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; King Solomon Lodge, Knights of
Pythias.

DURING the interval between Harvard and the war I drifted,

entering night law school only because I had nothing to do evenings.

My hobbies ranged from being a chess bum to part-ow ner of a race

horse. After a few vears as a social service investigator [ became

a soldier, serving with distinction as a pencil-commando.

The army experience brought me for the first me a sense of
orientation and purpose. I entered a large and well-known law
firm, where I worked, often round the clock, and learned, and de-
veloped a touch of ulcer, Orientation and purpose received a shot
of adrenalin when I met my wife, L opened my own office. A few
years later I had my own firm. We purchased a home “in the coun-
try”: 5,000 square fect of land in Merrymount, Quincy. Today
we speak w istfully of ow ning an acre or two. But that will have
to wait until our daughter i is grown up and married,

Before our daughter reached school age the three of us were
“road bums.” A call to the office on the spur of the moment on any
morning when the weather forecast was favorable and, if current

[ 783 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 193§

business could be postponed, we would pile into the car and be off
for two or three days. There are very few scenic roads in New
England and New Y ork that we have not dawdled and ooh’ed over.

As a result of a very lengthy enforced vacation marked by fre-
quent visits to doctors and stays in hospitals, my office in Boston
was closed. Eventually I resumed working, but this time from my
home. Here for the first time I have been able to practise my pro-
fession in accordance with a long-abiding conviction that, riddled
and degraded as it is by excessive competition, it should be con-
ducted with greater independence: a lawyer’s time is worth more
than a plumber’s. This has left lots of free time. So J have drifted
into volunteer community work. Today I am nearly drowning in it,
But it has its satisfactions,

My hobbies now: my family and the study of Jewish history
and sacred literature.

THOMAS VINCENT LEARSON

 

HOME ADpRESS: 12 Hawthorne Rd., Bronxville, N.Y.

OFFICE appress: IBM Corp., 590 Madison Ave., New York 22, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 26, 1912, Roslindale, Mass. parents: Richard James Learson,
Katherine E. Goode.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1935.

marriep: Gladys K. Murray, Nov. 4, 1939, Boston, Mass, CHILDREN: Martha,
March 19, 1941; Katherine, Dec. 3, 1942; Elizabeth, April 24, 1948; Elaine,
March 18, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard James Learson, Jr., '26.

OccuPATION: Vice-president and group executive, IBM Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Metropolitan Club, American Yacht Club.

[ 784 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MYRON HOLTON LECKNER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2011 Waltonia Drive, Montrose, Calif.

oFFice appress: Moody Sprinkler, Inc., 2828 No. Figueroa St. Los Angeles 65,
Calif.

BORN: Oct. 7, 1912, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Myron Colver Leckner, Reli-
ance Delia Holton.

PREPARED AT: Roosevelt High School, Yonkers, New York, The Loomis School,
Windsor, Connecticut.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.

MarRIED: Carolyn Alvine Sykora, Nov. 10, 1942, Los Angeles, Calif. cup:
Janet Carolyn, Aug. 24, 1946.

occuPaTION: Machinist, Moody Sprinkler, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Administrative vice-president, 1956, educational vice-president,
1957, president, 1958, Biometric Toastmasters Club No. 1396, Beverly Hills,
Calif.; publicity director Area I], District 50, Los Angeles, summer term,
1958.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, until 1930; Zeta Epsilon, Los

Angeles (business fraternity); sustaining member, Republican Associates
of Los Angeles, 1959.

[ 785 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

HOLDEN L’ECLUSE

 

ADDRESS: 3333 S. Atlantic Ave. Daytona Beach, Fla.

BORN: June 30, 1913, Huntington, N.Y. parents: Milton Albert L’Ecluse, Julia
Weeks.

PREPARED aT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932. DEGREE: A.B. (St. John’s Coll.), 1937.

MARRIED: Muriel J, Robinett, June 22, 1940, Bayside, N.Y. cuitp: Patricia Jane,
Feb. 1, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Motel owner.

NO questionnaire returned.

LOUIS PIERRE LEDOUX

 

HOME appress: 510 E. 86th St., New York 28, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Ledoux & Co., 359 Alfred Ave., Teaneck, N.J.

BORN: Aug. 1, 1912, Cornwall-on-Hudson, N.Y. parents: Louis Vernon
Ledoux, Jean Logan.

PREPARED AT: Gunnery School, Washington, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREE: $.B., 1935.

[ 786 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MaRRIED: Joan Fernegg, April 25, 1942, Cornwall-on-Hudson, N.Y. cHitparn:
Jeanne Nicole, Jan. 24, 1946; Louis Andre, Aug. 29, 1947.

occuPATION: President, Ledoux & Company, independent metallurgical chem-
ists; vice-president, Engineers Oil Shale Corporation.

OFFICES HELD; Treasurer, American Institute of Mining, Metallurgical and
Petroleum Engineers, 1957-59; chairman, Fastern Division, American
Council of Independent Laboratories, 1959-60; president, Deer Hill Asso
ciates, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Century Association, American Museum of Natural History
(patron); American Geographical Society fellow, Harvard Club of New
York; Cornwall Yacht Club; Cornwall and New Windsor Horse Thief
Detecting Society.

IT is horrible to look back over a quarter of a century and say to
one’s self “What have I done?”. At the moment, feeling complacent
and unmartyred, I truthfully answer, “Nothing much.” Things hap-
pen to me, not because of me. As I feel the reading of the following
is a waste of time, I only attempt to put it down because of the large
number of blanks on the questionnaire.

Having received my degree in ethnology, after graduation I headed
for South America, I wound up instead in New Guinea, thus becom-
ing one of the few people who ever went to New Guinea of their
own free will, There I spent half a year making a study of a tribe on
the north coast between Wewak and the mouth of the Sepik River.
Though I immensely enjoyed this bit of life and the very real liv-
ing of it, I knew that some day I would be getting married and rais-
ing a family and that that was a most impractical hfe. If you took
your family with you, the children’s education and health would
certainly be square pegged for round holes. If you left the family
home — why get married? (At times, on having to devote mv
Christmases to putting together the knocked-down toys that chil-
dren get and at other similar times T wished mvself ‘back in the
jungles, however!) 1, therefore, returned for postaraduate work for
a year at Harvard, taking courses in the Business School, College,
Engineering School and MALT. (which meant that no dean could
get me on the carpet as I did not have a minimum of two courses in
any one division), When people asked me what value my New
Guinea expcericnce was in the business world 1 was shaping myself
for, I replied that [ was sure that the ability to get along with head
hunters and cannibals, as the only white amongst them, should be
invaluable in personnel work. (Later on in lite I found thae it was
much easier to get along with head hunters and cannibals!) The
trip ta New Guinea had one major positive effect on my lite be-

[ 787 |

7117 “°C RNB

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

found a wild orchid in the woods, but these are the things, along with
the personal family moments both of sorrow and happiness, which
made up my life since college in such a way that it was priceless to
me and perhaps of some value to those close to me, though not of
much worth to the world.

I envy others who have scaled the Himalayas, financial or social
peaks, or the top of the news, but only in the sense that it would
have added to the richness of a life full of bright flashes like those
from a slide projector, forgetting those long days, weeks, months or
even years when it isn’t turned on and one lives vicariously through
books, movies, plays, TV and clippings showing the high spots of
others, which, like as not, would put another old set of memory
slides into my projector as elbows bend at a Reunion.

To close with a word of advice to future Reunion publication
committees, when having current photographs taken of tired execu-
tives, professionals or dilettantes, to be shown alongside those of our
former selves, would not the differences be less marked if the “birdie”
was from The Old Howard — or at least an old-fashioned?

SEARS LEHMANN, JR.

    

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 60 Jenifer Lane, St. Louis 31, Mo.

BORN: April 2, 1913, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Sears Lehmann, ‘or, Agnes
Malotte Houser.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. Cum laude, 1935.

MARRIED: Margaret M. Hippee, 1956, Des Moines, Iowa.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederick William Lehmann, 3d, ’41.

occupaTION: Chemical engineer (retired).

orFices HELD: Director, Petrolite Corporation, since 1938, Cepco Company.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; University Club; Racquet Club; St.
Louis Country Club.

[ 799 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SINCE graduation from Harvard in 1935 I have been employed
as a chemist and a chemical engineer. My work has been restricted
mainly to fields associated with the petroleum industry and my
travels in connection with this work have been confined to the mid-
western section of this country. I have lived in St. Louis most of
this time. At present I am what one might call “retired” —a term
used loosely.

During the war I was classified 4-F and worked in Tulsa as a
chemical engineer at a processing plant which refined petroleum
waxes.

I have no real hobbies. I like fierce dogs, collect ancient pottery,
play a little squash, do a little fishing, a little hunting, a little boat-
ing and camping along the Ozark mountain streams. At one time
I was involved in a dairy farm operation as a sort of hobby. This
required so much personal attention that it interfered with my
regular work and, furthermore, was seldom profitable. I am one
of these “do-it-yourself” fellows. “Doing-it-yourself” can take
quite a bit of time, and in this respect might almost qualify as a
hobby.

Until four years ago I was an old bachelor. Since then mv wife
and I have lived in our house in the suburbs of St. Louis. We also
have a cottage down on a good, clear stream in the Missouri Ozarks
where we spend a weekend occasionally, summer or winter.

Politically, I believe I would be called conservative. For instance,
I preferred Taft, but think that Eisenhower has been a good presi-
dent considering the difficulties. I call myself an Episcopalian but
my religious convictions are not really orthodox anvthing.

So far, my views of the present w ‘orld situation are that four
years at Harvard probably made me more civilized and that progress
in civilization — if and when— does not spring from the good
within men’s hearts nor from a sense of the reasonable in men’s
minds, but by the force of external necessity. Of course I have been
even more civilized since I got married. Amen.

[791 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1Q35

RICHARD MARACHE LEIGHTON

 

HOME appress: 1204 Rebecca Drive, Hollin Hills, Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE ApprEss: Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Fort McNair, Wash-
ington, D.C.

BorN: Feb. 22, 1914, Cincinnati, Ohio. pareNTS: George Arthur Leighton, Henri
Breeden.

PREPARED AT: Walnut Hills High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932. DEGREES: A.B. (Univ. of Cincinnati), 1935; a.m.
(ibid.), 1937; PHD. (Cornell Univ.), 1941.

MarRieD: Virginia Lee Cecil, Aug. 6, 1945. cup: Victoria Cecil, July 27,
1954.

occupaTION: Assistant to senior educational adviser and faculty member,
Industrial College of the Armed Forces.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Historical Association; American
Military Institute; U.S. Naval Institute.

pusLications: Global Logistics and Strategy 1940-43, co-author with Robert
W. Coakley, Washington, D.C. 1955; Global Logistics and Strategy 1943-
45, co-author, forthcoming; Command Decisions, co-author, Harcourt,
Brace, 1959; “Logistics, Military,” Encyclopedia Americana, “Logistics,”
Encyclopedia Britannica, articles and book reviews in Political Science
Quarterly, Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social
Science, Queens Quarterly, Military Affairs, U.S. Naval Institute Proceed-
ings, Army Magazine.

AFTER leaving Harvard (for lack of funds), I finished my under-
graduate study at the University of Cincinnati, in my home town.
One of my first discoveries was that some of Frisky Merriman’s
enthusiasm for history, to which I had been exposed as a freshman
at Harvard, had rubbed off; or maybe he had bullied me into liking
it. At any rate, I majored in Modern European History at U.C. and
went on to get my M.A. in the same field. (My thesis was on Oli-
ver Cromwell, perhaps reflecting in a confused way the lingering
influence of Merriman, who had once written a thesis on Crom-

[792 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

well — Thomas, not Oliver.) After U.C, I was lucky enough to
get a fellowship at Cornell, where I spent four wonderful years
working for my doctorate in the leisurely and idyllic pre-war
manner — especially wonderful because my principal teacher was
that great and wise man, Carl Becker, and because I had a stall in
the White Library overlooking Lake Cayuga. I finished my doctoral
work (with a thesis on Montesquieu) in June, 1941, did a short
stint of teaching at Brooklyn College that summer, and was whisked
into the Army in August very bewildered and resenting it all.

In the Army, I got into public relations work for a short time,
then went through Officers Candidate School and got my commis-
sion, and finally wound up in Washington in General Somervell’s
headquarters as an historian where I sat out the rest of the war.
This excursion into military history proved to be a turning point,
however, for after a rather unsatisfactory year and a half teaching
at my old Alma Mater, University of Cincinnati (housing troubles,
etc.), I joined the newly-formed staff of the Army’s Historical Di-
vision, along with a number of other professional historians, and
plunged into World War II history. This was in 1948. Since then
I have written, in collaboration with Robert W. Coakley (an his-
torian of colonial Virginia), two large volumes on top-level strategy
and logistics covering the period of United States participation in
the war, one published in 1955, the other coming out in the next
year or two, as part of the Army’s big (eighty-volume) series
on its role in World War II — besides sundry other studies, both
published and unpublished. Last spring I accepted my present po-
sition on the faculty of the Industrial College of the Armed Forces,
which is the sister institution of the National War College, both
serving to train senior officers of all the armed services and selected

civilian officials from various defense agencies in the fundamentals

of national security. This brings me back into the teaching game
which I left eleven years ago, except for some part-time teaching
for the History Department at George Washington University.

Through these years, I have also managed to remain active in the

Army Reserve, serving as CO of a small detachment of reservist-

historians who have mobilization assignments with the Othce, Chief

of Military. Recently, I was given a new Reserve assignment as

a mobilization designee for the U.S. Military Academy at West

Point. As a result of all the above, I am, I suppose, a military his-

torian; in fact, I am now working on a textbook in American mili-

tary history for Rand McNally and have joined that large segment

[ 793 ]

ge : ° sia PRES 0 tt

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

of the reading and writing public that finds the Civil War one of
the most fascinating epochs in human history.

The major event in this personal history was, of course, my
marriage back in 1945) On the same day the bomb dropped on
Hiroshima, to a native Virginian, who happened to be my secre-
tary at the time. (Help was ‘hard to keep during the war.) We have
a five-year- old daughter, Vicki, and three dachshunds (also father,
mother, and daughter), and the six of us live in a mostly glass house
with a butterfly roof in a wooded section south of Alexandria,
Virginia, Outside my professional interest in military history, inter-
national politics, and the economic aspects of national security,
which account for most of my reading on cold winter evenings,
my major extracurricular interest is music —a hangover from my
youth when I was a ’cellist and did quite a lot of semi-professional
performing. For the most part, I seem to be reasonably at peace
with the world— have never been to a psychiatrist, am consumed
by no causes, enjoy my work and my family, would like to make
more money, regard religion and politics both as historical phe-

nomena, have no thirst for power, and have no really besetting

frustrations except the totally inadequate number of hours in each
day. 1 have spoken.

OTTO AUGUSTUS LEMKE, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 5729 W. Washington Blvd., Milwaukee 8, Wis.

OFFICE Avpress: Employers Mutual Liability Insurance Co. of Wausau, Wis.
6620 W. Capitol Drive, Milwaukee 16, Wis.

BorN: Nov. 1, 1910, Milwaukee, Wis Otto Augustus Lemke, ’94
Olga Elizabeth Reis.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932. DEGREE: LLB, (Marquette Univ.), 1937

[ 794 ]

. PARENTS;

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Mary Margaret Wright, Sept. 23, 1943, Virginia Beach, Va.

HARVARD BROTHER: Nathanael August Lemke, ’38; L1.B., 41.

occupation: Claims attorney, Employers Mutual Liability Insurance Company
of Wausau, Wisconsin, specializing in the defense of casualty claims.

MEMBER OF: Wisconsin Bar Association; Milwaukee Bar Association, Alonzo
Cudworth Post, American Legion.

AFTER leaving Harvard, I continued my studies at Marquette
University, receiving my law degree in 1937. That same year I
was admitted to practice before the Wisconsin bar and went to
work for the Employers Mutual Liability Insurance Company of
Wausau, Wisconsin. After two years in the claim department, I
joined the legal department in the Milwaukee office, practising be-
fore the Industrial Commission and the various courts of our state.

In the fall of 1942 I received a commission as a lieutenant, j.g.,
U.S.N.R., and had my indoctrination at Princeton University.
After attending various anti-aircraft training schools, I was assigned
to duty aboard the U.S.S. Nehenta Bay, a baby flat-top, on which
I served about a year and a half. Our cruise with the Third Fleet
under Admiral Halsey included such ports of call as Saipan, Ti-
nian, Guam, Leyte, Lingayen Gulf, the South China Sea and Saigon,
and included, in addition to several Bronze Stars, the Great Ty-
phoon. We missed few Pacific islands or atolls, but never got to
set foot on any shore.

Sea duty completed, my final assignment was that of officer in
charge of recruiting at San Antonio, Texas. I was released from
active duty in January, 1946, with the rank of lieutenant com-
mander.

Almost immediately upon my return to Milwaukee I was back
in the legal department of the Employers Mutual of Wausau.
Though we are house counsel, to facilitate the practice of law we
have operated under the firm name of Bloomquist & Lemke, At-
torneys. My work is rather specialized, being devoted entirely to
the defense of lawsuits against the company and its assureds in the
broad casualty field, The wide diversification of risks insured by
the company, the ever-changing laws, and the appearance of new
theories on which to predicate responsibility, offer a constant chal-
lenge and the work is most interesting and stimulating. My hobbies
are fishing, “do-it-yourself” projects, and gardening, particularly
dwarf fruit trees.

[ 795 ]

TT TC TT eT Te NT TTS TET et aA HONEA eseai renee ~nelntOo Piimetieene = "Bein Suances

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

MARSTON STICKNEY LEONARD

    

HOME appREss: 29 Newton Pl., Framingham, Mass.
OFFICE aDpREss: Bacson Blueprint Inc., 44 Park St., Framingham, Mass.

BorN: July 8, 1912, Springfield, Mass. Parents: George Marston Leonard, ’o3,
Madeleine S. Baker.

PREPARED aT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934, 1935-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1935(36).

MarRiED: Verona Dawnay Kiralfy, Oct. 15, 1942, Tampa, Fla. cHmLpren:
Marston Calvin, July 29, 1943; Laurence Baker, Oct. 11, 1947.

occupation: General manager, assistant treasurer, Bacson Blueprint Inc., repro-
duction services; lieutenant colonel, U.S. Air Force (retired).

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Boston Junior Chamber of Commerce, 1939-42;
member, Framingham P.T.A. Council, 1954-57; chairman, Framingham
Schools March of Dimes, 1955-58.

MEMBER OF: Disabled Officers Association.

pusLicaTions: “Public Relations Committees,’ Boston Business; “Make Public
Relations Pay,” with E. L. Belisze, Laundry Age; “History of the 385th
Bomb Group.”

FOLLOWING my graduation from Harvard, I joined the cruise
staff of Raymond-Whitcomb Company and traveled extensively in
northern Europe and the British Isles. Upon my return to this coun-
try I joined the faculty of Harrisburg (Pa.) Academy as head of the ~
Lower School and public relations director. At the end of two years
I determined to return to New England and devote myself to the
field of personnel and public relations. I became an associate of
Stoddard & Company and later was elected president of the manage-
ment consultant firm when it was incorporated as Stoddard Asso-
ciates, Inc. Concurrently with this work I served as executive secre-
tary of the Massachusetts Unemployment Compensation Committee
and as executive secretary of the Massachusetts Industrial Council,

Inc., comprised of more than one hundred leading businesses and
industries in the commonwealth,

[ 796 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

With our entry into World War I, we liquidated Stoddard Asso-
clates to participate more actively individually in the war effort. I
joined the Air Force, first in a civilian capacity and later as a com-
missioned officer (second lieutenant). With the exception of a brief
six-week training period when I entered active military service, I
was assistant to the district officer of the Air Force in charge of the
interviewing, classification and processing of officer applicants in
the Air Force from New England.

Upon completion of this project I was assigned to the Third Air
Division preparing for overseas duty. Through its training period
I was in charge of personnel, being responsible for the classification,
assignment and selection of the unit’s personnel. Reaching England
I was put in charge of the enlisted section and of personnel require-
ments of the command. The command grew rapidly to embrace
over 40,000 men and women. After more than a year’s service with
the Third Air Division I was requested by the commanding officer
of the 385th Bomb Group to become personnel director at his base.

In this capacity all personnel policies and administration were
under my personal supervision in a command of more than 3000
men. This was a challenging assignment as the increase of our com-
bat flying personnel and aircraft without a corresponding increase
in the technical maintenance, supply and housekeeping personnel
necessitated great ingenuity in stretching our available manpower.
I served out the balance of the European war with this and returned
from overseas with them. At this time it was discovered that some-
where along the line I had contacted TB which forced me to be re-
tired from the service as a lieutenant colonel. I then served as veter-
ans’ adviser for a private group constructing and selling housing to
veterans in different locales in New England.

A year later I joined the Whitin Machine Works in Whitinsville
— the largest textile machinery manufacturer — as a personnel rela-
tions engineer. My particular work was concerned with the deter-
mination of wage incentives through time studies and the dissolution
of grievances that might arise from such wage standards,

In 1949, a breakdown from my wartime disability hospitalized
me. I underwent surgery and convalesced, With time on my hands
after being discharged from the hospital, I devoted a great deal of
my time to the interests of young people in Framingham and vicin-
ty.

I returned to the business world by way of my former ficld of
management engineering and had the experience of being asked to

[ 797 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

execute the recommendations I had made in a report to a firm’s
directors; I have been there ever since.

While all this business and military activity was befalling the
writer, I very happily found a wife and natural later developments
added two sons. The activities of these three bundles of ener
more than keep the waking hours of the day completely filled. Hav-
ing forced the retirement of my wife from the professional stage
by marrying her, her rich talents and enthusiasm found expression
in operating a very successful dancing school and several programs
for the recreation departments of numerous surrounding towns of
our area. It has been a rich and satisfying experience which I am
looking forward to enjoying even more in the years to come.

CLIFFORD BENNETT LePAGE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1706 N. 16th St. Reading, Pa.

OFFICE apprEss: American Mutual Liability Insurance Co, 15 S. Third St.
Easton, Pa.

BorN: May 18, 1914, Hamilton, Mass, paRENts: Samuel M. LePage, Rosette
P, Jones.

prepareD: Ottawa High School, Ouawa, Kans.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

Marrigp: Minnie L. Himmelreich, Dec. 24, 1938, South Byfield, Mass. cHixp:
Clifford Bennett, Jr., May 17, 1944.

occuPaTION: Branch claim manager, American Mutual Liability Insurance
Company, casualty and liability insurance.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, 1958, vice-president, 1959, Scranton-Wilkes-
Barre Claims Managers Council.

MEMBER OF: Scranton Club,

TRYING to crowd the joys, trials and expcriences of tw enty- -five
years into a few well-chosen words or phrases is quite a task.
Briefly as ossible, 1 shall try to set forth the essential facts.

p

[ 798 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Following June, 1935, I tried a multiplicity of odd jobs unul
January, 1936, when I became associated with the American Mutual
Liability Insurance Company. After a year in the home office, 1
found myself out in the wide world attempting to become a

“claimsman.” This has continued over the years and, although it
may seem somewhat humdrum to my more venturesome classmates,
has provided innumerable adventures and experiences. One sees
life from all angles and gets into the most interesting places, not to
mention meeting people from all walks of life — the complete assort-
ment of sizes, shapes, types and temperaments. The fact that we are
still doing business at the “old stand” can only mean some small
measure of success.

In spite of all the activity of keeping the assureds and claimants
happy, I have found time to locate a charming girl, who, through
some unknown magic, was persuaded to become my wife and the
mother of a now teen-age son. Trying to keep abreast of the latter's
activities and interests is almost a full-time job in itself.

Somehow I have found (or made) time to participate in the
usual community activities — fund drives, etc. — and also to lend a
hand in church activities. Occasionally, I “squeeze” in some ume
for hobbies such as a good game of bridge and stamp collecting.

While I have not been back “officially” (to Reunions, etc.) to
the scene of academic endeavors, I have managed to make a private
visit practically every year in the course of vacations in Massachu-
setts. Somehow, just walking through the Yard or visiting Widener
gives one the feeling of belonging to something infinitely worth-
while, and sends this writer away with renew ed strenath to con-
tinue the quest of ever-changing life and to contribute in whatever
way possible to the sum total of human happiness.

[ 799 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

WHITMAN FORBES LEROY

 

LAST KNOWN appress: St. Moritz Hotel, San Francisco, Calif.

BORN: Feb, 20, 1914, Somerville, Mass. parents: Harris George LeRoy, Sarak

Brainard.

PREPARED AT: Winchester High School, Winchester, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

LEROY has been carried as a “Jost” man on our records since 1959.

MARION VICTOR LEVENTRITT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 520 E. 86th St., New York 28, N.Y.
OFFICE appress: Chrysler Bldg., New York, N.Y.

BorN: April 4, 1914, New York, N.Y. Parents: Edgar Milton Leventritt,
Rosalie Joseph.

PREPARED AT: Riverdale Country School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1935; LL.B. (Columbia
Univ.), 1939.

MarRIED: Frances Brettholz, 1950. CHILDREN: Jennie, 1956, Daniel, 1958.

occupation: Lawyer.

[ 800 }

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I WAS one of the six in our class who went to Columbia Law School
and one of three who made the Law Review — not a bad batting
average, especially as none of us was a Phi Bete.

After a couple of years practising Jaw in “Wall Street,” I re-
ceived greetings from Uncle Sam, who, in due course, sent me u
to Alaska for three years (half in the Aleutians). I was in the En-
gineers — of all things — which meant everything from digging
ditches to drawing contracts.

Then back to the law, with some interesting and exciting matters.
I’ve had the privilege of arguing in the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit, before Judges Learned Hand and Augustus
Hand, Jerome Frank, Swan et al., a number of times, as well as once
in the U.S. Supreme Court,

In 1950 I married Frances Brettholz, a singer. With our two chil-
dren, Jennie, three and a half, and Daniel, one and a half, we live at
520 East Eighty-sixth Street in New York City. My office is on the
fifty-second floor of the Chrysler Building — come up and see the
view some time.

Right now [’m cooped up in the hospital for minor mechanical
repair —I got tired of having my trick knee let me down. I hope
to be swimming and skiing again soon after I get out of here.

JAMES EADS LEVINGS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4944 Live Oak St., Dallas, Texas.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1012 Fidelity Union Life Bldg., Dallas, Texas.

BoRN: Oct. 20, 1914, Chicago, Ill. parents: Charles Sanford Levings, Clara
Eads.

PREPARED AT: Western Reserve Academy, Hudson, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934, 1935-1936. DEGREES: AB, 1935(36); S.M. IN CE,
1939»

[ 801 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Marriep: Dorothy Radcliffe Becker, 1937. cup: Michele Eads, 1939.
occupaTion: Consulting engineer.

NO questionnaire returned.

EDWARD DAVID LEVY

 

HOME Appress: 1061 North Shore Rd., Norfolk, Va.

OFFICE Appress: Norfolk General Hospital, Norfolk, Va.

BORN: Jan. 23, 1915, New Britain, Conn. parents: Morris Levy, Elsie Levine.
PREPARED AT: William Hall High School, West Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 1935; A.M. (Duke Univ.), r9q0;

M.D. (ibid.), 1943.

MarrieD: Sarah Williams, Sept. 20, 1940, Durham, N.C. cHitpren: Rachel Jane
and Roberta Jo (twins), Sept. 28, 1941; David Morris, Aug. 2, 1945; Wil-
liam Kramer, May, 1950.

occupaTion: Physician.

oFFices HELD: Clinical pathologist, Norfolk General Hospital, 1947-6o; president,
Virginia Society of Pathology, 1955-56.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association, American Society of Clinical
Pathology; Norfolk Torch Club; Norfolk Rotary Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Papers on Biochemical Methods, Hematological Case Reports,
Use of the Artificial Kidney.

AFTER leaving Cambridge, I spent the next ten years in teaching
and research at medical centers in Minneapolis and Durham, North
Carolina, where I became a transplanted Northerner, married, and
raised my family, while engrossed in medical research work.

The war took me, through the auspices of the U.S. Navy, into
the Pacific, leaving me in charge of a military government hospital
on the island of Tinian in the Mariannas. Here I was ready to go
native but the Navy returned me to the Carolina environment. After
a short try at being a country doctor, I returned to the hospital
laboratory to specialize in the field of laboratory medicine and to

[ 802 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

continue teaching in biochemistry at the College of William and
Mary.

Extra-curricularly, [ play along with others at the game of trying
to remake the South. This is, at best, a frustrating task, but signs of

rogress are beginning to appear — the battle of the schools has been
won, the solid Democratic South has been dented, freedom shows
signs of returning and my fellow-Northerners are migrating to our
suburbia — there are even signs of a local Harvard Club in the
offing! So life offers hope and the twenty-five years have been good
ones!

DAVID WHITNEY LEWIS

  

HOME ADDRESS: Pegan Lane, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Patterson, Wylde & Windeler, Inc., go Broad St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: April 6, 1913, Brookline, Mass. PaRENTs: Geoffrey Whitney Lewis, ’o5,
Edith Louise Lincoln,

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Rebecca Perry, Nov. 1, 1941, Wellesley, Mass. cHitpren: David
Whitney, Jr., Nov. 27, 1943; Joan Perry and William Lincoln (twins),
Nov. 3, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Geoffrey W. Lewis, °32.

OCCUPATION: Insurance. broker and general agent; vice-president and director,
Patterson, Wylde & Windeler, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Harvard Class of 1935, 1935-50; trustee, treasurer,
Boston Home for Incurables, since 1941; treasurer, Schussverein, 1941-46;
chairman, Dover Red Cross, 1946, Dover Community Fund, 1948; various
positions, United Fund; member, Harvard Class Committee since 1950,
trustee, treasurer, Charles River School, 1954-46; trustee, Big Brother
Association, 1955-56, Brookline Friendly Society, 1956-57; member of
corporation, Winsor School, since 1958; trustee, secretary, Roxbury Latin
School, since 1958.

[ 803 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

STANLEY LEWIS

 

HOME abpress: Thayer Pond Road, New Canaan, Conn.
OFFICE apprEss: General Aniline & Film Co., Inc., 230 Park Ave., New York,

N.Y.
BorN: March 29, 1913, New York, N.Y. Parents: Zachary Lewis, Miriam

White.

PREPARED AT: Tome School, Port Deposit, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: $.B., 1935.

mMarrieD: Anne Elizabeth Lovejoy, March 15, 1942, Wurtemburg, N.Y. cuit~
pREN: Barbara Anne, March 17, 1946, Joanne Lynn, Feb. 12, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Lewis, ’26.

occupaTion: Director of marketing, General Aniline & Film Co., Inc.

OFFICES HELD: National merchandising manager, Canada Dry Corp., 1941-50;
vice-president and general sales manager, Bon Ami Co., 1950-56; market-
ing executive, Lever Bros. Co., 1956-59, director of market'ng, General
Aniline & Film Co., Inc., since July, 1959.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club; Harvard Business School Club; the Lake Club.
AFTER leaving college I went to the Business School and then into
the advertising agency business with Benton & Bowles, New York
City. My broad educational background gained me a respected po-
sition in the mail room of this company and in progressive steps as
a member of the training group I rose to the exalted position of as-
sistant account executive (leg man for the account executive).
After deciding to get on the other side of the fence — the clients
— I went with Canada Dry as national merchandising manager from
1941 to 1950, with three years out for naval service as lieutenant
commander in the Supply Corps. Most of my naval duty was spent
in the Mediterranean fighting the battle of red tape and awful odors.
In 1950 I joined the Bon Ami Company, becoming vice-president
and general sales manager. When the company went through its
third change in management, I decided to seck greener pastures in

[ 806 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1956 with Lever Brothers, and after three years fighting the soap
battle joined General Aniline & Film as director of marketing.

I married my lovely wife in 1942 and since then acquired two
disturbers of the peace, Joanne and Barbara — plus Heidi (a Ger-
man shepherd), the only member of the family that does my bid-
ding. We moved to New Canaan, Connecticut, in the summer of
1959 and I’m enjoying rural living immensely. There's nothing to
equal the thrill of arising before the roosters to commute to New
York and spend approximately four hours daily on the road. It does
have its benefits, however; you never have to worry or plan what
to do with your weekends — house repairs, lawn care, and neigh-
bors dropping by to borrow tools or for a drink take care of that.
Traveling has been principally on business from coast to coast, plus
vacations to Chatham on Cape Cod and educational trips for the
children to spots like Williamsburg, Charlottesville and Washington.

WILLARD DEMING LEWIS

 

HOME apprEss: Talmadge Road, Mendham, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bell Telephone Laboratories, Inc., Murray Hill, N.J.

BORN: Jan. 6, 1915, Augusta, Ga. PaRENTS: Willard Lewis, ‘os, Constance
Deming.

PREPARED AT: Richmond Academy, Augusta, Ga.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: AB, Cwm laude, 1935; Ba. (Ovford
Univ.), 1938; a.m. (Harvard Univ.), 1939; pup. (ibid), roge.

MarrRiED: Martian Carter Chapman, Nov. 1, 1941, Portland, Maine. cHitprrN:
Caroline Carter and Constance Carter (twins), June 16, 1044; Linda
Deming, Jan. 19, 1946; Catherine Doren, Jan. 19, 1949; Marian Chapman,
May 25, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Guy Spalding Lewis, °44.

occuPaTIon: Director of research, Communication Systems, Bell Telephone
Laboratories, Ine.

[ 807 ]

aT a " . nomena . RPT NATURA nner AT Sn NE

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

OFFICES HELD: Member, School Board, Little Silver, N.J., 1949-50; me
Overseers’ Committee to Visit Division of Engineering and Applied
Physics, Harvard University, since 1953; secretary-treasurer, ACM-AIEE.
IRE, Joint Committee, 1955-57; member, board of governors, Harvarg
Engineering Society, 1957-58, since 1959; member of council, Harvard
Foundation, since 1959; member, board of directors, Riverside Mills, since
1959.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Radio Engineers (fellow); American Physical Society;
Association for Computing Machinery; Institute of Management Science:
New Jersey Academy of Science, Harvard Engineering Society; Harvard
Club of New Jersey; American Association of Rhodes Scholars.

PUBLICATIONS: Technical papers on a variety of subjects including phonograph
recording, quantum mechanics, radar antennas, microwave filters, telephone
switching, digital computations, mobile telephony.

Ther,

THE first three years out of Harvard were spent excitingly and
broadeningly as a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford University, England.
The mathematics honours program there gave me a useful and last-
ing set of practical mathematical tools, also enough free time to get
to like and respect the English people. During long vacations I was
able to visit most of Western Europe and live for substantial stretches
of time in France, Germany, Austria and Denmark.

From 1938 to 1941, | was again at Harvard as a Ph.D. candidate
in theoretical physics under Professor Van Vleck. The circum-
stances were less glamorous and considerably more austere than
those of the previous three years, but extremely fruitful from the
point of view of professional development.

In 1941 two things happened to change my previous firm inten-
tion to go into university research and teaching. I met a lovely girl
whom | wanted to marry, and people with difficult defense tasks
discovered that physicists could be useful. So, in July, 1941, after
getting the Ph.D., I joined the Bell Telephone Laboratories and
started to work on radar. In November, 1941, I married the girl.
No changes in either alliance have occurred since, nor are any wished
for or expected, though the original charters have been broadened
by the addition of five daughters on the one hand and the succes-

sion of a variety of tasks on the other.

Family life with the girl (who was Wellesley 36 and Tree Day
mistress) has been a delight. Of course there have been the usual
responsibilities, of which being the parents of teen-age girls looms
largest at the moment, but this kind of thing must be familiar to
most of my classmates. Some of the high spots: carrying twin
daughters in one basket across our threshold for the first time, the

final piece of wallpaper in the do-it-yourself remodelling of our

{ 808 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

first home, my wife’s writing and selling six articles to outstanding
slick magazines in less than two years, four daughters in four sepa-
rate schools holding top elective offices simultaneously, the long re-
laxing tennis and swimming weekend afternoons, the camping trips
in northern Maine and Canada, both with and without children.

The career has been exciting too, first radar, then microwave radio
communication, then electronic telephone switching, now a variety
of responsibilities including direction of research in telephone switch-
ing, transmission, television and mobile telephone systems. With
these responsibilities the inevitable conflict between personal creativ-
ity and obligation to others,

My semi-professional activities include most pleasantly many con-
tacts with Harvard through its Engineering Society, two of its
advisory bodies, and with its faculty, especially in the field of En-
gineering and Applied Science. In this field I am convinced is the
true present American frontier and opportunity.

WILLIAM HENRY LEWIS, JR.

 

HOME ADpRESS: 165 E. 66th St., New York 21, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 5 Day Laboratories, 445 Park Ave., New York 22, N.Y

BORN: Nov. 11, 1914, Brooklyn, N.Y. parents: William Henry Lewis, Anna
Ruth Dadley.

PREPARED AT: Morristown High School, Morristown, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Victoria Potter, May 28, 1938, Needham, lass. cHitpreN: Evelyn
Forbes, Sept. 12, 1939; Victoria Anna, March 31, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president, 5 Day Laboratories, manufacturers and
marketers.

OFFICES HELD: Director, 5 Towns YAICA, 1953-58, 5 Towns Community Chest
1954-58.

[ 809 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ROBERT BERTRAM LICHTENSTEIN

  

HOME appress: 3500 14th Sc, Washington, D.C,

orvice appress: Howard University, Washington, D.C.

porN: Dec. 8, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: William Herman Lichtenstein,
Anna Canter,

Preparkp aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1935; AM.
(Boston Univ.), 1950; px.p, (Harvard Univ.), 1955.

Marnifp: Anicla Lerner, March, 1946, Alsfeld, Germany.

oceupATION: Assistant professor of German, Howard University.

MeMper oF: Phi Beta Kappa; Modern Language Association; American Asso-
ciation of Teachers of German.

FOR me 1949 was the year of decision. At that time I made up my
mind, after having been in Europe for seven years, five of them with
the Office of Military Government in Germany, to forego the ma-
terial and other advantages of working abroad and to return to the
United States in order to resume, as a student and after a rather long
interruption, my connection with the academic world. In 1950 I got
my AM, from Boston University, in 1955 my Ph.D. in Germanic
philology from Harvard. During this time my wife, who is of
Polish birth, earned the degrees of A.M, and L.Sc.M. From 1951
to 1956 Thad the interesting experience of teaching German at Har-
vard. In 1957 1 accepted a position as assistant professor of German
at Howard University, where I am at present.

Always an outsider, I am a member of no clubs, belong to no re-
ligious organization or political party. I am happiest when teaching,
reading or listening to music. I hope soon to finish a verse transla-
tion of a medieval German epic, the oldest in the German language.

[ 812 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM AMES LINCOLN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 340 Hammond St., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Asco Laboratories, Hudson, N.H.

BORN: March 22, 1912, Boston, Mass. parENts: Alexander Lincoln, ’95, Eleanor
Ames.

prepareD AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935, LL.B. (North-
eastern Univ.), 1942.

MARRIED: Joan Tozzer, March 22, 1952, Cambridge, Mass. cHitpreN: Philip E.
Spalding, 3d, July 30, 1941; A. Tozzer Spalding, May 3, 1943; Anne M.
Spalding, April 18, 1945; Joan Alice Spalding, Feb. 17, 1948; Susan C,,
April 18, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alexander Lincoln, Jr., ’32.

occupation: Manufacturing — president, Asco Laboratories.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-chairman, Schools and Scholarship Committee, Harvard
Club of Boston, since 1957; co-chairman, finance drive, Samuel Francis
Smith Homestead Society, 1958, associate member, Newton Republican
Ciry Committee, since 1959; alternate director, Newton Civie Association,
since 1959, member of corporation, Faulkner Hospital, since 1959; treasurer,
Gibbs for Mayor Campaign, Newton, since 1959.

UNPROMPTED am I to report in prose
On me since thirty-five.

More worthy of verse is my principal work
Since I have been alive.

Comparison of the dates involved

Of marriage and birthday too

Indicates a certain span

Occurred in fifty-two.

Another has written more eloquently
Of when we might be portly

But certain it is that I have proved

That life begins at forty.

[ 813 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

I am concerned as my father before
With Constitutional views
And rights of states and election dates

And governmental news.
Iam concerned as my children will be

With ever-expanding maws,

The result perhaps of what judges thought .
Of the Interstate Commerce Clause.

Oh, classmates all, have you ever observed
A fate like Massachusetts’?

With government good for many years
We couldn’t more ably goose it.

Turn we must from contemplation
Of the politician,

For peace of mind is hard to find
With him or nuclear fission.

To nature then and solitude

To racquet, ball and club —
Highly cherished when we ponder
The atom-powered sub.

But peace of mind can also prevail
In viewing state and nation,

In viewing too what can happen to you
When you start an operation
Dependent on a super, super
Super salesman whose
Attachment to the bottle means
You are in his shoes. —

Here is an answer unexcelled,
Work with the young,

For after all it’s chiefly on them
‘That most of our hopes are hung.

[ 814 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ANDREW OLIVER LINDSTRUM, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1086 N. Seminary St., Galesburg, Ill.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Mathematics, Knox College, Galesburg, Ill.

BORN: Nov. 12, 1914, Galesburg, Ill. parents: Andrew Oliver Lindstrum, Sybil
Winifred Chaiser.

PREPARED AT: Galesburg High School, Galesburg, IIl.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1935; aM. (Univ. of
Illinois), 1936; PH.D. (ibid.), 1939.

UNMARRIED,

occupaTiIon: Professor of mathematics, Knox College.

AFTER obtaining my Ph.D., I taught at Notre Dame, University
of Wisconsin, Northwestern, and at Knox since the fall of 1948.
This was interrupted by four and a half years of service in the
Army, one year in field artillery and the rest in weather in the
Air Force, holding eight different ranks from private (drafted)
through captain, serving in the United States and Europe, with the
last three months teaching at Biarritz American University. 1 sal
play bridge frequently.

HARVARD CLASS OF 19035

~C, A, LINEBARGER

 

BorN: June 5, 1914, Tomball, Texas, parents: Clarence A. Linebarger, Regena
Naylor.

preparep AT: Bentonville High School, Bentonville, Ark.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932. DEGREE: LL.B. (Cumberland Univ.), 1933.

marriép: Florence Ivy, Jan. 21, 1935, Bentonville, Ark. cHttpREN: Carole A.,
May 5, t941; C. Ann, July 14, 1944; Charity A, Nov. 24, 1945. |

piep: Sept. 7, 1956, Bentonville, Ark.

winow: Mrs. C. A. Linebarger, Bella Vista, Ark.

C. A. LINEBARGER spent the freshman year with our Class and

was a member of the band. After leaving Harvard he attended

Cumberland University Law School in Lebanon, Tennessee, where

he received an LL.B. He was admitted to the bar in 1934 and

practised law for eight years. During World War II he worked

for the government as a purchasing agent in Missouri, Kansas and

Florida, From 1946 to 1952 he was general manager of Bella Vista,

an Arkansas summer resort, and since then had been owner and

manager of Wonderland Underground, one of the great tourist

attractions of the Midwest. He was a member of the Masons, Knights

Templar, Bentonville Presbyterian Church, Lambia Chi Alpha fra-

ternity and Pi Delta Phi, a law fraternity, He was survived by his

wife and children.

{ 816 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHESTER KAUFMAN LITMAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1007 W. 66th St., Kansas City 13, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Koch Refrigerators, Inc., 401 Funston Rd., Kansas City 5, Kans.

BORN: March 2, 1914, Boston, Mass. parents: Henry Marcus Litman, Florence
Lipsett.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1031-1935. DEGREE: AB., cttw latide, 1935.

MARRIED: Natalie Mayer, Feb. 5, 1937, Kansas City, Mo. cHmpren: Martha,
March 5, 1941; Barbara, June 27, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Bertram Meyer Litman, °38.

occuPATION: President, Koch Refrigerators, Inc., manufacturers of refrigerators,
ice makers, etc., for commercial food service industrv.

OFFICES HELD: Member of board, National Association of Food Equipment
Manufacturers; member, executive committee, Commercial Refrigerator
Manufacturers Association; membership chairman, Society for the Ad-
vancement of Food Service Research; member, Industry Advisory Com-
mittee, National Sanitation Foundation; contributing editor, American
Society of Refrigerating Engineers, ex vice-president, Kansas City Jewish
Federation and Council; member of board and executive committee,
regional vice-president, National Council of Jewish Federations and Wel-
fare Funds, member, regional board, National Jewish Welfare Board,
administrative committee, American Jewish Congress; ex-member execu-
tive committee, National Community Relations Advi isory Council,

MEMBER OF: American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Condition-
ing Engineers; American Society of ‘Professional Engineers; Society for
the Advancement of Food Service Research; Oakwood Golf and Country
Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles and papers on refrigeration and other aspects
of commercial food service in publications of American Society of Re-
frigerating Engineers and the Society for the Advancement of Food
Service Research; in trade publications, Institutions, Box Office, Volume
Feeding Management, Restaurants & Institutions (Canada), Restaurant
Equipment Dealer, etc.

MY life since 1935 has been exciting and intensely interesting — to

[ 817 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

me. Whether I can excite, or even mildly interest, anyone in the
telling of it is something else again.

In the fall of 1935 I accepted a position (at $12.50 per week, you
could hardly call it a job) in the manufacturing division of the com-
pany with which I am still associated. In 1937 I got married, and
in 1953 | became president of the company. I mention the marriage
appropriately at this point because the girl was the boss’s daughter.
I'll never be able to untangle the complex that comes of marrying
into a business. Would I have made it anyhow, even without the
“convenient” marriage? Or would I have made it sooner without
the “drawback”? Ill never know, but this I do know — when I
came out here from Boston, I brought my broad “a,” my diploma, my
dirty saddle shoes and a nagging New England conscience that has
constantly driven me to justify and re-justify every raise and every
promotion. By now, I believe I am accepted fully by my associates.

Sometimes | may have wondered whether the job was worth it
or not, but there never was any doubt about the marriage, which
is almost in its twenty-fourth year, and is still going strong. It has
produced two daughters and they, being a freshman at college and
a sophomore in high school respectively, are obviously also going
strong. I don't know whether the elder chose Stanford because of
her mother’s Wellesley degree, because of the assurance of trips
east to see grandparents and other family, or for some other rea-
sons, but she loves it there. And, from what we have seen of it,
Stanford deserves her affection. The younger daughter is begin-
ning that complicated computation in which various combinations

of direction, climate, “toughness,” boy-girl ratios, etc., will be com-
bined with her own estimates of personal aptitude and achievement
to tell her where she wants to go.

To continue — although my work has been largely administrative,
and is almost entirely so at this point, my business hobby is in the
engineering field. The science courses that I took at college, plus
subsequent engineering and development work, including several
patents, have qualified me for registration as a professional engineer
in both Missouri and Kansas. And this has led to a considerable
amount of writing and lecturing on various aspects of commercial
refrigeration and commercial food service. This has been interest-
ing, stimulating and fun.

My “extracurricular” activities are, I suppose, typical, Not
enough (according to me) golf and too much (also according to
me) community and philanthropy activity. I also have a basement

[ 818 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

workshop, mostly for woodworking, but somehow it didn’t work
out that way. I don’t make anything, but am always plentifully
supplied with repair projects, and in all fields. In fact, my reputa-
tion is such that in the instances of plumbing, electrical or other
household mechanical crises, our friends don’t hesitate to call me in,
if it’s after midnight and they can’t get anyone else.

For vacations, we have a cottage on Walloon Lake which is in
northern Michigan, about fifty miles from Mackinac. It’s a great
place for eating, sleeping, golfing and just puttering, We’re out
on the water quite a bit, what with canoeing, sailing, etc., and have
often thought of fishing. When we aren’t there, we like to drive,
and have taken trips that have taken us into over thirty states, in-
cluding all parts of the country except the far West and North-
west, We hope to include them while Martha is at Stanford.

Summary — I started lucky, have been running in good luck ever
since and am eternally grateful.

JULIUS LITTER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 69 Louise Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 54 Lincoln St., Framingham, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 25, 1914, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Jacob S. Litter, Helen Gold-
berger.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1935; MD. (Boston
Univ.), 1940.

MarRiED: Ruth Greenberg, July 4, 1958, New York, N.Y. cuipres: Alice
Leslie, July 29, 1951; Jane Susan, April 25, 1959.

HARVARD BROTHER: Sydney Litter, ’25; Lup. '28.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant professor of medicine, Boston University School ot
Medicine, since 1956.

[ 819 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

MEMBER OF: American Board of Internal Medicine; Subspecialty Board —
Cardiovascular Disease; American Medical Association; Massachusetts

Medical Society, American Heart Association, American Federation for
Clinical Research; Sigma Xi.

PUBLICATIONS: Papers on cardiovascular physiology and disease in medical
journals.

AFTER graduating from medical school, I had two years of post-
graduate training in Chicago and at the Boston City Hospital. From
i942 to 1946 T was a captain in the Army, commanding a medical
collecting company in the Eighth Infantry Division.

l completed my residency in medicine at the Boston City Hospital
in 1947, and then began a four-year stint in cardiovascular clinical
research at the Evans Memorial Hospital in Boston. During the
years 1951 CO 1959, I divided my time between practising internal
medicine and cardiology and teaching at Boston University School
of Medicine. Recently I opened an office in Framingham, Massa-
chusetts,

After waiting patiently unul all my envious friends were sure

that I was a confirmed bachelor, | was married on Independence
Day, 1958.

DAVID BRITTON LITTLE

 

HOME aporess: 9 Belknap Sc., Concord, Mass.
OFFICE appress: Museum of Fine Arts, Boston 15, Mass,

BoRN: Nov. 1, 1912, Milton, Mass. parents: Harry Britton Little, ’o4, Miriam
Barrett.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Concord, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: 8.B., cur laude, 1935.
MARRIED: Rosamond Fuller, June 18, 1938, Waltham, Mass. cHiLpREN: Timothy

Fuller, Feb. 27, 1940; Peter Britton, April 13, 1942; Benjamin Barrett, Oct.
31, 1947.

[ 820 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Secretary and registrar, Museum of Fine Arts, Boston.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Library Committee, Town of Concord, 1946-52.
trustee, Donations for Education in Liberia, since 1950, Corperation of
the Concord Free Public Library, since 1952, Fenn School, Concord,
1952-59; member, various town committees on war memorials, public
schools, fire and police stations, etc.

MEMBER OF: Club of Odd Volumes; Colonial Society of Massachusetts, Massa-
chusetts Historical Society; Appalachian Mountain Club.

TWENTY-FIVE years certainly rub off a person’s sharp edges and
broaden the goals to which he aspires. Asa senior in college I knew
exactly what | wanted and how I hoped to get it. Already I boasted
the title of “Assistant to All the Other Assistants” in the Asiatic De-
partment of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. Far Eastern Archae-
ology was my intended and announced vocation.

The China Incident, beginning at the Marco Polo bridge near
Peiping in July, 1937, cancelled my plans to attend the language
school in Peiping where I had expected to gain a thorough knowl-
edge of an essential tool of my trade. World War II took me out of
the Asiatic field altogether.

By some stroke of military genius I found myself assigned to net-
laying ships in the Navy and spent five years, from February, I94l,
through March, 1946, building antisubmarines and antitorpedo nets
at New England ports and fleet anchorages in the Caribbean and
Central Pacific. Three of these years were spent at sea, two in ship-
yards with new construction, From November, 1943, unt my re-
turn to civilian life, I had my own command. Netlavers are versa-
tile ships. We did many jobs in addition to our primary task. The
opportunities for learning were endless. I enjoyed my naval service
thoroughly.

By September of 1946, I realized that there was no future for me
in Far Eastern archaeology. Most of my limited knowledge of the
Chinese language had departed and a refresher course at Harvard
put very little of it back. I switched from the scholarly side of the
Museum of Fine Arts to the administrative and became registrar of
the Museum.

Dorothy Adlow, art critic of the Christian Science Monitor, out-
lined to me the function of a small art gallery so eloquently that I

began a series of exhibitions in the Gallery of the Concerd Free
Public Library in the fall of 1947 to test her theories. She was ab-
solutely right. Twelve or thirteen exhibitions a year in that gallery
ever since “have filled much of my spare time and have ple: ased the
artists, me and, I hope, some of the general public.

[ 821 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

The Naval Reserve has also had its share of my leisure hours,
First as a battalion commander and then as an instructor I earned
my pay in an organized surface unit. The joys of teaching, I dis-
covered, can outweigh the frustrations of having to produce stacks
of reports whose sole purpose is to befuddle visiting inspectors.

The Naval Reserve took all of my time again in 1951 when I was
involuntarily recalled to active duty. I spent eighteen months ashore
in New York and Boston, contributing less to the war effort, in my
opinion, than I had previously produced as an instructor one eve-
ning a week with a drilling unit. No one asked my opinion, however,
“Growl you may but go you must” is still the motto of the armed
SCVICeS.

In February, 1956, | was handed the duties of secretary of the Mu-
seu in addition to those of registrar during an administrative re-
organization which has eliminated much duplication of effort.

I have not seen as much of my children as [ would wish because
our interests and obligations have not often been the same. Timothy,
our eldest, has earned his keep every summer since he was twelve
years old as camp counselor, junior apprentice to senior grade. His
younger brothers have been campers. In between school and camp
we have enjoved walking a few mountain trails together, although
their freely-expressed doubts that 1 wall last till lunch-time are now
beginning to have a ring of truth about them, Rosamond and I spend
our all-too-short vacations in a kayak on Squam Lake, New Hamp-
shire. Our one venture in “togetherness” was a huge success. All
five of us spent the summer of 1959 exploring parts of France and
Fngland in a small car.

What have I learned in twenty-five years? I have learned that
human atfairs cannot be organized as precisely as a mathematical
equation, that plans which must depend for their success upon the
faultless operations of all their parts will usually fail, I was told all
this in school and college but had to learn it from experience.

If Far Eastern archaeology was the point of my aim, a job in the
Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, was my target. In the words of Pro-
fessor Paul J. Sachs, all of the unexpected events of the past twenty-

five years were grist to my mill. I am glad I had the chance to grind
them.

[ 822 ]

|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANK RYDER LITTLEFIELD

    

HOME ADDRESS: 245 Woodland Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE appreEss: Carrier Corp., Carrier Parkway, Syracuse, N.Y.

BORN: Nov. 10, 1912, Boston, Mass. parENTs: Frank Dimon Littlefield, ’o7,
Harriet Keene Ryder.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Kay MacGregor, Nov. 7, 1953, New York, N.Y.

occuPATION: Vice-president and director of manufacturing, Carrier Corpora-
tion (founder of air-conditioning industry).

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Business School Association;
Onondaga Country Club, Century Club, Prouts Neck Association; Society
of Mayflower Descendants; Sons of the American Revolution.

IT always seemed to me, back in college days, that members of a
Twenty-fifth Reunioning Class were pretty far down the trail. And
yet, as our class comes into focus for this wonderful event, it doesn’t
seem that we are much older than that day some twenty-five years
ago when the exposure to concentrated learning came to a halt and
we stepped out into the world of business. Yet now that the Class
Report Committee has said put ye on paper your life, your thoughts
to date, that request serves well to make us pause and consider the
course followed so far.

Let’s see, first there were those four energetic years as we busily
went about the duties of running production divisions for Procter
& Gamble— “good old Ivory” — out in Chicago, while living in
pleasant Winnetka. This was followed by a span of sixteen years
traveling about the country as a management consultant for McKin-
sey & Company, while maintaining a residence i in Boston. Of this
span of time, some five years were spent roaming the Pacific
with the U.S. Navy and it was always amazing how many Harvard
men there were no matter where you steamed.

[ 823 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Then came a happy marriage to Kay and the settling down to
a company practically within the shadow of the Stadium, while liv.
ing in nearby Chestnut Hill. And we were pretty much at peace
with the world when along came a challenge to join Carrier Cor-
poration up in the lake region of northern New York.

So here we are looking forward to our big Twenty-fifth Re-
union and how do we feel?

Well, I am sure that if it were to be run over again the same
course would be good enough to run again. There have been some
colorful scenes, some poignant memories and the blessings of many
friendships and good health.

] just think that perhaps during the next twenty-five we shall
appreciate more fully each day and its wonderfulness; and shall look
at business problems as interesting questions asking for a reason-
able solution rather than some devilish situation that had to be
licked. Of course, it may not always be apparent that the situation
is highly interesting and ‘fun, but we'll try to make it that way; and
with a good seasoning of outdoor recreation and travel thrown in
to keep the outlook well balanced.

LAWRENCE ORTHEL LOBDELL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 32 Elmwood St. Valley Stream, N.Y
orrice appress: Clear Stream Avenue School, Valley Stream, N.Y

Born: July g, 1913, Brooklyn, N.Y. parents: Harry Albert Lobdell, Lillian
Adele Orthel

PREPARED at: Central High School, Valley Stream, N.Y

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: S.B., 1935; A.M
1938

Marriep: Martha Karr, May 29, 1937, Malverne, N.Y. cumpren: Frederick
Karr, Nov. 9, 1940; Donald Roger, May 5, 1947

[ 824 ]

(New York Univ.)

1
i
f
‘

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Elementary School Principal and District Curriculum Coordina-
tor, Union Free School District Thirty, Valley Stream, N.Y.

OFFICES HELD: Numerous offices in professional organizations.

MEMBER OF: National Education Association; Department of Elementary
School Principals, Association for Supervision and Curriculum Develop-
ment, National Education Association; National Council of Teachers of
English, International Reading Association, National Society for the
Study of Education; numerous others on state and local levels.

puBLICATIONS: Nine articles in professional journals, The English Journal,
Elementary School Journal, The School Executive, The Nation’s Schools,
etc.

LOOKING backward, at a time of life when one should still be
looking forward, is an interesting pastime if not indulged in too
frequently or too steadily. It is a good thing to do if for no other
reason than the salutary effect the act has in cutting the ego down
to size: an accurate appraisal of the road from there to here shows
an inordinate amount of good fortune and, even more important,
a number of people who demonstrate considerable faith in me.

Graduation in mid-depression found me without either pros-
pects or fear — without the former because I hadn’t the slightest
idea of where to look for a job, and without the latter because I
had somehow managed, through part-time jobs (I still remember
vividly my first meal as a waiter in the Harvard Union!) to meet the
financial requirements of four Harvard years, and | knew that at
least I’d not starve.

Three weeks of tramping Manhattan’s streets, filling out applica-
tion forms and appearing for interviews, finally landed me a job
with the J. C. Penney Company, in the buying offices. I was to have
the opportunity of learning to become a buyer.

It wasn’t long before the suspicion which I had had during high
school and college days that I would like to teach began to grow
stronger. A contributing factor to this growth was that I could
not afford, on fifteen dollars a week, to dress like a junior executive
and have the clothes spoiled by the warehouse work assigned. I
did not mind the work, but objected to not being allowed to dress
appropriately for it. Accordingly, I matriculated in the School of
Education of New York University in February, 1936, to begin
the work of meeting New York State certification requirements
and obtaining the Master’s degree.

My teaching began in a private day school in the fall of 1936;
the assignment: French, grades two to seven. It soon began to grow,
however: assistant in French and English in the high school division

[ 825 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

of the school, acting head of the French Department and, finally,
head of the English Department.

Married in 1937, we received the first addition to the family a
year before Pearl Harbor Day. From Pearl Harbor Day until early
in 1944, when General Hershey’s lottery finally turned up my
number, was a period of uncertainty. Induction brought me into
the Navy, where I was transformed into a classification specialist
and spent my entire two navy years on dry land.

Upon separation | returned to my teaching position, but in a
little more than a year I had the house I was renting sold out from
under me (by a fellow faculty member, no less!) and, in the post-
war housing shortage, found myself a spot as head of the English
Department in a boarding school in the Hudson River valley. While
this solved the housing problem for us (our second son had arrived
by that time), I found almost immediately that the boarding school
situation had little appeal for me. I was therefore happy to accept
a position at the Reading Clinic of New York University when it
was offered to me; and | taught there for two years.

In terms of actual living, this was the most discouraging period
of my life, Inflation was rampant, and it became more and more
frustrating to try to maintain a family of four on teacher’s pay. I
felt trapped and, in my darkest moment, | placed an advertisement
in the New York Times and the Herald-Tribune one Sunday, indi-
cating that a Harvard graduate was fed up with trying to support
a family on teacher’s pay, and did anybody have anything to offer?
I received a number of offers, but by that time the reaction (personal)
had set in and I decided to stick with my profession, however un-
gratefully it was behaving to me financially.

This was probably one of the few good personal decisions I have
made in my career. It wasn’t too long afterward that I was offered
my present position, which I have now held for over ten years. Its
opportunities are limitless, as it is a kind of dual position, combining
an elementary school principalship with the overall supervision of
curriculum evaluation and development for the entire school dis-
trict, an ongoing and fascinating task, especially so in this period
when everybody in and out of the profession has become an expert
on it.

It is my hope to be able to continue in this position a while longer
and then to have the opportunity to teach teachers in some teachers’
college or other — teachers, that is, in the embryo or undergraduate
stage. Here, | think (after ten years of absorbing countless new

[ 826 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

teachers in the school system) is the place where the most can be
done for the children whom these young people will eventually
teach. I have no plans as yet for this eventual switch, but it is a
hope and an intention which grows stronger with each passing year.

Just one more item: I discovered, some years ago, that one way
to see this indescribably wonderful country is by camping in it, and
so our vacations have become family camping expeditions. The
two most memorable of these were a coast-to-coast camping trip
in the summer of 1956 and a similar one out to the Sierras, up into
the Canadian Rockies, and back home across Canada, in 1958. These
two trips, I hope, are only the beginning, an introduction to many
more.

As for Harvard, what can one say? How can one repay the debt?
I don’t know; I know only that for my four years at Harvard I
shall be deeply, humbly grateful all the days of my life.

THOMAS FERGUSON LOCKE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 370 Woodland Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 60 Federal St., Boston 10, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 10, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Edwin Allen Locke, Mp. ‘ot,
Elizabeth Gilmor Ferguson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Frances Cross Howell, Mav 6, 1938 (divorced); Mary Lex Millar,
Noy. 18, 1957. CHILDREN: Susan Hutchins, Dec. 21, 1939; Frances Howell,
July 18, 1941; Thomas Ferguson, Jr., Dec. 1, 1942; James Dubose, Feb. 17,
1945; John Swaim, May 21, 1947; Robert G., June 5, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edwin Allen Locke, Jr., 732.

OCCUPATION: Insurance broker.

HOW much simpler it would be, and so much more fun, to do the

[ 827 ]

TT a a TT Tea NNT SREH a. So 15 amma taaane on RNR.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

sketch of a classmate than to make a confession to same! I have spent
most of these twenty-five years in suburbia, commuted to work
and minded my own business weekends. This has not been, how-
ever, as dull as it sounds. All the interests, problems and fun of a
large growing family have been mine. My first marriage was in
1938 and I have six children now pretty well grown, for whom ]
have some hopes for success.

After graduating, I was a messenger boy for the New England
Mutual Life Insurance Company, then with an agency selling in-
surance. The war found me in Washington, D.C., as assistant to
the vice-president of the Addressograph-Multigraph Corporation,
working on their priority problems and living in Washington. Then,
into the service in the Navy (Supply Corps), from which I was
retired (medically) in 1945. After the war a brief antique business
—and now back to insurance on Federal Street, Boston. At the
present I am happily married and living at 370 Woodlawn Road,
Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts. Occasionally, with pleasure, I do see
classmates — and I’m looking forward to this Reunion.

HAROLD GORDON LOEB

 

HOME appress: Coldwater Canyon, North Hollywood, Cal.

OFFICE ADpRESS; Viviane Woodard Corp., 14621 Titus St., Panorama City, Cal.

BorN: Aug. 14, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Maurice Gordon Loeb, Anna
Glickling.

TRANSFERRED FROM: College of William and Mary, Williamsburg, Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREES: S.B., 1935; PH.D. (Univ. of Minnesota),
1940.

marrieD: Ruth Kornblum, Aug. 1, 1948, Los Angeles, Cal. (divorced 1957).
cuiLprEN: Mery! Ann, Jan. 29, 1951; Bruce Allan, Dee. 17, 1952.
HARVARD BROTHER: Benjamin Loeb, Bus. Sch, 1924-25,

[ 828 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupaTion: Director of research and development, Viviane Woodard Corp.,
manufacturer and distributor of food supplements and cosmetics.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Association for the
Advancement of Science (fellow); American Association for Cancer Re-
search; Institute of Food Technologists; California Division, Sigma Xi.

PUBLICATIONS: “Sex differences in the lipid composition of rats” (with G. O.
Burr), J. of Nutrition, 1947; “Influence of glutamic acid on mental func-
tion” (with R. D. Tuddenham), Pediatrics, 1950; “Nucleic acid analvsis
with the Ogur-Rosen procedure” (with E. Dickinson), Archives of Bio-
chem. and Biophys. 1955; “Nucleic acid analysis of human bone marrow
particles in malignancy” (with W. D. Wright and B. E. Hall), Cancer
Research, 1956, “Myeloperoxidase in bone marrow extracts” (with R.
Doniger), Brit. J. of Cancer, 1958, “Myeloperoxidase in rat chloromas,”
Brit. J. of Cancer, in press.

I HAVE just recently entered into commercial life after nearly
twenty-five years in the academic swirl. My reflections on events
since Harvard probably reveal a polarity associated with the aca-
demic experience. Lest this suggest a career of scholarly isolation
I should hasten to add that much of this time has been spent in and
around hospitals, dealing with patients and doctors of all intellectual
and chronological ages. A three-year Army interlude, as part of
hospital personnel, I consider as primarily a military experience.
A post-bellum marriage yielded over a nine-year period two fine
children, many tests of character, a divorce, and a deeper insight
into the non-rational forces which shape lives. Thus, any polarity
which evolved has not escaped the impact of the social and cultural
forces of the second quarter of this century.

Armed with an S.B. in chemistry in 1935 I left Boston, where I
was born and reared, and spent the next eight rewarding years as
a mid-westerner, mostly at the University of Minnesota. There I
acquired ‘some knowledge about our knowledge of the living cell;
a three-year experience working with mental patients and those who
care for them; a doctorate in physiological chemistry and two post-
doctoral years for further study (one generously provided by the
Rockefeller Foundation); a cherished group of life-long friends; a
love of fishing; and a year-long opportunity to assist in the develop-
ment and testing of Army K-rations. More practical tests were not
far in the future!

I believe that military experience in war time stands alone in
providing a cross-sectional view of reality, a view that is often
traumatic but, nevertheless, enriching too. Joking with infantrymen
on the ship bound for France, and greeting them in the hospital

[ 829]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

weeks later as war casualties of the Bastogne engagement, was some-
thing not to be forgotten. Nor will I forget the day our Pacific.
bound ship rolled in a calm sea. Thanks to a two-day delay in de-
parting from Marseille, due to trouble with the ship’s engines, the
machinery of peace caught up with us after the V-] Day announce-
ment, directing our troopship to proceed to Newport News instead
of Iwo Jima. Then there was one more impatient year in the service
before mustering out to tackle peace-time pursuits.

Back to the laboratory with the Permanente Foundation, where
intense application, over a two-year period, brought me abreast of
developments in the rapidly moving fields of biochemistry and nutri-
tion, Then came marriage and another year with the Foundation
before joining the staff of the Stanford University School of Medi-
cine in 1949. As a research associate and head of the biochemistry
research laboratories in the pediatrics and tumor chemotherapy de-
partments over a ten-year period I was able to devote a substantial
part of my time to research, turning out about a dozen publications
dealing with the metabolism of nerve tissues, skin, bone marrow,
and malignant tumors. During this period much energy was di-
verted to the demands of domestic life.

The disruption of family life in 1957, and its attendant cares, led
to a period of introspection and consolidation, and great efforts to
have the readjustment fall lightly on two loved little ones. Fortu-
nately, these efforts were not unsuccessful, and Meryl and Bruce
are bright and happy children doing well in school and play.

My present position as director of research and development for
the Viviane Woodard Corporation, a growing and progressive
organization which manufactures food supplements and cosmetics,
offers new responsibilities, challenges, and opportunities which I am
meeting with zest and enthusiasm. The full impact of this phase
must await future summation which will include, I hope, a brief
note about some earnest efforts on behalf of one or two worthy
organizations.

Through the years Harvard with all she stands for has been a
living and influential presence for me. Her national, supra-national,
and supra-political status, so courageously earned with faith in
Veritas, and so amply demonstrated since our graduation, has been

a source of honest pride — yes, and a source of faith and hope in
the ultimate powers which shape destinies and fashion worlds.

Finally, one parting observation. The realization increases that
deep satisfaction comes from the solution of problems, be they per-

[ 830 }

_ ee '"vVWl ae

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sonal, academic, or professional, for in the solution lies something
uniquely egoistic and, hopefully, meaningful.

RICHARD J. LONG
F won NE

   

HOME apprEss: Carlisle, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Faculty, U.S. Army War College, Carlisle Barracks, Pa.

BORN: July 18, 1913, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: John Gerald Long, Agnes Rice
Godding.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1931-1933. DEGREE: s.B. (U.S. Military Academy), 1938.

marrieD: Alice Claire Burke, April 15, 1939, Boston, Mass. cuitpren: Richard
J., Jr.. March 12, 19q0,; Andrea Frances, Aug. 30, 1943; Felicity Edward,
Dec. 9, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Gerald Long, Jr., 731.

occupaTIOoN: Colonel, U.S. Army.

OFFICES HELD: Second lieutenant to colonel, U.S. Army; commanded from a
battery to a group of field artillery on various posts. World War Il—
in 17th Airborne Division (ETO) —G-1 Division of SHAEF, USFET
and ENCOM, 1945-47; director, Turkish Artillery School, Polath, Turkey.
1951-52; SHAPE, Paris, France, 1955-58.

IT is with a mixture of humility and pride that I attempt to write
these notes: humility in that I lack a degree from Harvard and
pride in my continued acceptance as a member of the Class of 1935.
Though I switched to the U.S. Military Academy, from which I
graduated in 1938, I find that the passing years have failed to dim
memories of Harvard, where I concentrated on French, German
and Spanish. I have forgotten much, but I find great truth in this
line from a quotation given me by Mr. Frank Pace: “. . . nor need
you regret the hours you spent on much that is forgotten, for the
shadow of lost knowledge at least protects you from many illu-
sions.”

[ 831 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

My life has been one constant move, with varied staff and com.
mand assignments here and overseas. A recital of the list of posts
and duties would only bore the reader. What do I remember of
these years? My wartime service in the Airborne Division culmi-
nating in Christmas, 1944, at Bastogne and in March, 1945, in the
drop across the Rhine behind the German lines. My service on
General Eisenhower's staff in Paris and Frankfurt. My tour in
Turkey as U.S. Director of their artillery school. My recent tour
in Paris as a member of the SHAPE staff. And what has all this
done to my children? In some respects the continuity of their
formal education suffers. In other respects they are wealthy. My
daughter Andrea spoke German as her first language. My daughter
Felicity spoke Turkish as hers—-and then French until the fourth
grade. My son, now at Oklahoma University, knows Europe far
better than his birthplace, Boston. So, much has been gained, al-
though our ties with Boston have become tenuous. An occasional
visit to our parents and a brief stay at Rockport are about all that
we can hope for.

I now instruct at the Army War College in the courses on national
strategy and international relations. Which brings me to my con-
cluding remarks. You ask for my thoughts on the world of today.
Dealing as I do with classified material I am not as free to speak as
most of you. I think I can say with impunity that I am concerned
at our lack of a sense of national purpose. We as a nation seem to
be content with the status quo and have none of the driving aspira-
tions of our ancestors. Many fail to realize that the “cold war” is
indeed a war, concentrated perhaps in the economic and idealogical
fields. Education of the American people seems to be the answer
and Harvard can do much to assist. In fact, [ note that Professor
Schlesinger recently expressed my thoughts far better than I.

Lest | end on a sombre note, may I say that remembering the
drubbings by West Point during my cadet days I now delight in

the current upsurge of fortune and the wizardry of one Ravenal.

[ 832 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALFRED LEE LOOMIS, JR.

     

ee

J |

3
sie, Sell
HOME AppRESS: Cove Neck Road, Oyster Bay, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: St. Vincents Island Co., Suite 1200, 20 Broad St., New York 5,
N.Y.

BORN: April 15, 1913, Tuxedo Park, N.Y. parents: Alfred Lee Loomis, is.
*12, Ellen Holman Farnsworth,

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: S.B. 19353 LL.B, 1939.

MARRIED: Virginia Nancy Davis, Oct. 27, 1940, Cincinnati, Ohio, cHtLpREs:
Nancy, March 19, 1931 (7. Michael M. Mooney, Sept. 4, 1950); Virginia
Sabra, Dec. 5, 1936 (both adopted stepdaughters),; Alfred Lee. 3d, Dec.
22, 1941; Candace Stimson, Sept. 26, 1946. GRANDCHILDREN: Michael M.
Mooney, Jr, Aug. 18, 1952; Laird Angus Mooney, July 21, 1955; Chnsto-
pher Barnes Mooney, Jan. 30, 1959.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Farnsworth Loomis, ’36, M.p., ’41; Henry Looms,
3

 

4i. |
occupation: Partner, St. Vincents Island Company, independent oil and gas
producer.

OFFICES HELD: Village clerk, 1947-49, mayor, since 1949, Incorporated Village
of Cove Neck; director, Harrington, Righter & Parsons, Inc. since rays,
Kings County Lighting Company, 1949-57, Richvein Coal Company and
subsidiaries, since 1951, The Bank of Athens, Athens, Ohio, since 1os:,
New York & Richmond Gas Company, 1935-57, Community Research &
Development, Inc., and various subsidiaries, since 1937, Warren, Webster
& Company, Inc., since 1959; trustee, East Woods School, 19y--55,; member,
Visiting Committee, Harvard Medical School, 1gso-ss,. Department of
Astronomy, Harvard College, since 1953; president and director, Looms
Foundation, since 1957; vice-president and trustee, James Craig Joyner
Foundation, Inc., since 1957.

MEMBER OF: Navy League; New York Yacht Club; Seawanhaka Connthun
Yacht Club; Cold Spring Harbor Beach Club; Mill Reef Club, Piping Rock
Club; Down Town Association; Cove Neck Tennis Club (presdent?,
Dallas Petroleum Club; Metropolitan Club, Washington, D.C; Beaver Dam
Winter Sports Club.

[ 833]

5c TT ETRE ec NS A

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

LOOKING back over twenty-five years, my first reaction is how
lucky I have been: To be an American — and a Twentieth Centur
American at that — to be married to the finest person I have ever
known (the sister of our classmate, Tommy Davis), to be blessed
with robust good health and energy, and to come from a family
which was able to give me, among other things, an education which
included Harvard and Harvard Law School. My next reaction is
the enormous changes that have come over the world since we went
to Harvard. The ‘thirty-year period from our freshman year to
now seems to me roughly divisible by two. During the first half,
we had tremendous turmoil — the depression, the new deal, the
rise of totalitarianism abroad, and finally the second World War.
Since 1946 the basic framework has changed much less. The cold
war has waxed and waned, and the economic picture has continued
to improve, but during this whole second period it has been possi-
ble to plan with some assurance where you were going. Possibly this
is the oft-referred-to “mellowing process” and maybe the last fifteen
years have seemed as uncertain to younger people as those first
fifteen years did to me, but J doubt it. I might add that I am awfully
glad that these periods came in the order that they did, as it is
easier to take rapid oscillations when you are younger.

Now to retrogress and report briefly what these twenty-five
years have done for me. After college came law school with a year
out in the middle which was spent largely in Russia, Germany,
Italy, and Australia trying to make up my own mind about fascism,
communism, and socialism. On graduation, I went to work in
Henry L. Stimson’s law firm, concentrating in corporate finance.
Within eighteen mons war clouds appeared imminent, and in
the spring of 1941 I joined the Navy and was fortunate enough to
become the personal assistant of Admiral John H. Towers, the
Number 1 naval aviator of America. He was at that time chief of
the Bureau of Aeronautics and later became Commander Air Force
Pacific, and eventually Deputy Cincpac. For four years I served
in the aviation establishment, in staff jobs, with Admiral Towers and
his chief of staff, Admiral Forrest Sherman. This was one of the
biggest and most rewarding experiences of my entire life. Both
men were really top-grade people and working for them taught me
the fundamental fact that in order to feel fulfilled, you must decide
what is right, and then do it to your utmost ability, even though it
may not always be either expedient or popular!

After the war I became associated with Smith, Barney & Company,

[ 834 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

investment bankers, and in 1949 I started my own company to
form syndicates for the exploration for oil and gas. One thing has
since led to another, and now I have an interesting, busy, and di-
versified business life. My avocations meanwhile have been family,
sailing, and hunting. With marriage, I acquired and adopted two
young stepdaughters, and we have since had a boy and a girl. Hence,
I have had the fascinating job of keeping up with (as of now) a
married daughter and son-in-law and three grandsons, a senior at
Radcliffe, a son who will enter Harvard next fall, and a teen-age
daughter. Usually with my wife and several kids, I have sailed
hard most summers — small boat racing, Bermuda racing, the 1948
Olympics, and much cruising. Looking ahead, I hope for many
years of new endeavors, interspersed with increasingly long vaca-
tions, and I only hope that God (and the Communists) will allow
our generation to live out our lives in peace.

RODERICK MARIANO LORENTE

 

HOME apprEss: 7 Atherton Circle, Lynnfield Center, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Sylvania Electric Products, Inc. 60 Boston St. Salem, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 13, 1913, Lynn, Mass. parents: Mariano Lorente, Helen I. Mac-
Millan.

PREPARED AT: Swampscott High School, Swampscott, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933. DEGREE: B.B.A. (Boston Univ.), 1954.
MARRIED: Cassie Petrykowski, May 13, 1943, Tampa, Fla. cHitpres: Malcolm

Richard, June 17, 1944; Constance Diane, Oct, 8, 1946; Roderick Dana,
March 9, 1949.

occupPATION: Sales coordinator, Sylvania Electric Products, Inc.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Accountants; Lynnfield Lodge AF. &
A.M.

[ 835 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

WILLIAM CUSHING LORING, JR.

 

HOME apprEss: 72 Brook St., Wellesley 81, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Prudential Insurance Co. of America, Newark, N.J.

BORN: Sept. 7, 1913, Providence, R.I. parents: William Cushing Loring, Gladys
Annette Stone, :

PREPARED aT: Newton Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., Cv7 laude, 19353 A.M. 19493 PH.D,
1952.

Marriep: Jean M. Blair, Sept. 5, 1942, Weston, Mass. cHitprEN: William
Cushing, 3d, April 16, 1944; Jean Annette, Aug. 21, 1947; Robert Blair,
March 17, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Stanton Dunster Loring, 41.

occuPATION: Sociologist; consumer marketing research and planning, General
Planning and Research Department, Prudential Insurance Company of
America, Newark, N.].

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Wellesley Housing Authority, 1948-
51; trustee, Commonwealth Housing Foundation, since 1952; member,
board of governors, National Association of Housing and Redevelopment
Officials, 1954-57; vice-president and trustee, Warren Benevolent Fund,
Inc., since 1955; president, National Council of Unitarian Laymen’s
League, 1955-57; member of corporation, Rivers-Country Day School,
since 1956; member, Working Group of Sociological Surveys, International
Council for Building Research Studies and Documentation, Paris, 1956-
59; Town Meeting Member, Wellesley, since 1957.

MEMBER oF: American Marketing Association; Society for Applied Anthro-
pology; American Political Science Association; American Sociological
Association (fellow),

PusLications: Community Organization for Citizen Participation in Urban
Renewal, Loring, Sweetser & Ernst, Cambridge Press, Cambridge, Mass.,
1957; articles in professional journals, including, “Arthur Bird — Ameri-
can,” The Musical Quarterly, January, 1943; “Housing Characteristics and
Social Disorganization,” Social Problems, January, 1956, “Design from
Privacy to Sociability,” Architectural Forum, forthcoming 1960.

FOR many years after graduation I continued to be bemused by

[ 836 |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the ideals which apparently were the birthright of some who then
issued forth from Harvard’s broadening yet insulating liberal edu-
cation. We did not acquire in political science four years’ worth of
operational know-how, as did our classmates in the physical sciences.
In place of such applied orientation for our learning, we luxuriated
in four delightful years of unhypothetical descriptive materials,
more historical than systematic focused on what-ought-to-be
rather than on what-is and how-comes-it-so. “Gov.” was a “science”
only in the old scholar’s sense. It drew on none of the other social
sciences — which, however, as I then sampled them were also,
compared to today’s standards, theoretically and operationally strut-
ting irresponsibly in the misty glow of the same liberal moonshine.

I went forth indoctrinated to do good, and in much too oppor-
tunistic a way. After a trip through northern Europe studying con-
sumer cooperatives, I came back to be a specialist on organizing and fi-
nancing farmers’ co-ops for the Resettlement Administration in north-
ern New England. Sensing that a liberal education might not have well
qualified me to the title Specialist in a business field, I signed up for
a term at the Harvard Business School. Then I transferred the
credits across the river toward a graduate degree in sociology, which
I was told was a more disciplined social science. From it, I reasoned,
surely a fellow bent on doing good could gain the skills to learn
how groups behave and find clues as to how to stimulate them to
behave better — particularly in respect to such tragic blunderings
as the failures to develop social controls for expanding human re-
lations so that war could become as unlikely as it is unlikeable.
Somewhere along the line I did occasionally feel a twinge that I
had not really struck out into the one standard career for which
the undergrad years had afforded me some training, but the Foreign
Service and I never got together. After Navy days — happily spent
starting a family in Coronado, California, while serving as district
housing officer and aide to the commandant of the Eleventh Naval
District —I felt duty bound to finish the Ph.D. I had started and
equally bound to earn a living. So, I compromised again with
opportunism, and took a do-gooding post as executive director of
a civic association dedicated to researching and promoting ways of
improving the physical environment of urban life.

In that capacity I researched, wrote or co-authored, and lobbied
a number of firsts in that field. In 1947 it was a hearing-testing pro-
cedure before a state board to overcome the restriction on the
market of outmoded building codes. In 1949, the first state model

[ 837 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

minimum standards of fitness for human habitation. In 1952, the
first administrative guide for health officials concerning housing
code enforcement. In 1953, with Republican State Committee en-
dorsement, the first state-aided program providing specially de-
signed housing for the elderly — over $45,000,000 of such dwellings
have now been built in Massachusetts thanks to Democratic adminis-
trations which proved more energetic than the bureaucrats of the
party which passed the legislation. In 1954, the first standards of
design for housing of the elderly to be published with the physio-
logical and sociological reasons for the provisions. In 1955-56, an
urban renewal demonstration of the use of community organiza-
tion techniques to bring out constructive citizen participation at
neighborhood and city-wide levels in major municipal programs.
From these experiences I am convinced (if I were a politician-states-
man I would say alarmed) that our urban democracy has a very weak
and fumbling base in two particulars: 1) local governments whose
jurisdictions and areas are dysfunctional in terms of the sociological
realities of modern metropolitan life; and 2) a citizenry which, with
the growth of cities and the disruption of linkage through ward
boss to local leaders, has for the most part lost means for effective
communication and forgotten the fun and arts of participation. In
Reunion bull sessions I shall be glad to expound at length on how
I think we can go about correcting these twin liabilities in our po-
litical system.

My wife, like the partners of all other doctoral candidates I have
ever known, will never forget how long and how well I used the
ostensible research demands of a drawn-out thesis grind to escape
helping with the housework and three little children, But at last
in December, 1951, the ordeal was over. The end product —a con-
trolled pilot research using an ex post facto “experimental” design
to gain definitive clues to hypotheses about the relation, if any, of
characteristics of physical environment to social disorganization —
found significant relation only in respect to density factors.

In 1958, having finished my research commitments in the hous-
ing and neighborhood fields, I tried to move out into financially more
rewarding work, marketing research, which is a new frontier for
the applied sociologist. It is a disillusioning lesson to try to change
your occupational tag in the forty-fifty age bracket, so as to place
yourself where your skills and interests will be of more service and
perhaps of more dollar value. I have spent almost two years search-
ing — interspersed with visiting lectureships at Harvard (city plan-

[ 838 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ning) and Clark University (sociology) and attempts to make a
go of independent consulting and promotional work. February 1,
1960, I shall join a behavorial science research staff being put to-
gether in Newark by Prudential —just the kind of opportunity
I have been hoping for.

In going through such a rough career intermission, the philo-
sophic insights and historical perspective of a liberal education,
though incredible for the family, may have sustained me. What
helped more was the badgering and reorientation provided by a
wife steeped in the realistic aand operational education of the
physical and biological sciences. Jean has not only brought forth
and raised our three vigorous youngsters, but she has conquered the
courses for a Harvard Master’s degree and re-educated me for
effective living. Through this experience I have become interested
as a trustee of the Warren Benevolent Fund in providing solid en-
couragement to Harvard’s School of Education research in career
guidance. May it not be in vain!

ROBERT WOODBERRY LOVETT

  

HOME Apbpress: 67 Mineral St., Reading, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Baker Library, Harvard Business School, Soldiers Field, Boston
63, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 18, 1913, Beverly, Mass. PARENTS: Merton Rooks Lovett, Margaret
P. Woodberry.

PREPARED AT: Beverly High School, Beverly, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; A.M. 19363 S.B.
(Columbia Univ.), 1947.

MARRIED: Dorothy Tolman Merrow, Sept. 7, 1946, Dorchester, Mass.

occupation: Archivist and librarian; head, Manuscript Division and Archives,
Baker Library, Harvard Business School.

[ 839 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 193 5

OFFICES HELD: Librarian, Appalachian Mountain Club, since 19513; president
Boston Chapter, Special Libraries Association, 1954-55, Reading Ant.

quarian Society, since 1956; treasurer, National Convention, Special Libraries
Association, Boston, 1957.

MEMBER OF; Society of American Archivists (fellow); Beverly Historical
Society; Dorchester Historical Society; Essex Institute.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles in library and historical journals; List of
Business Manuscripts in Baker Library, second edition, 1951 (Compiler);
“From Social Library to Public Library . . . Beverly, Mass.,” Essex Insti-
tute Historical Collections, July, 1952; “The Beverly Cotton Manufactory,”
Bulletin of the Business Historical Society, December, 1952; “Care and

. Handling of Non-Governmental Archives,” Library Trends, January,
1957; Bibliography of Writings about the Harvard Business School, 1908-
1958, Baker Library, 1958.

BACK in 1935—-remember, we were just getting out of the De-
pression then —I still did not know what I wanted to do, except
that I did not want to enter business. So I went back to the Uni-
versity, taking a Master’s degree in English history, under the direc-
tion of Wilbur Cortez Abbott. Still uncertain about the future, I
entered the library profession by the back door, with the offer in
1937 of a part-time job in the University Archives from Clarence
E. Walton, then assistant librarian for Acquisitions. Mr. Walton
used to say that anyone who, on seeing a set of volumes out of
order, could not be content until they were set right, would make
an archivist, and I think at times that my sense of order has been
over-developed. The University Archives, which had received a
boost from the Tercentenary celebration, was then in the southeast
corner of the ground floor of Widener, presided over by Mrs. Da-
kin, a pleasant elderly lady. My part-time work shortly became
full-time, and the Archives was moved to the top floor of Widener,
under the direction of Clifford Shipton, the editor of Sibley’s Har-
vard Graduates, where it still remains.

I welcomed the opportunity to become acquainted with the Uni-
versity’s history and to meet such fine Harvard employees as Alice
Belcher, David McCord and many others. Catherine Drinker
Bowen, one of our users, remembered me many years later in The
Atlantic as “bright — wears glasses”! In the summer of 1940 I be-
gan work for the library degree at Columbia, along with three other
members of the Class of 1935, Cantelmo, Kilgour and Nordbeck.
I put in two summers before the war and two after, obtaining an
S.B. degree with honors in i947. The degree is a kind of union card

of the profession, but my interests are still largely in the field of
manuscripts and archives.

[ 840 ]

ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The war was an interruption in every way. I made an unsuccess-
ful attempt at Officers’ Training School and ended up as a clerk in
a medical battalion. We were in North Africa, Sicily and Italy,
but always some distance from the front. I took what opportuni-
ties 1 could to see the areas we were in, wrote travelogues to m
friends and even composed some verse. Some time I would like to
go back, at least to a few of the places. I fear that my army friends
are now mostly names on a Christmas card list.

I returned to the Harvard Archives and was given a special as-
signment of putting to bed the University’s war records. In the
summer of 1948 I took a course in archival work at the American
University, ‘conducted by Ernst Posner, the dean of American
archivists. Although five hundred miles from Cambridge, it was
there that I learned of an opening in the Harvard Business School,
to look after the Manuscript Division and Archives. So I moved
across the Charles, where, with part-time responsibility for the .
Medical School Archives as well, I have become something of a
roving archivist within the University. It is rather ironical that,
not wanting to enter business, ] now am responsible for collecting,
preserving and making available business records. The Libra
collections range in date from account books of the Medici to fairly
recent records of the Whitin Machine Works, and in size from a
single volume of some early storekeeper or farmer to a thousand
volumes of a textile company or shipping firm. And although, be-
cause of lack of space, we are not collecting as actively as before,
there is still much to be done in making more available what we
have.

I have enjoyed my contacts both with prospective donors of ma-
terial and with hopeful users. The modern field of archives is a chal-
lenging one, and I have done some research and writing on how we
can insure that at least a segment — and what segment? — of modern
business records will be preserved. Partly in recognition of this, I
was made a fellow of the Society of American Archivists in 1958,
the year this type of membership was first established. Mly work
has brought me two~special jobs away from Cambridge; one, a
month in South Carolina, cataloging a private collection (with which
my wife helped me); the other, two weeks with Dun & Bradstreet

in New York, organizing a collection of old account books which
they had acquired. My }j job has also allowed me some freedom for
research and writing in the fields of local history (especially Bev-
erly) and library history. This activity has resulted in talks before

[ 841 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

several historical groups and articles in a number of library and
historical journals. I am glad to have thus made the acquaintance
of Robert Rantoul, Beverly druggist just after the Revolution,
George Frost, merchant of Durham, New Hampshire, William Pen-
noyer, who established an early scholarship at Harvard, and others,

In September, 1946, I married Dorothy Tolman Merrow, a fel-
low librarian, graduate of Radcliffe, and native of Dorchester. But
I had to go to Columbia Library School to meet her. We share
mutual interests in gardening, books, travel (when we can) —in
addition, she introduced me to the Appalachian Mountain Club and
to square dancing. For four years we lived in a basement apart-
ment in Brighton, whence I walked or bicycled (on occasion) to
work. In 1950-——a banner year——-we acquired our first car (a
second-hand Ford) and an older house in Reading. We chose the
town because it is midway between Cambridge and Beverly (my
old home), and the house because it looked comfortable and boasted
two fine old pine trees. In fact, the yard work gives me plenty of
exercise, from April to November. My wife gave up her job as
librarian of the Kirstein Business Branch of the Boston Public Li-
brary in 1953, and now finds her time fully occupied at home. Her
parents make their home with us, and my mother still lives in Bev-
erly.

Our outside activities are largely professional in nature; we some-
times think too much so. I have served as librarian of the Dor-
chester Historical Society and am librarian of the Appalachian Moun-
tain Club. Community service as president of the Reading Anti-
quarian Society involves responsibility for the Parker Tavern, the
society’s historic house. Even our vacation trips have often coin-
cided with professional conventions; we have traveled as far west as
Minneapolis and as far south as Charleston. Somehow we don’t get
out much for entertainment alone — we go to a movie about once in
two years— but after a day’s work, dinner, an evening in town
and the trip home do not seem so attractive. Of course we have
made friends in Reading, among them a group which meets to listen
to recordings. Sometimes even organization meetings can be fun,
as when I showed some of my (anonymous) friends’ worst slides
at a library amateur travelogue night, or brought greetings to a
group in verse, after Frank Sullivan,

I am afraid that some of my early enthusiasms have worn off, and
their place has not been wholly taken by an increased interest in the
past. That interest has not extended to wholehearted acceptance of

[ 842 ]

ee  ——

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

patriotic organizations, but I am even getting more tolerant of them.
In politics, I like to think that I am an Independent, which may mean
that 1 am a Democrat in national politics and a Republican in state.
My wife’s Unitarianism is perhaps closer to my beliefs than the Con-
gregationalism to which I still belong. But one of my traits is that
I hate to give up things. Another is that I like to do things myself
rather than ask others to do them. Each person likes to think of
himself as different; but we are conditioned by our backgrounds,
and I am at heart a not-so-modern version of the conservative New
England Yankee.

Work for the University — any university — will never make one
rich. But I have enjoyed my friendships with those I have worked
for and with, and the sense of being part of a significant activity.
It is a privilege to work under the guidance of such men as Keyes
Metcalf and Arthur Cole. I still derive pleasure from such annual
University events as the Christmas Concert and Commencement.
For all the Business School is the most plush of the Harvard schools
—it has a more roomy and typical campus, for one thing — it is
a friendly and challenging place. I do not regret having stayed in
New England and with the University. And, with an excellent
helpmate, I look forward with some confidence and interest to
what the next twenty-five years will bring.

RICHARD MARION LOW

 

HOME aApDpRESS: Box 1042, Anna Maria, Fla.

BORN: Sept. 17, 1912, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Harold William Low, Marion
Clapp.

PREPARED AT: Dean Academy, Franklin, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935.

[ 843 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

mareigp: Ellen Mary Morse, Apml 22, 1942, Lawrencetown, Nova Scotia.
cHitpreN: Richard Morse, Feb. 9, 1947; Harold William, Jan. 29, 1949;
Julie Ellen, March 1, 1951; Lisa Elaine, May 20, 1952; Pamela Anne, Aug.
11, 1953; Robert Stephen, Aug. 25, 1954.

occupation: Building contractor, Richard M. Low Company.

SOMEONE, sometime, somewhere said life would be dull with-
out children. We took him at his word and life hasn’t been dull.
Six of the little angels from five to twelve years old at this time and
you wonder why I haven't sent in my Class Report. Each meal
takes on the aspect of a Sunday School picnic.

Twenty-five years in the building business including four years
as a captain in the Army Engineers in the European area. In 1957,
moved to the beautiful island of Anna Maria, Florida, with its
magnificent beaches on the Gulf of Mexico,

Highlights of the last few years include a skiing trip to Switzer-
land and adjoining countries with my wife and a Dartmouth Indian

and his squaw and being in Havana, Cuba, at the time of Fidel
Castro’s revolution.

A Republican in a Democratic area. An anti-segregationist in
the deep South.

JOHN JEWETT LOWREY

   

HOME ADDRESS: 2299 B Round Top Drive, Honolulu 14, Hawaii.
OFFICE ADoREss; Straub Clini 1000 Ward Ave., Honolulu, Hawaii.

BORN: July 2, 1913, Honoluls, Hawaii. parents: Frederick Dwight Lowrey,
‘o8, Leila Parsons.

PrepaRrD aT: Punahou School, Honolulu, Hawaii,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGRERS: A.B., cura laude, 1935; M.D.. 1940.
Masgiep: Katherine Scully, Dec. 14, 1945, Lancaster, Pa, (died May 30, 19513

Catherine Wishard, July 10, 1953, Honolulu, Hawaii, catpraen: John
Jewett, Jr., Aug. 2, 1944, Michael Wishard, Aug. 10, 1954.

[ B44 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY WE bE

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederick Parsons Lowrey, “ve

occupaTiION: Neurological surgeon.

MEMBER OF: American Afcdical Awocistion, Plarvew Canbirg Waowrk €or > oe

of Neurological Surgeons, Pan Pacitic Surge al Awan rece Paes tk

PUBLICATIONS: Various medical paper

PRIOR to graduating in economics PE had deenied busi es wnt rece
for me and I would try medicine, Te was then too Lite to gence re
a premed, so following graduation PE taughe whol fer a vere os
Salem, Massachusetts, proctored in a fresbinan dortitery ast wut.
ied organic chemistry, From 1936 to tage Pars acd Mess at SW bed
kept me busy; and from Iggo to foggy internships and peuste re ma ot
the Peter Bent Brigham and the Children’s Efespital, Beaton,

War service found me progressing from beutenant te mayor, VON
in various neurosurgical centers in the United Statex Meet ef ins
time was spent on Staten Island while my younger brothee bved oe
home in Honolulu and drew overseas pay.

Leaving the Army in 1946 T married Katherine Nulw ef bas
caster, Pennsylvania. We spent an interesting year in ten. Lory pad
Europe in 1937 while I studied neurology on a Mencley Traveo >
Fellowship from Harvard Medical School. Ia tugs We Byturned te
Boston where I had a year on the staf of the Peter Past Ee phan
and the Children’s Hospitals, in ncuresurgery. Pa Nusect, ee we
welcomed a son, John Lowery, Jr. In February, Ipga WE tetas |
home to Honolulu and T joined the statf ef (he Straus Ciova oe
neurosurgeon. This clinic was founded in tgse and bee eee ts
grown in size, now numbering some thirty-five partners Ub. were
Kitty, who had been suffering with Icukerua ume ooety alee
our son was born, diced in 1g51.

Life was a bit rugged for the neve Gan years ob rgty wes ‘|
married Catherine Wishard. Kathy and Phave awonina re | We %
We and our two boys live happily here ant the mew atete of Hea. eae
and recommend it highly. Our tastes are wunple and pss re arse
mostly yard work and evcunions with the beove Vere has bees
no time for hobbies, as the practice of neutulagy and mews pee
in this rapidly growing arca has taken a tecmensoue pret ef tow

*
£

I look forward to finding some Young man whe wes Plas tea a
and join me.

We live overlooking Honolulu and Waskiknantery tebee sea
the rapidly changing skyline of the Waias ber? bey woes
those who were lucky enough tor have bere ott hal tery yond
ago are well off now, Tam not one of thee but werk ga lot

[45]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

family, a very satisfying profession and excellent group of colleagues
to practice with I consider myself very fortunate. I marvel at the
rapid advance of our nation toward socialism and the general ac-
ceptance of creeping inflation and unbalanced budgets as a proper
way of life. It was not what we were taught at Harvard twenty-
five years ago.

WILLIAM EDWARD LUNT, JR.

 

HOME AppRESS; 8434 Ardleigh St. Philadelphia 18, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 301 Empire Bldg., 13th & Walnut Sts., Philadelphia 7, Pa.

BORN: Nov. 3, 1913, Ithaca, N.Y. PARENTS: William Edward Lunt, 4.M., ’05,
Elizabeth Atkinson.

PREPARED AT: Haverford School, Haverford, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; B.aRCH. (Massachusetts Inst.
of Technology), 1940.

marriep: Dorothea Walker, 1939, Philadelphia, Pa. cumpren: Marcia, July 1,

1940; Linda, Oct. 12, 1943; James Walker, May 10, 1949.
occuPATION: Specifications consultant.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1957-59, first vice-president, 1959-60, Philadelphia
Chapter, Construction Specifications Institute.

MEMBER OF: Construction Specifications Institute; Franklin Institute; Stage-
crafters, Harvard Club of Philadelphia.

THIS “specifications consultant” bit simply means that I have
specialized in one particular phase of architecture to the extent that
all my clients are other architects in need of help or advice on
specifications. I find it simpler in casual conversation just to say
that I am an architect, which I am, rather than try to explain my
rather esoteric specialty.

Last spring, as the result of an infection, I had most of my right
lung removed. I spent the summer recovering and had started back
toward a more or less normal existence when a spot of infection

[ 846 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

turned up on the left lung. Accordingly, [am committed te bed
for a matter of months and to a definitely sheltered hfe for wane
time after that. As a result of so much enforced rest, EP now weosh
fifteen pounds more than I ever did previously — a beefy rea *

My elder daughter is attending college in New Pryland but
didn’t get quite as far as Cambridge. She is a sophomore at Pen
broke in Providence, this year.

I usually get to Maine for a while each summer, but that may be
off for a bit until I get healthier. I have become a Unitarian and
have had no occasion to regret doing so.

My hobby, if any, is architecture. For the most part. this has
simply resulted in files, full of sketches, although I have had a few

buildings actually built which did not turn out badly.

OSCAR MENDEL LURIE

 

HOME AppRESS: 7113 Laverock Lane, Bethesda 14, Md.
OFFICE appress: Burroughs Corp., 1739 H St, N.W., Washingron 4, 2,
BORN: Nov. 25, 1914, Amsterdam, N.Y. parents: Abraham David Pure, } pene

Ruth Coplon.
PREPARED AT: Amsterdam High School, Amsterdam, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. magne crm laude. Wits ase. bait

MARRIED: Evelyn E. Weinberg, Sept. 2, 1937, Cohawet, Mas. contoene bere,

Sept. 30, 1941; Robert, Jan. 5, 1944.
occuPaATION: Federal sales representative, Burroughs Corporaten, mantulia titers

of electronic computers.

THE course I have followed has not been of my deliberate dees,
nor can IJ point to a firm objective today, Nes ertheless, the « han. ‘es
able currents of the past twenty-five years have carried me then: aN
many of the movements and activities that have characterved eur

generation.
[ 847 ]

-csicsotnamathceertiaiantaan {

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

In the Thirties, when the country looked to Washington to bring
it out of chaos, I came to the Potomac and the New Deal. Two
years in the U.S. Employment Service underscored for me the ills
of our economy and the difficulties of their cure. Feeling that the
trend was toward further centralization of control, I shifted to the
federal Budget Bureau. There I aided the master planners for an-
other two years, trying to simplify the complexities of federal
organization structure and functional assignments. I have been op-
pressed ever since with the dilemma of modern organization: the
inevitability of huge size, and the difficulties of coordinating and
integrating large numbers of people in a common enterprise.

In 1942, the OPA was being set up, and I helped design its early
organization. For a year my energies and imagination were focused
on the problems of communicating the never-ending flow of agency
regulations to the people who were responsible for their adminis-
tration and to the businesses that were expected to observe them.
Granted the inequities and boners of OPA, not enough recognition
has been given to the massive problems it faced nor to the dedica-
tion of its staff in attempting their solution.

In 1944 1 donned the uniform of the U.S. Maritime Service. Just
under two years of shore duty, and I was discharged a CPO — with
a strong aversion to military discipline.

Then followed six years in the federal rent control program.
Necessary as it was in the immediate post-war years, [ must now
admit that we retained the control program far longer than we
should have. I personally was more than a little responsible for
this. But I do not apologize, for in the context of the program the
job I did was a good one. These were the years when I learned to
function and advance in a bureaucracy. This requires a degree of
skill, energy, and persuasion; and I found I had them, to the point
where, when the program ended in 1953, I had risen to the top of
the regular civil service and considered the time ripe to try private
business.

I returned to the Mohawk Valley of New York State and entered
the family retail business, Here I found that no special genius was
required to make money, provided that I could recruit and retain
competent managers, and I was willing to gamble and back my
judgment of their ability. Then one other requirement — a healthy
local economy and a steady flow of consumer purchasing power —
was not so easily fulfilled. Three of the four cities where I operated
suffered the loss of fifteen to twenty-five percent of their factory

[ 848 ]

PY MITRE TIC TT HTT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

employment in 1955 and 1956. Since these losses appeared to be
part of a long-term trend, I decided in 1957 to pocket my winnings

and sell out my interest.
Returning to Washington, I found attention focused on the cold

war. And a new tool —the electronic computer — was being in-
creasingly employed. Notwithstanding that I was long on age and
short on technical background, I decided to start at the bottom af
this new industry and joined the Burroughs Corporation as a trainee.
For the past eighteen months, I have represented Burroughs and its
electronic data processing equipment to various clements of the
Department of Defense. The life is a blend of diversitics — fawt-
nating equipment, public and human relations, organizational poli-
tics, systems engineering, travel, and hard work. Occasionally f rus.
trating, I am finding it always stimulating and thus far, at least.

financially rewarding.

+ ADOLPHE pve BARY LYON

 

BORN: Jan. 30, 1914, New York, N.Y. parents: Cecil Lvon, Anita de Mary,
PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

DIED: Sept. 19, 1937, Mineola, Long Island, N.Y.

ADOLPHE bre BARY LYON graduated with our Claw, While at
college he played freshman baseball and squash and was a member
of the Flying Club, Hasty Pudding-Institute of tpt0 and the Porcel-
lian Club. He died from injuries received when he was stra k by

an automobile.

[ 849 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

WILLIAM CHARLES McCARTY

  

HOME apprEss: 156 Jason St., Arlington, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 821 Massachusetts Ave., Arlington, Mass.

Born: Jan. 12, 1913, Arlington, Mass. parents: William Timothy McCarty,
Helen Johnston.

prepareD AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 19353 M.D., 1939-

MarriED: Flora Eastman Youngken, May 9, 1942, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
William Charles, Jr., Jan. 8, 1945; Richard Dennis, Feb. 5, 1948.

occupaTION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Clinical instructor in medicine, Tufts Medical School, since
1944; chief of internal medicine, 1948, chief of staff, 1959, Symmes Hos-
pital.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Internal Medicine (diplomate); Massachu-
setts Medical Society; American Medical Association; Massachusetts Society
of Internal Medicine (charter member); Massachusetts Heart Association.

AFTER college I went to the Medical School, graduating in 1939.
Then came the various internships and residencies. First the Trues-
dale Hospital at Fall River, then the Boston City Hospital. This
was followed by the Pondville State Hospital in Wrentham, Massa-
chusetts. After Pondville I returned to Boston City Hospital. ‘These
appointments extended over a period of three and a half years, ter-
minating during the early war years, I then attended the Army Medi-
cal School in Washington, D.C., in preparation for teaching military
and tropical medicine at Tufts College Medical School. This I did
for the remainder of the war, After the war I continued on the
faculty, but have not been very active since 1950 because of other
commitments,

My practice has been limited to internal medicine, and in 1947 I
was certified by the American Board of Internal Medicine. After
ten years with an office on Bay State Road, I moved to Arlington

[ 850 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
in order to be closer to Symmes Hospital, since 1 had become chicf
of medicine there in 1948. I have continued in that capacity and
last April was appointed chief of staff as well. These two appoint.
ments keep me very busy. However, having been brought up in
Arlington, I have enjoyed participating in the growth of the hes-

pital.
So far as private practice goes, most of my work at the beginning

was on a consulting basis, but during the past few years I have alse
acted as medical counsel or family physician. T his fact sunply ep
resents the trend of the times. My work has been difficulr, bue re-
warding, and I am indeed grateful for my years of preparation at

Harvard.
Life has not been all medicine. I have a wonderful wife and two
My

fine boys. All three are very active and keep me on the gu.
wife has been president of the P.T.A., town chairman of the United
Fund, chairman of a scholarship committee, and so forth. 1 sur-
vived! To my credit may be mentioned that I have resisted all
attempts to form the first men’s auxiliary to the League of Women
Voters.
My boys are all boy, participating in Pce-wee hockey, Littl
League baseball, school football, and so forth. It ts our hope
that they make Harvard. We are now living in Arhngton and
thoroughly enjoy community affairs. In the summer we usually
go to Brewster, Cape Cod, but every once in a while do the unusual
and take a trip.

As each year slips by, I become more aware of the linportance of
a superior, well-rounded, academic education in preparing one te
lead a more complete and useful life. For this 1 am indeed grateful

to Harvard.

[85st]

|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ROBERT LAWRENCE McCAUL, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 5707 S. Kenwood Ave., Chicago 37, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Judd Hall, University of Chicago, 5835 Kimbark Ave., Chicago
37, Il.

BorN: May 29, 1913, Waltham, Mass. parents: Robert Lawrence McCaul,
Margaret Roche.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Boston College, Chestnut Hill, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREES: a.B., Cum laude, 1935; ED.M., 1937; PH.D.
(Univ. of Chicago), 1953.

marrigp: Isabel Ruth Sheehan, Aug. 27, 1940, Chicago Heights, Il]. CHILDREN:
Robert Lawrence, 3d, June 25, 1942; Edward James, April 13, 1947; Mar-
paret, Nov. §, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Donald Robert McCaul, *43.

occupation: Teacher and administrator; assistant professor of education and
associate director, Center for Teacher Education, University of Chicago.

MEMBER OF: Phi Delta Kappa; American Association of University Professors,
American Historical Association; Quadrangle Club of Chicago.

PusLications: Contributor to Encyclopaedia Britannica and to various text-
books and research monographs; numerous articles in educational and
historical journals.

[ 852 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOSHUA McCLENNEN

tite

      

HOME ADDRESS: 251 Orchard Hills Drive, Ann Arbor, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 27 East Hall, College of Engineering, University of Michigan,
Ann Arbor, Mich.

BORN: Sept. 9, 1913, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Edward Francis McClennen,
LL.B., 95, Mary Crane.

PREPARED AT: Newton Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1945, AM. Vor,
PH.D., 1940.

MarRieD: Mary Alice Pearmain, Dec. 25, 1932 (diverced 1942), bleanoe
Schirmer, Aug. 1, 1942, New Haven, Conn. crHitprex: Douglas, Feb. 1A,
1934 (m. Nancy Bennet, 1955); Edward Francis, Aug. 16, 1936 (mm. MMare-
anna Fsterer, 1958); Betsey, June 11, 1939 (ar. D. Rav Godfrey, 1g),
Susan, Oct. 15, 1940; Mary Crane, May 15, 1943 (vt. Allen Wuerfcl, tose).
GRANDCHILD: Anthony Wayne Godfrey, Jan. 21, 1959.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Louis McClennen, ’34, Lu.B., 37; Alan McClennen, °3%

OCCUPATION: Professor of English, College of Engineering, Univernity of
Michigan.

MEMBER OF: Chatham Yacht Club; Michigan Academy of Arts, Scicnees and
Letters; Faculty Club, University of Michigan.

PUBLICATIONS: Masters and Masterpieces of the Shore Story: Brirst Serves, voce,
Second Series now in press for publication in 1960, published by Eleney
Holt & Company; articles for scholarly publications,

SORRY, but interesting as it has been to me, IT cannot bcheve tht
my life for the past twenty-five years would make anv thing Loase
dull reading for others.

[ 853 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ROBIN McCOY

 

HOME AND OFFICE apprEss: Thomas Jefferson School, 4100 S. Lindbergh Blvd.,
St. Louis 27, Mo.

porn: Feb. 14, 1914, Oklahoma City, Okla. parents: Frank Thomas McCoy,
Virginia Hightower.

PREPARED AT: Shattuck School, Faribault, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; B.A. (Univ. of
Cambridge), 1937; a.m. (Harvard Univ.), 1940, M.a. (Univ. of Cam-
bridge), 1941.

UNMARRIED,

occupation: Headmaster, teacher and founder, Thomas Jefferson School,
boys’ college preparatory school.

OFFICES HELD: President, board of trustees, Thomas Jefferson School, since
1946.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York, Boston and St. Louis; University
Club of St. Louis,

PuBLicaTions: Three articles for Christian Science Monitor, 1950 and 1953.

BASIC assumptions on human beings:

1. No one can possess another for more than a brief time (hus-
band-wife, parent-child, lovers).

2. A human can like (not fear) or dislike (fear) another human:
no middle course exists, Ignoring usually means disliking and fear-
ing.

3- As time passes, each human expands or contracts his range of
sympathy for other humans (likes or dislikes more persons, does not
fear or fears more persons).

4. Understanding of oneself and understanding of others pro-
gress simultaneously. One must apply to oneself what one under-
stands of others, and to others whatever one understands of oneself,
or the understanding is illusory.

These are the assumptions I make as our Twenty-fifth Anniver-

[ 854]

[ Spe pA TT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
sary approaches, from my years as a teacher and headinaster and

from reading, travel and conversation.
A teacher is like a gardener attending to flowers, fruit trees and

shrubbery started by others. He cannot know in advance whieh
plant is which: he can only try to help growth by weeding, fertile.
ing, watering and exposing to sunlight. He can sometimes tcll
whether a plant is healthy, and he can take steps to keep it healthy
or to help it become healthy. Whether it will ever bloom, and what
its flower may look like, remain beyond his knowledve. tle can
only wait and watch and work, and keep trying, not expecting a
rose or a geranium or a zinnia but hoping the plant wall foureh,

whatever it turns out to be.

Vittorino de Feltre, Plato and Cardinal Newman have strongly
influenced my educational ideals. Montaigne has affected mune of
my ideas and therefore ideals since I first read him in tg4u, since

my rereading of him, begun in 1955, he has touched most of my
ideas and has become the author I consult with the greatest expecta-

tion and with whom I disagree with the greatest care. Llomer and
the Old Testament, both in the original, have long been daily fool.
Freud, The Federalist, William James and Kinsey complete the lise
of major influences, with Alain a recent and increasing one.

Conclusions:
1. Students sometimes learn by their own mistakes. scldem bv

those of others.
2. Freedom, like democracy, educates by raising problems requir.
ing discussion, during which principles and applications may be

clarified.
3. Speaking the plain truth, hard work and testing logic constant! v
by open debate: these habits strengthen students and teachers.

[ 855 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 193§

CONSTABLE MacCRACKEN

    

HOME ADDRESS: 270 Oenoke Ave, New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE appreEss: Curtis, Mallet-Prevost, Colt & Mosle, 63 Wall St., New York
5, N.Y.

BoRN: May 4, 1913, New York, N.Y. Parents: John Henry MacCracken,
Edith Constable.

prepareD at: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn. _

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: S.B., 1935; LL.B. (Columbia Univ.),

1939.
marrigp: Eleanor Gregg Dickson, June 15, 1949, Pittsburgh, Pa. CHILDREN:
Thomas Gregg, May 15, 1951; Linda Paige, Aug. 2, 1953.

occupation: Attorney; partmer (since 1958), Curtis, Mallet-Prevost, Colt &
Mosle.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, North American Committee, World Council of
Christian Education and Sunday School Association.

MEMBER oF: American and New York State Bar Associations; New York
County Lawyers Association; Harvard Club of New York; University
Club of New York; Down Town Association; Larchmont and Devon
Yacht Clubs.

AFTER one year at the University of Arizona Law School in Tuc-
son, I returned to the East and graduated from Columbia Law
School in June, 1939. Admitted to the New York bar and com-
menced to practise as an associate of Curtis, Mallet-Prevost, Colt &
Mosle that fall.

In February, 1942, enlisted in Signal Corps, U.S. Army, Fort
Monmouth, Red Bank, New Jersey. On graduation from OCS,
commissioned as a second lieutenant, Signal Corps, and served at
Signal Corps Replacement Training Center and Signal Corps Re-
search and Development Laboratories until February, 1946, being
separated from the service with rank of captain.

Resumed practice of law, specializing in wills and estates and
related taxation. Became a partner of the firm in 1958 and still com-

[856 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mute daily from New Canaan where we moved upon our marriage
in 1949. Summers are spent by the family at Amagansert, Long te-
Jand, where I join them for occasional weekends and for vacation.

I am a member of the First Presbyterian Church of New Canaan

which I had a small part in helping to form three vears age. Repub

lican.

JAMES ATHANASIUS McDONALD

 

ADDRESS: 47-15 194th St., Flushing, N.Y.
BORN: Jan. 6, 1913, Brookline, Mass. paresis: Wilham Joseph Vi Dall

Margaret Dunigan.
PREPARED AT: Kennett High School, North Conway, N.EL

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

NO questionnaire returned.

WILLIAM FRANCIS McGONAGLE

 

OME ADDRESS: 28 Watertown St, Lexington 24, Maes.

[ &57]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

OFFICE ADpREss: State Street Bank & Trust Co., 111 Franklin St
Mass.

BORN: Feb. 29, 1912, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Edward A. McGonagle, Anna
Mae W'itherell.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; M.B.A., 1937.

markiep: Hildagarde V. Hiller, Sept. 20, 1940, Fort Bragg, N.C. cHILDREN:
William Boynton, Aug. 6, 1941; Edward Murch, Aug. 10, 1943; Richard
Francis, Oct. 22, 1946; Virginia Anne, March 2, 1949.

occupation: Assistant vice-president, State Street Bank & Trust Company.

MeMBER oF: American Institute of Banking, Boston Bank Officers Association;
British Officers Club of New England; Military Government Association,
Military Order of the World Wars; National Office Management Asso-
ciation; Sons of the American Revolution,

. Boston 6,

AS | take my pen in hand, my mind is suffused with entrancing
memories of my undergraduate years in the Yard. Gone, but never
forgotten, are the days of fall, winter, and spring in delightfully
musty classrooms listening intently to scholars who will live for-
ever in reverence in my mind: Merriman, Merk, Baxter, Murdock,
Schlesinger, Matthiessen, Miller, Hocking, Spaulding, etc. I am so
utterly grateful to my parents whose sacrifices made possible for
me the privilege of an education at Harvard University. Never will
I forget President Lowell’s admonition to us at the Freshman
Smoker: “You came here to learn how to live, not how to make a
living. If you have any different idea as to why you are here, you
had better go elsewhere.” God has been so very good to me in
the past twenty-five years, 1 am blessed with a wonderful wife,
to whom | was married in the Chapel at Fort Bragg, North Carolina.
This year we will celebrate our twentieth wedding anniversary.
And what a wedding it was, complete with an arch of sabers, a
horse-drawn caisson ride, and a reception given by my fellow
officers at the Officers Club! We are blessed with four good chil-
dren who are physically, mentally, morally, and spiritually healthy.
My three boys are now in their teens, while my little girl is on the
verge of that age. God was further good to me in that he brought
me safely and without a scratch through the campaigns of North
Africa, Sicily, Normandy, Northern France, Belgium, and Ger-
many. And this despite the fact that I served as a combat officer
with the oth Infantry Division, a “crack outfit” of the Regular
Army, often referred to as “Hitler's Nemesis.” My most prized
decoration is the Military Cross, the second highest decoration in
the British Army, awarded solely on the basis of gallantry in action.

[ 858 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Today, [ am very happily situated, not only in my vecation,
banking, but also in my avocation, the military. Having attended the
Business School from 1935 to 1937 with the intention of a carcer
in banking, I have been on the right track since November, rygs.
At that time, after having been a Field Artillery officer since August,
1940, I was separated from active duty even though [ was then
luxuriating in the most pleasant assignment I had during the war,
namely, assistant professor of military science and tactics at VELT.
This year I will celebrate my fifteenth anniversary with the State
Street Bank & Trust Company. At present, I am an assistant vice-
president in the Organization and Personnel Division. My primary
responsibility is in the area of job evaluation, performance, rating,
and salary administration, The president of the Bank, my boss, and
a close associate in my Division are all exceptionally fine fellows to
work with in spite of the fact that they are Bowdoin graduates.
Of course, one must take into consideration the fact that my bess
had the benefit of a Harvard Business School education.

As for my avocation, I will have completed twenty-five years as
a commissioned officer in the U.S. Army Reserve on the icth of
June, 1960, Bunker Hill Day. My success in this activity has been
largely attributable to the training and inspiration | received in ny
ROTC days from Charles D. Palmer, who was then a hcutenant
and is now a four-star general. How well I remember, having been
commissioned a second lieutenant, Charlie Palmer remarked with
a sardonic grin, “Just because you ’re a Reserve officer, vou don’t
have to look like one.” At that time, I resented the remark, but l

have had many occasions since to observe how unfortunately true
is the implication. In the early 1930’s, ROTC was not a popular
activity to put it mildly. I remember certain anti-military demon.
strations of the student body and the antipathy of many ‘freshinan
advisers to military science. What a difference just a few more
years made in the lives of so many of us. At present, Fam a colonel
in the 357th Civil Affairs Area Headquarters, which mecty en
Monday nights at Shannon Hall, the University ROUC center
today. This is a branch of the service which used te be known as
military government. After five years of correspondence conrses
and two weeks resident instruction each year, Twas graduates in
1956 from the Command and General Staff Colle ye of the Neary

By virtue of that training, I have acquired a know le dre and appre
ciation of the principles of organization probably greater Pian f

[ 859 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

might have acquired at any other institution of learning in this
country.

And now for one final observation that might possibly be of
interest to someone, In the past four years, I have been able, with
the grace of God, to overcome an abnormal appetite for alcohol
which had become after twenty-five years a problem for me. I
admit this, not because I am proud of it, but to lend encouragement
to someone else who may be floundering with the same problem.
There is a simple answer which can Jead to a wonderful new way
of life for one who might be actively suffering from the phy sical,
mental, and spiritual ravages associated with the disease of alcohol-
ism. One need not suffer any longer, nor cause loved ones to suffer,
too. This is a message of hope from an informed, not a reformed,
drunk who very fortunately did not get into any serious trouble. |
have come to know that I cannot safely take a drink, because it is
the first drink that for a fellow like me leads to a drunk. If I can stay
away from one drink at a time, I can stay very happily sober even
though I could not imagine life without alcohol only a few years
ago, “And that is the story of my life since graduation. There is a
saying, “If you can keep your head when all about you are losing
theirs, maybe you don’t understand what is going on.” Maybe

so, but I have the happy feeling today that I have fought a good
fight up to this point.

ROBERT RODES McGOODWIN, JR.

 

HOME abpress: 3 Highland Ave., Cohasset, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Laboratory for ‘Electronics, Inc., 1079 Commonwealth Ave.,
Boston 15, Mass.

BorN: Oct. 27, 1911, Chestnut Hill, Pa, parents: Robert Rodes McGoodwin,
Kate Hampton Bryan.

[ 860 ]

  

'
i
i
4

 

Heer IEP ATS ANAT I SETI OENE NEO TAR RSE PEE 8 BEALE NE ARTE NETL ICM ID ILE PRIME ME te RN

“nak pisepayrcisasen canes a ets

rane a OR

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Taft School, Watertown, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935.
marrieD: Dorcas Woodbridge Whitney, Jan. 18, 1942, Milton, Mass. cunoass
i Beam

Robert Rodes, 3d, Nov. 6, 1942; Middleton King, March 28, 194+
Whitney, Dec. 7, 1949.
OCCUPATION: Contract administrator, Laboratory for Electronics, Ine
MEMBER OF: Society of Colonial Wars, Society of Sons of the Revolution

Harvard Varsity Club; Cohasset Yacht Club; Navy League.
ALY first six years after graduation were spent in the cotton tevtule
business of Federal Street, Boston, in the treasurer’s office of Well-
ington Sears Company. Then followed four years (1942-44) of
U.S. Army service in World War II. Asa second licutenant and on
to major, I saw much of the landscape of Louisiana, California,

England, France, the Netherlands and Germany.
After the war, the new job title of contract administrator came

into being. The great need for such was among electronic compa-
nies doing business with the government, where it was recognised
that research, design and production funds are limited and, there-
fore, the time and effort of skilled scientists must not be obstructed
or depleted by attention to routine matters and office chores. |
have been fortunate to have been associated in this vocation with
M.I.T., Tracerlab, Inc., American Machine & Foundry Corporation,

U.S. Army Engineer ‘Corps and currently with Laboratory for

Electronics, Inc.
We began married life in Milton, Massachusetts, and soon moved

to Cohasset on the South Shore in order to combine winter and
summer living. At this writing, Robert, 3d, sixteen, is happy to be
a tackle on the Cohasset High School football team, has two coon
hounds, a driver’s license and enjoys frequent trips ta Naushen
Island and to Princeton, Massachusetts, for fishing and huntny,
Middleton, twelve, has a sail boat in the harbor and is on suthic tently
good terms with the members of the local lobster fleet to be allow cl
to put out a few pots unmolested, Byam, nine, with limitless energy,
lives for the seemingly sole purpose of playing Indians wath bo
friends in the woods and fields behind our house.

I am an Episcopalian and a Jeffersonian Democrat, Since TE don't
understand the fiscal irresponsibility of the average, modern Demme.

cratic legislator, I vote Republican.

[ 861 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

DONALD VINCENT McGRANAHAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 6 Rue Constantin, Geneva, Switzerland.

OFFICE ADDRESS: European Office of the United Nations, Geneva, Switzerland.

BORN: June 24, 1913, Margaretsville, Nova Scotia, Canada. PARENTs: Norvin
Greene McGranahan, Mary Jane MacAndrews.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 19353 A.M. 1937;
PHD. 1939.

MaRRiED: Nancy Gale Ulrich, June 17, 1940, Northampton, Mass. CHILDREN:
David Andrew, Jan. 11, 1943; Gale Hawley, April 6, 1947, Gordon Ter-
rence, Nov. 12, 1954.

occupation: International affairs; chief, Office of Social Affairs, European
Office of the United Nations.

MEMBER OF: American Psychological Association; Society for the Psychological
Study of Social Issues; American Sociological Association; American
Association for the Advancement of Science; Scientific Society of Sigma
Xi; Columbia University Faculty Seminar on Peace (1953-58); Ford
Foundation National Selection Committee for International Relations and
Social Science Fellowships (1954-58); Harvard Club of New York; La
Cotiére Squash Club of Geneva; Ski-Club Annemassien,

PUBLICATIONS: Various professional publications and international reports.

WELL, it has been interesting and has gone like the wind. Instant
years. Just a short time ago — June, 1935, by the calendar — I set
off for Europe on a graduate fellowship, and in the course of a year
visited most of the European countries, including the U.S.S.R. It
cost nine dollars, as I recall, for a two-and-a-half-day trip from
Vienna to Istanbul by river-boat and train, and twenty cents a
day for room and breakfast in a villa in Dubrovnik. I was based
in Vienna, where I studied philosophy and psychology and expected
to find some of the gaiety for which I had had no time in college.
Vienna offered, instead, political pathulogy, and I found myself

{ 862 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY RFPORT

more immersed in Third Man themes than in Wrest, Woe sent

Gesang.
I returned to Harvard in the fall of 1936 to prepare for a PHD

in social psychology, obtained it in 1939 and settled down ct
thought) as an instructor in psychology and a tutor in Dunster
House. The most interesting event of that period, however, bad
nothing to do with academic work —I got marned (in paged. te

took.
In 1941 I went to Washington for a job with the Forein Bros.

cast Intelligence Service analyzing Nazi propaganda. ‘This led to
other Washington work in the foreign intelligence fichd and ts a
period of involvement in some shenanigans of the OSS. Phen te
three years in the Army, two of them in the European theatre.

In the fall of 1946, I rejoined the Harvard faculty in the new
Department of Social Relations. The academic life. hawesver, was
not to be my cup of tea. I was offered a temporary pol in the
United Nations Secretariat in 1948, jumped at it, and have re.
mained there ever since, becoming an international bureaucrat.

My work is in the field of economic and social atfairs ~~ a new
dimension in international relations. I can best describe what Pde
by listing some of the major ingredients IN 1Osg: a Vit te the
Netherlands to prepare for a study of economic and social develep
ment programming in that country; inter-agency mecarnzs in Cee
neva on social statistics and international definition and measure:
ment of levels of living; two and a half months in Bangkok peepor-
ing papers for a session of the Economic Commission for Avia ant
the Far East on “balanced economic and social development” in
the countries of that region; four weeks with the summer sess
of the Economic and Social Council in Geneva, atrenlance at PEO)
meetings on their Andean Indian project; a WAEE OL mecters oe
the cost of medical care, and the Fourth Workd Congres of Sat
ology at Stresa, Italy; work on organization of a survey peer
on “urbanization in the Mediterranean region”; a menth ania bat
in New York drafting an over-all “appranal” report en present
and future work of the United Nations and specialized aren. ies st
the economic and social ficld; countless memoranda en ales te
ranging from the supply of paper clips to the relanon bets ces a 6
and poverty; etc... . It doesn’t make me w calrhy tue at keegan <

busy.

Outside of work, family life keeps me about as bus. ena. a
different ways. Contrary to theory, WV family seers te Po.

[ 843 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

with transplantations, and nothing makes them happier than getting
on a boat (preferably the Iudependence) or passing the night in a
hotel. We have been very lucky in having had no family misfor-
tunes of any kind. For reasons that would probably not withstand
rational analysis, I took up squash again last year after having en-
gaged in practically no exercise whatsoever since the time I broke
my Achilles tendon running up the wall of a squash court at Har-
vard in 1941. I find I play somewhat better than I used to but there
are more rattles and wheezes. I have also taken up skiing, but that
is compulsory since | am currently stationed in Geneva.

ROBINSON McILVAINE

 

HOME AppRESS: 3400 P St., N.W., Washington, D.C.
OFFICE ADprEss: Dept. of State, Washington, D.C.

BoRN: July 17, 1913, Downingtown, Pa. parents: Gilbert Mcllvaine, Elizabeth
Malbone Breese.

PREPARED at: South Kent School, South Kent, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MarrieD: Jane Walker Stevenson, June 3, 1939, Middleburg, Va. (divorced

1956). CHILDREN; Stevenson, Jan. 11, 1942; Mia Carol, Sept. 28, 1946.
HARVARD SON: Stevenson Mcllvaine, ’63.

occupation: Foreign Service officer.

orFices HELD: Director, Pennsylvania Society of Newspaper Editors, 1952;

Deputy Assistant Secretary of State, 1953-56; chairman, U.S. Section,
Caribbean Commission, 1953-56,

IT took me twenty-one years to get around to doing what I thought

I was going to do when we parted in 1935, The chronology runs
like this:

Back to Cambridge in the fall of ’35 to study for the U.S. Foreign
Service exams scheduled for the following spring (missed by one

[ 864 ]

coo cct waite cy Petts abe URE NES TEI
eecevey ec ang ee te tye SR URLS ME, EBM TE EER SAF
me etme te PIE a 8

NOOR ETN IE
(eNOS APO ROMEO ELE MEN LE IEA ;

i:
po

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

point). From 1937 to 1941, Madison Avenue, New York City,
with occasional forays in politics. From 1941 to 1946, Navy. In.
telligence work in Panama followed by command of a subchaser
in the Solomons and subsequently a destroyer escort on Atlantic
convoys.

After the war I realized every red-blooded journalist's or ad
man’s dream by buying a moribund weekly newspaper and worked
fifteen hours a day, seven days a week to put life into it. In the
period 1947~—53, I achieved sufficient notoriety and solvency to be
able to afford to accept an invitation to government service in
Washington. Three years as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State
for Public Affairs rekindled my first love and in 1956 I took ad-
vantage of a bureaucratic loophole to become a “lateral entrant”
into the career Foreign Service — but not before another "3scr,
Burke Wilkinson, had succeeded me.

Last fall I returned from three and a half years as deputy chicf
of mission in Lisbon, en route to a new assignment in Rio. As I
passed through Washington I was snatched ” off and sent to the
Foreign Service Institute’s Senior Officer’s Course which, God will-

ing, should permit my attendance at Reunion,
I sold the newspaper in 1958.

GEORGE FRANCIS McINNES

~~
avian
~

epi,
,
WY,

HOME ADDRESS: 8803 St. Louis Ave. St. Louis 14, Mo.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Steiner Co., 8803 St. Louis Ave, St. Louis 14, Ma.
BORN: May 17, 1912, Cambridge, Mass. parents: John AL Meliney Marv 8.

O’Hara.
PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambrnlye, Vase

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1931-193§. DEGREE: A.B, 1935.

[ 865 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

marrieD: Jane P. Marsh, Aug. 13, 1938, South Orange, N.J. cHipren: John
Wilham, May 19, 1940; Patricia Ann, Sept. 24, 1942.

occupation: Midwest sales promotion manager, Steiner Company, cloth and
paper toweling, washroom supplies and equipment.

MEMBER OF: St. Louis Chamber of Commerce; Sales Managers Bureau; Alumni
Association of S.A.E. Fraternity; Harvard Clubs of Toledo and St. Louis;
Elks; V.F.W.; American Legion; Naval Officers Club,

THE well-laid plans of mice and men... . After graduation, |

intended to follow up my college major studies in criminology and

penology and took a two-year contract with the Department of

Interior, Office of Education. During these two years, I had hoped

to get 3000 case histories, voluntarily, from the boys in the CCC

Camps in New Hampshire and Vermont. In January, 1937, with

only thirteen case histories to go to make my goal, I received a

collect telegram telling me that the government quarters was com-

pletely burned to the ground—nothing saved. It was then time

to go to work. Having been interested in forestry and paper, I

joined Scott Paper Company’s sales staff in New York and enjoyed

a very fine relationship with them for over fifteen years. I resigned

as industrial divisional sales manager of Scott’s St. Louis Division,

and in 1952 I became the midwestern sales and sales promotion
manager of the Steiner Company, Division of American Linen

Supply. This company had linen supply companies over the world

as well as paper companies With both companies, my work has been

in the same field, and I might be classified as a “Privy Counselor”
without portfolio but with a roll.

Actually, I should have been a luggage salesman as I’ve probably
worn out more and have smashed more suitcases and handbags than
I can remember. I’ve practically lived out of a suitcase since gradu-
ation, selling in every state of the Union plus Canada and Mexico.
I did stay home long enough to have my son, John, who is a sopho-
more at St. Louis University, and my daughter, Patti, who gradu-
ates in June from high school and plans to enter college in Septem-
ber, say “Hello, Dad,” when I come home. During the war, I was
a lieutenant in the Navy and saw all of my service and action in the
African-European Theater, where we hauled ammunition and
high-test gasoline. In two years over there, I ran into only one
classmate, Rod Sears, in Rome and missed my best man, Jim Carty,
when he was in Bizerte and the coward wouldn’t swim to Augusta,
Sicily, to see me, In St, Louis, I was able to make a few of the Har-
vard Club picnics and meetings, but in the last few years found it

[ 866 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

impossible to arrange being at home when these were held. Ut pe
it is possible for me to attend the Reunion, and unless something un-
foreseen happens am planning to be there. In any case, best wishes
to all my classmates.

CHARLES LORNE FISK McINTOSII

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Route 313, Arlington, Vt.

BoRN: July 15, 1913, Highland Park, Mich. parents: Charles Augustus Lorne
McIntosh, Catherine Lee Fisk.

PREPARED AT: Cranbrook School, Bloomfield Hills, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935.

marriep: Dorothy F. Campbell, Sept. 18, 1933, Lake Forest, Hl (divorved
1937); Alice Rand, Nov. 12, 1943, Detroit, Mich. cammpren: Charles Larne
Fisk, Jr., June 29, 1935 (72. Jeannette Sakel, Aug. 29, 1980); three step.
children.

occupation: Account executive, Development Division Research Insonute of
America, Inc., New York City.

MEMBER OF: Dorset Country Club; Harvard Club of Vermont, SCCA.

HAVE not led an exemplary or exciting hfe since Harvard. Stum-
bled along during the depression holding body and soul toyether.
In 1937 I was divorced from the girl I married when still in school,
Enlisted in RCAF in January, 1940, and transferred to USAAF an
May, 1942. The war would have been won without me, Tam sure.
My most vivid recollection of six years in service was looking op
from a stretcher at Maxwell Field and seeing Vie Balboni, “36, with
his stethoscope in hand, about to give me the sad news.

After the service I went home to Detroit and went with ms
present company as division manager for Central Michigan. Ewe
years later went to Muskegon and engaged in various enterproes
there until 1955 when I retired and moved to Verment. bound

[ 867 ]

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

that retirement is not all it seems when you are working and was
soon talking to myself as I had plenty of time to worry about one
son and two stepchildren in college all at once. Finally, this past
summer, after serving several masters as a sales consultant, I took the
bull by the horns and returned to the Research Institute for what
] hope is a career until the accepted retirement age of 65 or there-
abouts.

Have little excitement here in Vermont. We are thinking of
seceding, declaring war on the USA, losing and going on foreign
aid. This, we up here in the snow belt feel, would end all Vermont
taxes and make this a true paradise, Seriously, in all the roaming I
have done these past twenty-five years, this place is the closest to
Heaven I can imagine. Having had a personal tragedy in my life
some years ago, I realize what a great value a peaceful residence has
where there is no hustle and bustle of the city. Consequently, Alice
and I enjoy every minute up here.

Nothing more of any interest to write. Hope I can make the
Reunion as it seems that the older we get, the more it means to us
to renew those wonderful acquaintances from our youth.

JOHN JAMES MacKINNEY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 416 Fssex Ave., Narberth, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Budd Co., Hunting Park Avenue, Philadelphia 32, Pa.
BorN: April 12, 1912, Butler, Pa. parents: Mont Mercer MacKinney, Anna

Marie Beck.

PREPARED AT: Butler High School, Butler, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: $B. IN E.E., Cl laude, 1935.

marrieD: Elizabeth Hall, April 30, 1939, Philadelphia, Pa. (died June 28, 1941);
Mary Bottorf, April 13, 1946, Bellefonte, Pa, cHitpreN: Patricia Lee, June
26, 1941; John James, Jr, Nov, 25, 1946.

[ 868

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Welding research and development, assistant director, Budd Com.
pany.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Technical Activities Committee, American Welding
Society; assistant district commissioner, Boy Scouts of Ameneca, couned-
man, Sunday School superintendent, Lutheran Church.

MEMBER OF: American Welding Society; Franklin Institute of Philadelphia,
Boy Scouts of America; International Institute of Welding.

JOHN BYRON MckKITTRICK

 

HOME AppREss: 15 Temple St., West Newton 65, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1180 Beacon St., Brookline 46, Alass.

BoRN: Oct. 17, 1912, Eau Claire, Wis. parents: Peter Mchiterick, Gertride
Sterling.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933. DEGREE: M.D. 1937.

MarRieD: Mary Hearne, Sept. 3, 1940, Kansas City. Mo. conipaes, Perer
Fessenden, March 26, 1942; Michael Hearne, June 25, 19433 John Reed,
Dec. 5, 1945; Anne Cochran, April 7, 1947.

occupation: General surgeon; instructor in surgery, Harvard Medheal Sv hood.

MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons; Boston Surgical Suwwty. Phe
Country Club, Brookline.

PUBLICATIONS: “Serial Blood Sugar Determinations in Nomnal Newborn fn.
fants,” Journal of Pediatrics, 1940; “Diabetic and Arteriosclerote Gangrene”
New York State Journal of Medicine, 19st, “The Transunetatanal Vinpo-
tation in Arterial Deficiency of the Lower Fuxtremity,.” cueauthor «ith
Richard Warren, E, S. Crawford and I. B. Hardy, Surgery, igss, * Vempas-
tation of the Lower Extremities,” Asserican Academy of Gcucd Pras tne,
1956; “Evaluation of the Transmetatarsal Aimputanon in) Panents with
Diabetes Mellitus,” co-author with Franck C. Wheelock, Je. and blow and
F, Root, Surgery, 1937; several other articles.

THE distinction of being a member of this Twenty-tfth Renin
Class merits, in my instance, alas, an explanation. To. ac complob

[ 86g |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

fifth Reunion gathering. I do not know why such nice thin s

happen, but the fact that they take place is most delightful and .
assuring. :

*POWERS McLEAN

HOME ADDRESS: 1 Summer St., Hallowell, Maine.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 128 State St. Augusta, Maine.

porn: March 31, 1914, Augusta, Maine. parents: Ernest Llewelyn McLean
Myra Powers.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935. DEGREE: A.B. c172 laude, 1935.
occupaTion: Lawyer.

NO questionnaire returned.

JAMES FENWICK MacLEOD

    

HOME appress: 50 E. Main St., Erving, Mass.
OFFICE appREss: Erving Paper Mills, Erving, Mass.

BoRN: Nov. 11, 1915, Nova Scotia, Canada. PARENTS: James Duncan MacLeod,
Laura Mae Hatt.

PREPARED aT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.

marrtep: Gladys Strickland, May 1, 1935, Kittery, Maine. cHitpren: James
Fenwick, Jr., Feb. 26, 1936; Cynthia G., April 16, 1938; Norman A., Nov.
20, 1943; Christine P., March 31, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Sales administration, Erving Paper Mills.

orFices HELD: Chairman, Planning Board, 1943-47, park commissioner, 1943-46
Orange, Mass; Erving Boy Scout Commissioner, since 1954.

SINCE leaving Harvard in one of the depression years (1933), my
experiences have been many and varied. As jobs — never mind po-
sitions — were practically not to be found, started and built up 4

[ 872 |

_ _—™

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

house-to-house route (selling doughnuts); from there to Gulf Onl
service stations for four years — leaving aS service station manager.
Then a few years with McNeilly’s in Brookline (Chestnut Pill).
There, all kinds of work — garage work, cab driving, bus driv-
ing, and chauffeuring. This last very interesting — drove for
the Saltonstalls, Ben Ames Williams and many other interesting
and well-known or influential and professional families, Ino tggt,
moved to Orange, Massachusetts, and went to work for the L. 5.
Starrett Company in Athol, where for five years during the war was
assistant foreman and night supervisor in the manufacture of pre-

cision tools.
Did not serve in the armed services — if any excuse is necessary,

Starrett would not release me. I did however serve as a battalion
sergeant major in the Massachusetts State Guard during that period.
Following this and one year on the road for the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, I found a home at the Erving Paper Mills in Frving,
Massachusetts. After going through the entire manufacturing and
production processes, ended up in sales and sales administration,
which is comprised of inside and outside sales of paper products.

Married Gladys Strickland of Somerville, Massachusetts, in 1934,
and the following year we were blessed with James Fenwick, Jr,
now serving with the U.S. Army in Germany (Tank Ba. Thy)).
after two years of engineering at the University of Massachusetts.
Two years later came Cynthia, now a registered nurse at the Masa-
chusetts Memorial Hospitals in Boston. Norman, born tive year
later, is now a junior in high school and Tena (Christine) ts at home.
Jim, Jr. (Fenny) is due out of the service this vear and hopes to
complete his studies and teach. Cyndy expects to make a carcer of
missionary nursing — beyond that we do not know.

We are quite happy in this western part of Masachusetty. Viv
dad, who is a Baptist minister, retired last year at the ripe aye of
eighty-five. He and my mother have bought a home here in Erving
and dad is quite content to garden, chop wood and otheite at an
occasional wedding, funeral or church service,

We do not mix much in political strife (only local, bur my
sons and I do enjoy good hunting and fishing (including We fish.
ing). These hobbies serve as good outlets after a hard week in the
business world.

My work requires contacts with, and often trips to, all party ef
the country, but at home, Gladys with her church and ocher work
and my boys and I with various community projeety (Boy Soon,

[ 873 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Volunteer Fire Department, etc.) along w

ith hunting and fishing
enjoy a full life. |

LADD MacMILLAN

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

BORN: July 8 1911, San Antonio, Texas. parents: William Torbert MacMil-
lan, Katharine Louise Ladd.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935.

marriep: Margery Lester Jones, June 20, 1942, South Orange, N.J. CHILDREN:
Margery Lester, March 22, 1944; Susan Ladd, March 11, 1947.

occupation: Director of admissions, St. Mark’s School.

MEMBER OF: Duxbury Yacht Club.

OUR illustrious Class Report Chairman flattered me by his unique
offer to publish whatever I chose to write; however, upon reading
the sample autobiographies, | soon became the recipient of over a
dozen friendly reminders. Even now, my pen seems to have been
sired by “file out of knitting needle.”

Before entering college, a career of teaching was already in mind;
four years at “the cultural center of the universe” and a year in
business merely strengthened this belief. Many wonderful teachers,
both in and out of school and college, had such a profound influence
upon my life that I felt it only natural to attempt to repay what I
considered a debt of gratitude —if such men could so strengthen
me, maybe I could do the same for others.

An account of twenty-four years of teaching, dormitory duties
and coaching in secondary boarding schools (Milton Academy, St.
Paul's School and Hebron Academy) would not make particularly
exciting reading for most of you. Such a life may appear dull and
dreary; however, I have always found working with boys most

[ 874 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

interesting and exciting. To help a boy recognize, face and solve
his problems; to encourage him to think for himself; to suggest bur
not legislate a sound philosophy of life; to watch an insecure and
immature boy of twelve develop mentally and physically into a
person with confidence and vision — these are but a few of the j Jove

and rewards of teaching.
My present position does not afford as intimate a contact with

students; nevertheless, the opportunity to help and advise parents
is also most gratifying. Incidentally, I hope those of you who may
be sending younger sons to boarding school will nor hesitate to
write me, when you feel I can ever be of possible assistance, This
is no “plug,” I assure you, for regardless of where your son may be
headed, the offer still holds!

Summers in Duxbury provide a welcome change in routine, as
well as a chance to see more of my family and friends. Making
repairs and improvements to our 200-year-old house, reading, sail-
ing or cruising with Captain Cate, and winning the battle of “rock
and roll” with my two charming daughters occupy most of my
spare time.

My one serious hobby 1s collecting Currier and Ives lithographs.
After thirty years of searching antique shops, attending New York
City auctions and corresponding with other collectors throughout
the country, I have acquired a modest collection, together with many
pleasant memories and lasting friendships. If any of you hear of
such prints being for sale, do let me know, please. Scnd me the
owner’s name and address and I shall send you a commission!

Last, and most important, I was fortunate to marry Just the right
girl for me. I may have taken longer and roamed ‘farther to find
her; nevertheless, who can ask for more than a patient and undcr-
standing wife, two teen-age daughters to keep me on my toes, and a

job I really enjoy?

[ 875 ]

|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

WESLEY GARNER McNETT

 

HOME appress: 8 Wilson Ave., Braintree 84, Mass.
oFFice appress: John Morrell & Co., ror First St., East Cambridge, Mass.

BorN: March 1, 1914, Ottumwa, Iowa. PARENTS: Walter McNett, Blanche Ver-
non Garner.

PREPARED AT: Ottumwa High School, Ortumwa, Iowa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935.

MARRIED: Jean Louise Lowenberg, March 8, 1935, Manchester, N.H. cxivpren:
Susan, Oct. 13, 1935 (a. Richard F. Walton, 1957); Wesley Garner, Jr,

Sept. 29, 1938; James Armstrong, April 22, 1945. GRANDCHILD: Laurie Jean
Walton, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHER: William McNett, °33.

occupation: Manager, Boston carlot sales, John Morrell & Company, meat
packers.

AFTER finishing school Jean and I (we were married during my
last year in school) settled in Cambridge where we lived for two
years and where our daughter was born. In 1937 we moved to
Braintree, Massachusetts, on the South Shore; we eventually bought
a home, our two sons were born and we found ourselves in the usual
church, scouting and school activities.

Our daughter Sue took the college nursing course at Bates Col-
lege where she met her husband who was a premedical student,
they are now living in Kingston, Ontario, while Dick completes
medical school at Queens University; they are responsible for mak-
ing us grandparents of a lovely little girl, Garner, Jr., is in his
senior year at Clarkson College of Technology where he has com-
piled a splendid record. Jim, the only guy left at home now, is in
his last year of junior high and is doing fine scholastically as well
as being a member of the basketball squad, As you can well see, I
am very proud of our children and my lovely wife.

As for sports and hobbies, I now find myself a much better spec-

[ 876 ]

Peper erp Ie

eas hy han te gE IEE EY
ss pemnememense yen Hmattt T

:
t
'
i
:
:
&
i
‘
‘
'

neem

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tator than participant, with the exception of a few miscrable rounds
of golf each summer. I do enjoy puttering around the house and
yard, though quite a few of my “do-it-yourself” projects have re-
sulted in disaster.

Since 1936 I have been associated with John Morrell & Company
in various capacities including ten years of travel through New
England, but for the past few years I have been located in the Cam-
bridge office.

All in all the past twenty-five years have been good,

PAUL VINCENT McPEAKE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 74 Orchard Ridge Rd., Chappaqua, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 217 E. 43d St., New York 17, N.Y.
BORN: Jan. 27, 1912, Mattapan, Mass. parents: John Richard McPeake, Helen

M. Griffin.
PREPARED AT: Milton High School, Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935.

MarRiED: Edith Frances Kearney, April 9, 1939, Milton, Mass. cotpass: Joho
David, June 26, 1942; Betsey Ann, Oct. 6, 1947.

OCCUPATION: District manager, Avis Rent-a-Car System, Ine.

TWENTY-FIVE years of challenge — of living — of experience -
of the fullness of life. To the very “old, a brief period — to the very
young, an eon of time. Twenty-five years of which T would not
have missed a moment. A quarter-century during which:

I tried my hand at naval aviation directly from colle ge at Suan:
tum, Massachusetts, and Pensacola, F lorida. The Navy, quite
firmly, and I, quite reluctantly, finally agreed at the end of fourteen
months that I was not to be a dashing, daring naval aviator, Ejomned
American Air Lines — first at Chicago and later through all ground
phases of operation and sales at Boston (1936-40).

[877]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

I married Edith Frances in April of 1939 and lived very happily
in Milton from that date to November of 1940 when the Navy, with
proprietary firmness, tapped my shoulder, reminding me of four
years of naval science at Harvard and the years of Naval Reserve
training that followed, and said, “Now is the time for all good men

.” [ did! The war and service during 1940 to 1946 saw
me taking “boot camp” training at Newport, Rhode Island; serv-
ing on board the U.S.S. West Point, troop transport (formerly
and now the U.S.S. America). Portugal, with diplomatic represen-
tatives of Germany and Italy to exchange for our own representa-
tives to these countries, struck me then, and strikes me now; the
children of our representatives spoke excellent German or Italian
and relatively poor English. Contrariwise — equally true. North
Atlantic — Casablanca — South Pacific — “Crossing the Equator”
— “Crossing the Line” — “Southern Cross” — “Around the Cape.”
Transferred to Salamonie, fleet tanker, as executive officer. Two years
North Atlantic — Atlantic and South Pacific areas. Convoys and
other associated activities —Leyte Gulf, Mindora — Philippine and
Australian defense. Commanding officer, U.S.S, Donner, LSD 20,
to end of war and termination of service in 1946. I very sincerely
hope, but do not believe, that there will never be another war. I can
only say, and not romantically, “Join the Navy”! The cleanness of
it, the spirit as in all other services, the constant movement — if you
are lucky as I was, and I think most are. The icy winds of the
North Atlantic, the deep blue of the Gulf Stream, “St. Elmo’s fire in
all the rigging,” New Year’s Eve in South Arabia, Christmas in
Australia, and again in the Philippines. I hope it never happens
again, but if it does, regardless of atom bombs, rockets, or other
new weapons — to my son and all young men — “If you can, join
and serve in the Navy.”

During the war, in June of 1942, John was born. Having been
blessed with a happy marriage, this happiness has been extended by
a son, neither too good nor too bad to be other than a “normal”
American boy, blessed by birth with the appellation “American” —
now studying (and hard, his parents fondly hope) at Tufts College,
Class of 1963. As I write, briefly and informally, Betsey is study-
ing and asking me, “What is a prepositional phrase?” — “What is
a compound predicate?” — “What is a repeating decimal?” Har-
vard never really prepared me for this! Betsey, in the seventh grade,

can stop me shorter and more completely than any professor ever
could!

[ 878 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

After the war and readjustment to civilian hfe, 1 joined North-
east Air Lines — from 1947 to 1957 — enjoyed the development of
New England aviation stretching even farther from the capitals of
New England States to Miami and connections to South America.
Expansion in aviation stupendous until I became acquainted with
and exposed to a relatively new field — renting and leasing. Joined
Avis Rent-a-Car System as direct manager in New York in tyes.
Moved from Milton, Massachusetts, a town of beauty, to Chap-
paqua, New York, a village of enchantment. Did you know that
ou can rent or lease about any item used by man ‘for as short or
as Jong a time as you wish? From a mink coat to the finest, most
intricate computer? A natural second step: don’t charge it — rent
or lease it and save your capital! Enough of business.

Personally, I owe Harvard a great deal which I can never repay

— the ability to live and enjoy life through better understanding of
those who have gone before. I owe the quarter century w hich has
passed all my thanks and appreciation. While keeping the wolf
away and the tax collector reasonably happy, I have been blewed
with a happy marriage, two completely normal American children,
and my full share of all those things which Khrushchev profewes nat
to understand. Freedom from fear — freedom to say what T will ~
freedom to live and bring up my family in America as Americans,
For the major part that Harvard play ed in this ability on my part
—my unending thanks and acknow ledgment.

DAVID LANGSTON \McVICKAR

 

HOME ApbRESS: 22139 Carbon Mesa Rd. Mahbu, Calif.
OFFICE ADpREss: Dept. of Infectious Diseases, School of Medicine, Criseesiny of
California at Los Angeles, Los Angeles 2g. Calf.

[ 879 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

BORN: Feb. 24, 1913, Lansdowne, Pa, parents: Matthew McVickar, Sarah
Jeannette Winn.

PREPARED AT: Lower Merion High School, Ardmore, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 1934(35); A-M., 1937; PH.D. 19g0;
MoD, (Vanderbilt Uniy.), 1948.

marrige: Olive Eveleth Bowditch, Sept. 7, 1935, Ocean Point, Maine. cHiLpren:
Sandra Douglas, Nov. 23, 1939; Deborah Eveleth, Oct. 29, 1941; Molly
Bowditch, June 13, 1948.

occuPATION: Associate professor of infectious diseases, and head, Division of
Mycology, U.C.L.A. School of Medicine; consultant in mycology, U.S,
Veterans Administration Hospital, San Fernando, Calif.

OFFICES HELD: Mfember, innumerable academic administrative committees at
various universities.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Microbiology; Society of American
Bacteriologists; Mycological Society of America; International Society of
Human and Animal Mycology; American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science; U.S. Public Health Association; Medical Research Asso-
ciation of California; Sigma Xi; etc.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous papers in professional journals.

TO be obliged to review and evaluate the past quarter-century of
one’s life is undoubtedly a salutary experience; but to be obliged
to condense and write it in a few hundred words verges on the
depressing: one wonders concerning the desirability of such an out-
line, especially since it can be of direct personal interest to but a
small percentage of the potential readers.

My life since 1935 has moved more or less directly, though not
necessarily smoothly, along strictly educational channels. Five
years after graduation, having acquired an A.M. and Ph.D., I left
Harvard with an abiding interest in teaching and research, and an
intense and continuing curiosity in the problem of what constitutes
good teaching. The problem has not yet been resolved, remaining
a topic of brisk discussion with my family, and with my colleagues
(who sometimes grow politely weary of what they consider an
iconoclastic approach to the subject), As I read the examination
papers of second-year medical students and struggle to interpret
what they have written, I receive continuous reinforcement of my
feclings on the “social adjustment” philosophy of education, It
seems to me that raising and educating children is a different task
today: the time spent in rectifying the errors of omission and com-
mission in their schooling is becoming inordinately long. It would
appear that the primary and secondary schools consider their role
to be that of inculcating proper approaches and attitudes toward
society — an activity which used to be the prerogative of the home

[ 880 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

— leaving the question of teaching subject matter to the parents,
by default. I cannot believe that the result of this approach will

be a happy one.

In the intervening years, I taught and carried on research at the
medical schools of Yale, Rochester, Vanderbilt and — final stop? -
the University of California at Los Angeles. During my cathy years
of teaching I began to take courses toward an M. 1). since P had
come to the conclusion that a medical training was essential for
effective teaching and research in my field. The academic vear
1947-48 was notable in that it required a two-month vacanon. 3
result of the after-effects of holding a full-time teaching and re-
search position while concomitantly carrving out the full-ome
schedule of a fourth-year medical student.

During 1957-58, the entire family went to Copenhagen, where |
enjoyed a sabbatical leave at the Statens Scruminstitut, in: medical
research: a joyous year with no administrative responsibilities, Our
oldest girl attended the International Peoples College at Phanere,
and returned speaking fluent Danish; the two younger girls went
to a French school in a suburb of Copenhagen and acquired fluent
French. We are currently looking forward to the possibilty of go-
ing to Indonesia for a year or two, w here the opportunity hay been
offeres to help set up a medical training program. And Lam wonder-

if Indonesian will be as difficult to come to undertand av was
Denish,

In the years at Los Angeles, I have become as little adjusted te
L.A, traffic as I have to the red tape which inevitably strangles a
state university. My extracurricular activitics for the part seven
years have been confined to building a home — in which we have
been living throughout the building process — in the foothills of
the Santa Monica Mountains, overlooking the Pacific. (It rm net

impossible that had I appreciated the magnitude of the task. and
had more insight into my own perfectionstic tendencies, Pmiche
never have begun.) But in spire of recurrent Malibu fires (we were
burned over in 1956, two days after Christmas) and in spite ef pale:
force winter winds and occasional landslides, it n a wonderful
place to live.

[ SNe ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

JOHN DWIGHT McVITTY

 

HOME appress: 77 Cleveland Lane, Princeton, N.J.

OFFICE appress: Robert H. Rosenberg, Architect, 131 E. 55th St., New York,
N.Y.

BoRN: Oct. 10, 1912, Bryn Mawr, Pa. parents: Albert Elliott McVitty, Ruth
Dwight.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1935(36).

MarrieD: Joan Phillips, 1940 (divorced 1945). CHILDREN: John Dwight, Jr.,
May 31, 1941; Kitty, May 1, 1943.

HaRvaRD SON: John Dwight McVitty, Jr., ’64.

occupation: Free-lance designer.

orFices HELD: Designer and draftsman, Jules Gregory, Architects, Lambert-
ville, N.Y., 1953-58, Robert H. Rosenberg, Architect, since 1958.

ROBERT HEADLEY MADDUX _

  

HOME abpRess: 175 Otis St, Hingham, Mass,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Summers Agency, 60 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 6, 1912, Columbus, Ohio. parents: Joseph Martin Maddux, Edith
Headley.

  

[ 882 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, -H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: 8.8., cto laude, 1art.

MARRIED: Virginia Adams, June 30, 1937, Cambridge, Mass, cettmmrs Saeoh
Adams, Feb. 12, 1941; Robert Headley, Jr. July 5, tay.

OCCUPATION: Associate general agent, Summers Agency.

OFFICES HELD: Chapter chairman, United Fund, 1957, 1944, 1y6u.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Chartered Life Underwriter. Natwnal
Association of Life Underwriters; Boston Chamber of Commerce, Benton
Lacrosse Club; Varsity Club, Hingham Yacht Club, Harvard Club af

Hingham.

THIS fugitive from chores on an Ohio farm has so enjoved the
charms of Boston and New England that he has settled down at the
scene of the crime. You may recall the old song,

No one has endurance,

Like the man who sells insurance,

He gets us all, in the end.
Happily this one has ! ‘endured,” and while I have not vet got all
of you, I am still i in business at the same old stand. Webster says that
to endure means “ to continue in the same state without perishing”

“to suffer patiently.” Truly it has been a great pleasure to have
a career in which I have been able to keep in close touch with sw
many good friends.

There was a period between 1954 and 1956 when “sutfer pa-

tiently” would aptly describe my state for I was down two year
with T.B. Thanks to the administration of Dr. Arthur Pice and
understanding and loving care from my family, 1 ain wholly well
again.
During the war I spent two busy and interesting years in prostuc:
tion planning with Merck & Company ,Inc., in Rahw av, New Jerves,
and about the same length of time in purchasing at Rav theon Manu-
facturing Company.

One of my most absorbing hobbies, now in the past, was ceach-
ing lacrosse. For four seasons before the war [had the MULT, team.
I have retained the greatest respect for the athletic program there
and the wholesome attitude of the participants. In the Lat year we
had our best season, scalping Harvard as well as Tutts and Reston
Lacrosse Club to win the Greater Boston Championship, Our best

ame of all was an overtime win over New Hampshire, Aftce the
war I coached the Harvard team for three vears. The hese year,
1946, was informal and we did not play Yale. In rage we worn fren
Yale 8-6 and in 1948 lost by the same score. Tn tog Phelped Guach
the All-North team to a win over the AlbLSouch ALEC atten et

[ 883 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Baltimore. On this expedition I was proud to have along, from Har-
vard, Dick Bernard, our All-American goalie.

Virginia and 1 were married upon her graduation from Radcliffe
in June, 1937. Our daughter Sally is a sophomore at Radcliffe now,
and Robbie is in the eighth grade in the Hingham public schools,
where Virginia works part time in guidance.

We are looking forward with pleasure to the Twenty-fifth Re-
union. During the week following, Virginia and I plan to fly to
Jasper National Park in the Canadian Rockies to attend a conven-

tion of the Leaders Association of New England Life. Remind us
not to be too strenuous at Reunion!

IRVING MYRON MADOFF

 

HOME abpress: 225 Arnold Rd, Newton, Mass.

oFFice appRESS; 1180 Beacon St., Brookline 46, Mass.

BORN: Jan, 29, 1914, Boston, Mass, parents: Harry Madoff, Eva Weinstein.

prePARED at: Clinton High School, Clinton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; M.b. (New York
Univ,).

mariep: Janice Lillian Dietz, June 25, 1950, Newton, Mass. cHitpren: Emily,

June 27, 1951; Robert David, June 24, 1953; Harriet, June 7, 1955; Ray
Dietz, March 29, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Robert Madoff, '46.

occuPaTION: Thoracic surgeon.

orFices HELD: Clinical instructor in surgery, Boston University School of Medi-
cine; visiting thoracic surgeon, Massachusetts Memorial Hospitals, Boston
City Hospital, New England Baptist Hospital, member, executive com-
mittee of the staff, 1959, visiting thoracic surgeon, Faulkner Hospital;
member, Program and Nominating Committee, Massachusetts Trudeau
Society, 1956, 1959; consultant in thoracic surgery, U.S. Public Health

Service Hospital, Boston, Veterans Administration Hospital, Providence,
R11.

[ 884 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Boston Surgical Society; American Association for Thorac
Surgery; American College of Surgeons, New England Cardiovasculae
Society; American Trudeau Society; American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science; American Heart Association; American Board of
Surgery (diplomate); American Board of Thoracic Surgery (diplomate).
American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Papers on cardiovascular and thoracic surgery in medical jour.

nals.
IT has been said that the ability to forget is as much a blessing
as the faculty of remembrance. I find that the less joyous experiences
since college are somewhat blurred in my memory and that the
years have “dealt kindly. I believe that I have been blessed with the
opportunity — perhaps stimulated by desire — to learn something
new every day and that this has preserved in me a youthful out-
look if not youth’s physical resources. Although there was a hiatus
between Harvard and my formal medical education, I recall this
period as instructive in the novelty of varied experience in the busi-
ness world, interesting in the opportunity to know people in many
walks of life and enjoyable in the time afforded for music and out-
door sports.

Medical school in New York was a most fascinating interlude.

Internship and residency in general surgery at the Boston City

Hospital was interrupted by the Army and W orld War Il. Thad a

varied military career as battalion surgeon with troops in Italy,
then as surgeon at Billings General Hospital and completed by a
tour of duty as an assistant in the office of the Surgeon General in
Washington. Our aid station in Italy alw ays seemed to attract
people from the surrounding locale for ‘the small medical care which
we could give; here was the need and the opportunity for mutual
understanding which I tried to supplement by learning the cle-
ments of another language.

The remainder of the documentary includes a training period | in
thoracic and cardiac surgery followed by working as assistant and
associate to a busy thoracic surgeon and then the establishing of
my own practice in this specialty. In addition to carrying on a
satisfying active practice, my vocational activities include seme
medical school teaching, the training of residents in thoracic and
cardiovascular surgery and clinical investigation with intermittent
contributions to the medical literature. The constant advances in
cardiac surgery keep me interested, excited and occasionally over-
fatigued.

I ‘have been fortunate in acquiring a charming wife witha debyhe.

[ 885 ]

|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ful sense of humor — which she needs all too often — who does q

masterful job of bringing up our four young children and in keep.
ing her spouse on an even keel.

Looking to the future, I would wish that the days will not seem
as short as heretofore and the world will become less troubled,

GUY FLETCHER MAGBEE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3900 Peachtree-Dunwoody Rd., N.E., Atlanta, Ga.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Magbee Lumber Co., P.O. Box 86, Norcross, Ga.

BORN: July 16, 1913, Adanta, Ga. parents: Thomas Guy Magbee, Jane Lucile
Fletcher.

PREPARED AT: Boys High School, Atlanta, Ga.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-323 1933-37. DEGREE: A.B., 1935 (37).
UNMARRIED.

OccuPATION: President, Magbee Lumber Company, Magbee Brothers Con-

struction Company; chairman, Magbee Brothers Lumber and Supply
Company, Decatur, Ga.

I SPENT four years, 1942-1946, in the U.S. Air Force during
World War II. During this tour of duty I traveled from Puerto
Rico to the Yukon Territory and from Florida to Hokkaido, Japan.
I] wound up as a group intelligence officer in the Twentieth Air
Force on Guam. | enjoyed very much the association with many
fine folks from an heterogeneous group.

For twenty years I have been engaged in the manufacture of
lumber and the retailing of building materials for the house con-
struction and repair business, in the metropolitan Atlanta area. For
ten years a separate company has built several hundred houses of
quality, we trust, for the speculative market or under contract in
the medium price range of fifteen to forty thousand dollars. Six
years ago I opened another yard and warchouse in Decatur, Georgia.

[ 886 ]

—_—

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My two youngest brothers operate this business in association with
our other enterprises. They have been quite succesful. Our in-
dustry is one of the most rugged economic enterprises. The sixties
will make it more so because of the fastest tempo of change in
products, merchandising, etc., in the history of building. Certainly
this is no enterprise for the faint-hearted or lily-hv cred, Even an
the affirmative nature of building provides satisfactions bevond
monetary remuneration, despite what our socialist friends may be-
lieve.

My interest in music, in literature, and in history and economies
still abides in spite of a seventy to eighty hour work week. Ma-
turity and full activity make these intangibles of living more
precious and meaningful.

HUGH ROBERT MAGILL, JR.

 

HOME AppREsS: 177 Crescent Hills Rd., Pittsburgh 34, Pa.

OFFICE apprEss: H. B. Maynard & Co., Inc. 718 Wallace Ave. Pitthburgh at,
Pa.

porn: April 8, 1915, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Hugh Robert Magill VMarsaws
Liggett Flickinger.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 1936, MBA. tQt?,

MARRIED: Dorothy A. Johnson, April ts. regi, Mabten, Maw os enss
Robert Charles, March 10, 1952; Nancy Jean, March tq tocg

HARVARD BROTHER: William Henry Magill, “go.

occupaTION: Management consulting; controller,

AFTER graduating from the Business School I learned the banking
business. [ soon discovered that T had no gteat interest ins bank avy
and changed to accounting, Once the rovone pem Ub pushorvy wage

[ 887 ]

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

has been passed accounting can be quite interesting and the prob-
lems are varied and challenging.

A few years ago I moved to a suburb and have become a fairl
typical suburbanite. Now I never seem to have much real leisure
time,

EDWARD VARTAN MALCOM

 

HOME abDpRESS: 105 Indian Springs Rd., Williamsburg, Va.

MAILING ADpREss: Navy 935, Box 339, % F.P.O., San Francisco, Calif.

BORN: July 18, 1914, New York, N.Y. parents: Malcom Varton Malcom, Law
Sch., 1907-09, Georgine Cuendet.

PREPARED AT: Eastchester High School, Tuckahoe, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; ED.M., 1940; PH.D. (Univ. of
Michigan), 1951.

MarriepD: Ruth Coleman Davidson, June 1, 1949, Louisville, Ky.
occupation: Psychologist, U.S, Government, assigned to various jobs related

to personnel selection, training programs and mental health for Veterans
Administration and the Armed Forces.

MEMBER OF: American Psychological Association; Reserve Officers Association,
National Rehabilitation Association, International Society for General
Semantics; American Association for the Advancement of Science; Vir-
ginia Psychological Association; Brotherhood of St. Andrew.

SINCE I am currently in the “Far East” mid-Pacific I am not likely
to be contacted by an area chairman — unless they have one in the
area of the North Marianas! I am on an eighteen-month tour
(civilian) in the Far East as a psychological consultant concerned
with matters relating to training and testing methods best applicable
to non-“western” personnel. It is a challenging and most interest-
ing assignment and my first contact with either the Orient or more
specifically Micronesia and the vast oceanic “territory” to which the
U.S. sphere of influence — to the extent of statehood for Hawaii —

[ 888 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

has extended. The paradox is that although one is geographically
thousands of miles from “home,” one is nevertheless geoyraphically
still at “home!” The significance of the first condition ws that we
shall not be able to make the Twenty-fifth Class Reunion. It is a
real disappointment, and probably the only felt negative result of
this tour of duty. I had for a long time looked forward to rcunion
with old friends and, indeed, making new ones, an opportunity
made possible by the size of our Class!

The “story of my life and times” for the Class Report ts pre-
sented herewith informally.

Phase one: After a brief stint as a sales clerk in Macy's toy de-
partment during the Christmas season of 19355 I entered the fichd
of teaching early in 1936, and it seems that in some form or other,
I’ve been teaching something to somebody, and have been learning
even more in return, ever since. It is interesting to note that my
interest in teaching was sparked early in my college years, when
Art Todd and [ alternated in teaching a “naturalization prepara-
tion” class at the Cambridge “Y,” sponsored by Phillips Brooks
House. Returning to Harvard in 1937 I accomplished a two-year
Master’s in Education at the Graduate School of Education, and
while there discovered and developed a talent for psychological
testing and educational guidance interviewing. During these ycary,
and until 1941, I established and directed a small but flourishing
summer tutoring school in Boothbay Harbor, Maine.

Phase two: I enlisted in the U.S. ‘Army (amid protestations from
parents and friends) in the early fall of 1940. My enlisted carcer
lasted eighteen months, through the opening of the Fort Devens
Reception Center, and a stint at field duty with the Portland (Maine)
Harbor Defenses in the old Coast Artillery Corps, Sclected: for
training by the Adjutant General's Department, I received a com.
mission in April, 1942, trained as a personnel consultant and claos-
fication officer at the Adjutant General's School, and was avoyned
to the 102d Infantry Division at Camp Maxey, Tesax as as thind
charter member. I was privileged to assist In its activities, tramuny,
shakedown and maneuvers before being picked up by the Orfice of
Strategic Services in the fall of 1943 and (again as a “charter mer.
ber” of its European staff) remained with it and ity various West
European missions until my discharge, as a major, in the fallof 344
I have remained interested in Reserve affairs and currently holds
Reserve commission as licutenant colonel.

Phase three: I became another “charter member" anvithe Gall of

[ BRy |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

1946, being among the first selected for the first group of trainees
— interns in the Veterans Administration’s program for training in
clinical psychology at the University of Michigan. The program
consisted of working half-time for the Veterans Administration in
mental hygiene clinics and hospitals, as well as fulfilling the re-
quirements for the Ph.D. on the academic side. This was accom-
plished, plus a year of full-time internship and training in psycho-
therapy in Atlanta, Georgia, by 1951.

It was in Atlanta that 1 wooed and wed my wife, Ruth Davidson,
a medical social worker from Louisville, Kentucky, who was work-
ing in Atlanta at the time.

Phase four: My professional life during the past decade has been
closely bound to the U.S. Government and the defense program.
I have had various assignments concerned with personnel selection,
counseling and training programs. We own a home at 105 Indian
Springs Road, Williamsburg, Virginia, the site of my last assign-
ment at the Armed Forces Experimental Training Activity at Camp
Peary. It was here also that my wife Ruth earned her credentials
in psychiatric social work at Eastern State Hospital and where we
enjoyed very pleasant associations with William and Mary College,
across the road from where we lived.

The current navy tour in the Far East is scheduled to be com-
pleted in mid-1961. After that, we may return to Williamsburg,
unless something else exotic comes along!

Phase five: Plans for the fucure. I'l probably continue until re-
tirement in government employ. After that I hope to be active in
teaching and psychological counselling, associating myself with a
university campus for the conduct of this “phase”! I am most
interested in the “Psychiatry and Religion” cooperative develop-
ment in recent years, and would most enjoy getting more experience
in that field of endeavor.

Well, there it is. Had a lot more fun filling out the above than
a government personal history form, so thanks for the opportunity
to “sound off” in this way. I shall be eagerly waiting for the Class
Report, to read what the past twenty-five years have brought to
my old friends and classmates. Best wishes for the next twenty-five!

[ 890 ]

L-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HERBERT NAAMAN MALETZ

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1919 Hawthorne Ave., Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE ADDREss: Antitrust Committee, Committee on the Judicury, US Elouwe
of Representatives, Washington, D.C.

BORN: Oct. 30, 1913, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Reuben Maletz, Frances Sawyer.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. Cur brude, 19%$s LB. FID

MARRIED: Catherine B. Loebach, May 8, 1947, Toledo, Ono, canta, David M,

March 14, 1948.
occuPATION: Chief counsel, Antitrust Subcommitce, US. Howe of Represen:

tatives.

OFFICES HELD: Chief counsel, Office of Price Stabilization; trial atrernev, Ane»
trust Division, U.S. Department of Justice; special artorney, Truman
Committee, U.S. Senate (all Washington, D.C).

MEMBER OF: U.S. Supreme Court, D.C. and Massachusetts bare, Ameren ont
Legion; American Veterans Committee; D.C. and Federal Bar Awewts:
tions; Military Government Reserve School Unit, Nanonal Capaal
Democratic Club; Burro Club; Dowden Terrace Civic Awucratem, Wb:
liam Ramsey P.T.A.

I FIND it little short of amazing that twenty-five years have now
gone by since graduation from I farvard and that for better or wore
each of us is now a member of the “older” generation. Somehow it
just doesn’t seem possible that time has passed so quickly. AC the
stage, I wonder whether the hopes and aspirations of twenty-five
years ago have been realized —in whole of in part, Thre tind
difficult to answer categorically.

Looking back, the following events, in bricf, stand out in rey
mind: Graduation from Harvard Law School, a stint asa govern:
ment attorney with the legal staff of WPA, Washington (a hus
drum type of job which I secured after much ditheulty), wrae
for some one and a half years as a spec tal artorney on the seal of
the Truman Committee of the Senate (an uminating ark] newel

[ Ros }

_—__—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

experience); three years in the Army which appeared then to be an
exercise in futilicy but now seems to have had definite advantages,
marriage after the war to a charming, scintillating girl from Mon.
tana who grows more gorgeous with the years, the appearance on
the scene some eleven and a half years ago of a son — now sprout.
ing like a weed; five exciting years with the Antitrust Division of
the Department of Justice, learning about the purpose and enforce-
ment of the basic economic law of trade in this country; a hectic
three-year period, after Korea, with the Office of Price Stabilization,
secking with mixed success to prevent prices from skyrocketing; a
short tenure in the private practice of law in Washington, D.C,
that left something wanting; and now beginning my sixth year with
the House Antitrust Subcommittee, headed by Representative
Fimanucl Celler of New York, and participating in the investigation
of such diverse subjects as the airlines industry, television network
broadcasting, the steamship industry, oil pipelines, the settlement of
the government's antitrust case against American Telephone and
Telegraph Company, the adequacy of Federal Communications
Commission regulation of long distance telephone rates, the appli-
cability of the antitrust laws to organized professional team sports,
contlict-of-interest cases, ete.

In the twenty-five years, values for me have changed quite con-
siderably, Thus, in the 1930’s I could have hardly anticipated, let
alone desired, a carcer in government service. And yet, in retro-
spect, cannot imagine that any other career could have been as
exhilarating, challenging, or rewarding (in all except a material
sense). True, there have been frustrations and disappointments in
ample measure. But on the whole, life has been quite good to me.

While my job requires long and hard hours, I do manage bits of
relaxation — one of my principal hobbies being loafing and napping
—over the restrained but forceful objections of Catherine and
David. In addition, in vears gone by we were able to get away for
about four weeks each summer for a vacation in Montana, fishing,
harvesting wheat, and visiting Catherine’s relatives. However, this
is no longer possible, though once in a while we do manage a two-
week visit to such places as Canada, New England, or Florida, de-
pending on our combined family mood.

Another hobby, if it can be called that, is maintaining an active
interest in Army Reserve activities, including an annual tour of
active duty either at some Army camp or at the Pentagon. The
picce de résistance occurred this past year when our Reserve tour

[ 892 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

involved a whirlwind trip to Alaska, Korea, Hong Kong, Taipei,
Quemoy, Okinawa, Tokyo, Iwo Jima, Wake, and Honolulu.
Coupled with a more extended trip through Europe and the Middle
Fast several months before, this has given me, I hope, a better per-
specuve of the world we live in.

Politically, I am a liberal Democrat, who believes that new,
original, and creative ideas, methods, and techniques are essential
if the United States is to achieve the twin goal of continuing as a
leader in world affairs and of coping with the great domestic issues
of our time, such as civil rights, education, health, and freedom

from want.

* HORACE FRANCIS MALFA

 

soran: April 20, 1914, Allston, Mass. parents: Leon Guy Malfa, Mary Vincone.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.

DIED: July 29, 1954, Coral Gables, Fla.

HORACE FRANCIS MALFA spent two years with our Class. In
1938 he reported that he was an assembler in an electrocardiograph
factory and later was engaged in the field of chemistry. He served
as a captain in the Air Force during World War II. He died after
a long illness. He was survived by his father.

[ 893 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

WILLIAM MALTZMAN

  

appress: 90A Marion St, Brookline 46, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 14, 1913, Dorchester, Mass, PARENTS: Louis Maltzman, Rose Kras-
noff,

prepared aT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1935(44).

NO questionnaire returned.

LEON MANN

 

HOME AppREsS: 17 Kirkwood Rd., Brighton, Mass.
oFFice apprEss: Chelsea Knitting Co., 70 Essex St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 23, 1914, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Joseph Mann, Hannah Frieda
Zimmerman.

prepared at: Roxbury Memorial High School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1031-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1935.

MARRIED: Francis L. Showstack, Aug. 6, 1934, Seabrook, N.H. cHitpreNn: Neil
Nason, July 18, 1936; Benjamin Abbott, Jan. 21, 1938 (77. Susan Leslie
Alfred, June, 1958); Brenda Gail, Nov. 22, 1939; Stephen Howard, Jan.
19, 1942. GRANDCHILD: Roger Andrew Mann, Dec. 24, 1959.

occupation: Treasurer, Chelsea Knitting Company, Inc., dry goods distributor.

[ 894 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

UPON graduating in 1935 I immediately embarked on a career uf
“keeping the wolf from the door.” I was married in 1934. one veat
prior to graduation, to Frances Showstack. We had the tak of
raising a family during the darkest days of the depression. Four
children were born to us during this time, three sons and a daughter.
The ensuing years were spent in bringing up this brood with all
the various moments of sorrows and joys this entailed.

My life was very early established into a middle class “groove.”
I joined the usual fraternal and religious organizations proper for
the middle class businessman. Except for our children and their
problems, nothing unusually exciting occurred in the past twenty-
five years. Their welfare, health and education have been the mone
important things in our lives.

Our number two son is married and has presented us our firse
grandchild, a grandson, on Christmas Eve, 1959. Number one son
is a medical student and the other two are now artending college.
Our greatest disappointment and pleasures have been their failures
and attainments. My college training has helped me to understand
and share their problems and sometimes help in the solutions,

My main hobby has been fishing, on which I spend every free
moment, including most weekends. I have been very fortunate that
my wife and children share my enjoyment of this sport and ac-
company me whenever possible.

I have one “beef” to express. My oldest son was admitted to
Harvard and other schools in 1954. Since he was, I beheve, the
first of 1935 sons to be accepted, I thought that something in the
way of financial assistance would be available. All my children are
close in age and the financial burden has been considerable, Quer
request was rejected, and the result was that my boy entered Co-
lumbia and was first string center ficlder on their vanity baseball
team his last two years at school, My personal disappointinent was
considerable as I had hoped to have him carry on at Parva.
Perhaps, my grandsons may get a better opportunity,

I am looking forward to the Reunion to renew the chershed
friendships I made while at school.

[ 895 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

CLIFFORD MANNAL

 

HOME appress: 649 Pugh Rd., Strafford-Wayne, Pa.

OFFICE abpress: Aerosciences Laboratory, MSVD, General Electric Co., 3750
D St. Philadelphia 24, Pa.

BORN: July 15, 1911, Newark, N.J. parents: Herman Mannal, Elizabeth Knoll.
PREPARED aT: Irvington High School, Irvington, N.J.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: S.B., CU laude, 1935; A-M., 1937.

marrigp: Eleanor Louise Diamond, July 29, 1939, Lee, Mass. CHILDREN: Richard
Knoll, Feb. 20, 1942; Robert Henry, Aug. 1, 1943.

occupaTiON: Manager, Advanced Aerodynamics, Missile & Space Vehicle
Department, General Electric Company.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-chairman, Citizens Council, Schenectady, N.Y., 1950, 1952;

chairman, AIEE Symposium on Engineering Aspects of Magnetohydro-
dynamics, 1960.

MEMBER oF: Basic Sciences Committee and Research Committee, American

Institute of Electrical Engineers; American Physical Society; Institute of
Aeronautical Sciences,

puslicatioxs: Technical papers dealing with effects of radiation on solids,
nuclear power for rockets, design of hypervelocity electromagnetic ac-
celerators, etc. Patents: Audio Noise Reducing Means for Transformer,

Device for Measurement of Very Small Gas Flows, Acoustic Homing
Torpedo, Fuel Element for Nuclear Reactor.

BY far the easiest part of this chore is to write a narrative of what
I have done in the past twenty-five years. Much more difficult is
to assess how my attitudes toward things, places, and values have
changed. When I left Harvard in 1937, after taking my Master’s
degree (and serving as instructor in the Cruft courses in communi-
cations engineering), my inclinations were nearly equally divided
between teaching and industry. 1 decided to try a position with the
General Electric Company because, at that time, my interest was
primarily in research, and it appeared that this could be done as

[ 896 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fruitfully ( and somewhat more lucratively ) in industry as ina unt

versity. Except for occasional brief visits, ] have not been back.

The Pittsfield, Massachusetts, plant of the Gencral Flectric com.
pany which I joined was located in a delightful community, and
my assignment in the laboratory there prov tided an Opportunity to
investigate the behavior of a wide varicty of clectrical produce, te
looked as though I might happily continue in this capacity almost
indefinitely, particularly since my wife (Eleanor Diamoml, Rad-
cliffe °36) was equally fond of this location. Just prior to the omet
of World War II, there was a somewhat belated awakening to the
menace of the submarine. It developed that the techniques for
discovery and destruction had not progressed substantially bes ond
their state in World War I. Aly post-graduate interest in acoustes
and subsequent industrial work in this specialty, caused me to be
involved, first with the Office of Scientific Research and Develop.
ment, and then with its successor, the National Defense Research
Council, in attempts to find and sink submarines. These led from
Portsmouth, New Hampshire, via Lake George, New York (ne
submarines but deep water), to Boothbay Harbor, Maine, to New
London, Connecticut, to Fort Lauderdale, Florida. By thes tine,
we had grown to four (Richard and Robert having been adkfed
along the way). In the final phases of this effort, | was in charge
of a group of scientists and engineers working for the General
Electric Company on an acoustic homing torpedo, of which Twas
one of the inventors. Although it later went into manufacture as
one of the Navy’s more important anti-sub weapons (as Tread in
the newspapers last year), we did not quite get it donc in tine for

it to see duty in World War II.

Harvard was very much present during this phase of my hfe. m
the small as well as the large. In the former category were the devk
officers of the Sardonyx, a converted t4o-foor yacht sailing out of
New London, all of whose deck officers were "35 (give or take a
year). In the larger frame, the Harvard Underwater Sound [ates
ratory, under the direction of my former graduate advnce, FV.
Hunt, was working on similar anti-submarine devices, Involved et
this group was Harvey Brooks (then lately junior fellow, now dean
of the School of Applied Phy sics). Hlarvey and [were to be asso:
ates shortly thereafter in the Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory in
Schenectady (item for Small World Department). At the clone of
the war, we went from Florida to Pittstichd (in the Capacitor Sates

[ 89? ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Department) and, subsequently, I had an opportunity to join the
then-being-formed Atomic Power Laboratory in Schenectady.

The Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory started as a group of
about a dozen people and rapidly grew to about z500. It covered
a very interesting period which lasted about ten years. The General
Physics Group, of which I was in charge, worked on a variety of
problems in physical chemistry, surface chemistry, semi-conductors,
bearings, effects of radiation on materials (to name only several),
The transplantation of the Mannal family from Pittsfield to Sche-
nectady (which we had viewed with some concern) was effected
with few scars. We found Schenectady (vaudeville jokes to the
contrary) to be an active, warm, and surprisingly cosmopolitan
town, While its superficial physical attractiveness is not high, it is
close to good skiing country in the winter and good lake country
in the summer.

In 1955, history repeated itself. The Company formed the Mis-
sile and Space Vehicle Department, and I was invited to join. This
is my present assignment, and I am currently manager of the ad-
vanced aerodynamics effort. The new department is shortly (.e.,,
1960-61) to be at Valley Forge. I can see the arch from the rear
of my house. During the interim, I have been a COMMUTER (not
a fit life for man or beast), Golf and skiing have gone; gardening
and woodworking have taken their place. During all this, our
children have grown. Richard goes to college this fall, Robert
next. Despite mild maternal and paternal pressure, Richard has de-
cided on a small liberal arts college which will lose Harvard a good
center, a better wrestler, and a mediocre tennis player. Robert is
sull up for grabs. Possibly, we can be more convincing the second
time round. It is difficult to write this much autobiography with-
out drawing on the profound wisdom that I now should possess,
having lived somewhat more than two-thirds of my actuarial span.
I find the immutable truths that come forth are only platicudes
(perhaps this is why they are so durable),

[ 898 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ LOUIS HELLMUTH MARBURG

 

BoRN: July 13, 1914, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. parents: Louis Christian Mar-
burg, Gertrude Wells.

PREPARED AT: Odenwaldschule.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1032-1935. DEGREES: S.B., Cz? laude, 1935; S.M. IN MECH. ENG,

1936.

piep: July 25, 1941, Montclair, N.J.

LOUIS HELLMUTH MARBURG spent three years with our
Class. While an undergraduate he was a member of ‘Leverett House
Swimming Team, played with the University Band and was a mem-
ber of the Harvard Engineering Society. He completed graduate
study in marine engineering at Yale w hile holding a fellowship from
the Society of Naval Architects and Marine Engineers and then
began an apprentice training course with Babcock & Wilcox, marine
engineers, with whom he was associated at the time of his death.

WILLIAM GEORGE MARCOUX

 

ADDRESS: 40 Bellevue Ave., Melrose 76, Mass.

[ 8y9 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935
BORN: Oct. 14, 1914, Malden, Mass. parents: William Frank Marcoux, Gladys
Corkum.
PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 1935;,M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1939.
MararieD: Marguerite Kerr, Jan. 20, 1942, Melrose, Mass. cHILpREN: Suzanne,

Feb. 23, 1945; Denise, April 9, 1948; William, Feb. 25, 1950; Jeanette, Jan.
20, 1951; Frank, Oct. 6, 1952.
occupation: Medicine.

NO questionnaire returned.

PARKER ENDICOTT MAREAN, JR.

 

 

HOME ADRESS: 1091 Summer St. Ext., Auburn, Maine.
OFFICE ADDRESS: United Shoe Machinery Corp., 38 Minto Ave., Auburn, Maine.

porn: Nov. 15, 1912, Belmont, Mass. parents: Parker Endicott Marean, ’03,
Clara Sortwell.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1031-1934.

MarrieD: Elizabeth Mary James, June 23, 1939, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Parker Endicott, 3d, Feb. 18, 1940; Karl James, June 17, 1945; Elizabeth
Anne, July 12, 1948, Paul Mason, May 23, 1958.

occuPATION: Assistant district manager, United Shoe Machinery Corporation,
MEMBER OF: New England Shoe Foreman’s and Superintendent’s Association.

IN 1934 I left Harvard and, after nine months working in a stock-
broker's office (Burr Gannet Company), joined the United Shoe
Machinery Corporation, Since then I have worked for the same
concern in Boston and Haverhill, Massachusetts, Manchester and
Rochester, New Hampshire, back to Haverhill, and finally in Au-
burn, Maine, where I moved my family in 1949.

Since moving to Auburn we have lived in a country atmosphere.
The whole family enjoys sailing; however, my daughter has an ex-
ceptional love for riding horses, My oldest son is now 4 junior at

[ 900 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the University of Maine studying mechanical enginecring, whereas
my youngest will be entering kindergarten in 1963.

MAX MARGOLIN

 

HOME ApDpRESS: 77 Lasell St., West Roxbury 32, Mass.

OFFICE ADDREss: Boston & Taunton Transportation Co, 195 Old Colony Ave,
South Boston 27, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 23, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: William Margolin, Bowie N.
Saymon.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MarRIED: Rose Lillian Curland, May 30, 1937, Boston, Mass. campars: \il-
colm L., Oct. 27, 1940; William, April 6, 1945.

HARVARD SON: Malcolm L. Margolin, ’62.

occuPATION: General manager, Boston & Taunton Transporation Company,
motor carrier.

OFFICES HELD: General manager, director, Boston & Taunton Transperatnen
Company, since 1936; director, member executive committee, New Frg-
land Motor Rate Bureau, Inc., since t9s0; treasurer, manager, Renton &
Taunton Federal Credit Union, since 1954; president, New Frgland Vote
Carrier Accounting Council, 1937-58; president, Delta Nu Alpha Trans
portation Fraternity, 1958-59; director, Traffic Club of New England
1960-61.

MEMBER OF: Traffic Club of New England, Trathe Club of New York, New
Bedford Traffic Club; Worcester Traffic Club; Boston Management Club,
Boston Sales Executive Club; The Boston Club; Univervtv Ohibt of
Boston; Semantic Workshop Associates; Roberts Club, Y.VECLA.

AFTER leaving Harvard, [ attended various colleges on free
evenings. In 1951, I was graduated from the Bentley School of Ac-
counting and Finance.

Each swiftly-passing year has played with me ity game of give-
and-take: on the one hand, free-handedly bestow ing upen my

[ gor ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ungrateful self the unwanted pound of flesh, and, on the other
snatching in flight a few more of my fading locks.

The cooperation of an understanding wife made me an ancestor
in my own right on two occasions. One product is in my own
image, which seems to irk him no end; the other is a happy-go-lucky
throw-back on some probably disreputable forebear, happily lost
in antiquity. That these two young geniuses should spring from
common loins and yet be so entirely divergent is a constant source
of wonder and discussion to us.

How to use the same hour over twice is still a problem unsolved,
To go to all the places I want to go, to see all the things I want to
see while I still have an appreciative eye, to do all the things I still
want to do, all would be frustrating if I had the time to be frus-
trated,

Blessed with a lovely family, good health, and a profound interest
in all that life has to offer, I look forward to the pursuit of business

and pleasure as eagerly as ever to the very last moment of the span
allotted to me.

ALFONSO MARIZUYA

    

HOME appress: 15 Avenida 3-39, Zona 1, Quezaltenango, Guatemala.
OFFICE apprEss: Thompson-Cornwall, Inc., 20 Calle 2-05, Zona 10, Guatemala
City, Guatemala.

BoRN: Oct. 28, 1907, Quezaltenango, Guatemala. parents: Alfonso Marizuya,
Eva Venero.

PREPARED AT: Instituto Normal para Varones de Occidente, Quezaltenango,
Guatemala,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1932. DEGREE; B.Sc, (Instituto Normal para Verones de
Occidente),

marniep: Carmen Rabass6 Ferrer, May 16, 1936. CHILDREN: Sylvia Lucrecia,
Feb. 26, 1938; Aida Yolanda, Dee, 6, 1939.

[902 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OccUPATION: Camp manager, Thompson-Cornwall, Inc. roadway con nected,
OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Lions Club, 1949.
MEMBER OF: Club Quezalteco; Lions Club.

IT is hard to believe that twenty-five years have elapsed since the
days of Cambridge; but facing a mirror, the fact becomes more

oignant, and looking at two grown-up daughters, the fact becomes
a cold one. My stay at Harvard was a very short one. Due to
economical reasons I had to leave Harvard, even before completing
a year at the Engineering School, therefore there were few friends
left behind and those left must have forgotten me. The short tune
spent at Harvard, however, is something which I shall never forget.

Since the time I came back home the range of my work runs from
archaeology to roadway construction. I worked with the Carnegie
Institution of Washington in this country and Salvador, climbing a
large number of volcanoes along the Pacific Coast. I then worked
in the accounting department of the International Railroads of Cen-
tral America, and in the agricultural department of the Compania
Agricola de Guatemala (United Fruit Company). Then the United
States entered World War II, and I was offered a job with the US.
government (Rubber Development Corporation) in Honduras
The work in Honduras was hard and tiresome, but the salary was
a very good one. The war ended and there was the problem of a
new source of income. Worked with the Guatemalan government
as manager of a flour mill that belonged to a German firm before
the war. From there I was transferred to the Public Works Othee,
here in Quezaltenango.

Children growing, wife and myself getting older and energies
getting lower. The Cambridge days seem days of a remote past.
No wonder; twenty-five years have already gone during which i
lost my hair, my teeth and my energies of tw enty-five years age,
I have gained a wife, two daughters and plenty. but plenty, wf
experience.

Road construction became a sort of fever to the Guatemalan
government and several projects were given to American comtruc:
tors; new opportunities were open to men of expericnce and to men
of no experience, since the assortment of jobs in such work ranges
from office help to highway engineering. The Frher Contracting
Company of Phoenix, Arizona, assigned me to thei camp manager~
ship, work which I performed at their entire satisfaction and when
their contract was completed they recommended me tw Thormpaeny.

[ 903 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

2{TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
Cormal, nc, where | am acting 28 camp Manager for the,

Camnys in their PAVING contract of some 175 miles, Ven
1 do not know whether the lack of a sound education or m
\nck has heen 2 handicap to get rich. The lack of monetay. ‘a
ness has been full compensated by the presence of an un derstan”
wife and two charming daughters. Added to the family rea
have very SWEEL MEMONES of my days at Harvard,

If Vhad hag
gon aun sure that L would have done my best to have sent him to

Dear Old Harvard.

 

DAVID RALPH MARTIN, JR.

       

BENJAMIN MAURICE MARK

 

ADDRESS: 3301 Twilight Drive, Fullerton, Calif,

oe aporess: Boy Scouts of America, 315 W. Ninth Se, Los A
-~ March 8, 1913, Alton, I. PARENTS: David Ralph Aarti, P
AnD ar; Central High School, Austin, Minn.
years IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. curt lande, 1915.
vaaanreo: Sertimia Petti, April 26, 1941, New York, N.Y,
oocurarion: Deputy regional executive, Region 12 (West Coast, §

of America.

 

THOMAS MARVELL
sunrise: i915 Falls Drive, Dallas, Texas.

worn: April yo, 194, Old Borge, Pa, parents: Susman Mark, Tinie Puretz.
PREPARED its Old Forge High School, Old Forge, Pa.
YEARS YR COLURGE: 1931-1935. DECREE: AB, Magna cum Laude, 1935.

NO questionnsise remamed.

 

HOME AppRESs: Warren Point Road, Little Campton, R41.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 209 Bedford St., Fall River. Mass.

Born: Jan. 16, 1913, Fall River, Mass. panknrs: Edward tsa Marvell, \boe-
Brayton,

Trrarep at: St, George's School, Newport, Rt.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: Ally 1955; Bi AMP. 1OGH
MARRIED: Elinor Truesdale, Jan, +6, 199% Tiverton, RU comsare Then &,
ume 3. 1930: Ann, Oet. 10, 19ge; Philemon TL Apel i. sone
4n> son: Thomas B, Marvell, ‘61.
[ gos }
\ 904)

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

eel

WANNA CLASS OF V¥5

‘ - ‘
RAND WONT, Wn Warvell, "a0.

cant NEM vo
again WD. VSNL, DNA Ae, sociation, Fall Rig «
opty HRN Sey ens Home ot Boys, Swansea, Mya? NE, «
RAL, Seren LESTE at Arcinects;, Sakonnet

    
   
    
   

2§TH ANNIVERSARY Re
aun at; Lincoln School, New York, NY.

past: ate
4 vats COLLEGE: 1931-1935.
SS

Galf Oy Se

10h, WARD HARRIS MASON, JR, was s
Sn ih {esa Fase GaN), They Oe year and has been hospitalized since th
: ‘ s¢
WR re a4 yeas showing graduation L was in Gra date
ax Woosh or enmoyed 28 a Craftsman in various. apc Scho
chess, From exty 1992 wath md 1945, L work chura|

qaacon Cars Ff the Navy wn Newport, Rhode Isang An.

WL WS WW Lather’s architectural office in Fall River, wit
Anus, and in the Late forties | took over his Practice and Nae
cantinned is 10 ths Tine. ave
Vy ater speoalzed in the design of cotton mills when Ba

Wwe vlad an expanding, economy, and for my part | have oon
vented, Hest SAME WNPIRSIVE Gramite structures to retail outlets

drared then Lacades to emulate the industrial monume )

. . ALS ON route
aw oursrdte Boston ot demolished them and used salvaged stones

and tuners to restore even older buildings or embellish new schools
‘yowses and ‘banks. .

CHARLES FREDERICK MAS

 

hy permanent address is a seaside town within commuting dis.
Tance oh iny office. Vacations are usually spent at a place 1 own in
Nloodstock, Vermont. Yxcept for short intervals, my children

ate aviay at boarding school, college or seeing the world. 1 occa-
Sonaldy yein them tn the letter diversion.

HOME ADDRESS: 1223 Yale Ave, Claremont, Calif.

orrice appress: Fontana Unified School District, Fontana, Calis

orn: Dec. 4, 1912, Winchester, Va. parents; Carl Frederick
Margaret Harriet Parmele.

prepares aT: Handley High School, Winchester, Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934, 1935-1936. DEGREES: 8.8. 1935(j6); .
mont Graduate School), 1954.

Marniep: Nancy Moore Bedell, Sept. 13, 1948, Laguna Beach, Calif.
John, Aug. 13, 1949; Margot, April 25, 1954.

occupation: Education; counseler, counseling.

HOW ABD HARRIS MASON, JR.

MASSEY’S wife sent in the following information:

“Charles is not going to have his picture taken, nor nara
Picturesque career, He probably will divert to the Alums
what would have been spent on a handsorne photograph.

“I didn’t know him in college, so am nor a good judge of
much he has changed. The extreme youth of our children ke
us both young, in many ways, and Charles always has creas
Ptojects of his own going on in addition co a modicum of organ.
Uonal work. He has turned out re be a good relaced adsuinetrat
after years of straight high school teaching (chiefly art).

"This last year, he and 4 partner started 4 business: renting a
Selling camping equipment. With the help of parence’s wife, they +
been going strong for cight months now, in addition to regular bull-

[907 ]

 

wa Maa . , Jean
ae 8 son, New York, WN. panmers: Howard Harris Mssot

1.906 \

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

time teaching! We've all borrowed heavily for this venture, but
hope some year soon to be in the black.
“May you too prosper!”

FRED IRMER MATHER

 

HOME ApprEss: Hunting Towers Center, Alexandria, Va.
OFFICE appress: Office of C.N.O., Pentagon, Washington, D.C.
BORN: March 17, 1913, Chicago, Ill. parents: Orion Albert Mather, ’06, Cather-

ine Irmer.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.
MarrigD: Kathleen Kane. cHitpreN: Fred and Susan (twins); David.

occupation: Commander, U.S. Navy.

NO questionnaire returned.

MARK MAZEL

  

HOME appress: 46 York St. Andover, Mass.

[ go8 |

257TH ANNIVERSARY Kt pow |
orFice AppREss: Brookline Association for Mental Health, os Piena Se. Bons

line 46, Mass.
porN: April 26, 1915, New Bedford, Mass. pases sie

Bloomberg.
PREPARED AT: New Bedford High School, New Heealtesrad, Vilas

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1936. DEGREFS: A.B, PyUsSh phe, 9 Me. tBemetews Qe 8,

1949.
marriED: Theresa Shuman, June g, 194go, Boston, View comiomes Var cew

Ellen, Dec. 21, 1942; Fugene Andrew Stephen, Maw aa. tear,
Bruce, Nov. 1, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Philip A. Mazel, "45.

occuPATION: Social work — public health; esecunve director, Broediow New
ciation for Mental Health.

OFFICES HELD: Member executive committee, Mawachiunetty Sspuasth Boe ees
Association, 1938-43, 1946-49; director, Boston Junioe Chartat ed Cone
merce, 1940-43, 1946-49; Member exccutive comsmittes, Nastwwal Syreh
Racquets Association, 1941-42; president, Amerean Nag catia nd Cron
Workers, Boston Chapter, 1947-48, member crceutiwe comttce, New
England School Science Advisory Council, tgg>- ga. Bare Marbal, Clee
Agent, Boston University School of Social Work, Clie of tgyg. be turre.
Utica College, igs0-51; treasurer, Greater Lawrence Conununity Cone dh
1951-58; faculty, Boston University School of Suwul Work. agra a,
member Lawrence School Survey Committee, ty¢g ¢¢. chastrman, Corenys
Work Section, Massachusetts Conference of Sowtal Woek, myce, cherie
Greater Lawrence Conference of Health, Fulucatsws and Saual Welfare,
1955, 1959.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Social Worken, Han ard Club of Pewroe
Massachusetts Conference of Social Work, Geeatee Lawreme Cyasdanee
Center (incorporator); Massachusetts Public Plealth Neen tatcwn \hos
Education Association; Andover Badininton Club, Natuwal Saat €sace. ot
National Association for Mental Health; Sharon Tennes (tub.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on social work topics in profewuanal yournale

Cicurge Marek \

1 Satay ten F

DURING the past twenty-five vearsy unbhe saine of our mere
celebrated classmates, I have not circled the ylobe (altho yb!

get half way around during World War UW). written a best eee,
held political office, nor become an industrial ty gers, Xplore,
college president or motion picture producer, DP have, however,
pursued a most satisfying, though net ever hehminoty geaar ts.

financially, career in one of the relatively new Peeters ag!

work. Travels down the path of thy altrunty: emtoacce bag
ranged from “internship™ at two Boston setilevent beste tet
executive positions at community centers in Cows New Vert. act
Lawrence, Massachusetts, to my Current resperithalty an eee g
director of the Brookline Awoctation fer VMeneal Pleats

My earlier professional MoOUsation Was alone the bocaeb he ay

[ un) |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

old as Harvard College. Commuting never leaves one as much time
as one needs for PTA and other community activities, but we under-
take a fair amount of these, nonetheless.

As for hobbies — gone are the days of competitive squash, leagues
and tournaments, but I still manage to give a good account of my-
self with the little black ball — and, of course, am grateful for the
device of doubles, both in squash and in tennis. Summers with the
family are spent in the rather pleasant surroundings of Lake Massa-
poag in Sharon, where, in what might be described as summertime
suburbia, sunshine, pine-scented air and lakeshore abound for all.

In retrospect, it is hard to believe that twenty-five years have
passed since those golden days at Harvard. Oddly enough, I seem
to have contrived to come full cycle, and to get myself back into
student ranks once more, as we approach our Reunion. In order
to increase my effectiveness on the job, I am currently taking a
course in community mental health, as a special student at the
Harvard School of Public Health! This probably is some kind of
record for a Twenty-fifth Anniversary Reunioner, but then, one
is never too old to learn, and I have been learning ever since |
arrived in Cambridge in 1931.

JOSEPH MICHAEL MEEHAN

 

HOME appRess: 6434 Calle Cappela, Tucson, Ariz.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Geo. §. May Co., Tucson, Ariz.

BorN: Dec. 5, 1911, Lancaster, N.H. parents: Michacl James Meehan, Anna
Cassidy.

PREPARED aT: Portland High School, Portland, Maine.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.
occupation: Mercantile business.

NO questionnaire returned.

[ 912 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DAVID PRESCOTT MEFRISON

 

HOME ADpRESS: 318 W. Washington St., Napoleon, Ohwo,
OFFICE ADDRESS: 609 N. Perry St., Napoleon, Ohio.

BORN: Dec. 12, 1913, Napoleon, Ohio. parents: George A. Meckron, N ohow
G. Harvey.

PREPARED AT: Napoleon High School, Napoleon, Ohvw.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933. DEGREE: LB. (Ohio State Univid, rai

MarRIED: Mary Frances Shaff, 1939, Napoleon, Oho, cuinrs Maureen
Elizabeth, 1940; David Francis, 1937; Beth Ann, to¢4.

occuPATION: Attorney; general practice of law.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Democratic Executive and Central Comsruttees, et €
1950, Election Board, Henry County, Ohio; prevdent, Henry Count Ros
Association, since 1958.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Toledo; Elks Club, Port Choten Vaahe (body
American, Ohio State and Northwestem Ohvw Bar Awocutsen,

SINCE 1936 I have engaged in the general practice of law in north.
western Ohio. During World War I, I served as a heutenant i the

Supply Corps in the Navy. My hobby ts cruping and wailing on
the Great Lakes.

Ioi3]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

EMMANUEL TRAVERS MELLO

  

HOME apprEss: 26 William Rd., Reading, Mass.
OFFIcE appRESS: Boston Herald-Traveler Corp., 300 Harrison Ave., Boston, Mass,

BorN: Aug. 6, 1914, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Manuel Gill Mello, Mary Julia
Travers,

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

marrigD: Hilda J. Lopes, Jan. 17, 1937, Somerville, Mass. CHILDREN: Emmanuel
Travers, Jr.; Paul Travers.

occupation: Night city editor, Boston Herald.

OFFICES HELD: President, Cambridge Press Club, 1940; public relations chair-
man, Cambridge March of Dimes, 1953-55.

MEMBER OF: American Newspaper Guild; Society of Harvard Chemists.

IT would seem after twenty-five years that one should not be at a
loss for interesting or adventurous events to recount about oneself
since Harvard Commencement 1935. In briefing myself on past
reports, however, it seems that, although the subject is older, balder
and possibly wiser, time and history are trapped in a monotonous
cycle.

Celebration of our Twenty-fifth happens to coincide, in the year
at least, with my term as a newspaperman with the Boston Herald.
In December following our Reunion, I shall be eligible for the
Quarter Century Club and an engraved sterling silver dish (Oh!
Shades of Babbitt).

Through these years I have worked as a copy boy, district reporter,
staff reporter, copy editor, rewriteman, assistant city editor and now
night city editor in preparing the grist of crime, corruption, disaster,
humor, heroism and occasionally the events of which history iS
made that feed the mind of the American public as they spoon
in their morning cereal.

[914]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

As I reported for our first Reunion, I am still working on a night
shift, sleeping days and finding vitamins a fair substituce for Old
Sol. My present 8:30 p.m. to 4:30 a.m. shift as night city editor
doesn’t give me much time for socializing, club memberships or
civic activity. hus, most of my spare time has been shared with
my family, including a devoted wife (not traditional alumni ds-
plomacy) and two strapping sons, neither of whom aspired to Elar-
vard.

Reunion week promises to be a busy one for me. My elder bev,
a senior at Westfield State Teachers College, recently announced
his intention of being married on June 18th, the Saturday of our
Reunion week. My younger boy is a junior at Reading Ehgh and
plays football, but a bent toward engineering may also keep hin
away from Harvard. Well, maybe there is hope for me to become
a Harvard grandfather.

When possible, I have played some golf, done some fishing and
in my declining years have taken up skiing as a winter avocation
to show my sons there still was some life in the old boy. My shung
career was set back slightly a few years ago when I] broke my leg
but the fascination of the sport tempted me to keep at it. PT have
met several of our classmates on ski trips to New Hampshire.

Unfortunately during the passing years, I haven't found time of
inspiration to tilt at any windmills and haven't found the pot of
gold at the end of the rainbow (Harvard Fund solicitors please
note). But, all in all, I feel God has treated me and mine gently.
We all are looking forward to the coming Reunion activities.

Somehow though, I can’t help feeling that our Clays is celebrat-
ing its Twenty-fifth in a year of crisis. President Fixenhower is
making an inspired effort to find the way and the will for peace in
the world. Possibly even before our Reunion the dic may be cat

in this struggle. Let us hope that prayer and Divine mercy will
weigh the scales on the side of peace.

[9's]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

JOHN TALCOTT MENDENHALL

    

HOME appress: 140 N. Prospect Ave., Madison 5, Wis.
OFFIcE apprEss: V.A. Hospital and University of Wisconsin Medical School,
Madison, Wis.

BORN: May 8, 1913, Chicago, Ill. pareNTS: Charles Elwood Mendenhall, Doro-
thy Reed.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cust laude, 1935; M.D., 1939.

marrigp: Sarah Louise Cornell, Dec. 19, 1942, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
Dorothy Reed, Aug. 1, 1946; Susan Allen, Jan. 24, 1948; John Talcott,
Jr., Dec. 20, 1948; Thomas Cornell, Aug. 14, 1959.

occuPATION: Surgeon; chief, surgical service, V.A. Hospital, Madison, Wis,;
clinical associate professor of surgery, University of Wisconsin Medical
School, Madison, Wis.

MEMBER oF: American Medical Association; American College of Surgeons,
American Trudeau Society; Wisconsin Surgical Society; The Aesculapian
Club; Madison Literary Society.

PusLications: Various articles in surgical journals.

GRADUATION from college was followed by four years at Har-
vard Medical School and two more years in Boston interning on
the Fifth Surgical Service, Boston City Hospital. I then spent a
year at Johns Hopkins Medical School and Hospital in pathology.
It was then that I met my wife, who was a Hopkins medical student
at the time. I started my surgical residency at University Hospital,
Madison, in June, 1942, but after six months I volunteered for the
Navy, got married, and left for overseas duty all in the space of
a few weeks. Sally finished medical school and internship during
the war and has since been able to combine the full-time job of
raising four children with a part-time medical practice. My duty
in the Navy was for the most part as a medical officer in a Navy
beach battalion in the Mediterranean and European theatres, but

[916 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ended in a naval ammunition depot in Oklahoma. In June, ry4h. |
was a civilian again and resumed my surgical reidency in Wreon.
sin. After that was completed I've remained in Madnon ever same,
first as an instructor in surgery at the Medical School before assun-
ing my present position in 1953. My surgical interests have been
centered especially in the field of thoracic and cardiovascular sur-
gery. My avocations have remained: trout fishing, inland lake
(scow) sailboat racing; and western camping trips with the whole
family. This last allows me to enjoy two avocations at the same
time very satisfactorily. A surgeon leads a busy but rewarding
life and mine has the added interest of teaching medical students,
I have had little contact with members of the Class of gee escepe
those who have gone into medicine. All in all, I fcel very fortunate
that the past twenty-five years have been so busy, often crciting,
and all very satisfying.

IRA MENDLESON, JR.

 

HOME appreEss: too S. Manning Blvd., Albany, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: B. T. Babbitt, Inc., 12 Broadway, Albany, NOY.

BorN: Dec. 17, 1910, Albany, N.Y. Parents: Ira Mendleaon, Phesherh Renney.

PREPARED aT: Albany Academy, Albany, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934.

MarRRiED: Ruth Miriam Judson, Feb. 7, 1937, Albany, NOW. teboed Nog os,
1953); Blanche Courtney Torell, Oct. 7, 10¢4, Torontn, Ontarm, Canada
CHILDREN: Adcle, April 8, 1940; Tra, ad, Oct. 28, toga. Poteet, July be, ree

HARVARD BROTHER: Norman Mendleson, "3%.

occupaTION: Plant manager and assistant treasurer, BLOT, Rabbbere, Ine, «lene
manufacturers.

AFTER leaving Harvard T went to work for a Newspaper wt Nhe.
nectady as a sportswriter and, after a \oar of the. TP reserved and

[917]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

moved to New York, where I was a feature writer for Pic maga-
zine. A year and a half later, I joined B. T. Babbitt, Inc., and, after
a short training period, took charge of the Vernon, California,
plant. In 1942 I returned to the main plant at Albany, New York, as
director of personnel. In 1943, by invitation of Mr. Roosevelt, |
joined the Navy. For two years I was land-borne at Samson Naval
Training Station and, by the end of the war, was able to attain the
exalted rank of seaman second class. How many other Harvard
men can boast this achievement! In 1947 I became Albany plant
manager and assistant treasurer of B. T. Babbitt, Inc., which posi-
tions | still hold. I play golf when I can and have been club champion
seven times. I play chess every day, but still am no expert.

ARNO BERNHARD MERKEL

 

HOME appress: Lewis Street, Route 1, Rossville, Ga.
OFFICE ADpRESS: Peerless Woolen Mills, Rossville, Ga.

BorN: Dec. 13, 1914, Holyoke, Mass. parents: Max Arno Merkel, Ella Maria
Baesler.

prepareD aT: Holyoke High School, Holyoke, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

Marniep: Ann Harris, Dec. 20, 1958, Rossville, Ga. cup: Arno Bernhard, Jr.,
Oct. 30, 1959.

occupation: Textile designer.

MEMBER OF: Chattanooga Masonic Lodge; Alhambra Shrine Temple (both
Chattanooga, Tenn.).

[918 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES GREENLEAF MERRILE, JR.

 

ADDRESS: 5861 Ravenswood Rd., La Jolla, Calif.

BoRN: Oct. 18, 1913, Ottumwa, Iowa. parents: Charles Greenleaf Mersth
Mary Garner.

PREPARED AT: Ottumwa High School, Ottumwa, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1935.

NO questionnaire returned.

LOCKWOOD MERRIMAN

 

HOME appreEss: 12 Hillcrest Rd., Middlebury, Ve.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 21 Old Chapel, Middlebury College, Middlcburv, Vt.

BORN: Dec. 9, 1913, Cambridge, Mass. parexts: Frank Whae Mernaean, ‘ef.
Edith Wilder Poole.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Excter Academy, Excter, NEU.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-193§. DEGREES: A.B, 190G, AM. (Cobusnbna Unav b, basges

MaRRIED: Aileen Allison Davis, July 3, toyz, Ottawa, Ontare, Canscka cnn
Lockwood Davis, May 2, tog.

occuPATION: Teaching and college administration, awewtate predeceased of
English, Dean of Freshmen, varsity tennis coach, Middlebury College.

[919]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF I935
uley adviser, Vermont Beta Sigma. Phi EF
2h Epsilon; Mug and Mallet Club;
lub).

sos th

41g I bent : the (re 5 somew
pent” a bit in 1934 and 1935 by a couple of ye & and
pine-press of teaching, I’ve ed T

ard tHE d
since. This wine-press metaphor mea h

ing faitly constructive,
he academic degree is no necessa r

'Y bade
s, agreed; but forty-two of oe
Wo) CV oO these Tapes
it has been vintage product, I haven't
y one of the past twenty-five years,
vere spent at the invitation and, ['m
am (1942-46). “There’s a war On,
1 the hot sun!” or “Kilroy was
Artillery, Fort Sill, a Ppeared to
Air Force enfolded me in its
it Westover, the Air Trans-
specially at the Reno Army

‘Day, V-J Day and V-D
ron 1s a good field and
aching, coaching and
+ all pass — or gra du-
heir games, Of the
swe you or around

fun, and guarat-
e same time.

Or
creative members of ,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPOR

NELSON CASE METCALF, J®.

     

. Pine Road, Briarcliff Manor, NN.
_ LaRoche & Co., Inc, 575 Lexington Ave. New Not,

HOME s: P
OFFICE ADDRESS: C.
idge, Mass. PARENTS: Nelson Case Meteall Sgfy Fthech

N.Y.

RN: Jan. 1, 1912, Cambr

0

Haworth.

pREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, NH.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: AB, 1935

manele: Constance Eaton, March 9, 1940, Brattleboro, Vt. aunarss Michack,

May 21, 1941; Christopher, June 2, 19433 Constance, Jt, Sept. 22, 1949.
occupation: Advertising; vice-president and manager of copy Acpatnent,

C, J. LaRoche & Company, Inc. /
member oF: Harvard Club of New York, Sleepy Lellow Country Cy Su:

borough, N.Y.
WHERE did the time go? 1 still can’t quite believe Wt. Smrce WY,
I have been engaged in advertising, selling, of panting, Wheto
phy, consulting, free-lance w LING, MAITAge an te TNE w
children — and more recently sports cats and golf, Vent toner
say that T have put aside any of these conmplerely, V Mare swan
Concentrated more on some than others, i.e, avertorng WA Lads
My homie life has aspects which both amare anh agi ang. Wo
i I have watched Mike, MY franlovinng cshneeneyerrald, vor
se : hange into a serious scholar wh Linings Wrong Xs, Vn
PCr] | ~ . a | ON
i fntlled to see my Afteensvear-ald, Chet, wrod down the,
(lines \. _ . a ON NX
in of the Hackley football edt ant sear Qngy Manso
C df] VV ’ \ |  s |
tn 4 ‘ have A Uch-\ carat dancer, \ wh \ i Witty \
50 Simply f : . \
8) simply and cantly tha WANS AE WW \yine oS

On ( l}) ieee! ‘
M1 ¢ CONEINIIES ta LISA We Wier AN WAAC

Maer se ““
Dan be ¢ Dito mtstake- the WN aA Aheae own ‘\ :

NIG

\

IN Hittite \ \\
Ui cos fy yates, ais eS

|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

spots and editing the work of others who do the same. It wasn’t
until two years after graduation that I discovered that I was meant
for advertising. It has given me some fame, some fortune, some
wonderful friends—and plenty of excitement. I began with a
small Boston agency, and during the war I was lucky enough to
write “The Kid in Upper Four” for the New Haven Railroad.
This won me one of advertising’s top awards, the attention of many
famous people and job offers from top-flight agencies. I left Boston
and joined McCann-Erickson in New York. Here for twelve years
I wrote for Canadian National Railways, Bulova, Schenley, Chrysler,
Gruen, Pepsodent and many others. At this point I had made enough
rich people richer so that the job offers began again. I eventually
ended up working with a Yale man, C. J. LaRoche, where I am a
vice-president in the copy department and member of the Plans
Board, working on Revlon, Canadian Club, Norelco and Royal
McBee among others.

I have an increasing respect for Harvard — even though I can’t
honestly say that I expect my sons to go there. This will be the
first break in four generations of Metcalfs at Harvard—a fact
which will make my grandsire turn over in his grave. But when-
ever I experience disappointment in Harvard, then something al-
ways comes along to delight me, with a beautifully precise state-
ment like the current Harvard Foundation Newsletter with its
plea for “Education in Science” — David McCord’s “Christmas in
a University” — or even this year’s Yale-walloping football team.

My home in Briarcliff, New York, where I spend as much time
as possible, was originally meant to be a quiet retreat for my family.
It has turned out to be a rather noisy place. But the food is excel-
lent, the drinks are on the house, the logs burn late and everyone
from the Class of ’35 is always welcome.

[922 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GUY WHEELER MEYER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1 Steere St., Harrisville, R.1.
OFFICE ADDRESS: First Universalist Church, Harrisville, R.1.
BoRN: Dec. 19, 1914, Malden, Mass. parents: Harold Alton Mever, ‘og, Ethel

Christina Wheeler.

PREPARED AT: Waltham High School, Waltham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932. DEGREE: A.B. (Univ. of Chicago), too.

marRigeD: Phyllis Kiesselbach, June, 1938, Waltham, Mass. (divorced togai.
Verne Anne Brodney, 1948, New York, N.Y. crivoses: Satya, Dee. 14.
19413 Odell, April 22, 1943; Lynn, May 24, 1939; Guy Wheeler, Je. Ove.

22, 1951; Jill, June 16, 1954.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Norman Meyer, °43, M.B.A., 49; Andrew Gall Mever, ‘as.
OCCUPATION: Minister, First Universalist Church of Burrillville, RE

WELL, one way to look at it is that I’m the kind of guy that's been
around a bit but never amounted to much. Burt that isn’t the peint.
What is important to me, anyway, is that I think I've learned quite
a bit. No more than most of the lads, no doubt, but enough to con-
vince me pretty strongly of certain things. Since you suggested at
least views if not news — man, you asked for it!

In 1932, as some of my classmates might recall, my family, bhe
many others, was wiped clean. So we all tried to go to work for
the sheer urge of survival, What I didn’t try to scll they haven't
invented yet. Then factory work — thirty cents an hour —- seven
days a week, nine to ten hours a day. I was a plutocrat by wine
standards.

The year 1937 was the crucial point of my life when at a sun-
mer institute of the American Friends Service Comniuttee all the
arguments I had so valiantly used to bolster my Republaan, pre
capitalist bias were turned against me by some of the institute speak:
ers. For the first time, the data I had dug up in Riestein Library tes
campaign for Alf Landon fell together in a pattern that made wie.

[ 923 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

sili enell

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

WL
ad Fla.
oriuiuty to enter the field of litho
start at the bottom (as apprentice chy” *8ain jn
wick promouon toward the top. It loo Lk 2 man)
Again, the trap — the poisonous, stiflj Cd like
WING INV famtly back into it For ae ty
the thought of the ministry again an d ‘eral
y ready, Could my wife accept and ad
t besutitully, just
of the Universalist Church in a prete
4, [now know that my decision Wn
CA note of us Is capable of practis-
on trying. The goal 1s the thing,
measure Of love to one’s fellow

t yeas was a visit last summer
» Odell — the first time I had
in a Renault from Van-
> to Maine, This was the
er —and when I looked
‘kof humility I might
le,

dere

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CARLTON RANSOM MILINOWSKIL

    

HOME ADDRESS: 40 E. 89th St., New York 28, NY.
orrice Apbress: R-Way Furniture Co., 111 Fourth Ave., New York 3, SA.
1912, Buffalo, N.Y. parents: Arthur Siegined Milinowska, oq,

sors: J ,
Harriet Allen Sill.
paepareD AT: Stillwater High School, Sullwater, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

UNMARRIED.
wagvarD BROTHER: Arthur Siegfried Milinowski, Jr. °32.

occupation: Contract manager, R-Way Furniture Company, Lurninure tand-

facturers.
wemBer or: Harvard Club of New York.

HAVING no burning ambition to become an OCLIMOTLIPNCT,
herpetologist, or optician, or to remain in anthropology, and wih

no inner drive toward a profession ot scientific pursuit, 1 adopter

the philosophy upon graduation of “Let s-See-what-happens.” “Une
depression assisted in making that decison, “This meant, as it warned
out, finding a niche in the broad category ot business. Nate
sub-heading in this great field 1s selling, sales promotion ant sil

management, and it is here that 1 landed and have since tomar

My first efforts proved to be a false start OF TWO. AUTY MNOS
paper photography (an outgrowth of my hoblyy ant exnenenee
gained In extracurricular work at Harvard) in wy Lowe Wow oh
St, Paul Minnesota: a forsaking of the Madwest tot ATU Ibs

he West Coast where T clerked tn a farnoras hotel ant ented
ne climate, After such, miscellaneous, activites, 4 vith wo

\ nn ind an eventual migration to New Vor Qty, Vavade y
Mnéction with the contract division of W& \, Nanny, Wioa
1) © eacly iggy primary function vas she WW
png funiture bss fue connec datos Wa

Cis
1 |

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 193 ¢

ces, schools, hospitals, ships and for £0vernmen, 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

be Wal *Bencie, 4 The view from my apartment overlooking Central Park and
aly 19g¢2 EO fate 1945, I was associated wit. the . void. yoir is lovely, but 1 fear ever-growing New Nork wit
jaitally attending training schools and the S, Army, the vee literate a handsome portion of it. V aw reconciled, ow -
r ° . nN t . hort y aoe . hi a ‘ \
jools ina number of locations exte €a s oment, to living in this modem puchlo.
400. nding from the Ng ever, for the m

“oast, and from Afinnesota to Florida, T tau st
rower operation, acted as school sy erat bling
phases of the war returned to schooj in ria and
- Division for eventual assignment to th e B-ag
rupt ending of the war at this’ point € Pacific
“ed, ? OVerse, s

ura to my previous em loy and J remained
yacity of sales promotion ma Mager in ¢o €
when I was transferred to their Washin n-
Manlager. f enjoyed Washington in co
ique atmosphere, lovely buildings the
rs, all these made life there pleasurab le
arding. And a weekend drive into

BRANFORD PRICE MILLAR

 

Pumper ‘eritations Became a maj or Home Appress: 806 NAV, Albemarle Terr, Portland 10, Oregon,
: orice appRESS: Portland State College, vaz0 SAV, Path Ave. Portland a,
ned to sever this long-stan ding | Oregon. Lo
‘one to use the sole excuse that porn: March 20, 1914, Monroe, Conn, parests, Morgan Malar, “ge, Warest
Agnes Hogg.

to take a leisurel Be we , “y

. rey tour of prepareD AT: Silver Bay School, Silver Bay, NA,
2 grand swing from England | YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. magna cram Laide, wy, YM. vad,
A France to Parts and back PHD, 1946.

marriep: Teresa Calamara, June 20, 1939, Cambridge, Mas, cures Antica

Craig, May 18, 1948, Constance Irene, June v4, 1983,

nate won chair Ate
: nationally known ch HARVARD BROTHER: Alclville Beattie Millar, °33.

uarters in New York. occupation: President, Portland Stare College.
d up in the cards and OFFICES HELD: Several in professional and cducational ergaratess,
sontract manage. | EMBER OF; Phi Beta Kappa; a number of profesional, abscrenl v bse

a] 1, organizations,

rcfal installation 1! | | ae
rcial We PUBLICATIONS: Articles on literature, folMlote and gheatesy ws yhoo ok
oll BO, cre. journals,

s ’ f
armicure throug | |
TAM one of those who does not have tw wok (a Wack Wt: TS

ns, [ have had , I ‘i his ole years, bec \ nove Av caller, Ve \ We
Fnited state " - “a Wed N an Lie NW Vu iuinl Wo
along wit fon 'h " viel in i ete pion VEAL
Inow oul sn ut “Preston, n NN VCaNS \ Nh NON WW \ why yk
pptentice each, and withya bvests Well Wand Waves vk

UI Ichi nett fee \ og
york teaching position ina Maryland teaches eaters dee Qe

(si! Dy an aller of §3qoa Wet ain she Wade

| yay |

\V/
if rie

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

was a substantial sum even for a young teacher. I was drafted in
November of 1943 and spent two and one-half years in Civilian
Public Service in Virginia, Connecticut, and Washington, D.C.

In 1946, I went to Michigan State University as assistant profes-
sor of English, following there the usual round of teaching, writing,
and committee work, with some administrative experience as assistant
dean of the Graduate School. I also took on the first editorship of
a quarterly magazine of the liberal arts, the Centennial Review of
Arts and Sciences. Along the line there came promotions to a pro-
fessorship,

In 1958 I was invited to assume the presidency of Portland State
College, founded in 1955 as the metropolitan sister institution to the
University of Oregon and Oregon State College. We now have
4ooo students and no end of them in sight. The college is a liberal
arts college with professional curricula in education, business and
applied sciences. The faculty is young and vigorous, the plant and
facilities are growing, and the atmosphere is altogether exhilarating.
Since we have few alumni, we are not compelled to win even our
fair share of football games; neither can we tap them for $82,000,000.
I took office in February, 1959, and by now I am fairly well shaken
down.

So much for an unspectacular academic career, which neverthe-
less has contained what for me at least are quite sufficient ingredi-
ents of expectation, hard work, and rewards, along with not incon-
siderable amounts of leisure and reflection. Personally I have man-
aged to survive for twenty-five years since college without any
hobbies, and am unlikely to acquire any now, though I have culti-
vated the art of loafing as an avowed pursuit. This loafing never-
theless somehow seems to have taken in quite active doses of travel,
sports, music and theatre, and the various do-it-yourself arts of in-
door and outdoor husbandry. My wife and the kids appear to be
similarly addicted, and we wander around enjoying what we do and
wishing we had more time for all of it.

Our major problem now is how to get the most use out of a
summer place which we built in New Hampshire in time to get our
camp, grounds, beach, boat, etc., all in shape just before we decided
to move to Oregon, which now we find to be a kind of New England

on a grandiose scale, and the weekending very satisfactory, And
so it goes!

[ 930 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GERARD ROLAND MILLER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 71 Boulder Rd., Manchester, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 17 Haynes St., Manchester, Conn.
BORN: Jan. 30, 1912, Jamaica Plain, Mass. PARENTs: Henry Fdinund Mallee,

Helen Coughlin.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 1935; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), tora
MARRIED: Louise Kenworthy, Sept. 13, 1941, Warrenton, Va. cautpass: Cocratd
Roland, Jr., Oct. 13, 1944; Sally, Oct. 19, 1947; Donald Ky Aug. 8. 1961.
OCCUPATION: Physician.
OFFICES HELD: Associate in medicine, Manchester Memorial Hospital.
MEMBER OF: American, Connecticut, Hartford County and Mancheweer Media}

Associations.

GRADUATED from medical school, June, 1939. Spent vear (tgiy-
4o) at rotating internship at Bridgeport General Elospital, Bradye-
port, Connecticut, followed by residency at Manchester Memorsal
Hospital, Manchester, Connecticut.

Commissioned lieutenant (j.g.), Medical Corps, USNR and re-
ported for duty July 7, 1941, at Quantico, Virginia. Joincd FMF at
Quantico and thence to Camp Lejeune, Jacksonville, North Carolina,
Trained with the FMF and sailed from Norfolk, May, tyogs. foe
New Zealand, thence to Guadalcanal via Fiji bland, landing oa
August 7, 1942, with the rest of the boys. Camped here for a couple
of months, then to Australia via the New Hebrides and back to the
USA. Traveled from east coast to west coast, back to the cast coast
according to the confusion of the times and typical orders only to
end up on the west coast for final assignments to duty oy Ji wart,
Visited Sasebo and Nagasaki and then tinally home for return te
civilian life.

Entered general practice in Manchester in January, t4% Have
gradually limited practice to internal medicine.

[931]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

HENRY STUCKERT MILLER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 12 Meade Rd., Broad Axe, Ambler, Pa.

oFFice appress: 745 Yorkway PL, Jenkintown, Pa.; 11 E. Airy St., Norristown,
Pa.

porN: July 6, 1913, Jenkintown, Pa, PARENTS: Augustus Joseph Miller, Jr,
Anna Parsons Stuckert. |

PREPARED AT: William Penn Charter School, Philadelphia, Pa.; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; LL.B., 1938.

marrigp: Martha Otis Stengel, Jan. 27, 1951, Radnor, Pa. cnm-p: Henry Stuckert,
Jr., Feb. 29, 1952.

occupation: Lawyer — general practice under own name.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant district attorney, Montgomery County, Pa., 1946-49;
district director, Jenkintown, Pa., district, Community Chest, 1947-49;
director, Montgomery Bar Association, 1953; elder, 1955-57, clerk of ses-
sion, 1956-57, Grace Presbyterian Church of Jenkintown; director, 1956-
59, Vice-president, 1959-60, Rotary Club of Jenkintown; director, Abington
Y.M.C.A., since 1957; director, secretary, John C. Mercer Home, since
1938; director, Ambler Public Library, 1960.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; Pennsylvania Bar Association, Mont-
gomery Bar Association; Military Order of Foreign Wars; Military Order
of the Loyal Legion; Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Penllyn Club.

FOR me the twenty-five years since 1935 have been devoted mainly
to family, profession, and military service. From college I went
directly to Harvard Law School and graduated in due course. A
proctorship in the Yard was a great financial help. The next two
years were devoted to getting admitted to the state and county
bars for practice in my home area of Montgomery County, Penn-
sylvania. At that time our county had a restrictive quota system,
and I waited for a year for admission to our county bar.

As we shall never forget, the Nazis overran western Europe in
1940. The Battle of Britain that summer intensified my previous

[ 932 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORE

interest in flying. Being overage for the Army and Navy tothe
training programs, I enlisted in the R-C.A-F, at Montreal on Febru-
ary 18, 1941. The R.C.A.F. and Canada were most interesting and
stimulating, a comment I could apply to every duty asivninent 1
have ever had in the service. I was commissioned a piloe otheer
in November, 1941.

I was serving near Montreal the following spring when a tranmfer
movement took place, intended to return as many Americans as
possible to U.S. forces. Although very content w ith the RON,
and Canada, I accepted a commission in the Marine Corps. One
consideration in the change — almost nonsense to me — was the
change in attitude in the United States after Pearl Harbor, tow ards
Americans serving in the Allied but “foreign” services.

The USMC provided an overseas tour of sixtecn months in the
South Pacific. This included duty with Boyington’s “Black Sheep”
squadron at the time that great combat pilot was shot down. At
the end of the war I was C.O. of a twin-engine day fighter squadron
about to leave San Diego.

Then thirty-two, with little practical law expericnee behind me,
I opened an office of my own in Jenkintown, Montgomery County,
where I had lived all my life. The first months were lean, but
shortly I became an assistant district attorney, which way a fine
experience,

In July, 1946, the Navy and Marine air reserve program got
started. The Willow Grove naval air station was only a short
distance away and most convenient. FT became CQ. of the Manne
fighter squadron at Willow Grove and continued thus for evactly
five years and five months.

On a tennis court in September, 1948, [met Martha Ous Seengel
There were more tennis games and other incidents and finally we
were married, on January 27, 1951. Our interests are very senilar
she is from nearby Chester County, and her wartine esperien es
included driving a Red Cross clubmobile into Berlin with the Second
Armored Division. Our one offspring is a sen, bern on Leap Nuor
Day, 1952.

Our reserve squadron went on active duty en March a, rgce
We expected to go to California and then Korea, We prevresed
as far as California and trained extensively. But weeks lengthened
into months, so that many personnel became inchyible for aver:
seas, lacking the necessary minimum of remaining months te weve
I went in May, 1952, and had the satisfaction of representing the

[933]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1 935

United Nations as well as the United States and o
Communist dictators an unmistakable physical] e¢
trust we all feel toward them.
By February, 1953, I was back at the law, trying agai
up with my contemporaries. We bought a home ne . ‘A to
which we still live most happily. It’s about halfway ber mb
principal office in Jenkintown and our county seat of N, wee
where I have a small branch office. My practice js g eneral o™
“country lawyer. ” As for the service, I belone to . > that of
Junteer training unit which meets two evenings am $0~-Called
t at the present time I am not doing this for retirement onth,
t do not want to drop out. Purposes
ing back to the beginning of this chronicle, the thre :
wily, profession and military service have turned our Subjects
/ represent a generous measure of that someth in g re presen i or
‘verworked word “security.” But much remains to be d “
us knows what the next twenty-five years hold j One,
of us, but certainly for each there are great wri

Opportunities.

f delive;;
I
Xpression oF he the
Ow

Catch
ler:
n

ISADOR MILLER

 

St, Urbana, Ohio,
it, Urbana, Ohio.

at, Ohio, parents: Philip Miller, Rose Grect-

1001, Cincinnati, Ohio,

EGREES: A.B, (Univ, of Cincinnati), 1935; 3™:
39, |

3, 1939, Gallipolis, Ohio, critpREN: David,
43; Leslic, Jan. 20, 1957.

ogist; general practice,

934 J

OFFICE ADDRE

  
     
  
    
  
 
 
 
   

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ces HELD: Delegate from Champaign County to Ohio State Medwal Aws
oFFI

ciation; member, Committee on Scienufic Work, Otvo State Meda ah

Association; chairman, Champaign County Heart Couneil,
MBER OF! Champaign County Medical Society; Ohio State and Ameren
ME!

Medical Associations; Ohio and American Societies of Aneuheuok gan.

ONE year of practice after graduation from medical school, then
military service in a station hospital — in French Morocco, Casa.
blanca and Marrakech. In service September, igg:. Home again
October, 1945. A little heavier, a little more experienced — and

uite ready to start my medical work. Plenty to do seven days a

a eek — spend many hours in hospital — few hours in the office —
some hours with house calls. Spare time is just that — quite spare «=
and is spent at home or — when I can get away — fishing at the many
ponds close to home.

Vacations with the family have been educational as well as fun —
trips into northern Wisconsin —a western tout —the Dabhotay
Yellowstone, Utah, Colorado, A jaunt to Florida, Washington, va
Now that the children are older they don’t want to do this any mote.
So there are vast areas of our country about which we are ignerant.

Social activities are not too strenuous in a small community siuuh
as ours. Political activities in this staunch Republican COUNTY ate
also minimal. Our religious activities center about the fine Mctho-
dist Church we have in Urbana.

All in all, a not too exciting life, but 1 love my work and the
people we care for. I would not change it.

~HENRY EMERSON MITCHELL.

fe ABM MSD RTE ma
Keren’ eager ‘

¥ +
i 4
Lf
| Oy
¥.
z
%

co

\ t

* *
ae My

Lt AONE

* i\,

&

NA

=

cnAt ORE BOI IE

PN ERLE

       

S! 11g Watson Rd, Mt Pleasant, Mich. Mt
We ‘ . ‘ t ot a gek poe tty
SS: Central Michigan University, Mt. Pheasants 0

[935 |

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

v- Alay 2f, 19'S Hull, Afass. PARENTS: Henry Fo
rebecca Gerrold. _ Tres
so av: Hingham High School, Hingham, Mass.

» COLLEGE: 193 1-WD3 Oe ;

Lana E. Lukkarmen, Chicago, II.

y Education; aaminstrative assistant to the Vice
1 University.

AF. & AAL; Commandery; Medinah Shrine. Soc}

JVererans of Foreign Wars; Reserve Officers "A Ociety of Fig

awersitv Business Officers; National Office \V SSOCiation.
° e fanag

Ptlesid,
en La C
uo ‘al

ement Asso.

¢ thirties [ taught in various New Englan d
arecr Was sharply interrupted in ; 940 A S€cond_
re U.S. Army, as a first lieutenant P- Y Orders

ari Fxce
, ° Ct
AMUN, ny entire any life was tj P for
| 1 In Com.

Third Infantry Divisions in E urope, Afri
” these years I was awarded the Sjj ver Ste
tat, the French Croix de Guerre with d
along with the unit commend, tion of
tres and Presidential citations, and rose
| present tine I hold the rank of liey-

was faced again with making a de-
two years as a training specialist
cemen, I took a position as office
and Indemnity Company which
nbination of business and edu-
jing the business operation

T, and recen tly to Central

ertencing se veral changes
lt alo yely home on the

an, and hope to enjoy
ur several homes have
pentry. M ly amt
, je
to take great pi!
ooins, a screen

| e

rojects dlesp!
| el
with 109 8

me ~
Te

t .
er Mitchey i
» id.

2 5TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

h the still dense woods. We take pleasure in the slow ce

2
‘Le throug .
nike of life in 2 small town after many years of the frantic and
pace ife of a big city coupled with commuting to a subuarh,
hurried life © S , . .* Ly
rticularly since the more tranquil order of existence w hoked
pa

ith the multitude of activities of university life.
Ww oe

LESLIE GOODWIN MITCHELL

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Jackson Cove Road, Oxford, Conn,
BorN: July 3, 1913, Harrington, Maine, PARENTS: Chester Nelson Mache,

Gelia Emma Larrabee.
prepARED AT: Harrington High School, Harrington, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: 8.8, cunt laude, 1935.

marrieD: Carolyn Grant Crozier, June 20, 1940, Foster Wand, Wave non
County, Maine. CHILDREN: Leslie Goodwin, Jr, Marely vo agar, Perce
Nelson, Nov. 22, 1943; Carolyn, Aug. 5, 1959.

occupation: Rehabilitation.

AF TER twenty-two years in the held of productiwe engncenay,

primarily involving the manufacture of aieratt, 1 am row der Otay

my entire efforts to the field of mental Mess, Both wy wite rw

now make this our full-time occupation. Wer specie Yate

les in mental illness and rehabilitation, while ww Wwrerer ds Wrectcd
toward retardation, We are currently mW Ure Procen Wats),
Ing a private traning school for the mentally tetarded, Pyar
f ‘ endorsed by our own three mentally now od Wolsy
children, ) Oe

ees cit |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ROBERT MATTHEW MITCHELL

SST

    

HOME abprEss: 1401 Sheridan St, N.W., Washington 11, D.C.

oFFice appress: U.S. Civil Service Commission, Washington, DC.

BORN: June 4, 1913, Newton, Mass. PARENTS: Matthew John Mitchell, Fllen L.
Foley.

PREPARED AT: Taunton High School, Taunton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

UNMARRIED,

HARVARD BROTHER: Matthew John Mitchell, M.B.a., °47.

occupation: Examiner, Test Development Section, Civil Service Commission.

NATHAN MOGER

 

HOME AbpRESS: 33 Bartlett Crescent, Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 State St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 2, 1914, Boston, Mass. Parents: Jacob Moger, Sarah Kagan.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 19353 LL.B., 1938.

marrieD: Esther Shapiro, Nov. 4, 1945, Newark, N.J. cHmpreN: Robert Lance,

April 4, 1947; Barbara Claire, Feb. 14, 1948; Susan Kate, March 31, 1952.
occupation: Lawyer.

[ 938 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Assistant Corporation Counsel, City of Boston. 19.4 go. general
counsel, City of Boston Transit Commission.
AFTER four reminders from the efficient Report Chairman concern-
ing my delinquency in sending in my biography, 1 begin, on this
Thanksgiving, 1959, to recount, “Moger, this is vour life.” As 1
commence, I feel that it is going to be an account of a quarter-
century of prosaic activity, highlighted by depression, war and
marriage. TI’o compensate for being a “subw av undergraduate” —
1.€., living at home and commuting each day to and from Cambridge
—and mindful of all the college life which I had missed, as I write
Iam wearing my newly purchased sweatshirt, across which are cn-
blazoned the words ‘Harvard — Veritas.”

After graduation in 1935, I entered the Law School, where I re-
ceived a degree in 1938. I earned my tuition by acting as a private
tutor for more affluent but lethargic Cantabrigian undergrads. In
1937 I enrolled in a course at the Law School in municipal corpora-
tions and joined the committee of Maurice J. Tobin for mavor of
Boston. In 1938, I became a member of the Office of Corporation
Counsel for the city of Boston, by appointment of Mavor Tobin.
I enjoyed the rare fortune of serving under Harvard's Henry Park-
man, Jr., and Robert Cutler, and w ith Frank J. Murray and Jencph
A. Scolponeti, the latter two being alumni of non-ivy institugens,

In 1942, while still enjoying single blessedness, I enlisted in the
Signal Corps and remained on inactive status untal September, 193 t.
while acquiring an intensive course of study in radar theory. On
active duty in Miami Beach with the Air Force, a theretofere un-
discovered “talent” reared its head, namely a proficiency te perform
successfully | as a master of ceremonies in entertaining troop. (blow
a head can “rear” will be covered in a Jater biography. ) Treplar |
some “big name” professional entertainers in Boca Raton while
zealously maintaining my amateur standing. TE enjoved this activity
immensely, since I traveled in an environment far ditherent Free
that traversed by a drab Bostonian barrister.

In 1945, I sailed by unconvoyed Coast Guard vewcl to luly. On
March 12, 1945, the Bay of Naples grectcd a Very scastch menber
of the greatest Class in Harvard's history: (1936). T contiucd Ge
regale our liberated Neopolitan brethren with try fapier-hhe wit
Upon reflection, I must confess that the failure of a vase majeroty
in my audiences to comprehend Fnglish added to BY Fe pve at eee
and success, After a triumphant tour of Naples Caserta, # oyna and

[939]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Bari, I was reluctantly shipped home, arriving four days after the
bombing of Hiroshima.

On November 4, 1945, the girl who had caught my eye at a Ft.
Monmouth Service Club caught the rest of me, and so we were
wed. On December 19, 1945, my partnership with President (then
General) Eisenhower was terminated at a Portland, Oregon, separa-
tion center. My bride and I spent a protracted three-week honey-
moon in the Pacific northwest, residing in Tacoma, Washington.
Upon my return to civilian status, I resumed my law career with
the city of Boston, which by now had as mayor a war-time political
re-tread, named James Michael Curley. I served close to four years
while he was mayor, and like the rest of his quondam adversaries, I
too was charmed by the old man. I was a member of the city ad-
ministration during his “Last Hurrah” —an unforgettable experi-
ence.

After the defeat of Curley, I was retired to private practice, which
I have been enjoying very much. On occasions, I have been desig-
nated as Auditor and Master by the more discriminating (sic) justices
of our Superior Court. It is a quasi-judicial role of which I am
especially fond and proud.

After my bride presented me with two children within one year,
I gave her a well-earned sabbatical leave from the duties which she
bore so well. Upon the conclusion of this sabbatical, Susan was
born in 1952. You will see all five of us at the Reunion, since I under-
stand that prolific alumni and bachelors pay the same price. We live
in Brookline, Massachusetts, in a modest two-family home which
we own (“modest” being suburbanese for “heavily mortgaged”).
T hope to think that we are a happy family.

The foregoing is the story of 1935-1960, a tale of depression,
war and marriage. Everything written above is the “veritas.”

[ 940 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SAMUEL C. MONCHER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 123-35 82d Rd., Kew Gardens 15, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 304 E. 94th St., New York 28, N.Y.

BoRN: July 30, 1914, Boston, Mass, parents: Julius Moncher, Jennie Smoller.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., cuv laude, 1935.

MARRIED: Bunny Colin, Sept. 22, 1938, New York, N.Y.

occupaTiON: Regional manager, Evansville Division, Bendix-Westinghouse
Automotive Air Brake Company.

I LIKE these requests for biographical information which specify
“no literary talent required,” but nevertheless enclose exemplary
sketches which might have been ghosted by a team composed of
Moss Hart, Ben Hecht and Robert Ruark. However, refuse to be
dismayed and shall proceed forthwith.

As I look back over the past three decades to the halcyon days of
our freshman year, one truth stands out above all others. Not even
the most unclouded crystal ball could have foretold the scientific
and technological progress which would take place during our
lifetime. If one of the weekly English A theme assignments had
been to write an account of what the world would be like a quarter
of a century hence, I feel sure that even the most fantastic account
would not have exceeded reality.

I recall particularly some advice published in 1936 regarding
Professor Aston’s calculation that one-half pound of matter, if ic
could be induced to explode into energy, would be sufficient to
drive a 30,000-ton vessel from New York to Southampton and back
at twenty-five knots. The advice was, “. .. do not buy any stock
in the Atomic Energy Development Company. You will certainly

lose.”
I wish I had kept a scrap book of the opinions which so-called

[941]

_—

HARVARD CLASS OF 193§

experts have freely expounded during my lifetime. What hilarious
reading this would make.

Since I have been asked for some words of wisdom to ease the
burdens of future civilizations, I offer the following:

(1) The acceptance of the fact that there are two sides to every
coin is the first step in the realization of wisdom.

(2) Shun advice unsolicitedly offered. The experience of others

does not necessarily form a basis for the solution of your own prob-
lems.

Nuff sed.

GEORGE NUGENT MONRO

        
  

SOREL EIEN EE ETERS LRG SG

 

HOME ADpRESS: 3 Woodland PI., Grosse Pointe 30, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Manufacturers National Bank, Fort and Shelby Streets, Detroit,
Mich.

Born: May 17, 1912, Pittsburgh, Pa. parents: William Loftus Monro, 89,
Violet Bedell.

prepare at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932. DEGREE: PH.B. (Kenyon Coll.).

MaRRiED: Margaret Williams, June 4, 1938, Grosse Pointe, Mich. CHILDREN:
George Nugent, qth, Dec. 7, 1939; Steven W., Nov. 11, 19423 William
L, March 13, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Loftus Monro, Jr. 16 (deceased); Charles Bedell
Monro, ’23.

occuPATION: Vice-president, Manufacturers National Bank of Detroit.

OFFICES HELD: Sales engineer, American Window Glass Company, 1937-423
lieutenant, j.g, to lieutenant commander, U.S. Naval Reserve, 1942-453
assistant to president, western region, Capital Airlines, 1945-47; director,
Aero Club of Michigan, since 1946; vice-president, Manufacturers National
Bank of Detroit, since 1947; member Aviation Committee, Detroit Board
of Commerce, since 1947; president, director, Self-Service Laundry Com-
pany, since 1947; director, AMT Corporation, since 1950; director, Grosse

[942 ]

_——

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Pointe Club, 1950-59, 1960; director, United Service Associates, since 195t;
member Alumni Trustees, 1955~58, president Alumni Association, since
1958, Middlesex School.

MEMBER OF: Detroit Club; Grosse Pointe Club; Country Club of Detroit,
Yondotega Club, Duquesne Club; Economic Club of Detroit, Psi Upsilon.

EVERETT ILA MONTAGUE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 404 Jerusalem Rd., Cohasset, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Distributor Products Division, Raytheon Co., 411 Providence
Turnpike, Westwood, Mass.

BorN: Nov. 4, 1911, Brooklyn, N.Y. parents: John Montague, Florence T.

. Sibertson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 193 1—I933.

MarRigD: Janet Hill, Aug. 20, 1938, Newton Center, Mass. cHiLprEN: Robert
Dodge, April 6, 1942; Anne, April 29, 1946.

occupaTion: Manager of Training & Trade Relations, Distributor Products
Division, Raytheon Company.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant sales manager, New England District, York Safe & Lock
Company, 1935-44; manager, Advertising and Sales Promotion, Receiving
Tube Division, Raytheon Company, 1944-58; chairman, Distributor
Products Division, United Fund-Raytheon Company, 1959.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Cohasset Golf Club; New Fnygland
Lawn Tennis Association; Cohasset Dramatic Club (past president);
Cohasset Rotary Club (charter member).

AFTER college I spent a brief time in the financial field with Weil
McKey, Pearson, commercial paper brokers, and then joined York
Safe & Lock Company, serving in various New England sales man-
agement capacities with them until 1944. In this year T joined Ray-
theon Company, designers and manufacturers of electronic comm
ponents and equipment, and became advertising and sales promotion
manager of their Receiving Tube Division in 1gy46. In 19s9 1 be-

[ 943 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

came a member of the Raytheon Company’s Distributor Products
Division staff and in this capacity am presently serving as manager
of Training and Trade Relations.

My son “Bob i is now in his upper middle year at Taft and m
daughter Anne is in the eighth grade at Derby Academy. They
are both headed for college but it is too early yet for conjectures
on choices. Janet and I are very interested in the New England
Lawn Tennis Association and have been active in junior tennis
development for some time. Also we are the proud parents of two
current New England ranking junior tennis players. We are mem-
bers of St. Stephen’s Episcopal Church in Cohasset.

WALTER EGLINTON MONTGOMERY

 

ADDRESS: Flower & Paula Sts., Glendale, Calif.

BORN: Sept. 10, 1908, Ithaca, N.Y. parents: Dudley Eglinton Montgomery,
Agnes Shea.

PREPARED AT: Dwight School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.

MARRIED: Agne Byrley, 1951, Los Angeles, Calif.

eT

NO questionnaire returned.

L G44 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES ROBERT MOORE

 

PRESENT ADDRESS: American Embassy, Phnom Penh, Cambodia.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of State, Washington, D.C.

BorN: Aug. 16, 1915, Galena, Ill. parents: Charles Isaac Moore, Nelle Carney.

PREPARED AT: Robert College, Istanbul, Turkey.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935. DEGREES: A.B., Cum laude, 19353 AM. (New York
Univ.), 1940.

MARRIED: Joanna Daniels, July 2, 1947, Ankara, Turkey. cata: Caroline
Dorothea, March 30, 1949; Cynthia, Nov. 7, 1951; Letitia, Nov. 14 1046.

OCCUPATION: Counselor of Embassy and Deputy Chief of Mission, Amenean
Embassy, Phnom Penh, Cambodia.

AFTER graduating from Harvard in 1935, I spent cight years in
New York City with the Central Hanover Bank and Trust Com-
pany in full anticipation that I would make a career in banking.
I hadn’t counted on World War If. After an abortive start in the
U.S. Naval Reserve, so abortive that I was not even able to buy a
uniform, I looked around for some other activity somewhat more
directly connected with the war effort than advising trustces of
trust accounts on securities that they should purchase. Having
spent two years in Turkey in my teens, I was quickly recognized
by the Office of Lend-Lease Administration as an expert on Turkey
and shortly thereafter, in December, 1943, found myself in’ that
country where I was to spend the next five years. I ultimately
found myself, as a war agency residual, absorbed by the Depart-
ment of State and, in June, 1947, entered the career Forciyn Service.
A perhaps more significant event of that year was my marriage ti
the then Joanna Daniels who had fortunately come to Turkey the
previous fall to visit her father, the then Dutch Minister to Turkey.
In January, 1949, accompanied by my bride, T returned ta Wash-
ington and a three and one-half-yvear stint at the State Department

[ 945 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 193§

where I served as Officer-in-Charge of Turkish Affairs. It was a
very interesting assignment, for it was in this period that our large
military and economic aid programs to Turkey were initiated and
that Turkey was admitted to NATO.

The next three years were spent in Paris as a First Secretary in
the Embassy, particularly concerned with North African develop-
ments. Our affection for Paris grew with each passing month and
our nostalgia is still growing. The city is. incomparably beautiful
and offers an endless variety of interesting activities, entirely apart
from the attraction of its central location in the heart of Western
Europe. The two daughters whom we had acquired by this time
found themselves very much at home in French schools and were
able to converse as freely in French as in English, a facility which
we admired and which they very quickly lost upon our return to
the States in the summer of 1955.

The scholastic year of 1955-56 provided me with the most agree-
able opportunity of spending a year as a student at the National
War College where a galaxy of leaders in many different fields,
American and’ foreign, paraded before us to express their opinions
and to stimulate the thinking of a student body made up of four
equal parts— Army, Navy, Air Force and government civilians.
The year was capped by a three-week tour of the Far East, during
which in blissful ignorance, | was to fly over the country where it
is now my destiny to be serving — Cambodia.

Student life was followed by a second assignment in Ankara,
Turkey, where | was to serve for three years as Economic Coun-
selor of the Embassy and Deputy Chief of the ICA Mission, which
had responsibility for administering the Economic Aid Program,
ranging from 70 to 150 million dollars a year. After an absence
of eight years we were struck by the great strides that Turkey had
made in that period, and also became more conscious than ever of
the growing aspirations, as well as needs, of a rapidly-developing
country. The high point of our tour was the adoption by Turkey,
in cooperation with the United States, the OEEC countries and
several international institutions, of a monetary reform and stabiliza-
tion program which gave promise of leading it out of its economic
difficulties toward a sound and developing economy.

On October 1, 1959, we found ourselves in Phnom Penh, Cam-
bodia, on a direct transfer from Turkey. Cambodia has been
independent for only six years, with ambitious aspirati
limited resources and little a the ‘way of experienced Piministrators

[ 946 |

ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

but with a dynamic leader, Prince Sihanouk. The official attitude
of Cambodia toward the East-West conflict provides a striking
point of contrast with Turkey. Turkey was a staunch and depend-
able NATO ally. Cambodia is an openly neutral country receiy-
ing aid from both the Free World and the Sino-Soviet ‘Bloc. In
fact, the Chinese Communist Embassy is only three doors from our
residence and its ambassador is the present dean of the Diplomatic
Corps. Weatherwise, the climate is not as unbearable as one might
imagine, thanks to such conveniences as air conditioning. The
country is perhaps best known for the Temple of Angkor Wat
which I am embarrassed to say we have yet to visit.

We expect to return to the States this spring for our first visit
since 1956, but unfortunately will be unable to attend the Twenty-
fifth Reunion, i.e. — my ambassador has plans to attend his thirtieth at
the same time, and, as Deputy Chief of Mission, I can’t be away when
he is (we'll try to make the Fiftieth). We shall, of course, be de-
lighted to greet any classmates who may be visiting Cambodia. The
warmness of our invitation is in no way influenced by our knowl-
edge that there is little likelihood of being overrun with visitors.

And so, while the banking profession has lost an enthusiast, the
diplomatic service has acquired one — despite the many frustrations
that we know we have to face and the upheavals, “physical and
psychological, that accompany each new assignment.

FRANCIS DANIELS MOORE

 

HOME aporEss: 371 Walnut St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS; Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, 721 Huntington Ave, Heston,
Mass.

BorN: Aug. 17, 1913, Evanston, Ill, parents: Philip Wyate Moore, Caruline
Daniels.

[ 947 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: AB., Cum laude, 1935; M.D., cum laude,
1939.

marrigD: Laura Benton Bartlett, June 24, 1935, Winnetka, Il. cuitpren: Nancy
Holmes, Oct. 16, 1936 (a. Lucius T. Hill, Jr, June 30, 1956); Peter
Bartlett, Oct. 15, 1939; Sarah Sewall, July 19, 1941; Caroline Daniels, Aug.
2, 1944; Francis Daniels, Jr., Oct. 19, 1950. GRANDCHILD: Lucius Tuttle
Hill, 3d, July 2, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHER: Philip Wyatt Moore, Jr., ’31 (deceased).

occupation: Surgeon, Moseley Professor of Surgery, Harvard Medical School;
surgeon-in-chief, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital.

oFFicEs HELD: Instructor, assistant professor and tutor in surgery, Harvard
Medical School, 1945-48; associate in surgery, Massachusetts General Hos-
pital, 1945-48; trustee, Park School, 1949-53; consultant to Surgeon General
in Korea, 1952; member, Unitarian Service Committee, 1954-56; member,
executive committee, Division of Medicine and Surgery, National Research
Council, since 1955; chairman, Surgery Study Section, U.S. Public Health
Service, 1956-59, Surgeon General’s Subcommittee on Metabolism in
Trauma, since 1956, Committee on Pre- and Postoperative Care, American
College of Surgeons, since 1956; visiting professor of surgery, University of
Edinburgh, 1952, University of London, 1955, Cleveland Clinic, 1956, St.
Louis University, 1959, University of Colorado, 1959; lecturer, Harvey
Society, N.Y., 1956; president, Society of University Surgeons, 1958;
Moynihan lecturer, University of Leeds, 1959; member, consulting staff,
Massachusetts General Hospital, Children’s Medical Center, New England
Deaconess Hospital, U.S. Naval Hospital, Chelsea, Mass.; member, Class
Committee, Reunion Committee, Harvard Class of 1935.

MEMBER OF: Various surgical and scientific societies; Tavern Club; Beverly
Yacht Club; Harvard Club of Boston.

pustications: Articles in surgical literature and scientific journals dealing with
gastrointestinal surgery, burns, isotope dilution and surgical metabolism.
The Metabolic Response to Surgery, Charles C Thomas, Springfield, 1952;
Carcinoma of the Breast, Jessiman, A. G., and Moore, F. D., Little, Brown

& Co., Boston, 1956; The Metabolic Care of the Surgical Patient, W. B.
Saunders Co., 1959.

LIKE many other members of the Class of 1935, I now find that I
have spent over half of my life associated with Harvard! ‘Try as
I might, I never have been able to escape the attractions of the place.
Originally, 1 was drawn from the shores of Lake Michigan to the
shores of the Charles River in 1931, as if by a magnet. Finishing up
at college, 1 then thought it would be wise to go elsewhere to medi-
cal school, just for variety. Brief study of the matter suggested
that Harvard might be the wisest course. The Admissions Com-
mittee was so kind as to take me on. Then, finishing up at the Medi-
cal School in 1939 I thought that — just for variety — I should take
my internship in New York, Baltimore or Chicago. But, again,

[ 948 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Boston seemed the wisest course and the M.G.H. was likewise kind
enough to take me on, I finished my surgical residency at the bor-
tom rung of the Harvard Medical School faculty ladder, at the end
of the war. During the war I was deemed “an essential asthmatic”
and spent the war years on the job in the hospital. Then, looking to
the future, I decided it would be best to start practice in Chicago.
But an offer of a junior faculty position at Harvard seemed by far
the wisest choice. So I started right in working as a surgical teacher
right back at the same old stand at Harvard where, fifteen years
previously, I had entered as a college student. Further vacillation
was removed as a possibility when, in 1948, I was asked to take on
the Moseley Professorship of Surgery at Harvard and the position
as chief of the Surgical Service at the Brigham Hospital. It looks
as if I shall be here for some while longer despite any attractions
that other places might have!

During these years here, my time at work has been occupied
three ways. About one-third has been spent in the practice of sur-
gery, looking after sick people and trying to get them well. Despite
all the activities of teaching and research, this primary function of
the doctor still holds the first attraction for all of us in the clinical
departments at the Medical School. One-third of my time is spent
in teaching, both at the undergraduate level and in the postgradu-
ate years — interns, residents and junior members of the surgic al
staff, both here and elsewhere. Finally, one-third of my time has
been taken up with research into the metabolic and biological factors
that enable human beings to recover from severe injury —a ficld
of study that might be called “the biology of convalescence.” The
two books that I have written have both been in this field. One, a
report of research, was entitled The Metabolic Response ta Sur-
gery, published in 1952. The second, a much more extensive work,
was primarily designed to assist the practitioner of surgery and is
entitled The Metabolic Care of the Surgical Patient, being pub-
lished by Saunders in 1959. This tripartite division of my time has
been maintained throughout the years since medical school and I
suppose will continue that way in the future.

All of the foregoing represents the professional side of things.
After all, we feel it incumbent upon ourselves to work and carn a
living while at the same time trying our best to make some sort of
contribution to the welfare of some aspect of our society. Tt seems
as though this double objective — one personal and the other public
—is a byproduct of Harvard education.

[ 949 ]

lL

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

On the personal side, my wife Laura Bartlett and I went to the
same high school. We were married within a week of college gradu-
ation, on June 24, 1935. She has therefore seen the medical career
from the ground up, attending lectures, seminars and clinics. She
has read and edited most of my scribblings and has become the hos-
pitable hospital hostess for successive generations of medical stu-
dents, resident staff and visiting dignitaries. Laurie and I have raised
a family which has been both a pleasure and — in Harvard terms —
a distraction, since it has brought us into close association with a
small cloistered college on the shores of the village common in
central Connecticut. Specifically, our son-in-law, Dr. Lucius T.
Hill, Jr., is a Yale garduate and our elder son, Peter, is now a junior
at New Haven. .

Our eldest daughter, Nancy Holmes Moore, was born in the fall
of 1936. In 1956, she was married to Dr. Lucius T. Hill, Jr. In 1958,
when she had finished her college years at Bryn Mawr and McGill,
she gave birth to a son, Lucius T. Hill, 3d. Peter Bartlett Moore, the
Yale junior, was born in 1939. Sarah Sewall Moore was born in 1941
and is now a freshman at Swarthmore. Caroline Daniels Moore was
born in 1944 and is still at the Winsor School in Boston, while
F.D.M,, Jr. (Chip), born in 1950, is now in the fourth grade at the
Park School. With this troop, we have had many adventures, center-
ing around sailing or cruising, with an occasional trip to the moun-
tain west to see that it was really still there.

Outside activities are listed in the above. They have included
my share of work in national societies and such committees as those
of the Surgeon General of the U.S. Public Health Service, and the
National Research Council, Hobbies have been sailing, playing the
piano and shooting at ducks.

After this long temptation to leave Harvard, I am no longer mak-
ing any effort to escape its attractions, other than an occasional
visit to the Yale son.

[950 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PAIGE ALLISON MOORE

  

HOME ADpRESS: 138 Gillette Ave., Bayport, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wm, H. Muller & Co., Inc., 122 E. 42d St., New York #7, N.Y.

BORN: Oct. 19, 1914, Baltimore, Md. parents: Fitch Reade Moore, Virginia
V. Kaufmann.

PREPARED AT: Boys High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MARRIED: Jane Hibbard, Oct. 25, 1940, Brooklyn, N.Y. cHitpren: Barbara
Margaret, April 27, 1945 (died Sept. 25, 1945); Linda Jane, Oct. 7, 194%
Stephen Paige, March 22, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Treasurer, Wm. H. Muller & Co., Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Bayport-Blue Point Board of Education, Sayville Con-
gregational Church; president, Islip Town School Boards Association,
vice-president, Bayport P.T.A.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Sayville Yacht Club.

THE early thirties not being the kindest to our family fortunes —
as I know many others of our classmates can also atrest — my edu-
cation was not completed at Harvard, and instead six long, believe
me, years were consumed at night at Columbia and St. John’ s Uni-
versities. Such procedure is neither endorsed nor recommended!
Although the disappointment of not continuing with the Class is no
longer the burning canker it was, the regret of not having spent my
full college time at Cambridge will remain always, for both the
educational values and the friendships to be formed.

With an affinity for mathematics, I seem to have drifted into
studies in accounting and finance, and my career has followed
through banking and : accounting to ofticership i ina large New Vork
bank and on to my present post as treasurer of what we like to think
is the oldest and best of the ore merchant firms in the United States.
Far from being the strictly boring task which accounting detail can
prove, our activities have taken me, vicariously if not ac tually, te

[ost]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

the twenty-six countries in which we deal, and have added to our
Christmas-card-mailing friends in many far-off lands, the visiting of
whom at long intervals seems to bring them somehow closer than
frequent meetings might allow. Even our children seem to have
adopted early a world-consciousness which I confess I never had,
and globes, maps, and stamp-collecting have become a natural
counterpart in our home.

As with all of us, I suppose, my complaint would be a lack of
time. With two over-vitaminized Indians roaming our house and
grounds, I find not enough hours before or after train-time even to
consider all the projects that come to mind; screens take second-
place to a baseball game in which I always seem to be chasing the
ball because the lady in our house isn’t as good a pitcher as she is a
wife, and each succeeding season’s work is just as successfully cast
aside — not without my tacit approval, or even glee. This is sup-
posed to keep us young, in spirit anyway, and it seems to be infec-
tious: now all the neighbors’ kids are at our place while their parents
are resting — or doing their chores.

My main effort, apart from the office, revolves around our schools.
Election to the Board of Education the first time came, not because
of any superior education, but from an expressed sincere interest
in the problem. In the succeeding years, my appetite has been con-
stantly whetted, and despite the seemingly ever-increasing demands
on one’s time, and the poor response of many parents and taxpayers,
never could I question the value or satisfaction to self of what we
are doing, Much have we all to learn, and we make many mistakes,
we are sure; but always we are working with as sincere, devoted
and fine a group of people as it has been my privilege ever to meet.
Thus far, I have progressed beyond our own towns only to the
County Board level, and for the moment I am afraid I cannot ac-
cept what else might have been offered me, because the time again
is the limitation. Even to stay as I have has meant giving up Little
League, Scouts, and Lions Club, but regrets are not apparent, yet;

and either the voters are apathetic or have been inured to further
damage.

Philosophy is indulged in on the train. Sometimes I do regret
the choice of a profession which is so confining and unglamorous —
I should like so much to work more with people, but this urge we
indulge in our Little Theatre group, and again in the School Board
and P.T.A. (my good wife being the vice-president) — and then
I realize that actually my desk job, with minimum traveling, allows

[952 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

me more time at home definitely. Politically or nationally, 1 decry
the “something- for-nothing, world owes me a living” ty pe of think-
ing, which makes it seem only fools give value received for what
they get. I hope for, but do not know whether I shall live to see, a
return to what I consider soundness, with moral values restored,
and of course the peace to which our children are entitled as a heri-
tage. Meanwhile, we all live in our little worlds, I suppose, with our
own particular dreams and ambitions. For ourselves, jovs and pleas-
ures we have had many-fold, with probably their equal in sorrows,
which means we have grown up; friends we have and continue to
make, which shows we have not grown too old; love and respect we
share, which should prove we are still young; great thoughts and
deeds we probably shall never bring forth, but still we strive to learn,
to help our own and others, to be of value in this world, and to live
the good life, so that our children and perhaps a few others will
remember us kindly. I hope, if it will not sound smug, for such is
not intended, that we all may have as much as that with which I
have been blessed.

EDWARD GRANGE MORIN

    

PUNE ORR A AA ROR AE 2 a
a.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 256 Hillside Ave., Chatham, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: F'sso Research & Engineering Co, P.O. Box 209, Madsan, N J.

BORN: Oct. 31, 1914, Bath, Maine. parents: Harry Franklin Morn, Cladss
Evelyn Grange.

PREPARED AT: Morse High School, Bath, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1031-1935. DEGRERS: A.B, 1935; 8.40, (Masa Ime. of Tesh.
nology), 1939.

MarRIED: Mary Kathryn Van de Water, July a, rgyg, Summit, Nf. eontaass
Edward Grange, Jr, May 24 1950; Constance, March t2, 10¢g. Aatheven
V., Oct. 11, 1955 (died March g, 1956).

[953]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Germany; and a new refinery in Holland. ’'m now project manager
of our Rotterdam refinery. At the moment we’re busy completing
this $50,000,000 plant and will soon be ready to crank it up and
make more of those excellent Esso products. While I expect to
return home early this summer, my work here may not be finished
in time to make the Twenty-fifth Anniversary Reunion.

In case [ do not make the reunion I hope my friends will call on
me at Chatham, New Jersey, when they’re in the New York area.
Summers we return to Maine, where we have a cottage on the
ocean not far from Bath. (Fortunately Mimi and the children enjoy

the Maine coast as much as I do.) We'd be glad to see any of you
there.

JOHN HOPKINS MORISON

 

Home appress: Lyndeborough (R.F.D. 2, Wilton), N.H.
OFFICE ADpRESs: Hitchiner Manufacturing Co. Inc, Milford, N-H.

BORN: June 29, 1913, Milwaukee, Wis. parents: George Abbot Morison, ’oo,
Amelia Hundley Elmore.

PREPARED at: Milwaukee Country Day School, Milwaukee, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

marriep: Olga de Souza Dantas, July 29, 1944, Peterborough, N.H. CHILDREN:
Maria de Souza Dantas, April 14, 1951; John Hopkins, 3d, Oct. 30, 1954-

HARVARD BROTHERS: Robert S. Morison, 30; Elting E. Morison, 732.

occupation: President, Hitchiner Manufacturing Company, Inc., manufacturers
of precision castings.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, director, Upland Farm, Inc., since 1948; director,
Hitchiner Manufacturing Company, Inc., since 1949; director, since 1957,
president, since 1959, New Hampshire Council on World Affairs; director,
since 1957, president, since 1959, Investment Casting Institute; member
New Hampshire-Vermont Advisory Board, American Mutual Liability
Insurance Company, since 1957; director, New Hampshire Children’s Aid

[956 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
. Society, since 1959; president, director, Permattach Diamond Tool Carpe.
ration, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Musical Association; Wilton Tennis Club; Nashua Country
Club.

PRESUMABLY, diligent readers of previous Reports have stored
away all the successive bits of knowledge therein displayed about
all members of the Class; so there should be little need here to te-
view and re-state the happenings of most of the past twenty-tive
years. In brief recapitulation, however, the first fiftecn years of my
post-college experience were spent in export activity, largely out.
side this country, endeavoring to promote the glories of expensive
mining and excavating machinery in areas where inexpensive hand
labor was in surfeit. In due course, the Second World War made
this difficult task impossible, so for a short term I helped the U.S.
Government establish a mica and quartz crystal mining program in
Brazil, where I had lived for some years previously. Once it was
under way, I left this rather disorganized venture for what was
supposed to be more aggressive military activity in the Navy as an
officer of minimum status. The only beaches I stormed were those
of Daytona, Florida, at the Air Station as a training ofhcer, a task
which lasted until the end of the war.

In 1946 I again returned to South America, where I stayed anal
1949, traveling in most of the countries from Mexico south. While
an interesting adventure, it was a limiting form of commercial and
industrial experience; so toward the end of 1949 I left export work
and purchased controlling interest in a small New Hampshire manu-
facturing company, which at the time was, in the words of our at-
torney, “hopelessly involvent.” The succeeding years have been
devoted to proving that New England can produce something a
little more economically positive than tourist attractions and deve
tute cotton mills.

This has been a most absorbing and enjoyable task. New Plamp-
shire is not only a delightful place to raise a small family, but ots
industrial climate is apparently reasonably salubriouy as eur fiem
not only achieved solvency, but some measure of growth i use
and profitability, the latter a standard most grasping investors scem
to regard with stecly avarice. We find ournclves mvelved in the
manufacture of parts for missiles and anti-misiley and of a more
peaceful nature, parts for sewing machines and shatyuns. The resl
fascination in all this is the now popular practice of management in
a growing company in an increasingly compley induvenal wawty.

[957]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Apart from such pedestrian activity, the New Hampshire rural
life gives indication of approaching urbanity in its development of
an active Council on World Affairs, and a growing sentiment for
liberal politics in a state which still has much ultra-conservative iso-
lationist feeling. These organizations, together with a Childten’s Aid
Society and the inevitable New England town committees, occupy
much of the idle time supposedly available to all New Hampshire
residents. The work of the World Affairs Council is particularly
interesting as we endeavor to bring to the many groups in the state
the general philosophy that “no man is an island all to himself.”

The true domestic touch is provided by wife, two children, house,
barn, horses, sheep, pig, cats, and all else that go with life in the
country. In addition, participation in the family 6,ooo-tree com-
mercial apple orchard fills in what loopholes may still be left. It is
all a rewarding experience, if reward there is in a world as full of
tensions and ominous international competition as ours is today.

FRANKLIN BEATTIE MORRISON

 

HOME appress: 128 Kent Place Blvd., Summit, N.J.
OFFICE AppREss: McGraw-Edison Co., West Orange, N.J.

BORN: July 21, 1910, Newark, N.J. parents: George F. Morrison, Jennie C.
Knauss.

PREPARED AT: Morristown Preparatory School, Morristown, N.J.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1936. -

marrige: Elizabeth Arnold, Nov. 16, 1940, Cleveland, Ohio. cuitp: Jennie,
1942 (died November, 1942).

occupation: Aeronautical sales and installation, ete, of instruments and air-
craft accessories.
MEMBER OF: Essex County Country Club,

THE fact that I am not now, or never will be, head surgeon of some

[958 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

hospital, a financial wizard or an industrial tycoon will not come
as a surprise to any of my classmates who suffered through German
“A” with me. As a matter of fact, this possibility was pointed
out right at the outset during freshman year by the head of the
department himself in the course of an especially trying session,
As I remember it, the general tenor of his thinking “out loud” that
morning made the point that he had been teaching German for
some thirty years and in all that time he had never scen a student
so unlikely to succeed. He kindly added “in German,” but I got
the point. In spite of this, I got to like the good doctor and his
daughter as well, and confess he was almost right in all scores. But
I got off language probation at the end of junior year and, while
not a wheel, I’m now happy in my work which I find fascinating.

Happily married for about twenty years, I consider myself
fortunate, although we lost our only child shortly after her birth.
Both Betty and I enjoy golf and find that the teeing grounds are
a good place to work off worries and ill will, Believe me, when
you get as sore as I do at a golf ball, there just isn’t room for any
other bad feelings.

We look forward to returning to Cambridge in June, and until
then, as they say in Merrie England, God bless.

ROBERT KELLERMANN MORSE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1780 Del Mar Ave., San Marino, Calif.

OFFICE appREsS: Morris P. Kirk & Son, Inc. 2700 S. Indiana Se, Dan Angeles,
Calif.

porn: April 27, 1913, Acushnet, Mass. parents
Pauline Louise Kellermann.

PREPARED AT: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mas,
YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1931-1935. DEGRERS: A.B, 19}§; ALBA, 1047.

> Nelwon Cleveland \torve,

[959 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I 935

MarrieD: Geneva V. Marsh, March 27, 1943, Phoenix, Ariz. CHILDREN: Robert
Kellermann, Jr. May 20, 1946; David Lee, Nov. 15, 1947; Barbara Jean,
April 26, 1952.

occupation: Manufacturing — non-ferrous metals; treasurer, comptroller, direc-
tor, Morris P. Kirk & Son, Inc. (subsidiary of National Lead Company);
treasurer, Pioneer Aluminum, Inc. (subsidiary of Morris P. Kirk & Son).

OFFICES HELD: Associate director, National Association of Accountants, 1955-
57; company general chairman, Community Chest, 1954-59.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Southern California; Harvard Business School
Club of Southern California; Boy Scouts of America, San Gabriel Council;
National Office Management Association.

AT the end of four pleasant years in the College, and now equipped
with what appeared to me a powerful weapon — a degree — I set
out to make my mark in the world. Several interviews later, I was
convinced that about all I was really equipped for was a short walk
across Larz Anderson bridge to the Business School. Coincidentally,
my college roommate, Ed Brainard, arrived at the same conclusion.
So we joined forces again for two more busy but interesting years
trying to fathom the mysteries of the “case system.” Now I was
ready; so again armed with an even more invincible weapon — an
M.B.A. degree —I set forth once more in the business world.

However, in 1937 I soon discovered that there were a couple of
other fellows interested in eating too—and they all seemed to
have plenty to offer a prospective employer! Competition in the
business world started with getting a job. Then I learned a couple
of fundamental lessons not taught by the “case method.” First —
whom you know is just as important as what you know. Secondly,
in many situations there’s always a certain element of luck — being
in the right place at the right time.

Through the kind offices of Professor Walker, an interview was
arranged with his good friend, the comptroller of National Lead
Company. A quick trip to New York, a “lengthy” five-minute
interview, and I had a job. No one even asked to see my creden-
tials — and they haven't yet! Anyway, it must have been a mutually
satisfactory arrangement, because after almost a quarter of a century,
I'm still with the same company.

My apprenticeship in the business world was served in New York,
a wonderful place to get experience — and experience in a hurry.
Frugality was the keynote those first few years, what with those
constant quarterly “reminders” from Lehman Hall. However, life
as an alumnus in the D.U, House at Columbia was exciting and rich
in lasting friendships,

[ 960 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Now came my first real awakening to the fact that there was
actually a lot of territory beyond New Fryland and New York
City. My assignment —traveling auditor for the comptroticr’s
office, my beat — west to the Mississippi (the far west and foreign
travel were plums for the senior auditors). Anyway, through the

atience and wisdom of my senior partner, | manayed to pick Up a
few scraps of knowledge, along with continuously reconciling bank
accounts and sending out verifications,

Then it happened. One day in 1939 I was called into the benv's
office and asked if I would like to accept an assigninent as an ac-
countant in a small struggling subsidiary out on the West coast ~~
a place called Los Angeles. My first reaction was, “Banished to Sa
beria.” (In 1939 the west was still Chicago and Sc. Louis) Bue
when the shock waves subsided, I said, “Yes,” naturally — bought
a car and headed west.

Exactly 2995 miles later I arrived in Los Angeles — still a sleepy
pueblo. I expected the bright lights and excitement of Holly wood,
but instead I found a small manufacturing concern out in Fast Los
Angeles among the stockyards and fertilizer works. So, with nothing
to divert my attention, I worked. Fortunately the owner and mv
business associates were genuinely interested in the company and
in me, and we started the process of developing a small business inte
a large one. From an organization of about thirty-five employees on
one small plot of real estate in Los Angeles, we've grown over the
years into a sizeable manufacturing business with about goo em:
ployees and with locations all over the west. In addition we now
have a subsidiary of our own, almost as long as we are. It's been long
hours, hard work, and quite unglamorous. But there's a certain
satisfaction in being a part of a healthy, growing organization,

Mine has been the experience of a closely-knit business awes ta-
tion. All of the ambitious and energetic voung men who started
with the company twenty years or so ago are sul with in, All have
moved along to posts of responsibility Ive quite a different outlook
from those who maintain that the road te success iv to move about
frequently to broaden onc’s background. My cVpenence aye ie
ain’t necessarily so.”

Sorry —I can’t relate pages of war experiences bhe many of ms
classmates’. World War TH and Korea were foughe by me bets
a desk. During those years, my bosses conv ed the aleafe Besse
that I was indispensable. Now I'm freyuently fornste P ehae ete
word ts “expendable” —~ jokingly, PE hope!

[ 96: }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

When I stated earlier that I worked with nothing to divert my
attention, I wasn’t exactly truthful. There was one diverting in-
fluence in the office —a girl — and there seemed to be no clear-cut
Business School “case method” solution. So I devised my own —I
married her —or vice versa! Anyhow, it proved a practical solu-
tion. Then when she questioned my managerial prerogatives in the
office, I fired her! (It's amazing how important one can be in an
office, and how lowly at home.) Now sixteen years and three chil-
dren later she still wishes at times she was back in the quiet air-
conditioned office with piped-in music, Who says children are like
purty!

Due to a late start we're lucky to have children in school, let
alone college. We have that experience still to look forward to.
Right now it’s quite a job trying to keep up with them, both mentally
and physically. As you all know, life with three children has round
after round of PTA, Boy Scouts, church, music, camping, com-
munity projects, etc. Mine is no exception: same functions, same
duties, same experience — time-consuming, rewarding, and over all
too soon.

Through it all I'm probably holding up as well as average, I think.
So I have lost a little hair, but more than gained it back in weight.
What I lack in agility, I try to make up in experience. I console
myself by saving “that I'm probably in just about the same boat as
all the rest of you— reconciled and happily adjusted to your locale,
friends, and way of life.

MALCOLM GREENE MOSES

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1202 Carlton Ave., Farmington, N. Mex,

[ 962 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

orFicE aDpRESS: San Juan Communications, Inc., r900 Schofield Lane, Farming.
ton, N. Mex.

poRN: May 21, 1912, Brookline, Mass. Parents: Percy Lawrence Moses, ‘os,
Alice A. Greene.

prepareD AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.

MaRRIED: Gertrude E. Gray, Sept. 26, 1936, Meredith, N.H.

occUPATION: President, San Juan Communications, Ine: manufacturers’ tepre-
sentative, General Electric Company, communications products,

OFFICES HELD: President, Region 1, 1959-6o, national treasurer, 1959-60, National
Mobile Radio Systems.

MEMBER OF: San Juan Knife & Fork Club; National Mobile Radio Systems;
American Radio Relay League; American Bowling Congress, Sigma Alpha
Epsilon (life member); Quarter Century Wireless Association, Inc., Air-
craft Owners & Pilots Association.

ISAID farewell to my classmates in June of 1933 to sign on as radio
operator aboard the SS Atenas of the United Fruit Line. After
several ship to ship transfers, I wound up in the accounting depart-
ment on Long Wharf, Boston, in 1936.

Trudie and I were married in September and after spending that
winter in a small apartment in Brighton, Massachusetts, we moved
into our first home, a little Cape Cod in Westwood. We enjoved
the suburban life of gardening and the chores associated with home
ownership.

Came the war in 1941! Following an unsuccessful attempt to join
the Signal Corps, I was accepted as a radio operator in the National
Defense Organization Section of the Federal Communications Com-
mission. This association started a nomadic life through the New
England States, ending in Washington, D.C, as radio engineer to
the Interdepartment Radio Advisory Committee. Having been in
the field a large part of the time prior to moving to W ashington, it
was difficult to accept the office routine.

Relief came one day. As a result of a telephone conversanon,
Trudie and I found ourselves packing for a move to New Mesico
and a job with the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission as radio enys-
neer for the Los Alamos Field Office, We arrived in late May ‘of
1952 to find a wonderful climate, clear blue skies and casual liv ang
in the mountains of northern New Mexico. In ages we had a de-
cision to make. Were we to remain to retirement in government
service or break away? Farmington was showing promine as a pee
troleum center and communications facilities were sorely lacking
We decided to go into business. With a friend from Las "Nlainen as
legal adviser, we formed San Juan Communications Ine, and ete:

[ 963 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

tained a corporation charter from the state of New Mexico. The
corporation grew from a service organization into one offering
systems enginecring, equipment sales, mobile telephone type of
facilities and telephone answering service.

During these years my hobby of amateur radio has been pursued.
Others have been added. Since construction of fine new bowlin
facilities in town, many Icagues have been formed. We bowl in
two and practixe as much as time and available lanes permit. Mavbe
some day we shall become proficient and have an average of which
we can be proud,

Life has been good to us these past twenty-five years, It would
perhaps be a little fuller were we able to get together with old
schoolmates from time to time in an old-fashioned “bull session”
such as those we enjoyed in Weld,

HOWARD SCHENCK MOTT

 

ONE AND oFvice aDoRESS; South Main Street, Sheffield, Mass.

was: July 26) 19g. Parents: Howard Schenck Mott, Dorothy Colman.

parraurp at: Gunnery School, Washington, Conn.

VEARS IN COLLFGE: 1931-1935, DEGREE! A.B, 1935.

Marnito: Phyllis Nelson, June 12, 1937, Tenafly, N.J. CHILDREN: Newcomb,
Aug. 16, 1938; Donald Nelson, Feb. 5, i945.

wanvagp arorneR: Juha Colman Mott, ‘37.

ocevearion: Dealer in rare books, first editions and autographs, and sometimes
m orginal drawings, prints and paintings; buyer, salesman and package-
Wrapper,

ovricss HELD: Former chairman, for two terms, Middle Aclantic Chapter of
Antiquarian Booksellers Association, vice-president, Antiquarian Book-
sellers Association of America, 1958-60.

Menare oF: Harvard Club of New York; Grolier Club; Century Association;
Old Book Table; Bibliographical Society of America, Antiquarian Book-

[ 964 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
sellers Association, Manuscript Society, Bibliographical Society of the
University of Virginia; Twin Lakes Club.
mauications: Collecting Southern Amateur Fiction of the Nineteenth Century,

Charlottesville, 1952; contribution to Grolier 75, New York, 1959; various
short pieces in specialized publications.

READING the sample autobiographies so considerately provided
by our comunittee I was impressed by the fact that each was an ac-
count of its author’s steps toward his own utopia. We (Phyllis and
1) too have been seeking ours. In June, 1956, we took the radical
step of changing our whole mode of living, from that of commuters
from a New York suburb to a Fortieth Street office, a routine of
twenty years. We exchanged suburbia and a New York office for
a lov ely rural community and a Federal period house. Here we
have room to spread out and we house ourselves, our two boys, and
our antiquarian book and autograph business under one roof. To
our pleased surprise, we have more visitors here than we did on
Fortieth Street. This may be because Sheffield is an easy drive
from New York, Boston, Hartford, New Haven and Albany. Our
friends find the Berkshires quite accessible and we are busy every
week-end. Until some eight years ago, Phyl’s occupation, besides
wife, mother and housekeeper, had been as consultant in the organi-
zation and reorganization of blood banks. In 1951 she agreed to help
out in the business until I got a replacement. Phy] found the business
less “ivory tower” than she had thought and now travels about
35.000 miles a year chasing rainbows — and more solid objects —
with me.

Both boys, I am glad to say, like reading, good music, games and
sports. They play golf, tennis, baseball and basketball and get to
the nearby Tanglewood concerts when they can. Donald (“Rusty”)
is in the second year of the local high school, has 10,001 interests
and at the moment thinks he wants to be a newspaperman. New-
comb is in his fourth year at Antioch College, where he is a history
major. He recently returned from 12,500 miles of travel in Mexico
and Central America, after having studied for three months at the
Mexico Antioch Center, where his classes were in Spanish. This
was his third trip to Mexico, the first two having been under the
aegis of the Verde Valley School, a project of Hamilton Warren,
Harvard 725.

We don’t always feel great joy in the demands of a six-acre lawn
dotted with huge trees that shed leaves with wild abandon in the
fall. But our hours for work and pleasure are pretty much of our

[ 965 ]

a L-

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

own chooing. Although we may not have reached utopia, our
way of life = the most agreeable one we have found,

JOHN BRANTLY MULFORD, JR.

 

weve ave unre stoma Loh, NY.

wes Aug ag igen Lok, SY. paaeses: Joha Brantly Mulford, Amy Cramp.

vesovase at Sweth Acne School, South Rent, Conn.

WE NOO TR CVUEELE NOTE-1008. OELREE: AB, 194g.

wrasse Notabe G Adenaw, tgy7, Flushing, Long Island, N.Y. coupes:
Sera, John Beanth. yd, Prederck A.

mayeaten Large farm operanon, Lodi, N.Y., member, Seneca County Board
of Supenmorn

vevnes wis Town Counciman, Justice of the Peace, Town Supervisor,
Cound Caruner, Town of Lodi, NY,

UUAVE operated a fann since 1935, Hobbies: antique automobiles,
farming and polities

JOUN NEWELL MURPHY

   

} ae .
TD)
Ja

MME aponess 12 Stoddard Rd, Hingham, Mass.
[ 966 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

osrux aporrss: Room 1420, Post Office Bldg., Boston, Mass.

mwas: May 6, 1914, Boston, Mass. parents: Daniel Francis Murphy, Loretta
Frances Hall.

eurarsp av: Milton High School, Milton, Mass.

Vaaas IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; M.B.A., 1937.

wansisp: Jane Donaldson Williams, Dec. 5, 1942, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:
John Newell, Jr, Oct. 13, 1949; Jane Donaldson, July 29, 1951.

a@xteatws: Assistant regional real estate manager, U.S. Post Office Depart-
ment.

MY first two years after college were spent at the Graduate School
of Business Administration (M.B.A., 1937)- My first venture in
business life was in the sales force of Johnson & Johnson, manu-
facturers of surgical dressings. An interruption came on July 14,
togt, When the Navy Department proved it had not forgotten my
NROTC days in college by calling me to active duty as an ensign,
USNR. IT was on duty at the Naval Air Station, Jacksonville,
Florida, USS Saturn, USS Chiwawa, USS Wasatch and at Columbia
University. I was released to inactive duty on February 24, 1946,
and subsequently resigned my commission as lieutenant commander
In 1953.

In retrospect the war years bring fond memories of many friends
and interesting events. Life has never been quite as exciting. But
inasmuch as none of us will ever again be as young as we were then,
it is all probably for the best.

At the end of the war I lived in Fairfield, Connecticut, for two
years doing the same work as prewar. In 1948 I returned to Boston
and entered the commercial real estate business with Meredith &
Grew, Inc. In October, 1954, I became assistant real estate manager
for the Post Office Department in New England. Our primary
task is that of getting private investors to construct buildings for
postal use which are then leased to the government for a term of
years.

Suburban living results in a constant battle to find enough time
to do all the things that must be done. Commuting, lawn-mowing,
do-it-yourself projects and raising a family of two active children
make a pattern of living that is much the same for all of us.

We follow the fortunes of the Harvard football team with
interest and have been encouraged by the improvement of the past
few years. I am on the Schools Committee of the Harvard Club
of Boston and have enjoyed taking part in the program of interest-
ing the all-round boy in attending Harvard.

[ 967 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

 

HOME AppRESS: 821 Taylor Ave., Scranton 10, Pa.

oFFice abpress: 701 Medical Arts Bldg., Scranton 3, Pa.

Born: Nov, 27, 1915, Dunmore, Pa, parents: Frank Leo Murphy, Marguerite
Renard.

prepareD AT: Dunmore High School, Dunmore, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 1935; M.D. (Columbia Univ.), 1939.

marriep: Muriel Rita Hannon, Oct, 10, 1942, Brooklyn, N.Y. cHiLpREN: Frances
Regina, July 27, 1943; Michael Louis, March 7, 1947; Kevin St. John, Sept.
27, 1949; Brendan, Aug. 17, 1951.

occuPaTion: Physician — internal medicine.

orrices HELD: Chief of staff, director of medicine and cardiologist, Mercy
Hospital, cardiologist, St. Mary’s Hospital and Carbondale General Hos-
pital; consultant in medicine, Wilkes-Barre, VA Hospital and Wayne
Memorial Hospital; director, Lackawanna County Heart Association, 1954-
55; censor, Lackawanna County Medical Society, since 1955.

MEMBER OF: American College of Physicians; American College of Chest
Physicians, American College of Cardiology; American Board of Internal
Medicine (diplomate).

pusLicaTions: “Weber-Christian Disease,” American Journal of Medicine, 1948.

REFLECTION is a luxury which I haven’t permitted myself, so
that I am happy that it has become necessary to look back over
the past twenty-five years in order to comply with the requirements
of our Class Report. While I recognize some of the dangers involved
in a soul-searching review of the past, my training has taught me
to accept things as they are; therefore, I have no great remorse at
having accomplished so little, and no great pride in my meager
SUCCESS.

My initial awe at the number of Phi Beta Kappa keys displayed
by my classmates in Columbia Medical School was replaced soon by
the realization that an average Harvard student could compete
satisfactorily with the best from many universitics, I learned it

[ 968 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

much too soon, for aside from occasional sprints, I continued in
medical school at a tempo which was accelerated only slightly above
that of my college years. But while neither the faculty nor I recog.
nized it, at the time, I know now that I got a solid base of medicine
and medical philosophy upon which to build in later years.
The responsibilities of internship finally made me aware of the
importance of learning; it was then easy to develop pleasure from
knowledge; and still greater pleasure when one was able to apply
this knowledge to aid a fellow-being. After less than two years at
St. Vincent’s in New York City, however, my plans were altered
by our entrance into World War IL. Realizing that life in the Navy
would be easier, I applied for a commission in December, iggt, but
quickly failed two physical examinations because of minor impair-
ments in distant vision and color vision. The Army was much less
choosy, and I reported to Camp Claiborne, Louisiana, on April ts,
1942.
Within a few months, the 82d Infantry Division, commanded by
General Omar Bradley, was split into the 82d and soist Airborne
Divisions, and I remained with the former until the war in Euro
had been concluded. During this period I visited North Africa,
Sicily, Italy, Great Britain, France, Belgium, Holland, Luxembourg,
and Germany, advanced from a first lieutenant to a major, and ac-
quired seven battle stars as well as a Bronze Star with an Ouk Leaf
Cluster. Despite spending time behind the German lines in Hal.
land when my glider was burned by enemy fire, and having jecps,
ambulances, and aid stations hit while I was occupying them, I
escaped uninjured. The impact of these years cannot be described.
but I doubt that anything else in life has contributed so much to my
personality, While I know that I couldn't endure it again, [am
grateful that I was able to serve with such fine men, led by such
outstanding generals as Bradley, Ridgway, and Gavin.
In 1946, I returned to St. Vincent's and completed my reaudency
in internal medicine. After a year as a fellow in medicine (Dean *
Committee, New York City Medical Schools), PE rejected an office
to direct their program of education in non-teaching hespitaks in
the metropolitan area, and went west. One and a half ycars of group
practice in Seattle taught me many of the faults of pre-pant! med-

cine and of groups, so I returned to Scranton in July, toga, and have
practised internal medicine here since,

I have been content because my travels taught me that there m
no ideal medical practice (except, ‘perhaps, aS an avocation) and nes

[ 969 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

geographical area which hasn’t its disadvantages. Here I feel that I
am fulfilling a community need; and while I miss the atmosphere
of academic medicine, I have learned that my limited talents are
best suited to dealing with ill people. I regret that medicine con-
sumes so much of my time that it prevents full participation in
family life, for I have been fortunate. And I worry because it leaves
so little time for non-medical interests and reading, but I have found
no solution.

Politics interest me only as a game in which I don’t participate.
As an “old time liberal,” there is no place for me today if I desired
it, Medical politics disgust me, and I doubt that any group is as
poorly represented as are we physicians, Religion has remained a
great force in my life. The more I have learned of the Roman
Catholic faith into which I was born, the more it has served to ful-
fill my spiritual and intellectual needs — despite my occasional
annoyance with some of its officials, Having my parents live long
enough to see me attain some measure of success in their home com-
munity has been a blessing for which I am grateful; there are so few
ways of rewarding them.

With all of this—fine parents and a happy childhood, Harvard
College and Columbia Medical School, St. Vincent’s Hospital, the
82d Airborne Division, satisfaction in my profession, happiness in
my religion, and a fine wife and children — it does seem that I should
be more than I am. Perhaps I shouldn’t have turned back.

ROBERT DONALDSON MURPHY

 

appress: Great Ring Rd., RFD. 1, Sandy Hook, Conn.

Born: Aug. 9, 1912, Cedarhurst, Long Island, N.Y. parents: G
Prevost Murphy, Maude Donaldson, rayson Mallet-

[970 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.

NO questionnaire returned.

DAVID HILL MURRAY

 

HOME apprEss: Wilbraham Road, Route 1, Hampden, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wm. B. Remington, Inc., 44 Vernon St. Springficld, Mass,

Born: Oct. 7, 1912, London, England. parents: John Tucker Murray, ‘ya
Mabel Wesson.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1935.

marrigp: Leila Hood Walters, May 29, 1937, New York, N.Y. cunpars: Jere
Tucker, April 2, 1938; David Walters, May 5, 1940.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Wm. B. Remington, Inc. advertising agency.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor of advertising, Western New Fngland College, Spring-
field, Mass., since 1949.

MEMBER OF: Advertising Club of Springfield; Colony Club, Springticld, Hlar-
vard Club of Springfield; Harvard Varsity Club,

EVEN before graduation, I discovered the great respect in w hah
Harvard is held by business, and I was fortunate to have a job
waiting for me when I left Cambridge — never, as yet, J regret, to
return.

As a result, on July 1, 1935, EP started work on fabled (now, that
is) Madison Avenue, Benton & Bowles —then and tatay one of
advertising’s top agencics — was my employer. The extraordinarily
high concentration of Yale graduates might have been consule ted
a detraction, but I found B & Ban extremely exciting and stinulat-
ing place to work and remained there until 1ge pronliainy
profound and, I like to believe, profitable thoughts for such chente
as Maxwell House Coffee, Octagon Soap Product. Prudeotul bv

[o7: ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

surance, Calvert Whiskies (including Old Drum), Columbia Rec-
ords, Shinola Shoe Polish and, yes, even Peterman’s Ant Killer.

During this pleasant period, I was married (May 29, 1937) and
my two sons were born: Jere on April 2d (12:45 a.m., lucky boy),
1938, and David Walters on May sth two years later. Neither,
I'm sorry to say, is at Harvard. Jere early set his heart on engineer-
ing and will be graduated this June from Georgia Tech. David
had mark trouble which prevented his acceptance at Harvard and
is studying business administration at Clarkson College of Tech-
nology in Potsdam, New York— probably the coldest campus in
the United States, and certainly one that consistently produces
some of the finest hockey teams in the country. I still have Har-
vard hopes, however. Jere, who transferred from mechanical engi-
neering to a mathematics/physics major in his sophomore year, tells
me he has sent an application to Cambridge with an eye to admit-
tance for graduate study toward an A.M. and possibly an eventual
Ph.D. My fingers are crossed.

Returning, however, to our principal subject—-me: In 1941, I
left New York and came to Springfield to join Smith & Wesson,
makers for over one hundred years of hand guns of extraordinary
craftsmanship and perfection. Here, I served as general sales and
advertising manager, director and assistant treasurer. Better than
a million S & W’s were made during the war for the U.S. and
British armed forces. Gun-making is a fascinating and romantic
business, and I'll always have nostalgic memories of the barbaric,
spark-filled, ear-shattering inferno of the forge shop with its merci-
less pounding drop hammers — the high, whining scream of the
profiling machines as they ripped deep into the steel of revolver
frames — the magical skill and dexterity of the fitters who swiftly
transformed grating, grinding lockwork parts into actions as smooth
and sure as a setting sun — the amazing artistry and deep pride of
craftsmanship of the engravers who cut intricate traceries in hard
steel to make exquisitely beautiful presentation guns fit for and
destined to belong to kings and leaders and rulers of the world.

In 1947, I returned once more to my first business love — adver-
tising — and became associated with Wm. B, Remington, Inc. —
originally as copywriter and account executive and more recently
as vice-president,

As one of New England's largest agencies, we handle accounts for
companies as far away as Philadelphia and manufacturing products
all the way from Atlas Tacks to Wright’s Rickrack, My particu-

[ 972 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

lar concerns during the past years have included the Actna Life
Affiliated Companies, Hardware Age, American Bosch, Iron Age,
The Hartford Steam Boiler Inspection and Insurance Company and
at present my time is devoted primarily to the accounts of the Farm
Credit Banks of Springfield and Millers Falls Company of Green.
field, Massachusetts.

PAUL GRAVES MYERSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Larch Rd., Newton, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1093 Beacon St., Brookline, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 15, 1914, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Abraham Miycnon, Dorothy
Loman.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. ctr laude, tgit, MB. 1eIK

marrieD: Mildred Ann Rosenberg, June 27, 1938, Cincinnati, Otvo, catoars
Peter Paul, Aug. 19, 1940; Deborah Louise, Oct. 23, 1947; Andrew Abraham,
Jan. 29, 1949, Nancy Elizabeth, Sept. 6, 195.

HARVARD BROTHER: David John Myerson, ‘go.

OCCUPATION: Psychiatrist; psychoanalyst.

OFFICES HELD: Associate professor in psychiatry, Tufts Univeruty Meskes a
School; chief of psychiatry, Boston Dispensary.

MEMBER OF: Boston Psychoanalytic Institute and Societys Amenean Pry yhoo
analytic Association; American Psychiatric Assocation (felkre?.

I CAN best divide the last twenty-five years into various perma
some of which seemed like eras as they were occurring, but all of
which retrospectively appear to be ficcting cpyodes in an active hfe.
Four years at Harvard Medical School, three year’ tramung ot
psychiatry, three years in the Navy as a poychiatrint, suv or seven
years establishing mysclf in practice and training to become a psy -
choanalyst, perhaps cight years learning my trade — this Le year
1 was appointed a training-analyse at the Boston Pyychoanaly tw bo.

[973]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

stitute. In addition to my practice, I teach three or four hours a
day at Tufts Medical School, grappling with the problems of how

to teach prospective physicians to appreciate their patient’s needs
and anxicties.

I am very happily married, have four fine children, all of whom
have survived their father’s adherence to psychoanalytic theory. I
am just as liberal politically and as skeptical religiously as I was in
college. This, in spite of my own personal psychoanalysis.

RICHARD HERBERT NAGEL

     

HOME ADDRESS: 7 Templeton Arms, 631 N. Broad St., Elizabeth, NJ.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Esso Research & Engineering Co., Elizabeth, N.J.

porN: May 26, 1914, Hamburg, Germany. parents: Joseph Nagel, Helena
Meyer,

prepareD at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

VEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: AB. 1935; SM. (New York Univ.),

1938; PHp, (ibid.), 1941; LL.B. (Rutgers Univ.), 1951.
UNMARRIED.

occueaTion: Patent attorney, Esso Research & Engineering Company.

MEMBER OF: New Jersey and Union County Bar Associations; American
Chemical Society; Harvard Club of New Jersey; Appalachian Mountain
Club; Sigma Xi; New Jersey Patent Law Association; International House
Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Some ten articles on organic chemistry, microchemistry and
patent law in scientific and legal journals.

SOMEWHERE I recall the William James thesis that Man re-

quires “Moral equivalent for War.” By extension, he obviously

requires one for marriage and, as one of the few simon-pure bache-

lors of 1935, 1 believe 1 have found it —and for me it is cycling

abroad. The reason that this biographical sketch is somewhat jerky

—and very late — is that it is being written on a DC-4 on a bounc-

L974]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing winter flight from Reykjavik to New York; it is the tail end
of a cycle trip that included Italy, Greece, Turkey, Lebanon,
Fgypt, Libya and Tunisia, and about my eighth since the war. The
only continent that hasn’t felt the weight of my wheels ts Aus.
tralia.

I guess my bachelor status got its impetus in the first job [ gee
following graduation. Since there was no overwhelming clamor
among local chemical companies to utilize my aptitudes, I came to
New York to seek my fortune. My first job was that of corre-
spondent for a matrimonial agency — in charge of the foreign de-
partment. Those were the days that titled Europeans were attempt.
ing to marry, or be adopted by, rich, elderly Americans. Since my
efforts failed to catalyze such reactions, 1 was soon out, There
followed in rapid succession a series of twelve odd jobs till, because
of reasons that could not have had the slightest relation to my
scholastic record at Harvard, I received a teaching fcllowship in
chemistry at New York University and received a doctorate in
1941.

Standard Oil Company of New Jersey figured they got a cherie
when they hired me at this time, but that illusion ‘only lasted ull
1946 when I spent a year abroad attached to the Army of Ovcupa-
tion, investigating German wartime developments in petrochemi-
cals, It was at this time that I learned about the dependability of
the bicycle as a means of transportation and as a way of hfe, In
1953, when I returned again on a cycle tour of Furope, the zest
had not departed. | spent a week in the Van Gogh insane asylum
at St. Remy de Provence in southern France, a night i In a mun ipal
clink in Germany, and my first night in Germany on that trip was
spent in a hayloft in the Black Forest, covered with a hore blanket
— fresh off the horse.

On returning to the States in 1947, 1 decided to become a patent
attorney, since other people’s ideas were more abundant and caver
to work with apparently than my own. I attended Rutyers Law
School, got an LL.B. in 1951, became a member of the New Jerney
bar as an attorney in 1952 and as a counselor in 19ss. The cifort
obviously required another bicycle trip, and so, in 1996, FP eveled
through Japan; since I was familiar with the languaye | had the
fun of arguing a case in the Japancse Patent Othee, as well as sper.
ing a night in a Buddhist monastery singing the “Miva sama” chertus
to a much impressed abbot of the Shingon scet.

Presently I live in a city which has neither the adv antayes of

[975]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

a small town or a big city, but has the overwhelming attraction in
that my apartment is a fifteen-minute walk to my office. I am serv-
ing on the Harvard Club of New Jersey Scholarship Committee
and am duly impressed by the fact that practically everyone of the
ten to fifteen chaps I interview has substantially more potential than

I had, yet the chance of admission for most of them is dim. Floreat
Harvardiana!

HARRY NATHANSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1795 Trapelo Rd., Waltham 54, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Fenton Shoe Co., Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: June 15, 1913, East Boston, Mass. parents: Nathan Nathanson, Celia
Goldberg.

PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

marrieD: Toby Lipkind, June 7, 1942, Millis, Mass. cmp: Tene Joyce, July
12, 1947.

occuPATION: Fitting room foreman, Fenton Shoe Company, shoe manufacturers.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, New England Shoe Foremen’s &
Superintendents’ Association, 1956-58.

MEMBER OF: New England Shoe Foremen’s & Superintendents’ Association.

HAVING had to terminate my education at its very start, I found,
of necessity, that venturing out into the business world could be
satisfying and rewarding, once you have been tempered and con-
ditioned to the particular whirlpool of activity in which you find
yourself. 1 found myself in that unique industry which endeavors
to placate women’s whimseys as to their shoes. A real challenge!
My work took me to New Hampshire and Maine and then back
home to Massachusetts,

In between, I managed to settle down. But not for too long, for

[976 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the year 1943 found me in the U.S. Army. In 1946, after a “tour”
around the globe, I came home to pick up again and really got
settled.

My wife, my home and my work are a real joy and satisfaction
to me, which I try to keep outside of those dark thoughts concern-
ing the plight of the world and the burden of future generations,
But then I am sure our elders worried for us also. So—— —?

GEORGE HENRY NEE, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 273 Otis St., West Newton 65, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts Bonding & Insurance Co. to Post Othee Sy,
Boston, Mass. .

BORN: Dec. 23, 1913, Dorchester, Mass. parents: George Henry Nee, Mary !.
Lee.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MarRiED: Joan D, Lavelle, Oct. 18, 1947, Brookline, Mass, cuitoars: George
Henry, 3d, June 16, 1949; Thomas Lavelle, Nov, 7, 1951, Secphen Coleman,
Sept. 2, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Francis Nee, ’38.

occuPaTION: Agency and development; casualty and fire insurance.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant vice-president, vice-president, Mawachuscets Bonding &
Insurance Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Reserve Otficers Awociateon, Ohandwt
of Commerce of Boston.

FROM graduation to the end of World War II, my hfe was one of
travel and movement. My work early in the insurance businew took
me to Michigan, Iowa, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Hhnow and Visor
When called to service, I returned to my native Masa hinetn foe
a short period and then to Australia, New Caledonia, Guadak anal,
Bougainville, Fiji, the Philippines, Japan and home, “The lirtee years

[977 1

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

were mint interescing and presented that reflection that I enjoved
every minute but would rather not repeat. Upon separation from
the serene DP joincd my present company, the Massachusetts Bond-

wry & Ireram ¢ Gamnpany, and have found the life interesting, vaned
and challe nying.

J iarered on iyg* and have three sons, all very young for a mem
ber of the Clave of tgag but nonetheless considered by me as fine
preels ats

Asa hetby. or probably more accurately described an avecauon,
J wearntarn an active and keen interest in the Army Reserve in which
Pheld the rank of colonel, Thiv ts time-consuming but rewarding.
aed poset, le woly chro: gh the gracious understanding and patience
of wife Jean.

Athewsh Phase secured no great wealth or fame to any degree,
I would upon retlection of twenty- five years say they were satisfy -
ing and hte has not been unkind,

NATHAN FRANK NFER, JR.

 

wes wars + Pond Se. Cohasset, Mass,

verne wnearss Joba Ulancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., 200 Berkeley Se.
Rearen, View

wen Ape ta toe, Delapline, Va. parents: Nathan Frank Neer, Roberta
Chuan Goel

pervvare ar: Phillips Bactce Academy, Exeter, N-H,

WEARS UN CNM Lb PQUT- OR).

Nevaaiepn Shirley Hares Ferguson, Mav 2, r9y2, Boston, Mass. cHILpreN: Susan
Asrbv, Man 2g ray: Elisabeth Ferguson, Feb, 2, 1949; Nathan Frank, 3d,
OA be

aecunittes. Manager, teal estate management division, John Hancock Mutual
bite Ireurance Company.

awrees perp: Fund co-chairman, Cohasset chapter, Red Cross, 1947; com-

[978]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

manding ofhcer, Vessel Augmentation Unit, 1951-58, Reserve Staff, Com-
mander First Coast Guard District, 1958-60, U.S. Coast Guard Reserve,
member representing the U.S. Coast Guard on the Reserve Facilities Board
fur the State of Massachusetts, 1952-55, 1959-60; director, Cohasset Com-
munity Center, 1952-55; vestryman, St. Stephen’s Church, Cohasset, 195 3-
s6, director, Brookline Rotary Club, 1954.

wenwesr of: US. Coast Guard Reserve (rank of commander); Reserve Officers
Awocitation (secretary-treasurer, Old Colony Chapter, 1947); Cohasset
Golf Club; Cohasset Yache Club (treasurer since 1959).

HAVING received the third prod from the Report Committee, I
now rush fo note acquisitions, accomplishments, failures and re-
fections during the past twenty-five years. I left college with the
hope that someday I would find the “Rock of Independence. ” With
fat dimming hope, I am still searching. In the meantime I have
aquired aw onderful family, a home and a membership in the activi-
nes of the town of Cohasset.

Fach new day passes more quickly than the preceding one and
I find that all of the things I would like to do just cannot be done.
If E could convince my three growing and active children to take
over the chores of mowing the grass, putting on storm windows or
even returning anything they use to the place it belongs without
their being told, Cajoled, duped or bribed, I am sure I could use
the new-found time for such delightful things as watching Harvard
beac Yale 35 to 6

My first job after college was with the Curtis Publishing Company
for two years in Boston and Baltimore. Then I tried my luck with
Lamborn and Company, commodity brokers in New York, until,
one step ahead of the draft in 1941, I accepted a commission in the
Coast Guard. I promptly found myself in the Arctic waters, where
I remained during the best part of the next five years progressing
along the line to a small but interesting command, and then to the
rewarding job of flag lieutenant and aide to Admiral “Iceberg” Ed H.
Smith (Ph.D. Harvard). Returning to civilian life, I continued to
look for my niche, now for the primary purpose of providing for
an ever understanding and wonderful wife and a new ly acquired
family. Short tours with an oil company and a contract hardware
firm led to my present job in 1950 with its interesting and ever
changing challenges.

No one living in a small community can escape the inevitable call
for service in town, church or charitable work. I have served a
token stint in all and somewhat more in some. Cohasset is a fine
town for a family to put down roots, There are eight other mem-

[979 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

bers of our Class who apparently feel the same way. Sailing, fishing,
tennis and golf, puttering in the cellar on wintry evenings, all seem
to be part of my life. So far my endeavors have hardly been reward-
ing in the material sense, but the enjoyment of my work, my family
and friends have made it a happy one.

ELLIOT VOSS NEWMAN

 

HOME appress: 4730 Clendenin Rd., Nashville, Tenn.

OFFicE appRESS: Vanderbilt Hospital, Nashville 5, Tenn.

BORN; Jan, 23, 1914, Boston, Mass, parents: Leon Newman, Ellen Bettoney.

PREPARED aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; M.D., 1939.

marrigp: Ailsa Campbell Mackay, Aug. 23, 1940, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Elliot Campbell, Jan. 29, 1943; John Hughes, Oct. 1, 1945.

occuraTion: Physician; professor of experimental medicine, Vanderbilt Uni-
versity School of Medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Intern, Newton (Massachusetts) Hospital, 1939-40, Massachusetts
General Hospital, 1940-41; fellow in medicine, 1941-42, instructor in medi-
cine, 1942-46, assistant professor of medicine, 1946-49, associate professor
of medicine, 1949-52, John Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md.; assistant
resident in medicine, 1942-44, resident physician, 1944-46, visiting physician,
1946-52, Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, Md.; professor of experi-
mental medicine, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tenn., since 1952;
program chairman, Tennessee State Heart Association, 1955; secretary,
Section on Experimental Medicine and Therapeutics, American Medical
Association, 1956-59, vice-president, Middle Tennessee Heart Association,
1959,

MEMBER oF: American Physiological Society and the Circulation Section;
Founder's Group of the Scientific Council of American Heart Association;
Sigma Xi; Medical and Chirurgical Faculty of the State of Maryland;
Peripatetic Club; Society for Experimental Biology and Medicine; Ameri-
can Society for Clinical Investigation, Association of American Physicians;
Nashville Academy of Medicine; Tennessee State Medical Association;

[ 980 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

American Medical Association; American Clinical and Chimatologiecal
Association, American College of Physicians (fellow), Amencan College
of Chest Physicians (fellow); New York Academy of Scrences (felhew),
Exchange Club of Nashville; Tennessee Diabetes Associanon, Southern
Society for Clinical Research; Alpha Omega Alpha, Vandertult chapter,
Nashville Committee on Foreign Relations,

puBLicaTIons: Fifty-one articles in medical scientific literature and textbooks
in the field of physiology and cardiovascular discase.

MY life has been rather typical of the academic professor in medi-
cine who moves from one medical center to another, gradually ace
cumulating rank and responsibility, which puts him in the position
finally of being an “authority,” which is a symbol rather than a
reality. The greatest reward is the opportunity for unlimited shar-
ing of knowledge and discovery with one’s peers. One becomes rec-
onciled to the inability to contribute more than a little of one’s own
inventions, and one takes greater pleasure in providing the atmes-
phere, and facilities, in order that the younger may have the larp-
est share possible of opportunity to contribute.

On another side of my life, I have gone through intense evcles
of blowing the clarinet with delightful amateur orchestras in Balts
more and in Nashville, alternating every few years with mental
wrestling matches with such people as Paul Tillich, Camus, Freud
and my friends on the philosophical and theological faculty at Van-
derbilt. On the whole, I feel much more satisfied with the clarinet
because I can imagine it sounds wonderful, and no one can argue
while I’m playing,

On the physical side of life’s pleasure, I have taken full advantage
of my neighbors’ swimming pools, the beautiful forests and Lhe
in middle Tennessee, and the remarkable concoction called sour
mash. Frequently the greatest satisfaction is puttering, digging,
cutting wood, planking, raking leaves, chasing squirrels, and ‘cook:
ing out (not the squirrels) in one’s own yard. And finally, that
which means most, my home-maker and my “children and my home:
the first three are the ones with whom I like to awociate the mnt,
and the last is the place where I like best to be.

[ tt )

HARVARD CLASS OF I 935

DEXTER NEWTON

 

HOME appress: 17 Heath St. Westboro, Mass.
OFFICE AbbREsS: Harvard Trust Co., Harvard Square, Cambridge 38, Mass.

Born: Aug. 13, 1913, Westboro, Mass. ParENTS: Roland Stephen Newton,

Florence Abby Smith.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cut laude, 1935; M.B.A., 1937.
MariED: Marguerite Armstrong, Sept. 10, 1938, Westboro, Mass. CHILDREN:

James Armstrong, June 19, 1941; Jane Abby, Jan. 6, 1943; Dexter, Jr., Nov.

26, 1944; Charles Richard, Aug. 1, 1947.
OCCUPATION: Assistant investment officer, Harvard Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: Moderator, Town of Westboro, 1949-53; trustee, Fay School,

Southboro, Mass. 1954-58; warden, St. Stephen’s Church, since 1954;
secretary, Harvard Business School Association, Boston, 1957-59; president,
N. E. Andover Alumni, 1959.

MEMBER OF: Siloam Lodge, AF. & A.M.; Boston Security Analysts; Boston
Security Traders,

I] ADVISE those looking for a literary masterpiece, a report of an
adventurous life, or profundity to pass on forthwith.

We have stayed right here, as this branch of the Newtons has
done since 1639 or so, in spite of the relative attractiveness of other
places, now in view of our “business climate” perhaps greater than
ever before. For twenty years my business life was in Boston, six
years with the Old Colony Trust Company and fourteen with H. P.
Nichols, Inc., all in the investment field. Now for two years I have
been happily at work right back in Harvard Square at the Harvard
Trust Company, where I have had pleasant reunions with a number
of friends of the years 1931-37. I am working on the bank’s port-
folio, trust and agency accounts,

I have no military record to report; I stayed home. Our life has
been the usual effort to bring the next generation along in the way

[ 982 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

it should go, and we have followed the pattern with which we were
familiar, as it still promises strong roots from which to grow, “The
two oldest boys are at “old P.A.”; Jane is aday student at Dana Pall,
and Charlie a day student at Fay School, Southbore. This provides
some interesting arithmetic for father, but these four diverse pers
sonalities help us by keeping a young point of view constantly be-
fore us, and so preventing my occasional moods of pessimism re-
garding the economy, politics and the church from gaining the
upper hand permanently. I have come to feel that there is much
in the idea that to stay young one should keep some meaningful
contact with the young, and that our friends in the teaching pro-
fession do have this certain, if intangible, reward.

As my activity list indicates, I have tried to discharge some re-
sponsibilities toward society at large. These efforts have broughe
both rewards and disillusionments. I have come to feel that God
must be with the church, else it could not survive all the bickerings
and pettinesses within it; that the current “discovery” of the tm-
portance of corporation executives and professional men partic ipat-
ing in politics will come to naught, because in the face of criticnm
and the demands of business on time and strength, they will not
persist, and a one-shot effort in this field is no good at all.

Our vacations are almost invariably spent in Maine, and our chil-
dren are well indoctrinated by a summer camp which we both knew
in our youth, Medomak in Washington. We think that when te-
tirement day arrives, it may be Maine for us, unless Massachuscets
stops forcing her older citizens to move to states with more favor.
able tax laws. We have not decided upon the exact place, becaue.
as Kenneth Roberts wrote, “when I do... UE shall no longer be
able to toy with the thought of having houses in the hundred other
locations where I'd like to live.”

It seems at times that the years have dropped aw ay unaccounted
for, and incredible that my father is gone and my sons sitting in
the school seats which I polished such a seeming short tine apo.
Yet we have put a lot of earnest effort into this life, presage and
provincial as it will seem to many of you, Probably, at seventy -one,
if I make it, and sit down to do this stint for the Reunimn, § shall
look back at these coming twenty-five years with similar feelings. |
have been fortunate, and I hope it holds.

1 plan to be with you next spring, but if any thing presenrs, {
hope some of you can take the opportunity to come into the Pfs.

[ 983 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

vard Trust Company to see me. I may prevail on the Trust Com-
pany to fly a 1935 banner over the Square that week.

4+ JOHN JOSEPH NEY

 

BORN: July 27, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: John Vincent Ney, Katherine
Brickley.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 7agna cum laude, 1935.
MarRiED: Margaret King. cuitp: Sandra Ann.

piep: Aug. 4, 1955, Boston, Mass.

wow: Mrs. John J. Ney, 61 Greenleaf Ave., Medford, Mass.

JOHN JOSEPH NEY was a member of the freshman cross coun-
try squad and the 1934 cross country squad. The only information
that the Secretary has concerning Ney’s activities after leaving
college is that he was appointed to the Boston police force in 1940

and was a police lieutenant at the time of his death. He was sur-
vived by his wife and child.

[ 984 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY RFPORT

JOHN QUINTARD NICHOLS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 7965 La Jolla Scenic Drive (Ardath Road), La Jolls, Cabf,
OFFICE ADDRESS: Yellowstone Park, Wyoming.

BORN: Dec. 2, 1910, Helena, Mont. parents: Wilham Mone Nichol, Pllen
Dean Child.

PREPARED AT: Cate School, Santa Barbara, Calif,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MaRRIED: Elizabeth M. Hertzler, Nov. 3, 1934, Beverly Hilly Calf. aune
John Quintard, Jr., Dec. 8, 1935 (7. Sandra Foote, Aug. 34. 1ac%t.

occuPATION: President, Yellowstone Park Company, Yellowstone Park, Woo.

OFFICES HELD: Director, First National Bank, Helena, Mont.

MEMBER OF: La Jolla Country Club; El Dorado, Palm Springs, Thunderbird
Palm Springs; Rancheros Visitadores, Santa Barbara, Burlingame Country

Club, Hillsborough, Calif., Livingston Country Club and Montana Country
Club, Helena.

I DID not graduate from Harvard, but, for whatever it's worth,
here goes: I attended Kelsey-Janney Business College, San Diege,
in 1932 and 1933, moved to New York and was aoviated there
with Wood-Struthers Company from 1933 to 1935. On Novernhee
3 1934, I married Elizabeth M. Hertaler of Lancaster, Penns t
vania. We turned our eyes west and [ joined the Yellow stone Park
Company as secretary-treasurer, 1936 to 1941. The Yellowstone Park
Company operates under a franchise from the Nanonal Park Sees we,
Department of the Interior, all housing and feeding faeiities in
Yellowstone National Park — hotels, motel unity cabiny with a
total sleeping capacity of about gooo — as well av bus trangserta-
tion through the park, boating Facilities, etc., common to a narenal
park resort area.

Then came the stinec with the U.S. Air Force ~~ syge to ty9%
I was stationed at West Coast Flying Vraming Command une
1945, then shipped to the Philippines until April, 144, rank, espera

[ y%s ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 193 5

After discharge, I resumed duties with the Yellowstone Park Com-
pany, was vice-president from 1948 to 1955, became president in
1956 and expect to hold that post until I’m fired.

From May to October each year, I am in Yellowstone Park,
Wyoming, For the balance of the year, I function from our winter
office in La Jolla, California, which accounts for our home address.

In between work sessions I play golf (really, “at” golf now!), do
some swimming and horseback riding and, among my hobbies, I
count photography, music, cards and “gadgets.” I’m an Episcopa-
lian (not very active) and, politically, I wear a Republican hat.

LAWRENCE van BYLANDT NICHOLS

 

HOME appress: 215 Highland Ave., Piedmont, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 324 12th St., Oakland, Calif.

BORN: Jan. 15, 1913, Weston, Mass. PARENTS: John Donaldson Nichols, 706,
Beatrice van Bylandt.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: AB., cum laude, 1935.

MARRIED: Moira Lant, Sept. 29, 1942, Baton Rouge, La. cuitp: Louise Kirtley,
May 20, 1947.

occupation: Owner, athletic equipment business,

THE world has changed so much since we set forth to make our
way in it that changes in an individual life seem scarcely worth
recounting. For quite a while my roots remained in the Boston area,
although absences during the war, travel and life abroad gradually
weakened the ties. We came to California — my wife, our daughter
and I — without any real feeling of permanence but now, after
eight years, seem more settled than at any previous time.

For a year or two after graduation I kept to much the same orbit
as while at college. 1 worked in Boston, lived in Weston and spent

| 986 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a lot of my spare time in Cambridge. The firse deviation fron thas

attern was a trip to Europe in 1937 with a cousin who had juse
finished architectural school. On the strength of a small Ieyacy |
quit my job at the New England Trust Company and, by pine hing
our pennies in true Yankee fashion, we stretched a few hundred dut-
lars through five months and thirteen countries. In the hyht of
subsequent events our travels in parts of eastern Europe were par-
ticularly interesting. Historically the battleground of the ‘Teutons
and the Slavs, most of these new nations had been independent less
than twenty years. They had literally been born between the han.
mer and the anvil; yet determined as they were to remain free, dark
shadows were already creeping into their young lives. While in
Finland we tried unsuccessfully to get visas for Russia, so had no
personal impressions there, but we saw a lot of Germany and, even
to a raw tourist in the summer of 1937, it looked as if the Germans
were on the road to war,

Despite these forebodings my homecoming brought me back to
the more pressing problem of earning a living. I got a job with
Lever Brothers in Cambridge and for the next four vears hepe my
nose to the grindstone, my hopes on avoiding the ‘draft. and ny
aspirations on a salary that would enable me to be marricd. But the
war intervened and within a week of Pearl Harbor [enlisted in the
Army Air Corps. Then followed a kaleidoscopic | Vear— at cht
different army posts and air bases; as private, N.C. "O. and Oshicer
Candidate; three months of newly-wedded bliss snatched out of no-
where, and BOOM! I landed at a Fighter Command Base on the
east coast of England.

In deference to those who fought or suffered I prebab Ny shoulder'e
say this, but my overseas service was mostly an interenng cxpers-
ence. There were occasional periods of bercdom and drudgery but
I really had it too easy to dislike it and, more than that, I fond ita
thrill to be living in the midst of momentous historical event. bos
eighteen months I was a supply officer on various airtichts mn Past
Anglia, a section of England composed of four counties facing on
the North Sea, bearing the familiar names: Norfolk, Sutfoth, Carn:
bridge and Essex. When we arrived the RAF was already a scasened
outfit and our early efforts made only a shyht contrbutws te the
air war. Then, starting about the middle of "gh, Our Capabilities an
creased rapidly, as the great Allicd bomber otfensive aye Gee
many built up from sporadic raids by a few hundred planes foe tee
sive round-the-clock attacks by hue armada, During they periead

[ 987 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

spent traveling in the other countries of Southeast Asia. Everywhere
our impression was the same. These people now know enough about
the rest of the world to want freedom and a chance to improve
their Jot. Asians do not think a lot about Communism. The next
meal is the average fellow’s primary concern, or some small amenity
which will improve his wretched existence. Asia is half the world
and when you realize that half of Asia lives on one inadequate meal
a day, sleeps without a roof overhead at night and has neither cloth-
ing for decency nor sanitation for health, it is remarkable that Com-
munism, with its false promises, has not taken over the entire conti-
nent. Helping backward countries to raise their living standards
is a world-wide task. We Americans can’t do it alone. ‘To try would
be to risk bringing down the whole house of cards. Nor should we,
for only as all nations pledge to help each other and bear their part
of the burden will the world’s jitters recede.
We returned from Malaya rather the worse for wear and decided
to try California’s mild climate as a restorative. I went back into
the same general line of work I had done at Lever Brothers, as mer-
chandising manager for a San Francisco firm operating in the eleven
western states. Then four years ago, when we had definitely made
up our minds to stay in California, I started a business of my own,
something I think J always wanted but hadn’t acquired the courage
or the capital for until recently. A small businessman’s lot is not
an easy one these days but I think I prefer it. What makes it difficult
is not so much the competition from big business as the burden of
improvident government and the pressure which wage inflation is
putting on the economy and on families like mine, In spite of this,
and notwithstanding the many disturbing aspects of life in the world
today, we are leading a comfortable suburban existence on the east
side of San Francisco bay, We like it here and only wish we weren’t
so far from some of our friends. Happily San Francisco is such a
travel nexus that we keep in touch with those who pass this way
and we hope that, when there is time for it, jet travel will enable
us to see others who do not move around so much.

[ 992 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IRVING LEWIS NISSON

 

HOME apprESS: 116 Plymouth Rd., Newton Highlands 61, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Nisson Paper Products Co. Inc. 61 Hampshire Sey Penta pa,
Mass.

BORN: June 14, 1913, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: Solomon Niwa, None bide
Price.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: $.B., 1935; MILA, 1947.

MARRIED: Selma Feinman, April 29, 1951, Newport, RE coarass Anne HH,
July 15, 1952; Paul E., Nov. 6, 1953; Adam R. July ta toes, Jaden 1.
Aug. 24, 1958.

OCCUPATION: President, treasurer, Nisson Paper Products Car, Ine, whedewelet
of paper products.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Paper Team of the Combined Jew nh Appeal, rgs4 4°

IN 1935, as graduation day approached, [teok stock of my fechegs
and aspirations and confessed to myself that, my pre: medical cute
riculum notwithstanding, I did not have the real amt deep urye te
become a doctor — as did so many of my clawmates NV career on
business did not seem to pin me down as narrow Ny as read al ee howl
and becoming a doctor would. The fall of 193¢ “found the embryo
Carnegie enrolled in the first vear of the Graduate S hood of Bow.
ness Administration of Harvard. Two vears there, with a mapee at
retailing and sales management, at the was-it-worth the. cutee ty «

high-$600-tuition-per-year rate, brought me to June, mit, maybe
now I could earn a dime! Through the placement departinent aed
the Business School I had several interviews for pote and ia June,
1937, was hired by the Morse Shoe Storey a chan of feta ateres
selling primarily popular-priced women’s shoe Phe euent a
enjoying “profitless prosperity” duc to a Lach oof arnf weak rice it
merchandise control, My job was to establish a departinent fe coe
trol the buying of shoes as to quantities by pay sreq wadeta, ef:

[oy]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

The job held out a challenge, and quite satisfactory results were ob-
tained. Starry-eyed and gratified by the results, praise and salary
increases by the bosses, it was not until some years later that I learned
(overseas in the Army, through my successor) what the job had
been worth. My one ambition was to get into business for myself
and “earn what I was worth.”

April, 1942, interrupted our ski lodge group at Laconia, New
Hampshire, for me — induction into the Army at Fort Devens. I
was a bachelor at twenty-eight, still antagonistic toward women,
and although in favor of marriage as an institution, I couldn’t see
myself marrying an institution.

Basic training in field artillery as a private in Texas during the
summer of 1942 led to O.C.S, at Fort Sill, Oklahoma, in late 1942 and
early 1943, and I became both an officer and a gentleman. Basic
training again, this time as a second lieutenant, in Texas, and Sep-
tember, 1944, found me first in England and then France and com-
bat — we won the war in spite of it, didn’t we?

February, 1946: a civilian again with a yen to get into business
for myself. But I couldn’t find anything to sink my teeth into.
After taking two successful jobs to keep myself occupied and from
going nuts from inactivity, I went into partnership in a going small
(one-man operation) wholesale paper products business. It was a
bad partnership — incompatibility unlimited. My associate got an
angel to buy me out, and January, 1951, found me unattached — a
bachelor with no job or business.

On January 31, 1951, I paid two dollars at the Boston City Hall
and Nisson Paper Products Company was born. Things were really
moving now. At last I was in business for myself at thirty-seven. It
was during the Korean war —I had no inventory and no customers
and no employees — but I was in business for myself. A few weeks
later I met Selma Feinman on a blind date— we were married two
months later, April 29, 1951, at the famous old Temple in Newport,
Rhode Island.

Then they really popped — Anne H., born July 15, 1952; Paul
E., born November 6, 1953; Adam R., born July 10, 1955; Judith
L., born August 24, 1958 — two and two — we planned it that way.
So, life begins at thirty-seven — or, all’s well that ends well — or —
that should be enough for trite sayings.

So, it ends up in suburbia— Newton Highlands, about ten miles
from Cambridge —a comfortable home — two cars, naturally (not
counting the two-ton truck in the business) — crabgrass-pulling in

[994 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the summer at 2:00 a.m. by flashlight — entertaining, in the dungeon,

naturally —- the kids sprouting up nicely (but to have four all Vlora
all blue-eyed, is monotonous) — and God forbid they should walk
to school on a nice day —SUBURBIA!

CYRIL ARTHUR NIXON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 326 Braxmar Rd., Tonawanda, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sylvania Electric Products Corp. Buffalo, N.Y.

BoRN: Oct. 7, 1913, Duke Center, Pa. parents: William Fdmand Niwn, fd:
lian Sarah Meech.

PREPARED AT: Le Roy High School, Le Roy, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 193I-1933. DEGREE: S.8. IN kD. (Niagara Univ.), sore

MaRRIED: Martha Countryman, July 17, 1943, Genesco, N.Y. quips. Thee.
dore Le Roy, Feb. 20, 1949; Steven Andrew, May 3. t9¢33 Jay Roger, Dee.
31, 1955; James Arthur, Nov. 13, 1959.

occuPATION: Industrial engineer, Sylvania Electric Products Corporati.

OFFICES HELD: Committeeman, Cub Scout Pack 404.

MEMBER OF: National Management Association, Niagara Frontce Socsty od
Industrial Engineers.

AFTER two years at Harvard I was unable to continue duc 0 h-
nancial circumstances. In 1936 I graduated from Genesco Normal
School, a state teachers school. From thea until tigger UE taught
school, the real old-fashioned one-room school, What an educa.
tion this can be for the teacher, although frankly it is noe a gowad
one for the pupil. While teaching | completed studhies nevessary
for a degree at Niagara University.

In 1941 I left teaching and began working at Rell Atecestt. rors
then until 1945 I was classified 2A in the draft. EP never did tet
out if I could have passed the physical, While at Nell Aserafe t
became interested in industrial engineering and in iygq when Bell

[ 995 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Atcraft cut back T became an industrial engineer (or what passed
for one) at a small foundry in Butfalo, “Metal and Allovs Specialties,
Inc.”

In agg? U started at Colonial Radio Corporation, later to become
a divnion of Sylvania Flectrie Products. [have been with Sylvania
continuously fur twelve years and am currently enga ged in de-
veloping special tec hniques for predetermining labor costs in govern.
ment electronics projects,

THEODORE MORGAN NORDBECK

 

venue armaras joes Spring Se. Chevy Chase 15, Mad.

OFrWE anoanes: Central Intelligence Agency, 2930 E Se, N.W., Washington,
DC.

men: May ia, tora, Everett, Mass. parents: Theodore Fdward Nordbeck,
Phoe Glass Morgan,

rParrinen at Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

VERS IN COME IGE: 1971-1034. DEGRER: AB, 1935.

Manmiea: bhzabeth Lincoln Tisdale, April 19, tgyo, Boston, Mass. cHiip: Fliza-
beth Curner, Sept. 1a, 1947,

oocepation; Intelligence officer,

wapAtacr os: Soerey of American Military Engineers, Association of the US.
Army,

AFTER graduation [ returned to Harvard, working in the College
L ibrary, and bur for the events of 1941, [ suppose ‘T would still be
there, Active duty in the Army in 1941 was followed by assign-
ments in the Coast Artillery, Ordnance and Transportation Corps
— assignments interesting in retrospect but frustrating at the time.
In 1044 Fred Kilgour recruited me, from an ammunition depot in
the swamps of Tidewater, Virginia, into the Office of Strategic
Services, and to an overseas tour in India and Burma. In 1946 I made

[ 996 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the decision to forego a librarian’s career and joined the Department
of State’s intelligence organization, then in the process of formation.
The work was stimulating and at times exciting; Washington bu-
reaucracy was neither as formidable nor as inhuman as had been re-
ported, and the Department of State made —and still makes —
generally good sense. In 1953 I joined the Central Intelligence
Agency, both because of its increasing significance in the national
intelligence scene, and because of my own conviction of the im-
pertance of scientific intelligence, particularly in its application to
the political, economic and psychological aspects of international
relationships.

We live quietly in a pleasant suburb of Washington, and manage
to spend at least a few weeks each summer in New Hampshire.
Thanks to an affectionate and understanding wife and an energetic
and growing daughter, it is not too difficult to withstand the vicis-
situdes of professional and official existence, and to retain what I

hope and fondly believe to be an enlightened interest in literature,
education and history.

JOHN NORMAN

 

WOME appREss: 306 N. Grant St., Hinsdale, II.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 3425 W. 31st St., Chicago 23, Ill.

BoRN: Sept. 20, 1909, Chicago, Ill. parents: Earl Ewing Norman, ‘o7, Henrietta
May Ham.

PREPARED AT: Hinsdale High School, Hinsdale, IIl.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1929-1931, 193371935. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1935,

MarrieD: Emily Carr Baker, Oct. 29, 1938, Hinsdale, Il cuitoren: Deborah

Blackwell, Oct. 7, 1940; John Courtney, Feb. 25, 1948, David) Fwing,
Sept. 16, 1954.
HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Norman, 737.

[997 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ene. panos: Prewdent of corporation.
orrcrs vais: Member, board of directors, Godair Home, National Metal Trades

Association, Harvard Club of Chicago, Productora de Tuercas, S.A.
wamera ow Harvard Club of Chicago; University Club of Chicago; Hinsdale

(olf Club.
mmicarione: Two arncles on a stock bonus plan in Exchange Magazine,
MOST of my life PE have spent looking ahead — hoping, planning,
annciparing, ‘Te has al avs seemed that fulfillment was just over the
neve hill. It comes as a shock to be required to turn around and take
a backward look, I'l do it, but only for a little because TP think I
still have a lot of forward looking left to do.

Ive spent my entire business career working for an inherited
family busines. With the passing of time and the workings of the
laws of primegeniture | became president of the organization about
ten years age, The work has been challenging, interesting and
reasonab ly rewarding, Starting from one- plane operation we ex-
panded into the South with a second plane in Alabama and more
recently have begun operations in Mexico. This latter move has
heen particularly interesting to me, getting us involved in inter-
national activities in a limited way.

My family life has been in some ways quite unique. The stork
has so far visited us every seven years. Our youngest is now five
and my wife gers a a little nervous when she stops to think. Debby,
our oldest, & tall, dark and gorgeous, She is in her first year at
Pine Manor, Johnny, the next one, is a sixth-grader with all the
heedless irresponsibility of a wild bird, Davey, the latest, is just
starting Kindergarten, They say he'll be the joy of our declining
years I suspect he may also contribute to the decline.

My wife Fmily and Lhave lived a pretty ty pically suburban sort
of life, We're both avid golfers. We live in a big old frame house
that’s getting close to roo years old— very old for these parts.
We've both wallowed in a variety of community activities. In a
sincere etfort to learn something I taughe a high school level Sunday
School class for four vears. [learned a lot but not what I was after.
For several vears I was the Harvard Club Schools Committee man
here in Hinsdale, without much success. The boys who wanted to
go to Harvard couldn't get in and those who could have made it

didn’t want to go to Harvard. Presently, P’'m active in the operations
of Godair Home, a haven for “senior citizens.”

Fmily and I enjoy getting out from under and going traveling
when we can. Our best effort so far was a two-month motor trip

[ 998 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

through Europe last spring. We have more such planned and only
hope to be able to pull them off. "

Having forsaken the grape and the weed at the behest of the
doctor a few years back, and having adjusted to that, I find my
greatest personal problem is one of keeping out of a smug, com-
placent, fatuous rut which runs right along beside me and into which
i would be so nice and easy to slide. I find myself fighting against
a life of slowly congealing habits, activities and associations. Search-
ing for new interests and fresh approaches I’ve tried oil painting,
writing and music. I’ve collected quite a library, reading several
books on a chosen topic, then moving to another.

Being made aware (by things like writing this report) that time
is beginning to run out, I most recently have been laying out a de-
tailed program for the next ten years for both my business and my
personal life. I want to make sure I'll get to do all the things I'd
like to while there’s still a little capacity for experience left. An
older friend looking back said of his life that what he regretted

most were not the mistakes and errors, but those things he hadn’t
done. I hope to avoid such regrets.

EDWARD DEERING NOYES

 

HOME ADDRESS: Waites Landing, Falmouth, Maine.

OFFICE apprEss: Noyes & Chapman, 465 Congress St., Portland, Maine.

porn: Sept. 2, 1911, Portland, Maine. parents: Edward Deering Noyes, Anna
Williams Cutler Smith.

PREPARED ar: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

marrieD: Althea Chase Gould, Dec. 10, 1938, Portland, Maine (divorced togg);
Beatrice Murray Babcock, May 5, 1949, Portland, Maine. cimpren: Edward
Deering, 3d, Sept. 4, 1939; John Meade, Jan. 17, 1942; Nicholas, Jan. 25,
1945; Anna Margaret Deering, Aug. 5, 1950,

[ 999 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

UARVARD SON: Edward Deering Noyes, 3d, 62.

occupaTION: Treasurer, Noves & Chapman, general insurance agency.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Trustees Portland Ministry at Large, since 1940, First
Parish in Portland, since 1944, Maine Unitarian Association, 1942-48; presi-
dent, Harvard Club in Maine, 1946-47.

MEMBER OF: Board of Corporators, Maine Medical Center and Portland Savings
Bank; Historical Society; Portland Society of Natural History; Pordand
Society of Art; Sons of Colonial Wars; Society for Preservation of New
England Antiquities; Portland Fraternity, Maine Bridge Association,
American Contract Bridge League (life); 1.0.0.F.; First Parish Society;
Portland Country, Portland Yacht and Cumberland Clubs.

AFTER a year at the Harvard Business School, I went to work in
a local general insurance agency, and in 1938 started my own agency,
now Noyes & Chapman, which has prospered through the efforts of
Chapman. This along with real estate, largely inherited, provides
good income and considerable freedom. My World War “service”
consisted of patrolling the Portland waterfront as a member of U.S.
C.G. Temporary Reserve, winding up as ensign, Two good mar-
riages with four fine children along with three fine stepchildren.

Devote most of my recreation time to playing contract bridge,
usually with my wife, We are both life masters under American
Contract Bridge ratings. This merely means that we have played
a lot of tournaments from local to national Jevel and finished in the

money in enough games. My civil activities now consist largely of
being treasurer of two local Unitarian Church boards.

EMIL HOWARD OBER

 

HOME apprEss: 82 Nutmeg Lane, Stamford, Conn.

OFFICE appress: New York Heart Association, 19 Columbus Circle, New York
19, N.Y.

BorN: April 18, 1913, Boston, Mass.

[ 1000 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

prePARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., Cum dade, 1935.

MarrIED: Betty Novick, Oct. 5, 1940, Brattlchoro, Ve. cautoars: Fred RY Mav
12, 1936 (by previous marriage); Doris Ann, New. at. togg. Harld RY
Oct. 27, 1948.

occupations: Public relations director, New York Heart Associaton.

OFFICES HELD: Special public relations work for Yale, Brandes and other aon.
tions of higher learning, 1946-52; public relations consultant, St. Barnabas
Hospital, New York, since 1946; public relations director, Duke Urs crue
Development Program, 1948, Harvard Foundation for Advanced Seudy
and Research, 1948-49, Harvard Law School Fund, 1948-49, Viaboan
Memorial Phoenix Project, University of Michigan, 1949-50.

MEMBER OF: National Publicity Council for Health and Welfare Scrvwev, Seatf
Conference of the American Heart Association; Mended Hearty Ine.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous national magazine articles on a variety of subjccte

A MAGAZINE editor friend once described me in a phrase as“ Phe
Scrooge of Valentine’s Day.” This probably sums me up pretty
well. Years ago, when I joined the New York Heart Associanen as
public relations director, I decided the valentine heart was toe
frivolous a symbol for the serious work of fighting cardiovascular
illness. I sold myself to the board of directors on the basis that i
would change this symbol as a starter. I actually went about my
nefarious promise by getting such prominent people as the Mavor
of New York and Mrs. Ralph Bunche to display a new emblem, a
realistic replica of the heart.

Then I was personally stricken with a very serious case of heart
disease. In September, 1954, I went to Peter Bent Brigham Hospital
in Boston, where Dwight E. Harken (Harvard "31, M.D.. °24), the
wonderful pioneer of heart surgery, performed a succesful operas
tion on my heart. During the period of my illness and recovery,
thousands of prayers, “get well” cards, calls, letters and other ea:
pressions of concern and interest, played a very real part in my te-
turn to health. Like Scrooge, I saw the light. Tam back at work,
have been for more than five years, and have completely abandoned
my crusade against the valentine heart.

A number of years ago I NBC broadcast the story of my bfe ura
series called “Biographies in Sound.” By some curious quirk Il was
sandwiched in between the weck they did Will Rovers and the week
they did George Washington, This “made me fecl Preety uspece sre
until suddenly I realized chat I was the only peron on the serws
still living. A classmate, How ard Richard, took part uy thie Deval
cast. It was fun at that time (as it is now ) to recall our colle eye clave

One of the real thrills of my life has been @ return te the wene

[rood |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

of great pleasure to perform a couple of public relations jobs for
Harvard — one for the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences and
one for the Law School. This was during the years 1947 and 1948.
The commendation I received from James B. Conant was almost
equalled as a source of joy by a resounding football victory we had
over Yale on November 19, 1948.

Incidentally, as may be seen from the category “Offices Held,”
I have picked up a number of other alma maters, in a professional
sense, over the years. I even have a warm feeling for Yale in this
respect, ,

Very briefly, touching on other points of interest: my family
affords a great deal of happiness. I had the good sense (without
realizing it at the time) to marry a nurse who shares the laurels for
keeping me alive with Dr. Harken and several other eminent cardi-
ologists. Both of our children seem to have a talent for writing as
well as a concern for humanity.

During the war, I was employed by the Office of Censorship,
which was as close as I could get to the Armed Forces on account
of heart murmurs, One of my wartime chores was to help set up
a censorship operation in Puerto Rico.

Social, political, religious convictions? I vote yes on all three.
Funny how one’s attitude changes over the years. I would have
voted no twenty-five years ago. I have traveled rather widely
through the country, not only in connection with my work but

also in the quest of medical treatment. In the Fiftieth Anniversary
Report, | shall be glad to give a more detailed account of my per-
sonal bout with heart disease, as well as windmills.

[ 1002 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN CAMERON OBFREIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 18800 Fairmount Blvd., Shaker Heights 8, Oho,
OFFICE ADDRESS: Oberlin, Maky & Donnelly, gog Leader Bllg. Oleseland ta

Ohio.

BORN: Sept. 29, 1914, Cleveland, Ohio. Parents: John Fredene Oberlin, Vy tle
Cameron.

PREPARED AT: University School, Shaker Heights, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: a.B., Crom laude, 1gis, tim (Woestem
Reserve Univ.), 1938.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Lawyer (patent and trademark law); senior partnce, Ot eta,
Maky & Donnelly.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Cleveland Garden Center.

MEMBER OF: Alpine Club (London); Amencan Alpine Club fpessatene, eas®
58); Club Alpin Frangais, Paris; Professional Men's Club of Olevelond
(president, 1958); Greenhouse Club, Cleveland (fint presntent, retgt,
American and Cleveland Orchid Socicties; Mid-Day lub of Clewelend,
Harvard Club of New York; Phi Delta Phi (legal fratcrnay), Alpbe (hs
Sigma (professional chemical fraternity), Amerwan and Cleveland Res
Associations; Cleveland Patent Law Assoctatem.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in The Alpine Journal (Londond and [be .doowee:
can Alpine Journal,

ALTHOUGH I majored in chemistry at Harvard, Po teck an AE
degree and then moved on to the law. About the tine | was at.
mitted to the bar (1938), a friend and PE buile a house tracer ot the
backyard complete wich air brakes, telephone between trailer ant
car, ice box, and radio, and with two others sce forth on a non eop
trip to the Tetons in Wyoming. Despite the iige miles exh was,
we managed to have cleven days of our two wcckh wacateon there,
and I climbed my firse real mountains,
After passing the requisite examination, Pow as teymecred Oe pea:

tise before the U.S. Patent Orhice and embarked on a proler canoe

[ roo; ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

career as a junior associate in my father’s firm with brief summer
vacations in the mountains. This was, of course, interrupted by the
war and the Army shunted me off to the 87th Mountain Infantry
Regiment, misplacing all my papers so that for some months I was
rather an orphan and could not even be paid, As my rank was that
of buck private, this did not make a great deal of difference except
that the top sergeant became relatively sympathetic. When a
mountaineering school was established, first in a gravel pit and later
at Mount Rainier, I was promoted to pfc. and given the grand title
of chief instructor in ice climbing to the U.S. Mountain Infantry.
My seniors, Walter Prager and Peter Gabriel, were both sergeants
at that time. The summer of 1942 was delightful on the mountain,
and ] managed to ascend Mount Rainier, Mount Hood, and Shuk-
san on G.I. weekends. In the autumn I applied for O.C.S. and
was sent off to a miserable winter at Edgewood Arsenal, where I
was commissioned a second lieutenant in the Chemical Warfare
Service, eventually reaching the rank of captain before receiving
my discharge.

Before returning to my practice in 1946, I took six weeks to drive
to the Canadian Rockies and with a friend backpacked and climbed
over a wide area. The next five years also found me spending my
summer vacations in the Canadian Rockies, but in 1952 I became
a member of the Franco-American expedition to the Peruvian Andes
which made the first ascent of Nevado Salcantay, although I had to
return home before the summit was reached, Following summers
included trips to the Alps and to Peru, Bolivia, and Chile, usually
involving mountain ascents, including the Matterhorn, Weisshorn,
Dent Blanche, and Monte Rosa at Zermatt (all traverses), and
Chopicalqui (21,000 feet) in Peru. This past summer found me look-
ing down into the crater of Popocatepetl prior to a sojourn at the
tropical beach of Manzanillo. A great advantage of mountaineer-
ing as an avocation lies in the contrasts one experiences — climbing
on snow and ice on a warm summer day is a good example.

At home I spend evenings reading, working with orchids in a
small greenhouse, collecting mountaineering books and first editions
illustrated by Arthur Rackham, listening to a medium-fi radio-phono-

graph I have assembled, and, of course, planning innumerable fu-
ture trips, some of which may come off. Asa break from the legal
life and strife, a weekend at Hatteras deep sea fishing or canoeing
in Michigan is most refreshing and, in my opinion, reduces the
likelihood of suddenly dropping dead at age fifty.

[ 1004 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

While I take many color slides when on trips. there ts schtom
time at home to use the enlarger for black and whites and about all
I try to do is to cull the slides unmercifully so as not to bore my
friends and the various public audiences to whom [| sometunes
lecture.

In retrospect, while life at Harvard was certainly
stimulating,” my feeling of gratitude is principally derived from the
fact that a chemistry major was permitted to take philwsophy from
Whitehead, fine arts from Edgell, history of religions from Nock,
Greek drama from Gulick, government ‘from Elhott, history frown
Merriman, and English from Kittredge. I also had a course HY atone

physics.

“pleasant ard

JAMES FRANCIS O'CONNOR

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4707 Arcadia Rd., Columbia, S.C.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Headquarters, Columbia Region, Miltary Sulrustemee Sagyty

Agency, 1321 Pendleton St., Columbia, $.C.

BORN: March 28, 1914, Swampscott, Mass, parents: Joseph Pram re O) Commer,
D.M.D., 05, Alice M. Murray.

PREPARED aT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MarRIED: Mary Uriel Osborne, Sept. 20, 1941, Lounville, Ky. anieass Jones
Francis, Jr., July 27, 1944; Michael, Oct. 23. 1946, Anne Vane. Dee ra
1949; Patricia, Aug. 1, 19§2; Kathleen, Oct. 27, 1964.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Hubert O'Connor, ’37.

occupaTion: Licutenant colonel, U.S. Anny; commanding othvee, Ube ohkpaerters,
Columbia Region, Military Subsistence Supply Agemy.

UPON gpraduation I left New England for Lounville, Nears ks,
where I was employed by the Mengel Company of that city fers
July, 1935, until January, i942. During that perwad f learned a!

[ 100s |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

phases of the furniture and radio cabinet manufacturing business,
progressing to a variety of supervisory positions, an experience that
I thoroughly enjoyed and found most beneficial and useful in later
years in supplyi ing invaluable practical industrial experience that
could be applied to many problems not directly connected with
furniture manufacture.

World War II completely altered my life, as it did that of so
many classmates. Some time during 1940, as the war clouds started
to roll up in various areas of the world, I obtained a reserve com-
mission in the Quartermaster Corps by attending instruction classes
and training at the Jeffersonville Quartermaster Depot, close by
Louisville. Within a few days after the Pearl Harbor attack, my
furniture manufacturing days came to an end as I was ordered to
Fort Knox, Kentucky, as a second lieutenant. World War II saw
me pass through the various normal phases of military training,
criss-crossing the country several times, and eventually become the
QM clothing and equipment officer on General Patton’s staff, Third
Army headquarters in France and Germany.

Upon the completion of hostilities in Europe and the Far East,
like many others, I mistakenly believed we were about to enter
an era of peace, with no further need for extensive armed forces,
so gave no serious thought to remaining in service. I couldn’t get
home from Germany and separated from the service quickly enough
to satisfy me. An additional incentive was furnished by the fact
that I had married the former Uriel Osborne of Louisville shortly
before entering the service and our first child had been born while
I was overseas, so naturally I was unusually anxious to get home
and commence exerting proper parental supervision, an elusive trait
I'm still hoping to exert someday.

I remained in the reserve, a lieutenant by this time, but instead
of going back south, we decided to try New England for a while.
We settled in Winchester, Massachusetts, and I joined with an
uncle and two brothers in the family leather business, the Murray
Leather Company of Woburn, Massachusetts, for about six years.

Early in 1952, due to the build up of military forces for the
Korean episode, the Army entered the picture again and summoned
me back to active duty, this time on a very interesting assignment
as an inspector general, inspecting all the various phases of Army
procurement to see that regulations were being complied with and
that Uncle Sam was getting full value for funds expended. This
assignment lasted slightly over four years, during most of which

[ 1006 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

time I was assigned in New York City after about one year an
Boston. Next followed a six-months course at the OM Subwntence
School in Chicago, during which I became a food expert and then
proceeded to practise that trade as chief of perishable subsiatenee
for all our forces in Japan for about one and a half vears.

I am still in the food business, being presently in charge of the
major food purchasing office in Columbia, South Carolina, which
purchases all the perishable subsistence for all Army, Nave, Ate
Force and Marine personnel in the southeast United Statcs, as well
as citrus for all the armed forces in the eastern United States andl
for export to Europe during the Florida growing season.

As noted in the vital statistics above, our family has increased
steadily and now numbers five healthy youngsters who scem to
enjoy moving around getting acquainted with various secnions of
the country and the world. Due to six years absence from the
service between World War II and the Korean conflict, I have con-
siderable time left in the service prior to retirement, so the family
should get another shuffle or two before the old man goes to pasture.
The location of that pasture has not yet been determined, however,
we appear to have become converted southerners, owning a home
in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, an area which we like very much, but
we have also greatly enjoyed the past year in Columbia, so the
eventual pasture might be almost any place in this gencral area.

+ THOMAS BURTON O'CONNOR

 

BoRN: July 28, 1914, Nampa, Idaho. parewre: William Parekh 1 C ecw,
Emily Johnston.

PREPARED AT: Wilson Pligh School, Long Beach, Cab

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1936. DEGREE: 8.8, cist laude, tgyqe iss.

[ 1007 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

MARRIED, CHILDREN: Two.

prep: July 24, 1952, New York, N.Y.

wwow: Mrs. Thomas B. O'Connor, 144-22 Village Rd. Parkway Village,
Queens, N.Y.

AFTER graduation, O'Connor began his newspaper career on the
Los Angeles Post-Record. In 1940 he came to New York City as a
reporter and desk man for the newspaper PM. During 1944 he
served with the Merchant Marine and then returned to the staff
of PM which was transformed into The Star in 1947. When The
Star ceased publication in 1948, he joined The Compass, a tabloid
morning newspaper, of which he was the managing editor at the
time of his death.

O’Connor was the winner of the American Newspaper Guild’s
first annual Heywood Broun Award in 1941 for a series in PM on
mine safety measures. In 1946 he received an award from the
Society of Silurians for his articles on a trucking strike. He was
survived by his wife and two children.

JOSEPH FRANCIS O’DONNELL

 

HOME appREss: 28 George St, Attleboro, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREsS: St. Paul’s Church, 261 Tremont St., Taunton, Mass.

BORN: May 24, 1913, Attleboro, Mass. parents: Joseph Francis O'Donnell,
Margaret Theresa Marron.

PREPARED AT: Attleboro High School, Attleboro, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Priest, Diocese of Fall River, Mass.

AFTER graduation I decided my vocation could be that of a priest.
Bishop James E. Cassidy, D.D., sent me to St. Bernard’s Seminary
in Rochester, New York, for two years of philosophy and four

[ 1008 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

years of theology and on June 7, 1941, ordained me a pricst by the
sacrament of Holy Orders. Many of my classmates were present
at my first Mass and they will be always remembered for their
kindness.

During the past nineteen years I have been an assistant pastor in
the parishes of Corpus Christi in Sandwich, St. Lawrence in New
Bedford, Sacred Heart in Fall River, Holy Ghost in Attleboro and
St. Paul in Taunton, Massachusetts.

May God bless you and your families with the grace of good
health and with the grace of doing His Holy Will in all things unto
life everlasting.

SPENCER DANA OETTINGER

 

HOME ADDRESS: Scofieldtown Road, Stamford, Conn.

OFFICE appRESS: Miles Shoe Co., 459 W. s9th St., New York, N.Y.

BorN: April 24, 1913, Woodmere, N.Y. parents: Milton Dana Octunger, Rerthe
Levy.

PREPARED AT: Westminster School, Simsbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Jane Goldenburgh, March 21, 1937. ciipreN: Dana Ruth, Jan. ¢.
1941; Craig M., Jan. 13, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Sanford Octtinger, ‘29, M.B.a., “34.

OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president, Miles Shoe Company, dhvnoen of Veb-
ville Shoe Company, ‘retail shoe chain,

OFFICES HELD; Vice-president and director, Melville Shoe Company.

IT doesn’t seem like twenty-five years since | watched the Mummy
parade at graduation and wondered if the time would ever quine
for me, and if it did would I look as ancient as the Class of tgie did
that day.

The years have passed quickly and pleasantly. I snarriedd the gel

[ ro0g ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

I had known all my life; we have two wonderful children and live
a pleasant and exciting life in a converted barn on five acres in the
hills of Stamford.

I have been associated with the Miles Shoe Company for twenty-
four of the twenty-five years since graduation and have been fortu-
nate enough to enjoy modest success with it as the company grew
and prospered. In 1952 we merged with Melville Shoe Company
and since then have been operating as a division of that company.

There was a slight interruption during the war, when I spent
several years as the oldest and seasickest ensign in the U.S. Naval
Reserve; a year of sub-chasing duty in the Atlantic (I don’t know
what we would have done if we had ever contacted a sub), and then
to the Pacific, Eniwetok (Ennui-tok) and Japan, as the war ended.

As to my hobbies, I love to play golf and fish but the retail busi-
ness is not too generous with spare time, so I can’t do enough of
either to make it worth while. On weekends I spend as much time
flying a plane as I can or else I’m grounded on a tractor mowing the
lawn.

I look forward to our Twenty-fifth Reunion with some trepida-
tion — shall I recognize anybody? You've changed a lot — whoever
you are.

DOUGLAS LLEWELLYN OLIVER

 

HOME appREss: 10 Channing St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Peabody Museum, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 10, 1913, Ruston, La, parents: Robert Campbell Oliver, Henrietta
Whitehurst.

PREPARED AT: Boys’ High School, Atlanta, Ga.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREES: a.B., cum laude, 1935; pup. (Univ. of
Vienna), 1935.

[ 1010 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marriED: Eleanor Schirmer, Sept. 1, 1936, Chestnut Bill Maw. Ghvorced
1942); Sheila Mitchell, June 7, 1943, Sydney, Austraha. cutmar~: Susan,
Oct. 16, 1940; Andrew, Nov. 12, 1953; Amelia, Feb. 9, 1965, Junarhon, b eb.

23, 1956.
occuPATION: Professor of anthropology and curator of ocean erhnebogy,

Peabody Museum, Harvard University.

OFFICES HELD: Various offices, Society for Applied Anthropology, special repre-
sentative for Foreign Economic Administration, Pacific Ocean Area, tope-
46; director, Economic Survey of Micronesia, U.S. Commercial Company,
1946-47; member, Pacific Science Board, National Research Council, tage
56; consultant to Far Eastern Bureau, State Department, toye 52.

MEMBER OF: Various professional associations, American Academy of Arte and

Sciences.
PUBLICATIONS: “Studies in the Anthropology of Bougainville, Soloman blank”,

“The Pacific Islands”; “A Solomon Islands Society.”

MOVED by German A and general restlessness, finished college in

1934 and spent following year in Vienna acquiring union card of

anthropological profession. Landed first paving job with Peabody

Museum and left for New Guinea in 1937, accompanied by Reston
bride. Sojourned with primitive but congenial Papuans undl end
of 1939. Back in Cambridge, sired daughter, Wrote monographs
and released wife to more civilized existence. Returned to western
Pacific as so-called expert, civilian, for armed services. Found and
married an Australian ally with similar taste for trade-wind tropics
Until 1947 attached to various Pacific Naval Commands doing old
jobs concerning natives and islands. Cambridge again, for a brief
and spectacularly unsuccessful attempt to Make Monev; then back
to anthropology on permanent teaching tenure. Subsequent held
work: French Polynesia during 1954-55 ~and 1959-60,

Permanent roots in West Gloucester (on Fasex Bay) where tine
is spent battling bull briars, sailing a Turnabout and writing alsout
South Pacific while gazing at North Atlantic. In-between hving in
Cambridge, where favorite pastimes are conversing with friends ~~

mainly academic — and passing on to students some of the excimy,
revelatory insights gained from nearly thirty vears of proeceupated
with this perpetually stimulating and challenging stualy of cernprara:
tive human relations.

Main goals: to see my children off to good starts in whatever they
choose to become, to teach effectiv ely, to add somethin OF dese rrp
tive and of theoretical value to anthropologic al sctence, to apend a
few more years with my wife working on Pacific bands but te end
by writing within view of the somber but Jess ahen Peauty of

[ssex Bay.
[1081 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

GEORGE TENER OLIVER

 

HOME apprEss: Laughlintown, Pa.

oFFice appress: Gulf Bldg., Pittsburgh 19, Pa.

BORN: Oct. 31, 1912, Pitsburgh, Pa. parents: George Sturges Oliver, Laura
Gilpin Smith.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935.

marrigD: Nancy Carrington W: illiams, Nov. 26, 1937, Pittsburgh, Pa. CHILDREN:
Virginia Carrington, Jan. 8, 1941; Laura Gilpin, Jan. 18, 1945-

HARVARD BROTHERS: Persifor Smith Oliver, ’38; Bradley Cummings Oliver, ’41
(deceased).

occupation: Administrative assistant to the Department Manager, Crude Oil
Sales Department, Gulf Oil Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Pittsburgh Club; Rolling Rock Club.

AFTER a lovely four years at Harvard and a lovely summer in
Canada, I found myself that fall uniformed and working in a service
station in Pittsburgh for the Gulf Oil Corporation, on whose rolls
I have remained ever since. In February, 1942, I joined the Navy,
attended the A-VS School at Quonset Point, Rhode Island, spent
the war in various jobs connected with naval aviation aboard several
carriers, on Admiral Mitscher’s staff as assistant ACI and flak officer,
and finished the war in Pearl Harbor as ACI personnel director for
Commander, Air Force, Pacific. I returned to Gulf at the end of
1945 and have since been assigned to many departments and various
jobs in an administrative or operational capacity,

[have had a most pleasant life, kept contact with the many friends
I have made before, at, and since Harvard, and look forward en-
thusiastically to returning next June with my family.

[ 1012 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

t~ERLING CHARLES OLSEN

 

porN: Aug. 8, 1913, Chicago, Ill. parents: Erling Olsen, Pallan Rohouwh,

PREPARED AT: East Orange High School, East Orange, N_J.

1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B, materia cuit lrade tart. oe

YEARS IN COLLEGE:
(Princeton Univ.), 1937.

pieD: Killed in action, July 28, 1944, in France.

AFTER receiving his A.M. degree at Princeton, Olsen attended the
American Academy in Rome, as a fellow in archacology, and re.
turned later to this country to continue his research, In January,
1941, he entered military service as a private in the Infantry and
was stationed at Fort Devens, Brooklyn and Baltimore before beans
sent overseas. He held the rank of sergeant at the time of his dle ath

He was survived by his parents,

RUSSELL GEORGE OLSEN

 

HOME AppreEsS: 3g Gramerey Pk. New York, NY.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett, pga reso ae New Yond

[roeg]

“4

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

poan: May 6, 1914, Chicago, Ill. parents: Oscar Henry Olsen, Florence Ellen
Bain.

parpartp at: St. Ignatius Academy, Chicago, Ill.

VEARS IN COLLPGE: 19)1-1935, DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1935; LL.B. (Yale
Univ.), 142.

Marnie: Elisa MacDonald Mitchell, Aug. 5, 1950, New York, N.Y.

ooncparios: Lawyer,

SAMUFL TORREY ORTON, JR.

  

Honey apoarss: Lunenburg, Mass.

ovrice apparss; Union Associates, Inc. 146 Water St Fitchburg, Mass.

mas: Nov, ta, 1909, Columbus, Ohio. parents: Samuel Torrey Orton, Mary
Pendleton Follett. .

parparep at: Taft School, Watertown, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

scanniyp: Nancy Parker, June 6, 1942, Portland, Maine. cHitpren: Samuel
Torrey, ad. May 6 1943; Carol, Sept. 26, 1944; Mark Mitchell, Sept. 7,
togts Fdward, Sept. 14, 1948.

oocveanton: President, Union Associates, Inc, Orton Corporation, manu-
facturers af machinery.

ovrices Hep: President, Fitchburg Art Museum, 1939-41; president, Fay Club,
Fitchburg, 1942.

Meatuee oF: Technical Association of the Pulp and Paper Industry; F ay Club;
Fitchburg Art Museum; Northficld Associates.

EXCEPT for a two-year period in the Navy during World War
ll (lieutenant, Bureau of Ships, Washington), I have been continu-
ously in Fitchburg since graduation. The first six years were spent
with a paper sales agency associated with a large paper mill. This
was followed by nine years as general manager of two small, closely
associated manufacturing companies in the metal-working trades.
The latter supplied specialized components to pulp and paper mills.
throughout the United States.

[ 1014 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In 1951 I resigned and formed my own business as a manu-
facturers’ agent for the sale of paper mill machinery and supplies
in the northeast. Subsequently, in the fall of 1958, the two com-
panies I had been with previously were put on the market. With
very substantial financial help from a local group, a successful offer
was made for them and I am back in the manufacturing of paper
mill equipment.

EDWARD FLINT PAGE

 

HOME AppREsS: 11 Anchorage Way, Barrington, R.I.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Page Walker Co., Providence, R.I.

BoRN: March 8, 1912, Melrose, Mass. paRENTs: Edward Samuel Page, "95, Susie
May Flinc.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1935; M.BA. 1937.

MARRIED: Elizabeth E. French, Sept. 14, 1940, Cambridge, Mass. ctHiILDREN:
Virginia G., 1942; Robert S., 1944.

OCCUPATION: President, Page Walker Company, wholesale jewelers.

MEMBER OF: Boston Jewelers Club; Providence Jewelers Club; Town Criers,
Barrington Yacht Club; Narragansett Bay Yacht Association, Appalachian
Mountain Club.

FOLLOWING my graduation from Harvard Business School, a
small investment trust offered me a none too princely salary and I
accepted, The work seemed statistical and desk-bound at the time.
but in retrospect the hours were short. Finding time for skiing
at Pinkham Notch winters, or Sailing and golf at Gloucester sum-
mers, presented no problem.

Then a change to Boston Metal Investors. It consisted of the
organizer, who was salesman, and myself, the research department.
‘The purpose was to invest in mining companies in Canada and

[ 1015 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Africa, The ink was only decently dry on the certificate when war
broke out in Europe and the trustees voted to liquidate.

Following a quick shift to another investment firm in Boston,
things stabilized slightly and I married the wonderful and patient
girl who is the mother of Ginie and Bob. We moved into a cosy
little apartment with weak plumbing, an eccentric janitor and
beautiful morning sunshine in the kitchen. Fired with community
spirit, I worked on the Planning Board, Zoning Board, Veterans
Housing Committee, and various fund drives for some time.

This country was becoming embroiled in the war and my efforts
at running a turret lathe after a day at the office were not too pro-
ductive. The Radiation Laboratory at M.LT. was expanding rapidly
and I soon found myself with an office, a secretary and security
clearance for new fascinating things waveguides, magnetrons,
and all the rest of the new radar gadgetry. The job was to find
contractors for a few prototypes of the new sets before the transi-
tion to quantity production. As the war came to a close, experi-
mental subcontracts were terminated. One very small item covered
experiments with germanium crystals that when processed a cer-
tain way led to the discovery of transistors,

Leaving M.LT., I moved back across the Charles to Boston and
the wholesale jewelry business. Competition was keen; so, like
Roger Williams, we packed up and trekked to Providence, the un-
crowded hinterlands.

We bought a huge stone barn, seventy-five by fifty-five feet,
displaced the live stock, and remodeled it into a delightful home
with a magnificent view of Narraganset Bay, a pier, and duck
shooting in the front yard. At hurricane time, the Bay moved too
close to our bay window, We moved to smaller quarters a little
further from the water.

Pinkham Notch revisited last winter, ostensibly to teach Bob
and Ginie the fine art of skiing, was as cold and beautiful as when
1 first went north at about their ages. Summers have been divided
between the cottage at Wellfleet on Cape Cod and sailing on Narra-
gansett Bay, With Bob, Ginie and Betty as enthusiastic crew mem-
bers on our little sloop, we won our first Bay championship last
summer. I enjoy skiing and sailing relearned, and contemplate tak-
ing up again that most frustrating of games, golf.

Weare trying to find the leisure and money for some of the pleas-
ures we have postponed or neglected for years; after all, as some-
one sagely observed, “it may be later than you think.”

[ 1016 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES KEENA PAGE

 

HOME ADpDRESS: The Loop Rd., Bedford, N.Y.

BorN: April 16, 1912, Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich. parents: Ralph Hugh Page,
Pauletta Keena.

PREPARED aT: Gunnery School, Washington, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932. DEGREES: A.B. (Johns Hopkins Univ.d. gies tam
(Harvard Univ.), 1938.

MaRRieD: Kathleen Maynard, Baltimore, Md. Guipres: Brooks vanDh he, Dee.

17, 1933; James Kenna, Jr., Jan. 24, 1936, Charles M. Perkins, Jr, Apel s.
1939-

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

NO questionnaire returned.

HENRY CARLTON PAINF

 

HOME aAppRESS: 8a1 E. Melton St. Longview, Texas,
OFFICE ApprEss: Trice Production Co, Longview, Tevaw

BORN: Sept, 2, 1914, Dallas, Texas. panenes: Randolph Pane, ‘ya, VUaudke Wrert
PREPARED AT: North Dallas High School, North Dallay Tesee.

[ 1or7 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.
marRIED: Garland Clawson, Feb. 24, 1939.
occupation: Oil production.

NO questionnaire returned,

VINCENT PALMER

 

HOME AbpRESS: 3693 Lindell Blvd., St. Louis 8, Mo.

OFFICE AbpRESS: 181 Madonna Drive, Fort Myers, Fla.

porn: Nov. 19, 1912, West Newton, Mass. PARENTS: Henry Webster Palmer,
’o1, Elsa Langborg.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935.

marrigp: Lucie Mackay, Sept. 2, 1939, Rye Beach, N.Y. cHitpren: Lucie Cable,
Nov. 12, 1941; Bradley V., Oct. 26, 1946; Vincent Mackay, Feb. 24, 1948,

occupation: Explorer; specialist in hydrospherology.

oFFices HELD: President, Adventurers Club of New York, Robert-Vincent, Inc.,
S-O-S Palmer & Company; director and treasurer, American Platform
Guild; director, Suboceanic Society.

MEMBER OF: Explorers Club of New York; Adventurers Club of New York.

THE waves lap restlestly against the hull of my research vessel,
The Sea Scientist, as 1 try again to finish this report on years gone
by. The waves chide me for wasting time on the past while the
future still lies impatient undersea.

I've heard these voices from a hundred boats: vintas in the Sulu
Sea, stern-wheelers on the Yukon, junks in China, submarines, rafts,
Dyak dugouts and ice-covered salvage tugs. Always the voices
remind me that I have promised to “tell the world’ of what the
oceans offer to solve famine and want among Earth’s peoples. The
voices will not cease till I dive through them again bound for my
water world, so let’s hurry with this report.

[ 1018 |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

What to say? My mind spins like a faro wheel over the mmate
of memories — back — back through high winds and high seas
and sunken ships rising from the depths . . . and comes to stop at:

June 19, 1935. As Ivy Orator, I am confessing my sinful part
in the Dognapping of Handsome Dan, the Fishnapping of the
Sacred Cod, the Clappernapping of Memorial Hall and the election
of Harvard’s shortest-termed president, Henry Ehot Clarke. The
audience before me is a sea of friends’ faces.

Then the Faro Wheel of Memories spins again — bombs fall,
men fall, leather boots kicked high fall through broken war drums
—— as the rubble smokes. The Wheel stops at oo.

Quick! Spin it away.

Shark, barracuda, a hundred fish of gold and silver, turquoise and
emerald rain past like gems spilled from a treasure chet... the
voice of Dr. William Beebe speaks... “We are fifty fathoms
deep.” “One hundred fathoms.” “Five hundred fathoms and a new
world record.”

Warm memories seem to brush my cheek, heavy-scented with
gardenia and orange blossoms, as I hear voices from diferent perionls
of the past, “I pronounce that they are man and wife.” Later: “There
will be five stockings to fill this Christmas.” Still later: “Bur, daddy,
all the others kids have one.”

But what can I say for the Report? Again the Wheel of Mem-
ories turns... I see an audience — two — four hundred audiences
flick by as chairmen in accents southern, western and “Yankee”
drone, “We have with us tonight, an explorer, and he has brought
his wife, who paints pictures while under the sea.” .. . “We have

with us tonight, Mr. and Mrs. Palmer, who have spoken to more
than a million people, in all but one of the fifty states.” .. . “We
have with us tonight, the five Palmers who will give their lecture,
‘Oceans of Fun’.’””

Then the Wheel sends a torrent of images through my nund, bhe
a TV travelogue: Buddhist temples, huts on stilts over the ss.
pyramids, large men in bed sheets riding small horses, serpents on
water hyacinths floating down-river, festoons of orchids in a Bornes

jungle, leeches, terrorists in Malayan forests, secret police by the
Kremlin, soldiers shattering the peace of Javanese ree pahhes
blossoms in craggy ice-peaks and exquisite belly tinkhig as puts
dance.

What to write for the Report? Mostly memories are of pun tuny
yoats, the sound of bubbles rising from my diving gear ae dee

[ 101g |]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

plore deep ocean stillnesses where creatures weird as dinosaurs
seem to fly through the water.

These memories all recall adventures to me but they are not a
Class Report, I must be concise, to the point, Ivy League stuff.
Boil down the story of tweny-five years in twenty-five seas into
twenty-five words... or less. Come on. You used to be able
to conform. Give it the old college try:

Iam a hy drospherologist. I lead expeditions. Some are purely
for science. On others, I try to find things, usually for others,
things like sunken ships, cargoes, treasures. So far I guess I’ve
done pretty well. Total finds to date, according to those who
ended up with the finds, amounted to more than $50,000,000.

My hope for the future: I'd like to have some of my classmates
and their families join me and my family diving from the deck of
The Sea Scientist.

Well, that’s the report. Can I go now? Back— undersea...

WESLEY CONSTANTINE PANUNZIO

 

HOME appress: 75 Green End Ave., Middletown, R.I.

BORN: Jan. 12, 1913, North Cohasset, Mass. PARENTS: Constantine Maria Panunzio,
Ethyl Gertrude Sullivan.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933, 1935-1937. DEGREES: A.B., 1935(38); A.M., 19403
PHD., 1957.

MARRIED: Edla Marie Backstrom, Feb. 28, 1942 — Sept. 16, 1954; Eva Corey
Heitmann, Dec. 31, 1958, Kingston, R.I. cHiLpREN: Rosemary Heitmann,
Jan. 6, 1937; Lois Heitmann, Feb. 14, 1940 (7. Raymond Joseph Cawley,
Jr, June 25, 1959).

occupation: Teacher of Romance Languages.

orrices HELD: Master in French and Spanish, Tilton (New Hampshire) School
and Junior College, 1941~g2; ensign, licutenant, U.S.N.R., 1942-453 instruc-

[ 1020 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tor, assistant professor of Romance Languages and Literature, Univeruty
of Maine, 1946-52; assistant professor of Romance Languages, Tufts Uns-
versity, 1953-54, University of Rhode Island, 1957-59.

MEMBER OF: Boston Center for Adult Education; American Awsoctatiott of
Teachers of French; Linguistic Society of America; Modem Language
Association (former member); New England Modern Language Awana

Wisdom Society; American Association for Emenn, Amencan

tion;
Ane tre an

Association of University Professors, Rotary International,
Association of Foreign Student Advisers.

PUBLICATIONS: “My Last Duchess Speaks” (poem), Cambridge Latin Revaww,
1931; “A Polyphase Sorter and Interpreter” (inventive), 1946, review of
“L’Elément Neerlandais dans le Wallon-hegeois,” by Geschere, Merd,
1954; “Techniques and Criteria for Days of Crisis” (philosophical, 1954,
“A Study in Liégeois Phonetics” (thesis), Harvard Univeruty, s9¢>,
“Principle of Gradational Incrementation” (a grading system), toyt-sy,
“Vers une Philosophie pour nos Jours,” speech delivered before Rotary

Club of Besangon, France, Nov. 3, 1959.
THE fact that we are now passing our twenty-fifth milestone since
the completion of undergraduate work creates for us a perceptuble
turning-point at which to take stock of our lives and the tides of
conviction that shape their course, endeavoring the while to avoid
facile optimism in favor of realistic pragmatism.

AWARENESS: Philosophers may disagree as to the direction in
which man is moving, but few will reject the view that there is some
measure of system or orderliness at the heart of our univ crve. He.
cause each of us is to a certain extent “an island apart,” the beyin-
ning of understanding must lie within the individual himself. When
the watchmaker in his workshop grasps his tweezers. and sunul-
taneously focuses his awareness upon the fact that he is doing so,
his entire being experiences the tendency of becoming whole, w thin
the framework of his perception. If he taps this power only
rarely, the strength that is implicit in awareness will be ephemeral
for him; but if he develops it until ic becomes second nature, he will
be able daily to experience what Socrates meant by the main,
“Know thyself!” and to know why Descartes concluded, “Je pense,
donc je suis.” It is right for us, then — the violinise in his stibediaa,
the government expert in his library, the craftsman in hes workshops,
the physician in his clinic — to be aware that we evit, to ask what
we are, and to imagine what we can and should become, Perenal
awareness is a power that cach of us may acquire, The Pfantus
long since have found its strength for bringing the Leung anntea ante:
mate contact with the realities that surround us. Uf we accuser
ourselves to moments of penetrating contemplation, the fullses

[ ror |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

breaks through upon us. There is a wholeness in the squeaking of
a hinge, in the falling of a leaf, in the utterance of a sigh.

KNOWING ANOTHER’S WORLD: If, then, we exist as sep-
arate entities, how shall we make ourselves known to one another,
as individuals or as nations? To attain this objective, it is necessary
for us to advance conscientiously step by step towards mutual
understanding by seeking an area of truth that both will be able to
accept. It is “thus that we can take the measure of the differences
that divide us; and discover that, objectively, these differences fade
and vanish into insignificance, although subjectively each of us has
the right to expect that his individuality will be respected: Ergo,
ad rem non ad hominem.

WILLINGNESS: Before being able to listen to the views of
another, however, one must be ready to face up to any resolution of
the given situation, no matter what it may be. That is to say, he
must approach his problem free of all constraint. For the Protestant
this means coming into a state of grace; for the Catholic it involves
translating the power of the Holy Mysteries and the dedication of
the retreat into daily living; for the Hebrew it is Jacob at the lad-
der wrestling with the angel of conscience and inner conflict. No
matter what style of religious or philosophical conviction we con-
fess, we must put our lives at the disposal of the Power beyond our
ken. To do so integrates our lives and gives substance to our po-
tentialities.

ACCEPTANCE OF RESPONSIBILITY: As the individual
moves on towards a fuller awareness, as he perceives the relationship
that exists between his world and his neighbor’s, and as he grasps the
effectiveness of willingness for his life, his decisions must be trans-
lated into action. He will have become aware of what he is doing,
but it will remain for him to decide if what he is doing is good. If
he freely determines that, to the best of his understanding, his course
of action is valid, he will continue to drive on toward his goal; if
to the contrary, he will change his pattern of living (if he has the
strength of willingness). Each of us must suppose that responsibility
rests with us; and that what we as individuals can do, although of
limited scope, may make its own peculiar contribution to human
welfare.

These words were penned in November, 1959, at Besangon and
Madrid, while Eva and | were enjoying a tour through Europe.
What the future holds for us is not certain at this writing. My
interest in language-learning is being enhanced by our trip, and

{ 1022 ]

_—

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my sense of linguistic values is finding the substance that will bring
it into focus, After more than ten years of teaching French ant
Spanish at the university level, I am channeling My Current energies
in the direction of English as a second language, es especially for there
of Romance language background. We look forward te jerernennys
with classmates for the festivities of the Twenty-tifth.

HENRY SEABURY PARKER, JR.

  

HOME ADDRESS: South Freeport, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: South Freeport Yacht Basin, Inc. South Freeport Marne.

BORN: June 14, 1912, Hewlett, Long Island, N.Y. paresis: Henry Se stury
Parker, ’04, Marion Stevenson.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Ruth Weyburn, July 20, 1940, Beverly Fanny Mas. cunness. Plenry
Seabury, 3d, April 19, 1944; Anthony Weyburn, Sept. 1. taae, Ruth Van,
April 11, 1951; Lyon Stevenson, Feb. 10, 1956.

occuPATION: President, general manager, South Freeport Yacht Baan, tw,
boatyard, marina, marine store.

OFFICES HELD: President, Casco Bay Boat Yards Awociuon, ane tata, secre.
man, junior warden, St, Paul's Fpiscopal Church, Bruns nh, Mane. aces
1955; chairman regatta committee, 1955-64 dbrector, tats Ga Mare Vee he
Racing Association; treasurer, director, Maine Boat Rurlders and Reparers
Association, since 1958, director, American Boat Builder aed Hegarere
Association, since 1958; commander, US.N.R., commandhiog eehser, Us
Tills (DE-748) Reserve Crew, since May, tg¢q.

I WONDER if many of us have found, after twenty tive vases,
what we want from life — what we went to Plarvard for, Ohie Class
doesn’t seem to have made the spectacular Contrary a noe
world’s affairs that some others have. And yet qucetts, pes

Harvard, through 1935's members, has filtered a foe ef ste!

{ 1023)

ve Fe 8¥

_ |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

to its objectives out to hundreds of communities and thousands
of our friends and associates,

Although a Harvard education doesn’t appear necessary to run
a boatyard in Maine, so many of the fine things that Woofie and
I are deeply thankful for seem to have their roots there.

We transplanted ourselves to South Freeport (about fifteen
miles beyond Portland, on Casco Bay) in 1947 and have been watch-
ing our boatyard grow quite respectably since. This after five
years as a bachelor and trainee with Shell Oil, marriage, five years
in the Navy, mostly in PT’s and then a couple of years directing
production of training aids and films in New York and as north-
eastern regional sales manager for Launderettes, out of Boston.

The boatyard business is anything but relaxing, despite the un-
shakable conviction of all our city and suburbia friends that we’re
“out of the rat race.” But it does have its compensations. These
include seeing a surprising number of old friends who drop in by
land or water; getting home to lunch, even though it may be just
for a quick gulp; living in a lovely location; bringing up children
in a country town exposed to solid values; and a commute that
takes ninety seconds by car, not much longer by walking (which
I never never do). Its compensations do NOT include lots of time
to sail, much family time, or a reasonable facsimile of good high
school educational facilities. But, blessed again, we’re awfully lucky
to have Hank in the third class at Middlesex and Tony in the second
form at St. Paul’s, showing promise of being much better students
and athletes than their father ever was, thank goodness. Ann is in
the third grade at school in South Freeport, the apple of her father’s
eye, and three-year-old Stevie, who makes better sense than any
of us, entertains and helps his mother around the house. Woofie
and I are quite involved with the affairs of St. Paul’s Episcopal
Church in Brunswick, and, as if I weren’t already up my ears, I
have command of the USS Tills (DE-748) Reserve Crew, recently
assioned to Portland as part of the Navy’s new “selected reserve”
training and ready mobilization concept. This involves dropping
business, church and family commitments one week-end a month
and taking the ship to sea, making like Captain Queeg after a sub-
marine. That has its compensations too, including two weeks to
the Caribbean with the ship about the time when it gets hard to
imagine life without snow, ice and mud,

A message to classmates and friends: Our five-year house re-
habilitation and enlargement plan, now in its third five-year exten-

[ 1024 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sion, Shows some signs of progress, or even completion, incredible
as that may seem to those who've been here, So we have lots of
room and the latch-string is out.

HUGH PARKHURST

 

HOME ADDRESS: 375 Washington St., Gloucester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Gorton’s of Gloucester, Inc., 327 Main Se. Gloucevtes, Vow

BORN: Jan. 17, 1914, Gloucester, Mass. Parents: Percy Clifton Parkhurve,
Adelia Etta Tolman.

PREPARED AT: Gloucester High School, Gloucester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MarRIED: Priscilla May Darcy, March 28, 1943. Gloucester, Mas.

OccUPATION: Purchasing agent, Gorton's of Gloucester, Inc. manufacturer of
fish products and by-products.

OFFICES HELD: Chief medical laboratory technician, goth Malana Survew Detach:
ment, A.U.S., 1943-46; director, Quality Control, Gorton’s of Ghanecuer,
Inc., 1946-54; director, First Aid and Safety Scrvices, Gloucewer Chapter,
American Red Cross, 1948-50; chairman, New England Fisheres Tech:
nologists, 1950-51; deputy director for Supply, Civl Defeme Organisation,
Gloucester, 1951-56; plant superintendent, Garton’s Scafood Centre, 194 ¢-
57:

MEMBER OF: National Association of Purchasing Agents, Inunute of Bosal
Technologists; New England Fisherics Technolognn, Amemean Sty
for Quality Control, American Public Health Awociatoon, Roy sd Sen ty
for Health; American Legion; National Geographic Sweety, Amern on
Museum of Natural History.

PUBLICATIONS: Mostly professional —a series of operational manusk,

VARIETY seems to have been the keynote of my hfe, and yee t
don’t seem to have moved very far from where U started. The par:
tern can be seen most clearly by categorizing it into groupe ef

activities.
Military Service: A most fortunate man — three years total tee

[ rors |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

in New Guinea and the Philippines—the Americal Division —
medical intelligence and medical parasitology. The Army gave me
credit for the Papuan, Leyte and Southern Philippine campaigns
and a Bronze Star Medal for meritorious service. I stayed in the
Reserve until business demands cut into my time too badly.

Business: A ‘busy man—twenty-six years with Gorton’s of
Gloucester, Inc. A start in the laboratory in 1933 -— more or less
a stagnant job until after the war. Then a series of progressive steps:
director of quality control, industrial engineer, plant superintendent,
packaging engineer and purchasing agent. Above all the satisfac-
tion of seeing an old, well-rooted company break through into a
position of leadership in an important phase of the food industry.

Family: A contented man—a small family, but I have the satis-
faction of sharing my dreams with a sympathetic wife. My boy-
hood sweetheart still is — who could ask for anything more?

Hobbies: A dilettante — meteorology, photography, guns, travel,
a small amount of home improvement (do-it-yourself style), read-
ing, politics, spectator sports, the arts (also spectator-wise), cooking
— variety again the keynote.

Aims: A lazy man — more leisure and the will power to use it
for leisurely pursuits is my principal ambition beyond the require-
ment that the fundamental needs be met.

Philosophy: An open-minded conservative; I feel that most prob-
lems can be solved if adequate effort is applied to finding an equitable
solution; and I refuse to admit, even at the cost of a little sand in
my eyes, that anyone ever gets anything for nothing,

ELMER EDWIN PARMELEE

 

HOME appress: 311 Hilltop Rd., Orange, Conn.

[ 1026 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: Eberth & Parmelee Insurance Agency, 129 Church St, New
Haven, Conn.

BorN: Dec. 6, 1911, Holyoke, Mass. parents: Elmer Hine Parmelce, Louise
Theresa Eberth.

PREPARED AT: Browne & Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-33.

MargieD: Barbara C. Gorman, March 3, 1943, San Antonio, Texas (died April
19, 1948); Mary J. Courtney, Nov. 3, 1951, Westfield, Mass. cHILDREN:
David E., Sept. 18, 1944; Thomas E., Sept. 2, 1945.

occupation: Partner, Eberth & Parmelee Insurance Agency; life, group, and
general insurance.

MEMBER OF: Pi Eta Club; Kiwanis Club of New Haven; Wepawaug Country
Club, Orange, Conn.

JAMES DANA PARSONS

 

HOME apprEss: Elm Road, Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.

OFFICE appREss: Moran, Proctor, Mueser & Rutledge, 415 Madison Ave. New
York, N.Y.

BoRN: March 31, 1909, Kansas City, Mo. parents: Charles Richard Parsons,
Amy Nicol.

PREPARED AT: Croton-Harmon High School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. DEGREES: S.B. IN ENG., 19353 S.M., 1937+

MARRIED: Ruth Pearson Holsten, 1940, Venezuela. CHILDREN: James Dana, Jr.
Oct. 2, 1942; Robert Winthrop, April 24, 1945.

occupation: Associate partner, Moran, Proctor, Mueser & Rutledge, consult-
ing engineers.

OFFICES HELD: Research assistant, Harvard Graduate School of Engincering,
engineer, N.Y. World’s Fair 1939 Corp.; chief foundation engincer, Par-
sons, Klapp, Brinkerhoff & Douglas, Venezuela; engineer and associate
partner, Moran, Proctor, Mueser & Rutledge.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; American Geophysical Union,
American Society of Civil Engineers; The Moles; U.S. National Couned
on Soil Mechanics & Foundation Engineering; U.S. Committee on Large

ams.

[ 1027 ]

|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

PuBLications: “Sampling Disturbance and its Effect on Analytical Solutions to
Foundation Problems,” Proceedings, Second International Conference on
Soils Mechanics, Holland; “Safe Loads on Dog-leg Piles,” Transactions of
American Society of Civil Engineers, 1953; “An Unusual Dewatering
Problem,” Engineering News Record, April, 1956, “Foundation Installation
Requiring Recharging,” Journal of Construction Division of ASCE, 1959;
Engineering Aspects of New York City’s Glactal Lake Formation, ASCE,
1956.

WHILE on the staff of the Harvard Graduate School of Engineer-
ing in 1937 I concluded that the professional world would provide
a greater diversification of interest in the field of my choice than
teaching or research. Consequently I left Harvard to go with the
World's Fair of 1939 Corporation, since the design and construction
of the Fair posed perhaps the most difficult foundation problem of
its time, foundation engineering being my specific field of interest.
Upon the completion of the World’s Fair, I spent a year in
Venezuela doing consulting work, where because of this country’s
newly acquired oil wealth, the design and construction of ports,
dams, irrigation systems and numerous other governmental projects
provided a wide range of challenging foundation problems. While
there, I decided I could not wait until returning to the U.S.A. to
marry the wonderful school teacher I had met and fallen in love
with at the Fair, and because of the six-month Venezuelan residence
requirement, invited her to proceed by ship to Venezuela, and flew
to Curacao, the last port of entry for the ship before reaching Vene-
zuela, and we were married by the ship’s captain at sea between
Curacao and Venezuela. Our subsequent stay in Venezuela while
brief was fruitful, since, in addition to the very valuable profes-
sional experience gained, we acquired a number of very loyal friends.
Upon returning to the U.S.A. in 1940, I went with the firm of
Moran, Proctor, Mueser & Rutledge, international specialists in
difficult and unusual engineering problems in the field of founda-
tion and subsurface work, soils engineering, waterfront structures
and other marine and heavy construction projects. I have been
with this firm since 1940, first as soils engineer and subsequently as
associate partner, and have represented them on numerous projects
throughout the world, including projects on Cyprus, in Venezuela,
Dutch Guiana, and Brazil as well as in this country. At present we
reside in Braircliff, New York, where it is always a pleasure to return
to enjoy rural life with my wife and two boys, ages fourteen and
seventeen.

[ 1028 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

It is with regret that I must admit that my interest in Harvard
has been somewhat dampened by Dr. Conant’s abolition of the
Graduate School of Engineering and its replacement by the School
of Applied Physics. I do not consider that the School of Applied
Physics even remotely replaces the important contribution to pro-
fessional training in engineering that the Graduate School once

provided.

+ JOHN GRAHAM PATTERSON

 

BorN: March 16, 1912, Evanston, Ill. parents: Graham Creighton Patterson,

Maude Dewar.
PREPARED AT: The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1935.
MARRIED: Elizabeth Archer. CHILDREN: Prudence; James De\Wolf.

piep: Killed in action in the Pacific, Jan. 21, 1945.

AFTER leaving college, Patterson joined the staff of The Fara
Journal in Chicago, where he remained until December, 1943.
when he resigned to accept a commission as an ensign in the Navy.
He was stationed at the Naval Training Station at Jacksonville,
Florida, and had a tour of duty at the Norfolk Naval Base before
he was assigned to combat duty overseas. In March, 1944, he was
promoted to lieutenant (j.g.). He was an aviation gunnery other
and had been serving with a fighter squadron for about six months
when he was killed in action in the Pacific. He was survived by

his wife and two children.

[ 1029 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

IRVING LIONEL PAVLO

 

HOME AppRESs: 50 Shepard St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 330 Dartmouth St., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 25, 1915, Malden, Mass. parENTS: Samuel George Pavlo, Jessie
Pearlin.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cl laude, 1935; M.D., cum laude,
1940.

MARRIED: Frances Jean Hallet, Aug. 3, 1935. CHILDREN: Ethan Hallet, Oct. 28,
1943; Peter Hayes, Dec. 14, 1945.

occupation: Ophthalmologist. -: -

NO questionnaire returned.

WILLIAM HANCOCK PAYNE, JR.

 

HOME ADpRESS: 137 Pleasant Ave., Portland, Maine.

OFFice appress: Payne Insurance Agency, 443 Congress St., Portland, Maine.

porn: Aug. 5, 1912, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: William Hancock Payne,
Martha Franklin.

preparED AT: Montgomery Day School, Wynnewood, Pa.

[ 1030 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1035.

maRRIED: Nancy Hill, June 27, 1942, Boston, Mass. cuitpren: William Han-
cock, 3d, Jan. 12, 1944; Nancy Dexter, April 5, 1947; Lewis Hill, April 9,
1950; Anthony Morris, Nov. 29, 1953.

OccUPATION: Proprietor, Payne Insurance Agency, general insurance.

OFFICES HELD: Board member, United Fund Community Planning Committee,
1956-58; board member, treasurer, Temporary Home for Women and
Children, since 1956; vice-president, Cumberland County Board of Fire
Underwriters, 1957-58; president, Round Table, 1957-58; vice-president,
Harvard Club of Maine, since 1958; board member, Travelers Aid Society,
since 1958; chairman, coordinating committee, Pathfinders P.T.A, 1959-
60; member Keyman Committee, Trinity Episcopal Church, 1960.

THE “pause that refreshes” is not Coca-Cola but the Twenty-fifth

Anniversary Reunion Report. It crystallizes the activity of the past

twenty-five years and has brought to me a feeling of satisfaction

in having overcome, to some extent, my early inexperience.

To a bare relation of facts as to what I have done in the past,
one could easily say, “This was a mistake, that was foolish and
the other was stupid.” I have no regrets for what others may call
my mistakes, for I find, on looking back, they were things I had to
do because of the “hankering” in my mind after certain values.

After college, two years in advertising gave me an understand-

ing of merchandising. ‘Two years as a special agent for an insurance
company gave me an insight to the necessity for industry and
individuals to provide protection for themselves. Almost five years
in the Army taught me that “people are not funny” but trying
hard to do what is right for themselves and others. A postwar
“tour of duty” at farming gave me real satisfaction, but a back
injury, which occurred in the service, brought this to an end. A
short period as office and personnel manager and as a door-to-door
salesman proved to me I should be back in the insurance business.
I re-entered the insurance business by way of the agency system,
Although I was successful, I was unconsciously feeling trapped.
It was not until J realized I wanted to go into business for my self,
and did so a little over a year ago, that I became completely happy.
The going has been tougher but the satisfactions have been greater.
In the next few years I expect to be making a worthwhile living
by performing a worthwhile service to others,

Community activity has taken up a certain pare of my tine. I
have enjoyed it, even though at times I have come in for some stuf
criticism. I find that those things that are worth doing or trying
cause the community to divide strongly pro or con. If you do

[ 1031 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

anything you create both enemies and friends but little acrimony.
Accomplishment in this field is extremely satisfactory.

Almost no one can be certain about everything but there are a
few decisions in life about which one can be certain. One of the
things about which I can be certain is that my marriage to Nancy
Hill was the best of decisions. It has brought me a great deal of
happiness and the exacting fun of our doing our best to raise four
fine children. The only other certainty is that Nan and I did right
when we decided I should go into business for myself.

Nan and I have lived pretty much on the economic principles of
fifty years ago. We do not believe in buying on time and have
never done so except for our home. As a result we have done with-
out things others have had. But we have had something many others
have not had — peace of mind about meeting payments. We have
done many things for ourselves: papering, painting, rebuilding and
alterations of the house, furniture making, pottery making, wood
carving and the creation of many of our gifts to others. We may
be considered stuffy — and maybe we are — but we like it.

The influence of my Harvard education on these twenty-five
years has been ever present as a background for decisions. It is
not anything you can put your finger on, but the principles taught
me there and at home unconsciously became part of my person.
It was not until I began to look in retrospect that I realized that
this was so.

My career since graduating from Harvard shows no great ac-
complishments to wave before the public. But I have a great deal
of satisfaction in feeling that I have become more understanding of
other people. There is also satisfaction in doing what I consider
right in the light of knowledge that I possess.

[ 1032 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROY MESSER PEARSON

OMIT
#

2
EB
t

  

HOME appREss: 125 Herrick Circle, Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Andover Newton Theological School, Newton Center 59,
Mass.

porn: March 10, 1914, Somerville, Mass. PARENTS: Roy Messer Pearson, Bessie
May Ricker.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1935; B.D. (An-
dover Newton Theological School), 1938; p.p. (Amherst Coll.), 1957.
MARRIED: Ruth Simmons, July 12, 1936, Newton Center, Mass. CHILDREN:
Beverly Anne, Sept. 18, 1939; Bradford Allan, April 19, 1942.

OccUPATION: Dean, Andover Newton Theological School.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Boston; Boston Congregational Club, Na-
tional Association of Watch and Clock Collectors.

PUBLICATIONS: Here’s A Faith For You, This Do —And Live, Hard Conrmands
of Jesus, Seeking and Finding God, Abingdon Press; The Mimistry of
Preaching, Harper’s.

THE story of my life since 1935 is simply told. After three years
as a student at Andover Newton Theological School and sixteen
years as a parish minister in several New England towns, I became
dean of Andover Newton in 1954. My vocation is the Christian
ministry, and my avocations are writing and the collecting of clocks.

[ 1033 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

REED EDWIN PEGGRAM

 

HOME Appress: 1 Sumner Ct., Dorchester 25, Mass.
BORN: July 26, 1914, Dorchester, Mass, PARENTS: Harvey Thomas Peggram,

Mamie Reed.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1935; A.M., 1936.

* UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Translator.
MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa.
pusLicaTions: “André Gide: Novelist,” Twice a Year, New York, 1937.

CIVILIZATION of the future belongs to the adolescent of today,
perhaps better qualified to achieve a new social stability than our
baffled generation managed reconstruction after the Second World
War. We in our late forties can too easily succumb to the fashion-
able propaganda of our elders against juvenile delinquency, when
the real issue (as it always has been) is adult delinquency. Eccen-
trically, I prefer association with college students to the companion-
ship of my contemporaries who finished twenty-five years ago.
The aspirations of these young idealists may indeed soar to unattain-
able heights, but they are also uncolored by cynical emphasis upon
subjective disillusions. It is, on the whole, an era of exceptional
smugness, all the more so in contrast to the fertile inquisitiveness
of the 1930's. Having achieved a victory over international stereo-
types, which have already begun to reappear elsewhere under -
other names, we concentrate almost exclusively upon what we shall
never yield rather than upon what we intend to be. The answer
will doubtless arise at one of the approaching commencements, in-
asmuch as it is not too late for decision,

My own postgraduate history is no particular triumph, though
seven years in various European countries (extension of a year’s

[ 1034 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

matriculation at Paris), especially in the midst of military hostili-
ties, were obviously informative. It was a bit of a shock, neverthe-
less, to turn into a proper Bostonian instead of a sophisticated conti-
nental, even if this be the inevitable return of the Native diagnosed
by Santayana. Either I am too lazy or too comfortable (scarcely
the latter) to function as a professional translator, despite the poly-
glot facility of library research. All of which reduces my current
occupation to singing in Episcopal Church choirs and cultivating
enough courage to offer my antique, revised, unpublished doctoral
dissertation to a gullible publisher. No, I do not yearn for what is
past, since the old is allegedly contained in the present, shaping
things to come. We of the crimson hierarchy have a mode of
thought which antagonizes more than it persuades, yet it is a loyalty
very rarely renounced, My congratulations, meanwhile, to what-
ever more ambitious colleague has been recognized as V.LP.

EVERETT HALL PERKINS

 

HOME aAppREss: 628 Eastmoor Blvd., Columbus 9, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1939 Franklin Park S., Columbus 5, Ohio.

BorN: May 2, 1912, Litchfield, Conn. parents: Willis Orlando Perkins, Florence
Emily Hall. .

PREPARED AT: Silver Bay School, Silver Bay, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B, 1935} AsMuy 1Q42.

mMarRieD: Mary Louise Haslett, Aug. 13, 1949, Columbus, Ohio. cittipars:
Gerald, Jan. 31, 1942 (stepson); Anne, Nov. 15, 1953.

occupaTioN: Head, Modern Language Department, Columbus Academy,
Columbus, Ohio.

I CANNOT believe that many in the Class of 1935 are as eager for
my autobiography as Frank Knowlton, but his determination to e*-

[ 1035 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

tract one from me leads me into a compromise. I shall prepare two
copies of autobiographical material to be ready for distribution in
June by my six-year-old daughter at the Blind Man’s paper station
in Harvard Square. The work will lie somewhere between the
autobiographies of Rousseau and St. Augustine, but please note that
I do not claim that it will lie even close to midway. I shall attempt
to relate the joys and struggles of an impecunious modern language
teacher who has taught in Arizona, Massachusetts, Connecticut and
Ohio, in that order. I shall not be too modest, then (as I would be
now), to say that I'm probably the best darned language teacher in
the Midwest. On the other hand I shall speak but briefly of my
three years as a sergeant in the Air Force fighting in the mess lines
of northern Europe with the 361st Fighter Group of the Eighth
Air Force, I shall be happy to give modern scientists tips on how to
graft a human Nutmeg to an Ohio Buckeye and have the operation
a success. My secret, in brief — marry a lovely Ohio girl, buy a
home on Ohio soil, raise a family and do not give yourself more
than two weeks a year back in beautiful New England.

For those not in love with teaching I may need a couple of chap-
ters to explain why I am still in a classroom after lo these twenty-
five years, I shall try to emphasize for them the importance of the
study of arts in this world of science. And I shall assure both mem-
bers of my eager-reading public that I shall continue at least a while
longer to show to young Americans the need of understanding how
peoples of other countries live, think and express themselves.
Another chapter I shall devote to students whom I have helped pre-
pare for the glorious adventure at Harvard College and who help
me to keep up to date on the successors of my old professorial idols
— Professors Whittem, Merriman, Mercier, Lake, et al.

In my final chapter, which I shall devote to personal memories of
Harvard College and the Harvard Graduate School of Education,
I cannot guarantee that I shall not be sentimental or even downright
lacrimose as I write, hearing in my mind’s ear the ringing of the bell
in Appleton tower or the voice of Copey as he reads about “the
Bear that walks like a Man”; or see in my mind’s eye Kitty, white
beard to the wind waving his cane at the traffic in the Square, or
see aged, beslippered George Herbert Palmer slowly mounting the
rise from Widener as | hurry by to breakfast. In fact, I think that
I shall start the magnum opus this very evening. The first two to the

Square will be the lucky recipients, Ozzie? George? Bran?
Larry? Bob? Frank? ...

[ 1036 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANCIS WHITNEY PERRY

  

HOME appREss: Temple Street, Duxbury, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: A. W. Perry, Inc., 453 Washington St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: April 21, 1913, Rockland, Mass. parents: Winthrop Irving Perry, ’or,
Frances Ethel Whitney.

PREPARED AT: Rockland High School, Rockland, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1031-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1935.

MaRRIED: Rachel Everson Holmes, April 27, 1937, Elkton, Mid. CHILDREN:
Patience, Dec. 7, 1938; Prudence, Sept. 20, 1941; Pamela, Sept. 10, 1947.
OCCUPATION: Assistant treasurer, A. W. Perry, Inc., commercial real estate

management.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Board of Fire Engineers, 1946-47, chairman, Finance
Committee, 1948-51, Library Trustee, 1954-60, selectman, assessor, chair-
man, Board of Health, 1952-55, 1956-59, Duxbury, Mass.; director, 19§t-
55, 1958-60, vice-president, 1954-57, president, 1957-58, Boston Real Estate
Board; trustee, Partridge Scholarship Fund, 1953-60; member, Duxbury
P.T.A. Scholarship Board, 1955-60; member, Building Owners and Mana-
gers Association of Boston Sect., 1957-60; member, Massachusetts Hlouse
of Representatives, 1959-60.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Boston; Old Colony Harvard Club; Boston Real
Estate Board; Building Owners and Managers Association; Massachusetts
Selectmen’s Association; Massachusetts Assessor’s Association, Plymouth
County Selectmen’s Association; Plymouth County Assessor's Association;
Massachusetts Legislators Association; The Strate Club of Massachusetts,
Republican Club of Massachusetts; Plymouth County Republican Club;
American Legion; Veterans of Foreign Wars; Plymouth County Board of
Realtors.

THE twenty-five years since college have sped by with far too
much rapidity. Changes in circumstances and changes in outlook
have been many, and I find myself today, in this pursuit for happi-
ness, engaged in doing things I never could have anticipated, when
I was looking toward the horizons back in those wonderful years
at Cambridge. ‘

[ 1037 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

I planned to go into business, I naturally hoped to be reasonabl
successful financially. I wished also to settle down to family life,
and to indulge rather intensely ina hobby of farming in most of
the time I might spare. Actually, these plans have materialized but
not to the degree I had hoped. I find, in looking back, many other
pursuits have encroached upon my time, even now almost to the
exclusion of some elements of the anticipated routine.

Perhaps it was not entirely by my own design, but rather by the
force of unforeseen circumstances, that the anticipated pattern of
life has run into a few detours. Whatever, life has been interesting.

After sharing two years of bachelordom with Dave Haycock and
Ozzie Ingram, I was fortunate to find a fine girl, patient and under-
standing enough to put up with me, and we were married, I then
had a fair start in a family real estate business in which I have con-
tinued all these years. After marriage, we sought out a country
town where it might be possible to enjoy country living within
commuting distance of Boston. But to our surprise, country towns
are not sleepy towns, and good friends and neighbors can encourage
lots of personal activity. I became a member of a fine old church
and was stimulated to feel a personal obligation to do my part to
share in the responsibilities of community life. This was the incep-
tion of civic activity from which I have never escaped, and perhaps
have never really wished to escape.

We were well established in the community, owned our own
home, had two children, I was teaching in the church school, hold-
ing office on the executive board of the parish and active in the
P.T.A., when the Second World War interrupted this phase of life.
I joined the Army and served in the Infantry. I was in it sufficiently
early so that the sheer force of numbers joining up later pushed me
from private to the rank of captain, I took a grand tour of the
Pacific during the last two years of service, including the flea-bit-
ten as well as the exotic islands, and I participated in two major
campaigns before completing a tour of duty of just over four years.
I came home from this “postgraduate” experience with a Combat
Infantryman’s Badge, a Purple Heart, a Bronze Star Medal, older
and perhaps wiser.

Now would come the life of placidity, but the addition of another
child to our growing family and the return of community con-
sciousness motivated a score of activities, During the past several
years I have been a church school superintendent; I have held nu-
merous local offices; I have had some opportunity to participate in

[ 1038 ]

RTI eg IT corey

accel alii

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

local scholarship work and, having become active even before the
war in the political party still mindful that it has an obligation to
the people, I sought the Republican nomination as Representative
to the Massachusetts General Court from this District. I received
the nomination and the people of perhaps the finest District in the
State elected me to this office which I now hold.

However, all the while my business has continued to be commer-
cial real estate in Boston, and I have had the privilege of serving a
term as president of the civic-minded Boston Real Estate Board.
Through all this, my good family has been patient and understand-
ing. Up until a year ago, I have been able to devote not enough but
still many happy hours to a “wheel barrow” type farming operation,

In summation — much happiness and many friendships have en-
riched our lives.

God has been good to us.

WILLIAM GRAVES PERRY, JR.

 

HOME apprEss: 58 Lakeview Ave., Cambridge, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 42 Holyoke House, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

BoRN: Feb, 13, 1913, Paris, France. parents: Wiliam Graves Perry, ‘os,
Eleanor Gray Bodine.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-35. DEGREES: A.B., Cust laude, 1935; A.M. 1940.

MARRIED: Helen Knowles, 1934, Southwest Harbor, Maine. caunesn: Fdimund
Graves, May 11, 1941; Lee (daughter), Oct. 2, 1943.
HARVARD SON: Edmund Graves Perry, ’63.

occupation: Education; director, Bureau of Study Counsel, Harvard Univers
sity.

[ 1039 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

OFFICES HELD: Rivers School, Brookline, Mass., 1935-39: taught English, history
developed and taught course in study skills; Harvard and Radcliffe, 1939-
41: Bureau of Supervisors — supervisor in study skills and English; assistant
to secretary of Committee on Use of English; assistant in English; Wil-
liams College, 1941-45: assistant dean and instructor in English; Harvard
University: 1946-47, director, Bureau of Supervisors, and secretary to the
Committee on the Use of English; 1946, 1951, lecturer on educational
psychology, Graduate School of Education; since 1947, director, Bureau
of Study Counsel and member of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences.

MEMBER OF: American Civil Liberties Union; American Psychological Asso-
ciation; Massachusetts Psychological Association, American Recorder
Society; Cambridge Boat Club; Royal Kennebaccasis Yacht Club.

publications: The liad of Homer (with Alston H. Chase), Atlantic—Little,
Brown, 1950; Harvard University Reading Films (with Charles P, Whit-
lock), Harvard University Press, 1948; professional articles under such
titles as: “Of Counselors and College,” Harvard Educational Review,
“Conflicts in the Learning Process,” in Cronkite: Handbook for College
Teachers; “The 600 Word Theme and Human Dignity,” College English,
“On the Relation of Counseling and Psychotherapy,” New York Academy
of Sciences.

FOR the past dozen years I have been working with Harvard and
Radcliffe students as they try to make themselves more effective
in their studies, I suppose the job is a combination of business
consulting and personal counseling —the business being that of
getting a liberal education and the personal being everything in
the enterprise that really matters to so many very different young
men and women. The business and the personal are of course in-
separable because the way anyone goes about his work is one with
his ideas about himself and the world and with how he feels in
his guts,

This kind of work had its origin here in the effort to meet what
legitimate demand was left unattended to after the tutoring schools
were run out of town for conflict with copyright laws three or
four years after we graduated. Things have come a long way
since a tutoring school could write every freshman promising:
“Before every examination you have to take, the tutor for that
course will present an INSURANCE REVIEW in which he gives
you in concise and carefully organized form all the information you
need to get a good grade.” (Capitals theirs, italics mine). The
Crimson survey of 1938 concluded that sixty per cent of under-
graduates of our time availed themselves of these schools’ offers to
“insure you against early and discouraging failures.” It is my in-
formed opinion that their teaching was often terrible but occa-

[ 1040 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sionally excellent. And they were consoling; as one advertisement
ut it, “In many cases men with good minds find themselves in

awkward situations.”

Nowadays things would appear, off-hand, a lot less colorful.
The official handbook for freshmen reads: “Students may consult
at the Bureau of Study Counsel about their efforts to solve prob-
lems arising in their work at Harvard,” etc. Each year three or
four hundred students do so for general counseling: which is the
major work of the office (no charge). About as many more again
come for tutoring in a special course (three dollars an hour). An-
other four or five hundred enroll in our four-weeks reading class
(note the absence of the word ‘“‘remedial”) one section of which
meets at the unseemly hour of 8 a.m., five days a week. The tone
behind all of this new work is evident in the esprit of the Bureau's
corps of tutors, themselves undergraduates or graduate students,
who express, to a man, disappointment when they are unable to
put one of their clients “on his own” in less than a half dozen mect-
ings.

I am asked by my classmates if Harvard has really changed as
much as we all hear tell. Is it true that we wouldn’t even be ad-
mitted now? or that we wouldn’t be able to handle the work if
we were? I undertook some research on this matter and offer some
facts and opinions.

To find out what we looked like, I dug about in the bottom
drawers of old file cabinets with Delmar Leighton whose first fresh-
man babies we were, and J measured a couple of old jaw-bones in
the Archives — not our own, but of the Class of 734, which is close
enough. From these data I have reconstructed a notion of the
robable size of our brain-cavity, and we can decide for ourselves

what it was filled with.

As I see it, the average score for our Class on the College Board's
Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) would have been somewhere
around 537. This is a nice comfortable score. If I read the College
Board’s assurances correctly, it put our average man in the top three
per cent, for scholastic sharpness, of all school seniors in the coun-
try. It also put him ahead of about sixty-four per cent of all fresh-
men entering College Board type colleges. This ought to have
settled something.

The distribution of all our scores around this comfortable aver-

age was also comforting. It was “normal.” That is, it was bell-

[ 1041 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

of a secretary of ours who stamped out of the office in a fury about
six o'clock one afternoon saying, “The trouble with this place —
there hasn’t been a routine day here in four years.” No, nor in
twelve,

+ CARL FRITHIOF PETERSON

 

BorN: Feb. 20, 1913, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Carl Ellis Peterson, Frida Mag-
nusson.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MaRRIED: Margaret M. Sugrue. CHILDREN: Maureen; Carl; Kevin.
piep: Nov. 11, 1958, Cambridge, Mass.

wivow: Mrs. Carl F. Peterson, 19 Clinton St., Cambridge, Mass.

CARL FRITHIOF PETERSON spent four years with our Class
and attended the Graduate School of Education part-time. The
Secretary has no information concerning his activities after leaving
college. He was survived by his wife and children.

[ 1046 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDGAR ARDIS PETERSON, II

 

HOME ADDRESS: 8221 Sunset Blvd., Los Angeles, Calif.

OFFICE ApbRESS: CBS, Beverly and Fairfax, Hollywood, Calif.

BorN: Jan. 2, 1913, Mobile, Ala. parents: Edgar Ardis Peterson, Drucilla Fliza-
beth Hunter.

PREPARED AT: Sumner’s Academy, La Jolla, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.

MARRIED: Dorothy Rose Gamble, August, 1935, Alexandria, Va. (divorced
1957). CHILDREN: Edgar Ardis, 3d, September, 1936 (77. Juliette Hickman,
September, 1957); Carole Whitfield, August, 1937; Michael Winston,
1940 (deceased); John Hunter, July, 1943. GRaNpcHILD: Juliette Hickman
Peterson, August, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Television producer.

MEMBER OF: Speakers’ Club; Sons of the American Revolution; Society of
Colonial Wars; Montecito Country Club.

PRESENTLY producer of CBS television network program “The
Lineup.” In 1957 was executive producer for CBS in overseas
production, residing in London, and during 1958-59, executive pro-
ducer in Hollywood.

From 1935 to 1940 I was producer-director of documentary
films. In 1939 I was film director for “The March of Time.” From
1942 to 1945 I was civilian associate to Colonel Frank Capra, U.S.
Army Signal Corps, in production of “Why We Fight,” armed
forces orientation series. In 1946 I was associate producer for Dore
Schary, Selznick Studios and the next three years was executive
assistant for production for Dore Schary, vice-president in charge
of production, RKO, I was also special consultant to Secretary of
State in preparation of study entitled “The Influence and Propa-
ganda Techniques of the Soviet Motion Picture.” During tgso-§1
I was producer of original “Pulitzer Prize Playhouse” and also pro-
duced first hour-long film made especially for television, “The

[ 1047 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Pharmacist’s Mate.” The program was awarded first Emmy Award
for hour dramatic film.

During 1951-52, | was producer-director of Faye Emerson series,
“Wonderful Town” and “The Amazing Mr. Malone”; 1952-56,
produced pilot of “You Are There” series, “The Burning of the
Hindenburg”; created pilot of daytime dramatic series, “Nona
Brady”; supervised “Rod Brown” Rocket Ranger series; executive
producer for two seasons of Studio One Summer Theatre; assisted
in production supervision of several CBS Television dramatic series,
notably “Danger” and “Suspense”; manager, story and script depart-
ment, CBS Television, New York; associate producer of “Climax”
and producer of “Front Row Center.”

KENNETH JEROME PEZROW

 

HOME ADDRESS: 230 Schenck Ave., Great Neck, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 72-51 Grand Ave., Maspeth 78, New York, N.Y.

BORN: July 16, 1914, Chicago, Ill, parents: Mandel Pezrow, Pearl Antine.

prePareD aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1935.

marriep: Grace Jeanette Glaser, Jan. 6, 1940, Brookline, Mass. cHitprEN: Elaine
Beth, Nov. 23, 19g0; Martha Joyce, March 12, 1946.

occupation: Food broker, manufacturers’ representatives; president, Kenneth
J. Pezrow Corporation, Pezrow Associates, Inc., Pezrow Sales Company,
Inc., Grand National Sales Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Member, various committees, United Community Fund, since
1941; director, American Cone & Pretzel Company, 1950-52, R. A. Mac-
Plum, Inc., 1959; lieutenant regional director, National Food Brokers
Association, 1954-57.

MEMBER OF: Kappa Nu Fraternity; North Shore Country Club; A.A.U.N,;
Advertising Club of New York; National Food Brokers Association;
Grocery Manufacturers Representatives of New York, Inc.; National

[ 1048 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Confectionery Salesmen Association, National Frozen Food Distributors
Association; Knights of the Grip of New York, Inc.; Equity Lodge 591,
F. & A.M.; Ancient Accepted Scottish Rite Valley of New York City
(Lodge of Perfection, Council of Princes of Jerusalem, Chapter of Rose
Croix, Consistory); Mecca Temple, A.A.O.N.M.S. of New York; Harvest
Lodge; B'nai B’rith, National Jewish Committee.

THE years have traveled very quickly. We have been to many
places since graduation, probably too many. The word which
crops up most in my mind is M-O-V-E. It seems as though I and
my lovely and charming Missus and our two daughters have always
been on the move. All of us have moved to several locations and
have done considerable traveling in the United States and out of
the country. We finally got tired of moving around the forty-eight
states and Canada and went into our own business in New York
in January, 1950.

While I was in college I worked for the Economy Grocery Stores
Corporation (now Stop & Shop, Inc.) in varying capacities, store
manager, dairy merchandiser, and produce supervisor. We had a
pleasant interlude in 1933 when liquor returned and I was assistant
manager of the Ecco Public Market in Allston, where some of the
boys used to come across the river to get their refreshments at the
right price. As a matter of fact, Ozzie Ingram once gave the liquor
department of the Ecco Public Market a nice write-up in the Har-
vard Crimson. After graduating from college, 1 became manager
of the Ecco Public Market in Hyde Park, Massachusetts. I decided
to leave the confinement of the retail business in July, 1936, and
joined the Beech-Nut Packing Company, which was the beginning
of a migration to seven different locations in nine years, Beech-Nut
was a wonderful company, and the experience of new positions and
new locations was very beneficial.

I remained with Beech-Nut until 1944. At that time we were
living in Philadelphia and I was assistant regional sales manager for
the Middle Atlantic area. In April of 1944 we moved to Wilkes-
Barre, Pennsylvania, where I became sales manager of the J. B. Carr
Biscuit Company. When Carr merged with Consolidated, I was
appointed sales manager of the Eastern Division of Carr-Consoli-
dated with responsibility for sales in seventeen states from Maine to
Florida. We had three bakeries in my division — in Boston, Mavsa-
chusetts, Greenwood, South Carolina, and Wilkes-Barre, Pennsyl-
vania. We had nineteen branches, out of which worked 1&9 direce
salesmen, and also employed the services of some thirty food broker

[ 1049 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

MORRIS PFAELZER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1235 N. Sweetzer, West Hollywood, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 458 S. Spring St., Los Angeles 13, Calif.

BorN: April 12, 1913, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Frank Abraham Pfaelzer, Elsie
Arnold Levy.

prepareD aT: Mercersburg Academy, Mercersburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; LL.B. (Univ. of Pennsylvania),
1938.

Marnigp: Marjorie H. Lesser, April 12, 1938, Los Angeles, Calif. (divorced
1959). CHILDREN: Fay Ellen, July 9, 1941; Betty Arnold, May 28, 1943.

occupation: Lawyer; partner, Gray, Binkley & Pfaelzer.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of trustees, 1948-59, trustee, 1950-51, Leo Baeck
Temple; member, board of trustees, Jewish Federation — Council of Los
Angeles, since 1950; lecturer, State Bar of California Program for the
Continuing Education of the Bar, 1955, 1958, 1959; trustee, Los Angeles
Bar Association, 1958-60; instructor, University of Southern California
School of Law, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Los Angeles Athletic Club, Cabrillo Beach Yacht Club.

MY two teen-age daughters assure me that my hair is thinning,
that the gray which once set off the temples now permeates the
whole, and that I appear to be just as old as the fathers of their con-
temporaries. I refuse to believe them. I cling to the illusion of
vouth. Much of the credit for this illusion goes to Respite, a Swed-
ish-built twenty-eight-foot sloop which marks the realization of
an ambition which antedated my days in the Yard, Some of the
credit goes to my three law partners and our several associates
who recognize that my having attended law school elsewhere than
Harvard and my twenty-one years of practice entitle me to a
greater degree of consideration than is accorded those who enjoyed
the luxury of Harvard Law School or who have devoted less of
their lives to this exacting profession, Some small credit goes to

[ 1054 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the accident of fate which moved me and my family from Phila-
delphia to Los Angeles in 1946.

For the past twenty-five years (with an intermission during
World War II) the law has been my traditionally jealous mistress,
first as a law student at the University of Pennsy Ivania, then as a
law clerk in a large and active Philadelphia Jaw firm, next as an
associate in a large Los Angeles firm, and for the past ten years as
a “senior” in a firm which I and two members of the Harvard Law
Class of ’39 organized. The desire to improve our profession has
been channelled into some intensive work with the organized bar
which was rewarded by election to the board of trustees of the Los
Angeles Bar Association.

As a naval reserve officer, I had no hand at all in winning the war.
The minesweepers on which I served were either too small, too
old, or too slow to participate in combat and instead were assigned
to patrol, picket, and sweeping duties in such exotic places as Cape
May, New Jersey, Adak, Alaska, and Eniwetok. Long, slow con-
voys half way around the world enabled me to become a proficient
navigator, but I have never been able to afford either the boat or the
time for anything more exciting than the race from Newport Elar-
bor, California, to Ensenada, Mexico —a mere 125 miles. From time
to time, my conscience has led me into various fields of community
service which has been universally rewarding. However, | have
not permitted either my professional or communal activities to
interfere with the quest for the perfect dry martini, the unending
effort to jibe the spinaker without letting her collapse, or the cor-
recting of the drafting of those unfortunate younger lawyers who
wait eagerly for my demise and the replacement “of my name by
theirs on the firm letterhead.

[ 1055 }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ALLEN KELLOGG PHILBRICK

Re

 

HOME ApbRESs: 520 Butterfield Drive, East Lansing, Mich.
OFFICE aDprEss: Michigan State University, East Lansing, Mich.

BORN: May 11, 1914, Chicago, Ill. parents: Allen Erskine Philbrick, Edith
Kellogg.

PREPARED AT: New Trier High School, Winnetka, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREES: AB. (Univ. of Chicago), 1938; A.M.
(ibid.), 1941; PH. (ibid.), 1949.

MaRRIED: Eugenie James, 1941, Myrtle Beach, S.C. cumpreN: Allen James,
Nov. 26, 1944; James Erskine, July 8, 1948.

occupation: Associate professor of geography, University of Michigan.

HAVE been teaching and doing research in geography since 1949:
Syracuse University, 1949-50, University of Chicago, 1950-56 and
Michigan State University, since 1956, where I am currently asso-
ciate professor of geography.

During World War II, I served in both ground forces (Anti-
aircraft Artillery) and air forces (Flak Analysis Intelligence, 42d

Bomb Wing). Saw overseas service fifteen months in air force in
Italy and France.

[ 1056 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE ARTHUR PHILBRICK

 

HOME ADDRESS: Springdale Avenue, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Philbrick Researches, 127 Clarendon St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 5, 1913, Belmont, Mass, parents: Otis Albert Philbrick, Elisabeth
Margaret Jorgensen.

PREPARED AT: Winchester High School, Winchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1032-1935. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 193§(36).

MarRIED: Laurette Los, May 1, 1936, Boston, Mass. cHtLp: Penelope, Sept. 13,

1940. .
HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Warren Philbrick, 37.

OCCUPATION: President, Philbrick Researches, research and engineering.

OFFICES HELD: Research engineer, Foxboro Company, 1936-41; chief technical
aide and consultant, National Defense Research Committee, 1942-453
president, Philbrick Researches, since 1946.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Mechanical Engineers.

puBLicaTions: Numerous technical papers on specialized topics in the fields of
automatic regulation and analogue computing.

EMERGING from Harvard mathematically replete and _lictle
daunted, I was drawn by one sort of enthusiasm into electronics,
and by another into marriage. Neither has rejected me to the pres-
ent day. At first, I was apprenticed to a sequence of inventors whom
I served in assorted laboratories and who taught me more than you
might expect. Obsessed with experiment and theory, I inclined
more and more toward research and was soon tilted permanently
in that direction. Research has been utterly congenial to my lack
of orthodoxy and has sustained my interest while offering an adc-
quate livelihood.

As to subject matter, I have dealt with few exceptions in the area
of technical instruments. In the 1930's, it was automatic controllers.
The development and design of such mechanisms took what in-
genuity and science I could muster and demanded more. To reach

[ 1057 ]

ge tent op nbn tS Sls

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

useful goals in a reasonable time, I was forced to conjure up arti-
ficial computing means to aid in solving the somewhat recondite
problems which confronted me. As it turned out, computing instru-
ments themselves, first applied out of necessity in this special case,
have occupied me more than control mechanisms.

During the past war I worked in government laboratories on the
development of air-borne ordnance: specifically on aiming and
guidance controls. In general, I avoided managerial and admin-
istrative roles, preferring to work with project groups and having
close contact with hardware. When this era ended I resolved to
try for my own organization and shortly incorporated under the
name of Philbrick Researches. The plural was an affectation, but
prophetic.

The company last mentioned has now survived thirteen years and
has taken almost all my time, though indeed without a dull moment.
Activities encompass principally the development and application
of electronic computing devices. Certainly the most rewarding part
of these activities has been the colleagueship of interesting indi-
viduals from many different lines of study. Since a large number

of users inhabit universities and technical schools, an academic at-
mosphere prevails in spite of the commercial formalities. We have
grown rather slowly and are still not large, but the future holds
excellent promise, Meanwhile, since I do not golf, gamble or ca-
rouse, I am content to divide myself impartially between an absorb-
ing business and a pastoral life at home.

JOSEPH HENRY PHILLIPS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 426 Newton St, Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.
OFFICE AppRESS: 32 Cumberland Ave, Brookline, Mass,

[ 1058 |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BoRN: Aug. 14, 1905, Winnipeg, Man., Canada. parents: Lawrence Phillips,
Madaline Sigden Steblins.

PREPARED AT: Dearborn High School, Dearborn, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1935, M.b., cum
laude, 1939.

marrieD: Helen L. Higgins, Oct. 25, 1945, Middleton, Nova Scotia, Canada.
CHILDREN: Joanne, Aug. 26, 1946; Deborah, June 1, 1948; Cynthia, Aug.
26, 1950; Joseph Henry, Jr., Sept. 27, 1952; Frances, May 1, 1954; Robert,
May 17, 1956.

occuPATION: Surgeon, specializing in gynecology.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant in gynecology, Harvard Medical School, since 1943;
associate visiting surgeon, Free Hospital for Women, Brookline, Massa-
chusetts; consultant in gynecology, Malden Hospital, Malden, Massachu-
setts.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American College of Surgeons
(fellow); American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology (fellow),
National Board of Medical Examiners (diplomate); American Board of
General Surgery (diplomate), Harvard chapters, Phi Beta Kappa, Alpha
Omega Alpha, Sigma Xi.

TO tell you about myself, I must begin from the time I came to
Cambridge in 1931. The stock market at that time was not a light
topic for conversation but a vulgar phrase avoided by all. I had
neither investments nor the knowledge of the significance of those
dire events of 1929. However, these contributed indirectly to my
difficulties in financing my way through both college and medical
school.

While attending high school I had a good position with a fairly
bright future at the Ford Motor Company in Dearborn, Michigan.
I met the late Henry Ford on many occasions while working for
him. Our conversations covered many topics. These included my
personal plans to study medicine in the future. However, he was
never enthusiastic about my preparation to enter college. After
admission to Harvard College, I had no difficulty in getting a trans-
fer to the Ford plant in Somerville, Massachusetts, Tw enty -five
dollars (for a forty-hour week) earned there ferried me across
some rough financial waters during the next eight years. While in
my freshman year at college, I once more met the great industrial
genius at his Longfellow Wayside Inn, Sudbury, Massachusetts. Ile
was interested in my progress, and wished to ‘know whether PE had
mastered the art of rolling pills. When T told him that Thad four
more years before I could start the pill rolling project he was as-
tonished. He smiled and said, “You will be a highly educated olf
man.” I regret that I never had another opportunity to see hun

[ 1059 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

*s LEONARD HARRINGTON PHILLIPS

 

BORN: Feb. 24, 1913, Swampscott, Mass. parents: Harry Franklin Harrington,
’o4, Florence Johnson.

PREPARED AT: Swampscott High School, Swampscott, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

DIED: Sept. 17, 1939, Boston, Mass.

LEONARD HARRINGTON PHILLIPS spent one year with our
Class. The Secretary has no information concerning his activities
after leaving college. He was survived by his father.

_- MICHAEL PHILLIPS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 137 Boylston St. Brockton, Mass.
orFice appress: Caroline-Becker, Inc., 40 Herrod Ave., Brockton, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 6, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: Philip Louis Kadish, Pauline Doris
Cantor,

prepared aT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1935.

[ 1062 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
marrieD: Harriette Becker, Jan. 18, 1946, Balboa, Canal Zone. cHILDREN: Harry

Robert, Sept. 21, 1948; Miriam Paula, March 14, 1952; Barbara Louise, June
29, 1954-

OccUPATION: Vice- -president and general manager, Caroline-Becker Company,
sole leather processing; in charge of buying, selling and production.

memBeR OF: Brockton Y.M.H.A.; Boston Medical Library, Old Colony Har-
vard Club; American Leather Chemists Association.

puBLicaTIONS: Several articles as co-author with Dr. Valy Menkin on subject
of inflammatory diseases, in Archives of Pathology, American Journal of
Physiology, etc, 1936-41.

FOR eight years after graduation, until June, 1943, I had the great
pleasure of being research assistant to Dr. Valy Menkin in the
Department of Pathology, Harvard Medical School. The work
was stimulating and satisfying, primarily because I was in intimate
touch with a truly creative mind. We studied the nature of infla-
mation, and this led us into host-parasite relationship, tissue immu-
nity, injury, uncontrolled growth, chemo-therapeutics, hormonal
influence on tissue response to injury. In brief, we were involved
with a fundamental study which should have been the province of
many investigators working not as a team but as a group of indi-
viduals each intimately aware of what the others were thinking
about. This unfortunately was not to be, and the limitations of
time and human energy were oppressive on us.

During these same years, I became interested in the study of
scientific socialism. The years 1935 to 1940 were conducive to this
sort of study, and in Boston a group of about forty people had
formed a “political party” with the impressive name World Social-
ist Party. Its primary function was to persuade one and all that
a socialist society was the only answer to the major social and eco-
nomic problems of the day. I became one of this group, and I feel
to this day that our position is a correct one. We never became
influential enough to elect even a member of the Boston City
Council, but on the other hand it was never demonstrated that
we were incorrect in our analysis in the very many debates and
discussions we engaged in. Our political position was based on
self-interest enlightened by the knowledge that in a society char-
acterized by man’s increasing control over nature, abundant material
wealth, and shrinking distances, only a cooperative mode of pro-
duction as opposed to a competitive one can enable people to make
the most of their situation. The appearance of such a society can be
effected only by the conscious efforts of an understanding majority
of mankind. Socialism in one country is a paradox, although an

[ 1063 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

electorate with socialist understanding can form a government in
any one country dedicated to the goal of a socialist society.

An interruption occurred in my political activities in 1943. It
seems that the Army was becoming increasingly embarrassed over
its manpower shortages and was becoming less discriminating in
its choice of membership. I had previously been rejected by the
Navy because of poor eyesight, but the Army overlooked my short-
comings. I was consequently commissioned a second lieutenant
in the Sanitary Corps of the Medical Department and did my stint
in Panama for two and a half years at the 262d General Hospital,
Fort Clayton, Canal Zone. Except for the weather, I had a wonder-
ful time (as I look back on it). Tropical diseases are a fascinating
study, and in addition to routine laboratory analysis I had the good
fortune to participate with Colonel Garnett Cheney in establish-
ing the existence of Australian “Q” fever on the Isthmus of Panama.

Just before I left for Panama, I became engaged to Harriette
Becker of Brockton, Massachusetts, and in January, 1946, she came
to the Canal Zone and we were married there. On our return to
the States, I seriously considered returning to academic work but
was strongly advised against it unless I had an independent income
which I didn’t have. Unfortunately, I took the advice and entered
into the business world as a member of the firm of Caroline-Becker,
Inc., which is engaged in the processing of sole leather. Leather is
a substance of great complexity and is a fitting subject for study.
Unhappily, economics rears its ugly head and the leather perforce
becomes only a means to an end, Working with leather is a pleas-
ant way, I imagine, to spend one’s time, but in the business of
leather one works with people, not leather. The existing relation-
ship would be highly amusing if they weren’t so deadly serious.
Since 1947 to the present, I have been immersed in this interesting
and time-consuming work. The sense of accomplishment when
things go well is gratifying, but I can never cease being amused at
the continual jostling that goes on in the struggle for profits. But
this seems to be the way of it until the coming of the Messiah, what-
ever form he may take.

Twenty-five years from 1935 have brought me many blessings,
not the least of which are a wonderful and loving wife and three
healthy children, who in their off moments give the impression of
loving their parents but who also do not hesitate to give the screw
another turn when the occasion requires it. A love of understand-
ing and for finding one’s place in the process of things is a driving

[ 1064 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

force that may exhaust the driven but is never exhausted itself —
this I feel I have gotten in part from Harvard, and it has managed
to stick.

ARTHUR STANWOOD PIER, JR.

 

HOME appreEss: 21 Hawthorn Rd., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 264 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 27, 1912, Milton, Mass, PARENTS: Arthur Stanwood Pier, ’95; Elise
Riché Hall.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1031-1935. DEGREES: A.B., Cum laude, 1935; MD., cum laude,
1939.

MarRiep: Anna Joyous Blake, Sept. 8, 1951, South Petherton, Somerset, Eng-
land. cHILDREN: Arthur Stanwood, 3d, Feb. 16, 1953; Richard Blake, June
16, 1954; Gweneth Priestley, Oct. 16, 1956; Roy Evans, May 2, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, 1935-50, Committeeman, since 1950, Harvard Class of
1935; assistant in medicine, 1946-53, instructor in medicine, since 1953,
Harvard Medical School; assistant in medicine, 1946-53, assistant physician,
since 1953, Massachusetts General Hospital, attending physician, U.S.
Veterans Hospital, Boston, 1953; consulting physician, Massachusetts Fye
and Ear Infirmary, since 1953.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; American Medical Association;
National Board of Medical Examiners (diplomate); American Board of
Internal Medicine (diplomate); American College of Physicians (asse-
ciate); Tavern Club; St. Botolph Club; Harvard Club of Boston.

IT is difficult to compress the past twenty-five years into a few
words. The time has flown past and a great deal has happened.
New horizons, opportunities and experiences, new friends, new
lives have come and often gone, Through all this period my father,
with whom I lived after the war until my marriage, has been a most
wise, kind and devoted friend. His warm understanding, inspiring

[ 1065 ]

a

HARVARD CLASS OF I 935

trepid hellions tearing around with joyful clatter and wild screams

everywhere, They keep us young and gay, if a bit punchy and
dazed, and the pace of life with them has quickened no end. The

oldest is learning to read. The youngest is learning to walk. The
two in between are learning English, more or less. Meals are in
the bedlam state. The youngest eats soft-boiled eggs and cereal with
his bare hands and hurls dishes, mugs and food across the room,
while the others cheer him on and show him how. The two oldest
go to school and the other two we hope to get off soon.

The practice of medicine is often inspiring and often very sadden-
ing. The loss of friends whom one cannot cure is hard to bear, and
some of my best friends have been among my sickest patients.
Stability and i imagination are always necessary, and humor, courage,
and a stiff upper lip will often stand one in good stead. The longer
] am in practice the further I seem to get from the purely scien-
tific, and the more fascinating becomes the study of human beings
and the problems that beset them. I have been very busy, and
practice has been very active, thanks largely to those older friends
who saw us off so well. Even with the changing pattern of medicine
in this country, there still seems to be an important place — and I
hope there always will be, even in Boston — for the general intern-
ist and family physician,

Now, with our Twenty-fifth approaching, I do not feel that I have
yet attained the age of wisdom, or quite of maturity. Having chil-
dren the oldest of whom is six reminds me that at least several of our
Class have grandchildren of an approximately similar age, and makes
me wonder what generation I really belong to. At any rate, the
mellowness that is said to come with advanced years has not yet
developed in me. My temper is still short and my passions easily
aroused. My greatest joys are my wonderful family and friends
and my profession. My greatest annoyance is with my own various
shortcomings, of which I am ever more acutely aware — and my
greatest dislike is for a dreadful man from San Antonio who several
years ago shot an elephant with arrows.

The problem of making ends meet with an expanding family and
constantly expanding overhead expenses is a distraction that prob-

ably afflicts many of us. I think we shall somehow weather through
the next twenty-five years, and I expect my children will be enter-
ing college at about the time the children of other classmates are
becoming full professors, Anna and I are looking forward to the
Twenty-fifth Anniversary Reunion with great anticipation and joy,

{ 1068 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and hope that we shall see many classmates at our house in Brook-
line during that time.

HARLAN TRIMBLE PIERPONT, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4 William St., Worcester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Norton Co., Worcester, Mass.

BorN: April 25, 1912, Boston, Mass, parents: Harlan Trimble Pierpont, ‘06,
Dorothy Langley Hobson.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.; Rexbury Latin School, Roxbury,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935-

Marriep: Georgia Wright Simmons, Jan. 14, 1939, St. Louis, Mo, CHILDREN;
Georgia Wright, June 4, 1940; Virginia Leavalle, March 2, 1942; Harlan
Trimble, 3d, April 23, 1943 (died Aug. 29, 1956); Richard Howe, Nov.
21, 1944; Lulie Simmons, May 26, 1950; Thomas Harlan, May 25, 1958.

occupaTion: Sales manager, Abrasives, Norton Company.

orFices HELD: Member of vestry, St. Paul’s Episcopal Church, Flint, Michigan,
1946-48, St. Luke’s, Worcester, 1950-53; chairman, Flint Chaprer, A.S.T-E.,
1948; director, Worcester Sales Executives’ Club, 1952-54; president, board
of trustees, Bancroft School, Worcester, since 1954; corporator, Mechanics

Savings Bank, Worcester; vice-chairman, Hospitality Committee, Worces-
ter Music Festival; member, various committees, Red Feather, Red Crow,
YMCA, Children’s Friend Society.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Worcester; Tatnuck Country Club, Worcester
Club; Duxbury Yacht Club; Sales Exccutives’ Club; Association of Har-
vard Chemists; Children’s Friend Society; Worcester Shakespeare Club,
Worcester Youth Guidance Society,

SITTING down to write these notes brings back many pleasant
memories of those wonderful years of friendship and broadening
experience at Harvard — and as I think about it, I realize my closest
personal friends are those from Harvard Days. Those years of the

[ 1069 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

depression when we thought times were tough look pretty good
today!

] joined the sales department of the Norton Company (world’s
largest manufacturer of abrasives) in September of 1935 and have
been with them ever since. My first real job was selling in St. Louis
in 1938 where I met my wife, Georgia. This was great good for-
tune, for she is a perfect partner, and together we have raised a
fine brood and enjoyed thoroughly ever minute of life.

Moved to Chicago and married January, 1939 — living in a suburb,
Winnetka. This is a lovely town and an excellent place to bring up
a family, They say there are more Harvard grads per capita there
than any place except Boston and environs!

The call came in 1944, however, to move on and represent Norton
in the heart of the General Motors territory — Flint, Michigan.
Four years here were fine — making many delightful friends — and,
among other things, finding that Flint boasted a very active Shakes-
peare Club founded in 1883, two years before the one here in
Worcester!

Back to headquarters as sales manager of Norton’s Refractories
Division in 1948 was a stimulating change and it was pleasant to be
in home country again. After this I organized the sales of a newly
created Electrochemical Division and then, October 1, 1959, was
named sales manager, Abrasives.

Having such a large family caused me perforce to be particularly
conscious of education, which today I should say is my Number 1
extracurricular activity. In 1954, upon being asked to be president
of the board of trustees of the Bancroft School, our local country
day school, and having five “kids” in this school, I could think of
no good reason to say “no,” so I’ve had this most interesting re-
sponsibility ever since.

Like many older day schools, Bancroft was a city schoo] — with
about one-half a football field as play area for 285 students and a
plant popping at the seams. It was obvious if we were to do a good
job a whole new site and plant was needed. We decided to give it
a real try — organized a fund-raising campaign, raised the best part
of a million dollars, acquired a choice site of thirty acres, and built
a prize-winning modern and complete plant.

Summers the family has two loves — Duxbury, Massachusetts
(which we enjoy with many classmates), and Temegami, Ontario,
where we go to a very unique camp, Ojibway of Keewaydin.
Camping and living the outdoor life in lovely north woods surround-

[ 1070 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ings with a chance to get away from it all has much to bespeak it —
and we all love it, boys and girls, young and old.

Having lost our son Terry in an accident a few years ago, we
feel most fortunate now to have Thomas— our “do-it-yourself
grandchild” — who, God willing, should graduate from Harvard
two years after I’ve retired! No rest for the weary — but we love it.

Yes, the first twenty-five years have been busy — but stimular-
ing and rewarding. My only hope is that the next twenty-five will
be equally so.

Here’s to our Fiftieth!

IRVING MURRAY PINANSKY

 

BORN: May 4, 1916, Portland, Maine. parents: Max Louis Pinansky, Anna
Bernstein.

PREPARED AT: Portland High School, Portland, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; LL.B. Magna Crem
laude, 1938.

pieD: Jan. 31, 1939, Portland, Maine.

AS an undergraduate, Pinansky was awarded the Detur Prize, the
Harvard Club of Maine scholarship, the Henry B. Humphreys
scholarship and the Mary Saltonstall scholarship. Hle was a mem-
ber of Phi Beta Kappa, At the Law School he won several scholar
ships including the Sears and was an associate editor of the Harvard
Law Review. He passed the Massachusetts and Maine bars and was
associated with the Hon. Arthur D. Hill in Boston, Pinansky was
survived by his parents. "

[ 1071 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ALBERT PIPER, JR.

 

HOME AppreEss: 180 Isle of Venice, Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

BorN: March 7, 1914, Newark, N.J. parents: Albert Piper, Alice Dingenburg.

PREPARED AT: Trenton High School, Trenton, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934.

marriep: Daphne Brown Nelson, Dec. 13, 1940, New York, N.Y.

occupaTion: Investor.

OFFicEs HELD: Member, Community Chest and TB Committees; vice-president
and director, The Villas of Nurmi Isles, Inc.; director, The Oasis of Nurmi
Isles, Inc.; member, Chamber of Commerce.

JOHN AARON PLATZ

 

HOME apprEss: 99 Grandview Ave, Auburn, Maine.

OFFICE AppRess: 183 Main St., Lewiston, Maine.

BORN: Nov. 13, 1953, Haverhill, Mass. parents: Henry Isaac Platz, Mary H.
Rosenthal.

preparep at: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREES: AB., 19353 LL.B., 1940(46).

makniep: Elicn Weis, July 1, 1946, Sunbury, Pa. cHtpren: Kathryn Jane, Aug.
8, 1947; James Andrew, Jan. 17, 1950, Henry Thomas, Sept. 20, 1951

[ 1072 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
occuPaTION: Attorney, head of own firm; general practice, specializing in
trial work.
orFices HELD: Clerk, director, Auburn Business Development Corporation,
since 1956; Auburn Parking District, since 1956, director, Auburn-Lewis-
ton Kiwanis Club, 1957; president, director, Lewiston Community Chest,
1957-58; Judge Advocate, Navy League (Greater Portland, Maine).

MEMBER OF: National Grange; Kiwanis; Elks, Chamber of Commerce; Maine
Bar Association; American Bar Association.

SERVED as naval lieutenant in World War II; participated in
North African campaign, invasions of Sicily, Salerno, Anzio and
France; served as commanding officer of sub-chaser. Assistant
professor of naval science and tactics at Holy Cross, Tufts, Brown
University and Bucknell. Enjoy fishing and golf. Entire family
are skiing enthusiasts in winter and enjoy cruising Maine coast in
our own boat during summer. Have a very active law practice and
have traveled extensively at home and abroad on business and
pleasure.

~ EDMUND POLLOCK

 

HOME AppRESS: 144 W, 86th St., New York 24, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 162 EF. 80th St., New York 21, N.Y.

BORN: Oct. 29, 1913, Chicago, Ill. pARENTs: Louts Pollock, Christina Fs.

PREPARED AT: Campion Academy, Prairie du Chien, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREES: A.B. (Coll. of the City of New York),
1940; s.M. (Columbia Univ.), 1942; Cert. in Psychiatry (W. A. White
Inst.), 19513; PH.D. (Columbia Univ.), 1957.

MarrieD: Gertrude Weissman, Dec. 26, 1952, New York, N.Y. ciitp: Jonathan
David, Oct. 18, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Channon Pollock, °24,

occuPaTION: Clinical psychologist in private practice.

OFFICES HELD: Psychological consultant, Youth Consultation Service, Arch:
diocese of New York.

[ 1073 ]

_———— LL

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935
MEMBER OF; American and New York State Psychological Associations; New
York Society for Clinical Psychologists,

PuBLications: Dissertation, “An Investigation Into Certain Personality Char-
acteristics of Unmarried Mothers.”

AS I have reread my comments for the past Class Reports in prepa-
ration for this Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report, I am surprised
and very pleased that step by step I have achieved the goals I had
set, Leaving Harvard in my junior year in the mid-depression was
a devastating blow for me and the following years from 1934 to
1940 were gray, formless and disappointing. Apart from getting
my A.B, by attending evening school for four and a half years, those
times seemed bitter, unrewarding and meaningless with jobs from
running an apartment house elevator to clerking in Macy’s and sell-
ing typewriters for the Royal Typewriter Company. This terribly
troubled period for me and others in pain because of economic con-
ditions, war and personal conflicts, however, formed and motivated
me,

Professionally, I have always wanted to serve people. At Har-
vard I had an interest in teaching the classical languages. I went on
to become a psychiatric social worker and finally a clinical psy-
chologist. I obtained my Ph.D. in June, 1957. My major current
work is the practice of psychoanalytic psychotherapy. I am in pri-
vate practice and also am a psychological consultant to a social
agency which helps adolescents and unmarried mothers. To be a
helpful catalyst for people in conflict and pain has been stimulating,
gratifying and rewarding. The financial gain, never much for
service people, has been sufficient for my needs.

My married life has come late but is full. In recent years one
of the purest and happiest pleasures of my life has been my son,
Jonny, now three years of age, a boy of endless energy, vitality and
perceptiveness. As I find my way as a father I’m truly sorry that
I didn’t become a parent sooner and at an age when I might have
matched him physically.

1 would say that probably everything good which has happened
has come a few years later than for most of my classmates. But
since I earned my achievements so hardly, I taste them well.

For my future I'd like to have another child, to enrich my per-
sonal relations with friends and family and to broaden my interests.

I hope that I don’t have to work so hard and intensely and that I
might enjoy life more easily. There is no bid for immortality or
greatness — only good health, a continued opportunity to work at

[ 1074 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mv profession and to watch my family grow, and warmth and
fullness.

At this milestone I have learned that people, given half a chance
to put aside their defensiveness and fears, can be good and produc-
uve. If I were to preach any idea at all, it is that acceptance and
understanding can lead to better human relations.

FREDERICK PRESTON POND

 

HOME apprEss; 4 Lindbergh Rd., Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: General Electric Co., Lynn, Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 25, 1912, Arlington, Mass. parents: Robert William Pond, Mary
Elizabeth Colman.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1031-1935. DEGREES: A.B., CU72 laude, 1935; A.M. 1938.

MaRRIED: Melora Mildram Hobbs, Aug. 14, 1943, Nahant, Mass. CHILDREN:
Melora, Feb. 1, 1945; Elizabeth, April 14, 1947; Frederick Preston, Jr.,
Oct. 12, 1952; Clementine, Dec. 23, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert William Pond, Jr., 733, M.B.A., ’35.

OCCUPATION: Cost accounting, General Electric Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Standing Committee, 1948-58, historian, since 1948,
Second Church in Boston; president, Glover School P.T.A., Marblehead,
1959-60; class agent, Belmont Hill Class of 1931, 1959-60; member of com-
mittees, Harvard Foundation, Harvard Fund, United Community Fund.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Essex Institute; Marblehead Historical
Society; Massachusetts Audubon Society.

1 HAVE been employed by the General Electric Company since
the Korean War, most of the time in jet engines, Right now I aim in
the cost department of medium steam turbine generator and gear
at Lynn. There are only about 350 Harvard graduates working for
G.E. Some colleges have over a thousand graduates working for

[ 1075 ]

ed

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

G.E. The 350 graduates gave the largest amount of any college
group last year due, I suppose, to President Pusey’s campaign.

According to TV, progress is our most important product at G.E.,
but I remember the criticism of the organization man from college
days; anyway our engineering department has Sir Matthew Boul-
ton’s statement over the door, “We sell here, sir, what the whole
world needs — power.”

Between World War II and the Korean War I taught at Suffolk
University and the Cambridge School of Business Administration.
The bar examiners passed a rule that two years of college (or equiva-
lent) were required of candidates for the bar exams. This rule and
the returning veterans made teaching very pleasant until the Ko-
rean War took many of the students and I left for GE.

Before World War II, I received an A.M. from Harvard Uni-
versity. I haven’t written. any books, but I did see a book being
written when I was in Professor Morison’s seminar on the West
Indies, when he wrote Admiral of the Ocean Sea. My war years
were mostly spent as laboratory technician for Simplex Wire and
Cable Company. We made ocean cable around the clock until the
end of the war when the coiling and winding machines abruptly
stopped,

I married Melora Hobbs (Radcliffe ’38) at Nahant in 1943. Our
children are Melora, fifteen, Elizabeth, thirteen, Frederick Preston,
Je., seven and Clementine, five (ages at date of Reunion). My wife
writes poetry, but for my hobbies I confess to joining the Audubon
Society, growing tomatoes and pine trees. Since Sputnik I have
learned to identify all the constellations north of the equator. My
family and I will escort any classmates on the Grand Tour of
Marblehead, across the causeway to the Neck, back to the old town,
around Peach’s Point and home.

On such an important occasion as the Twenty-fifth Reunion, I
should like to remind the Class of 1935 that a professor wants to
move Harvard to Peterborough, New Hampshire. If all our Massa-
chusetts cities become glaciated with asphalt as predicted, the plan
of moving to Peterborough for part of the four years appeals to me.

[ 1076 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SERGIO E. PORTAL

 

HOME AppRESS: The Manor Hotel, Asheville, N.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Avenida de los Presidentes No. 459, Vedado, Havana, Cuba.

BorN: March 20, 1912, Havana, Cuba. parents: Primitivo Portal, ’o7, Justina
Monteagudo.

PREPARED AT: LeRosey School, Rolle, Switzerland.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREES: S.B., 1935 (34); LL.B. (Univ. of Havana),

1938.

MarRIED: Angelina Ariosa, Sept. 1, 1940, Havana, Cuba. cui_pren: Sergio, Sept.
20, 1942; Nina, May 5, 1944; Cecilia, June 20, 1946; Maria Ana, Mav 19,
1954; Eduardo, Oct. 2, 1955; Jose Agustin, Aug. 28, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Raimundo Portal, Eng. Sch., 1932-33.

occupation: Construction; president, Ingenieria Portalco, S.A.. Hormigon
Cubana, S.A.; secretary, Ingenieria y Contracaciones, S.A.; agriculture;
cattle.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Siporex of Cuba, S.A.

MEMBER OF: Havana Yacht Club; Country Club of Havana.

SINCE the Twentieth Anniversary Report, our family has been
enlarged to an even half-dozen by the birth of two boys, Eduardo
and Agustin. Their addition contributed to the making of a well-
balanced family of three boys and three girls. In 1956, on the
other hand, I suffered the irreparable loss of my beloved father and
business companion for over twenty years. Then I had to step inte
father’s shoes as president of a construction company and presi-
dent of a concrete block and transit mix company, We also turned
over into a cattle farm the rice plantation which my brother George
and I had developed four years ago.

In counting my blessings I must be grateful to the Lord for a
happy marriage, my health and that of my family, opportunity for
hard work and a reasonable satisfaction of our material needs, good

[ 1077 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

friends, my quota of swimming, golfing and fun and a revival in
me of religious faith within my Catholic Church.

Suddenly, since December of this year, I find myself facing a
patticularly uncertain future. ] have come, with all my family, to
reside for an undetermined period of time at Asheville, North
Carolina, where the children have been placed in school. This grave
uncertainty is shared, I am certain, by many of my countrymen.
Whether Castro succeeds in establishing a racial, socialist, totali-
tarian state in Cuba, the first in this hemisphere, or whether his in-
experience and his methods bring about economic chaos and more
poverty that will result in a new civil war that will finally oust him
and his system, are questions which may be determined in the near
future. Cuba is politically independent but is entirely dependent
on the United States for its prosperity and, as in the past, our course
will ultimately depend in large degree on the policies and actions
of the American government. Since Cuba’s problems are similar
to those of other Latin American countries, the final results in Cuba
will have a determining influence on the relations between the
Americas in the near future. I feel confident, however, that the
principles of free enterprise, democracy and Christianity will
eventually prevail in our country and by then the future of our
children will again seem secured.

RICHARD PORTER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 460 King St., Cohasset, Mass.
orice appress: Gray, Porter & Gove, 89 Broad St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: May 28, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: Henry Whitcomb Porter. ’
Sarah Alice Bigelow, "y » 796

prepakeD AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933,

[ 1078 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Helen Orvis Valentine, Aug. 18, 1940, Northboro, Mass. cHttoren:
Robert Whitcomb, Oct. 10, 1944; Katherine Orvis, March 11, 1947.

occupation: Partner, general insurance agency.

orrices HELD: Trustee and secretary, Thayer Academy, since 1950; treasurer,
First Parish in Cohasset, 1950~56; trustee, Quincy Savings Bank, since 1955;
member, executive committee, Boston Board of Fire Underwriters, Inc.;
member, Building Committee, Town of Cohasset Fire and Police Station.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Quincy (president, 1955-57); Neighborhood
Club of Quincy; Cohasset Golf Club; Cohasset Yacht Club; Appalachian
Mountain Club.

LIFE has been good and happy through the years since college. A
fine wife, two promising youngsters, a pleasant home in the coun-
try and a successful business partnership provide the basis for the
good and happy life,

Except for two years spent building ships during World War II,
my business career has been stimulating and rewarding in carrying
on and expanding the general insurance agency founded by my
great-grandfather in 1849. Insurance is a business of many facets
requiring a high degree of technical knowledge as well as a phil-
osophical and sympathetic approach in the professional relationship |
between agent and client.

After seven years of apartment living we settled in Cohasset, a
lovely town combining the advantages of seashore and country
where, according to the latest census, there are not less than ten
classmates. There our son has grown to be a man-sized sophomore
at my own prep school where he plays football and baseball and
does a creditable job with his book learning. Our daughter has
entered the Junior School at Thayer, which permits her just enough
extra time to carry on her piano study.

It is a full life with many friends and continuing opportunities
to help in managing the affairs of town and church. A major interest
is our local Harvard Club and its scholarship committee, giving me
a chance to work closely with the Admissions Office and learn
something of the tremendous problems confronting a great uni-
versity that can admit only a third of those who apply.

I have enjoyed a variety of recreational activities, As a family
we play golf and tennis and operate a small boat in summer and
travel to the snowy slopes of New England and Canada for skiing
each winter. Fall Saturdays invariably lure us to the Stadium w here
we have followed the fortunes of Harvard football.

As I look back over twenty-five years of family, community and
business life, I am deeply grateful to Harvard for the accomplish-

[ 1079 ]

_|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ments and friendships of college years, for the continuing associa-
tions with men of Harvard and their families, for a succession of
Commencement Thursdays in June and a chance to visit with class-
mates and see a new generation of promising alumni. My pride in
Harvard is unbounded as she continues to fill her position of leader-
ship in a changing world.

+ WILLIAM CAMPBELL POSEY, JR.

 

porn: Feb, 6, 1914, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: William Campbell Posey,
Hadassah Hamilton Felton.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; M.D. (Univ. of Pennsylvania),
1939.

MaRRIED; Mary Louise Vetterlain, June 28, 1938 (died May 3, 1943); Dorothy
Alice Cuthbert, Dec. 3, 1943, Wynnewood, Pa.

piED: Jan. 2, 1960, Philadelphia, Pa.

wipow: Mrs. William C. Posey, Jr., 830 Montgomery Ave., Bryn Mawr, Pa.

IN September, Posey had sent in a report for this book, so the
editors are printing his story as he submitted it, instead of a formal
obituary.

“After leaving college I attended the University of Pennsylvania
School of Medicine, graduating in 1939. Served a year’s internship
at Bryn Mawr Hospital and then returned to the Graduate School
of the University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine for speciali-
zation in ophthalmology — received formal training there for a
year —and additional training as apprentice at the Pennsylvania
Hospital Graduate Hospital, Children’s Hospital and Bryn Mawr
Hospital — while starting practice in Philadelphia suburbs, Received
certificate in ophthalmology in 1951. Since then I have been practis-
ing ophthalmology in Ardmore and Wayne, Pennsylvania,

[ 1080 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

“During the war I served as an eye specialist at the U.S. Army
[Induction Center in Philadelphia.”

WALTER LINFORD POST, JR.

 

appRESS: 150 Broadway, New York 7, N.Y.

BorN: Feb. 22, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents: Walter Linford Post, Helen
McColluan.

PREPARED AT: Williston Seminary, Easthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

marriep: Edith Estella Pond, July 17, 1938, Boston, Mass. cutLtpren: Brooks
Tiplin, Feb. 14, 1940; Walter Linford, 3d, May 18, 1941.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Malcolm Post, ’37.

POST has been ill for several years.

RICHARD McMAHON POWELL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 46 Inwood Rd., Chatham, N.J,
OFFICE apprEss: Board of [ducation, Millburn, N.J.

[ 1081 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

BORN: June 19, 1913, Philadelphia, Pa. paReNTS: Francis Powell, Letitia Danen-
hower,

PREPARED aT: Haddonfield High School, Haddonfield, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 19353 AM.
(Univ. of Pennsylvania), 1946; Pup. (Columbia Univ.), 1954.

MarRigp: Marion B, Warburton, Sept. 5, 1936, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
David, Dec. 23, 1948; Linda, Aug. 30, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Powell, 733.

occupation: Teaching.

MEMBER OF; Phi Beta Kappa.

PUBLICATIONS: Syncope and Like Phenomena in Italian.

WITH an interest in young people and their growth and develop-
ment, I have enjoyed the past twenty-five years as a teacher in public
and private secondary schools. The usual interruption was the war
period when I saw service in Africa and the European theatre.

Being a teacher of modern languages, I have been privileged to
travel and live abroad extensively. My most interesting experience
was an assignment at the Lycée de Gargons in Versailles, France,
At this writing, 1 have just returned from a two-month sojourn in
France.

My convictions concerning life and that to come have been
strengthened during the time since graduation. I believe the Bible
to be the infallible Word of God, the only rule for faith and prac-
tice. I had accepted the Lord Jesus Christ as my Saviour and the
Lord of my life before attending Harvard. During my college
days and thereafter, God has proved Himself to me in many ways.
I am deeply grateful for the rich experiences which He has given
and for the assurance of eternal life in His presence, I should like
to close by commending this verse to the attention of my classmates:
“Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the
heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that
love Him. But God hath revealed them unto us by His Spirit...”
(1 Corinthians 2:9,10)

[ 1082 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOSEPH PRESCOTT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 14239 Curtis Ave., Detroit 35, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wayne State University, Detroit 2, Mich.

BORN: July 3, 1913, Fall River, Mass. PaRENtsS: Isaac Prescott, Sarah Abramson.

PREPARED AT: Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; A.M. 19373 PH.D.
1044.

MARRIED: Myrtle Saperstein, Dec. 24, 1939, Boston, Mass, cuitp: Eleanor, Dec.
9, 1946.

occuPATION: Professor of English, Wayne State University.

PuBLICATIONS: Contributions to learned journals and the Encyclopaedia Bri-
tannica.

HELM BRUCE PRICE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3340 Prospect St., N.W., Washington 7, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Automotive Safety Foundation, 200 Ring Bldg. Washington,
D.C.

BoRN: July 29, 1913, Louisville, Ky, PARENTS: John Williamson Price, Jr. Loune
Reid Bruce.

PREPARED AT: Shenandoah Valley Academy, Winchester, Va.

[ 1083 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: AB., 1935.

marriep: Sarah Gilmer, Sept. 17, 1955, Hertingfordbury, England. cunp:
Alexander Bruce, Dec, 24, 1956.

occupation: Writer, Public Relations Department, Automotive Safety Founda-
tion.

MEMBER OF; Society of Colonial Wars; Harvard Club of New York; Dunes
Club, Narragansett, R.L; University Club, Washington, D.C.

THE first thing I did after college was flunk out of the Law School.
I spent the next year studying at the University of Virginia and
tried to get reinstated but failed again. That was a hard blow. I
went to New York and tried to get a job on newspapers like the
Times and magazines like Tire, but was told to go home and get
some experience. That was too much to take, and I had a nervous
breakdown. When I had been built up, I was so glad to be alive
and healthy again that I didn’t want to spoil the pleasure by doing
any kind of work. I returned to New York and for a whole year
I was a playboy, a pig, a bum — and ’ll never say ’m sorry. When
the party was over, I went to work on the clip desk at Newsweek,
However, the job was always interfering with other things I wanted
to do, and by the end of another year, I was out of it. I volunteered
for the draft.

They put me in the Infantry and I spent two years and three
months taking apart the M-1 rifle and putting it together. ‘Then I
was transferred to the Air Force, trained as a radio mechanic and
put to work as a control tower operator in Texas and places like
that.

After the war I went home to Louisville, wrote 50,000 words of
a novel I couldn’t finish, worked briefly for an advertising firm, then
joined the Covrier-Journal as a reporter. This was interesting, some-
times exciting work, but after three years 1 wanted a change of
scenery, so I went to Providence and began reporting for the Jour-
nal. It was a short term. One of the principal owners of the paper
had kindly helped me get the job by exerting his influence on the
editors, and the editors, after a smoldering interval, fired me.

[ went to New York and got a job writing all kinds of gunk and
corp for a paint company. I stuck with that for a year. During the
next six years, I was an associate editor of four second-rate maga-
zines. At all of them I learned something and had a good time for
a while, but at last the triviality and phoniness crawled over me like
poliomyelitis, or else provoked me to spit in the boss’s eye,

Meanwhile, in the winter of 1955, I had spent weekends at Stowe,

[ 1084 ]

lL

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

trying to learn to ski. At the bottom of the beginners’ slope, an
English girl kept picking me up and, gratefully, 1 married her. When
the baby came we decided we'd better get out of New York and
we chose Washington as a clean, spacious and convenient place to
live. I went to work in the News & Information Department of
the Chamber of Commerce of the United States. I did some good
work there. It took the boss eight months to discover I didn’t
know anything about commerce,

It occurred to me that I had been hopping on a square hot stove
too long. So I took ten months off and wrote the first draft of a
novel, Then I took my present job writing for the Automotive
Safety Foundation, polishing the novel at night. I expect to have
it shining in the hands of an agent by Christmas, 1959. Maybe by
the time I get fired, the book will be a best-seller. If it is, Pl take a
trip to the moon, and if not, I'll write another.

+ ERNEST HENRY PRINGLE, JR.

 

Born: March 16, 1914, Charleston, S.C. parents: Ernest Henry Pringle, Nel-
lora McColl.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREE: A.B. 1935.
HARVARD BROTHER: McColl Pringle, ’37.

DieED: June 26, 1938, Charleston, S.C.

ERNEST HENRY PRINGLE, JR., received an A.B. with our
Class. He spent his senior year at the Business School. After leav-
ing college he became associated with his father in the financial
business in Charleston. He was survived by his father and a brother.

[ 1085 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

DOMENIC ROMOLO PROCOPIO

    

HOME appREss: 4 Tessier Drive, Andover, Mass.
OFFICE appRESS: State Teachers College, Lowell, Mass.

BoRN: Dec. 4, 1913, Brockton, Mass. parents: Peter Procopio, Rose Fiorentino,
PREPARED aT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934, 1935-1936. DEGREES: A.B., 1935(36)3 A.M., 1939;
PH.D. (Boston Univ.), 1956.

MARRIED: Mary Agnes O'Rourke, June 8, 1958, Cambridge, Mass.
HARVARD BROTHER: Saverio Frank Procopio, °28.

occupation: Associate professor of music, State Teachers College, Lowell,
Mass.

MEMBER OF: Music Educators National Conference; Massachusetts Music
Educators Association,

I BECAME very much interested in music while at Harvard; in
fact, I took a year off to catch up on some fundamentals and piano.
Ever since then, my life has been devoted mostly to the study of
music and the teaching of various aspects of it.

While studying for my Master’s degree, I taught college prepara-
tory subjects at Brockton High School, and then the war came
along to interrupt this uneventful existence. Of the three and one-
half years I spent in the Army, my last eighteen months were the
most memorable, as I was in Italy, not working too hard, and visit-
ing all the beautiful monuments of Fiesole and Firenze. I later taught
music at a university set up by the Army for the GI’s who were
waiting to go home. | also did some interpreting for the Advocate
General’s office while in Naples.

As a civilian once again, I lost no time getting back to music, even
though it meant starting all over again in some phases of it. I taught
in various schools, finally going to Lowell Teachers College in 1950.
Here I teach theory of music, Italian; I direct a chorus, advise the
Student Chapter of the Music Educators National Conference in

[ 1086 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

its many activities, serve on multifold committees, and keep very
busy in one way or another. I also direct a community chorus and
a nurses’ chorus. Choral music is perhaps my greatest interest,
aroused by the inspiration of the incomparable “Doc” Davison, the
finest teacher I have ever known,

I was content to remain a bachelor, but finally changed my mind
in 1958, when I married Mary Agnes O’Rourke, who is well known
in the Harvard School of Education, where she received an Ed.M.
in 1942 and an Ed.D. in 1954. She also taught there, assisting Dr.
William Burton for some time. She is professor of education at
Salem Teachers College; our professional combination is doing very
nicely.

I was late in earning my degree, late in becoming established in
music teaching, late in marrying, but I am getting there.

DAVID GOODRIDGE PROCTOR

 

HOME ADDRESS: 296 N. University Ave., Beaver Dam, Wis.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wayland Academy, Beaver Dam, Wis.

BorN: July 2, 1913, Framingham, Mass. Parents: Fred Josiah Proctor, Hattie
Frances Haskell.

PREPARED AT: Northborough High School, Northborough, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; ED.M. (Boston Univ.), 19yo.

MarRiED: Bertha Margaret Coskie, June 12, 1943, Worcester, Mass. CHILDREN:
David Patterson, Sept. 28, 1950; Allen Joseph, April 25, 1952.

occupation: Chairman, English Department, senior college counselor, member,
administrative steering committee, director, school activities, representa-
tive and correspondent to Independent School Fducation Board, Wayland
Academy.

OFFICES HELD: President, Dodge County Community Concerts Association,
since 1957; member, program committee, Lincoln School PLT.A, since

[ 1087 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

1957; member, admissions committee, Harvard Club of Wisconsin, since
1957; member, various boards of local community projects.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Wisconsin; National Counter-Intelligence Corps
Association; Independent School Education Board; Teachers Council of
Independent School Association of Central States; English Teachers Asso-
ciations of Michigan and Wisconsin; Dodge County Community Concerts
Association; Lincoln School Parent-Teachers Association; Cum Laude
Society; Thoreau Society.

AS I observe what keen minds and absolute poise the young men
have whom I steer to Harvard, I can but think of the shy, absolutel
immature kid who entered twenty-five years ago. Possibly exag-
gerating how ill-fitted I was, I am continually astounded how ma-
ture and how worldly our teen-agers seem to be today.

Starting my teaching career in a boys’ boarding school in New
Hampshire, I immediately found the necessity of growing a mous-
tache to cut down on the number of parents patting me on the head
and calling me “Laddie.” Last year I decided finally it was safe to
remove the growth which moths and time have long been fraying.
I was really ready to start Harvard about my fourth year out after
I had completed my Master's work across the river and had had
several wonderful summers as character actor in stock companies
in New Hampshire, on the Cape and in Maine.

A chance for full-time theatre permanently ceased when the
Army decided they could use most anything. However, my basic
training was cut short after three weeks because the 243d Coast
Artillery Regiment, proud of its history, did not wish to add my
contributions to its inspection and marksmanship records. Then,
as head of classification, I made sure my name appeared on a list of
proposed candidates for a very dramatic-sounding and hush-hush
army service. Civilian clothes, an alias, and a stern warning to walk
twice around the block before entering one’s lodgings started off
service in the Counter-Intelligence Corps. The glamour ended soon,
but the calibre of one’s fellow agents and the variety of schooling
and assignment from all along the eastern seaboard to London to
the invasion and the trek through France, Belgium, the German
Breakthrough and Germany made the three-plus years a memorable
period.

Since the war it has been the life of a boarding school where one’s
wife, two sons and dog clamor for a little of one’s time from the
seven-day devotion to school duties, The force of the clamor can
be realized when my nine-year-old son now weighs two pounds

[ 1088 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

more than I did when I was thirty, and the seven-year-old is only
eleven pounds behind.

English classes, college counseling, administrative duties, com-
munity concerts and its drives, church organist duties, P.T.A,,
broken bicycles, rabbit houses, Cub Scouts (there’s a nasty word),
camping and nightly bedtime stories could make one forget there
is country outside of Beaver Dam — there is still a New York, New
England, clams, lobster, ocean and hills. Therefore, every second
summer we come back east to our families and relive anew with
our two sons the history and beauty of the East. This way I have
finally seen all the historic shrines I never got around to visit when
I was close by.

Through admission committee service with the Harvard Club
in Milwaukee and through my own students now in Cambridge, I
find a new closeness to the inner Harvard and a satisfaction akin to
that same satisfaction which keeps the teachers of teen-agers teach-

ing.

GROSVENOR PROCTOR

 

HOME apprEss: Harding Road, Clinton, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: J. B. Wells & Son Co., Genesee Street, Utica, N.Y.

BORN: Feb. 10, 1913, Pomfret, Conn. PARENTS: George Amos Proctor, Julia
Grosvenor.

PREPARED aT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B, 1935.

MarRieD: Cynthia Hutchinson, June 25, 1938, Cambridge, Mass. cttaoaen:
Charles Grosvenor, Dec. 6, 1940; Jane Grant, June to, 1946.

HARVARD SON: Charles Grosvenor Proctor, 63.

occupaTION: Retailing; general manager, J. B. Wells & Son Company, depart-
ment stores,

[ 1089 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

OFFICES HELD: Past president, Utica Retail Merchants Association; director,
Utica Retail Credit Bureau, Utica Chamber of Commerce; vice-president,
Harvard Club of Mohawk Valley; member, United Fund Budget Com-
mittee.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club; Sadeguada Golf Club; Yabnondasis Golf Club, Fort
Schuyler Yacht Squadron, Fort Schuyler Club; Harvard Club of New
York.

THE years have been kind and generous to me. I have had to make
two major decisions since leaving Harvard and I am happy to re-
port that in both instances the results have shown them to be the
correct ones, Good fortune was also mine both times.

In 1936 Cynthia Hutchinson graduated from Mount Holyoke
College. In 1938 we were married. This was my first important
decision and good fortune! We lived in Cambridge until 1947,
with the exception of the war years. Our son Charles was born there
in 1940 and our daughter Jane in 1946.

In 1947 we moved to 1073 Brush Hill Road, Milton, where Fergie
Locke was our neighbor. We bought a large house and prepared
to settle down for the rest of our lives. We read Ten Acres and
Independence and followed all the instructions — vegetable gardens,
flower gardens, chickens, pig (only one), corn field, etc.

Since graduation I had been with Hunneman & Company in Bos-
ton, an active real estate and property management organization.
Hunneman representatives have undoubtedly helped many of you
with your housing problems in metropolitan Boston. I commend
the company to you and your friends. My Hunneman career was
interrupted by five years in the Navy — five years about which I
should not complain because my duty was not arduous. Harvard
ROTC and an ensign’s commission was a good start. Anti-submarine
duty in fall of °41 mine warfare duty later. In 1946 I was dis-
charged with the rank of lieutenant commander,

My second major decision was made in 1948. An unexpected op-
portunity presented itself and Cynthia and I decided we must take
it. We left our “acres” and moved to Utica, New York. Actually
we live in Clinton, a suburb of Utica and home of Hamilton Col-
lege. Again we had plenty of land and expanded to turkeys, ducks,
geese and cows until we discovered that gentleman farming is a
very expensive hobby. We have now given up all livestock except

Cynthia’s dachshunds, At the moment we have a male and a preg-

nant female. There have been as many as fourteen at one time! We
welcome inquiries from dachshund fanciers!

[ 1090 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I am an officer and general manager of J. B. Wells & Son Com-
pany — Utica’s oldest and finest department store. We also have
another store in Niagara Falls. Both do substantial volumes in the
medium to better grade types of merchandise. The retail life is
challenging and interesting and I enjoy it throughly. Cynthia and
I spend considerable time in New York City. We also go to markets
in Chicago and Atlantic City, These business trips have their en-
joyable and relaxing sides, too!

In Utica and Clinton we find ourselves involved in various ca-
pacities with the usual “good work” projects. I am active in the
Utica retail field: past president of the Merchants’ Council, director
of the Credit Bureau, Chamber of Commerce committees, etc. For
several years I have been an officer of the Harvard Club of Mohawk
Valley.

Upstate New York is very pleasant in the summer, but it 1s
COLD and SNOWY in the winter — fifteen to twenty degrees
below zero is not uncommon! Consequently we try to get away in
February and March. We have found the West Indies most delight-
ful and have been to many of the islands, from Bermuda south to
Trinidad. We especially like Puerto Rico, Tobago, Barbados and
a small island near Nassau, called Eleuthera. We shall be back there
this February at a relaxing hostelry called “French Leave.” Some-
day I hope to have a boat and cruise these islands. The boat, how-
ever, must wait just a few more years until the children complete
their education.

Charlie was at Milbrook School for Boys in Milbrook, New
York, for four years prior to entering Harvard this last fall. Janie
will be going away to school this fall, we hope to Abbot Academy.
Incidentally she is an accomplished harpist. We are delighted to
have Charlie in Cambridge, and with the prospect of Jane in An-
dover, we look forward to frequent trips to New England ourselves.
An important one will be in June, 1960.

[ 1091 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

RICHARD PROUTY

 

HOME apprEss: 466 Salisbury St., Holden, Mass.

OFFICE appRrEss: Norton Co., 1 New Bond St., Worcester, Mass.

Born: Nov. 20, 1912, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: Lewis Isaac Prouty, ’94, Olive
Chapin Higgins.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE! A.B. 1935.

MarrieD: Ann Jenkins, March 20, 1943, Winnetka, Ill. cumpren: Jonathan
Jenkins and Hilary Jenkins (twins), Jan. 20, 1944; Lewis Isaac, April 8,
1946; Jane Chapin, Feb. 4, 1947; Richard, Jr., May 26, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Secretary and insurance manager, Norton Company, manufacturers
of abrasives, grinding machines, etc.

OFFICES HELD: Member, various teams and committees, Worcester Community
Chest, since 1945; director, since 1951, treasurer, 1952-58, member, Finance
Committee, since 1959, Holden District Hospital, Cub Scout master, etc.,
Boy Scouts of America, since 1953; director, since 1955, treasurer, since
1957, Bancroft School; director, Children’s Friend Society, Inc., since
1955; member of corporation, Children’s Medical Center of Boston, since
1956; president, Worcester Chapter, 1957, director, 1957, 1958, regional
vice-president, since 1959, American Society of Insurance Management,
director, since 1958, member, executive committee, since 1959, Massachu-
setts Blue Cross; chairman, Special Gifts Committee, American Cancer
Society, 1959.

MEMBER oF: Worcester Club; Tatnuck Country Club; Shakespeare Club of
Worcester; Schussverein Ski Club; Norton Ski Club; Harvard Clubs of
Worcester and Boston; The Country Club, Brookline, Kittansett Club;
Mattapoisett and Duxbury Yacht Clubs.

PUBLICATIONS: “Risk Analysis and Evaluation,” an insurance paper.

WHAT good is a list of adventures, accomplishments or things
other than to name the trail followed over the last twenty-five
years? A man’s true substance is his present and future — so a mini-
mum of this trail of the past.

My prewar bachelor days were spent in Worcester working for

[ 1092 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Norton Company, a business in which my family has had a finan-
cial interest since its inception in 1886. My marriage to Ann Jen-
kins of Winnetka, Illinois, in 1943, practically coincided with entry
into the military service. During the war I advanced from quarter-
master 2d class in the Navy to lieutenant senior grade in the USS.
Coast Guard, serving on the Atlantic seaboard and in the Mediter-
ranean.

Similar to other classmates, my early years of married life were
busy with a growing family and many moves. By 1950 we had five
children and had moved nine times. At present, “Ann and I are liv-
ing in the country, ” in a Cape Cod-type house on seventeen acres
of land located in Holden, Massachusetts. Holden is forty miles
west of Boston and is really a suburb of Worcester. We have been
here for eleven years and our children —all healthy — are as fol-
lows: Jonathan Jenkins, fifteen, Hilary Jenkins, fifteen, Lewis Isaac,
thirteen, Jane Chapin, twelve and Richard, Jr., nine.

We are currently involved in education with Jonathan, Hilary
and Lewis off at St. Paul’s, Miss Hall’s and Milton Academy re-
spectively and Jane and Rip attending Bancroft, a day school located
four miles from home and conveniently on the way to work.

All five children can ski, skate, swim, play tennis, swing at golf,
sail a boat, fire a gun, pitch a tent, ride a horse, drive a nail, drive a
car, ride a bicycle, cut grass, make beds, wash dishes, pick up stones,
weed the garden, chop wood, cook, empty waste-paper baskets,
feed dogs and say the Lord’s Prayer. And these things along with
my job at Norton Company as secretary and insurance manager,
plus a share of community activities, make a week of shooting, a
skiing vacation or a cruise down east something which must be
planned well in advance and fought for up to the day of departure.

Our present radius of Operations is around Worcester, Boston,
Mattapoisett and Duxbury, with visits to the Green and White
Mountains. Occasionally we break away on business or pleasure to
New York, Chicago, Colorado, north to Canada or south to Ala-
bama.. And, of course, we continue to dream of going abroad for
skiing and travel!

As for the future, with the exception of nuclear war, I feel just
as optimistic as when I graduated from Efarvard. T do not think
that the young men and women graduating from college today have
lost touch with reality, but I do feel reality has changed at Icast as
far as holding a job and supporting a family are concerned. It scems
to me that higher education and specialization in one's chosen ficld

[ 1093 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

coupled with an ability to fit in with a large organization are more
important for success today than ever before. The outstanding in-
dividual who may be a genius, the talented artist or research man, so
many of whom are lone wolf operators, appear to be less easily recog-
nized, accepted and rewarded by today’s society than in the past,
And I regret this stifling of individuality which seems to be de-
manded by our economy. Maybe the answer is to conform when
earning a living and maintain originality in other fields.

Anyway, I am thoroughly convinced that people are more im-

portant than things, and that human relationships, habits and atti-

tudes are the cement which binds our lives into something of beauty
or else makes them crumble. And if for a few brief moments I have
enjoyed a flash of beauty, accomplishment or inner peace, I attribute

such success first to my wife, who is the greatest single influence in
my life, and second to Harvard, which opened my eyes.

MILTON LEE PRUYN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 120 Seagate Rd., Palm Beach, Fla.

porn; Feb. 27, 1913, Pasadena, Calif. parents: Frederic Pruyn, 04, Beatrice
Morgan.

PREPARED aT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.

MARRIED: Antoinette Deltschaft, Dec. 19, 1948, St. Petersburg, Fla.

HARVARD BaoTHER: Fellowes Morgan Pruyn, 31.
OvCUPATION: Real estate broker, inactive.

[ 1094 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

* RICHARD JOSEPH PURCELL

porn: Nov. 19, 1912, Yonkers, N.Y. parents: Herbert William Purcell, ‘os,
Anna Holden. -
PREPARED AT: Plainville High School, Plainville, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933, 1934-1935.
pep: Nov. 23, 1935, Cambridge, Mass.

RICHARD JOSEPH PURCELL was a student of anthropology
and had conducted excavations in Egypt with several other students
a few years before his death. He was survived by his parents and
a brother.

STANLEY REDFERN PURCELL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 42 Deep Spring Lane, Springdale, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Standard Brands, Inc., Stamford, Conn.

BORN: June 21, 1913, Somerville, Mass. parents: Charles Stanley Purcell,
Esther Nilsson.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 193I-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935 (36).

MarrigeD: Anne Voorhis, Sept. 13, 1941, River Edge, N.J. cotpres: Seanley
Redfern, Jr., July 26, 1944; Elizabeth Anne, Feb. 7, 1948.

occupation: Chemist; group leader, Process Development Division, Scandard
Brands, food business.

OFFICES HELD: Director, New England Section, American Ou Chemises Society,
1950-56.

MEMBER oF; American Oil Chemists Society; Chemical Fogincering Socety
of Fairfield County.

MY business life has given me a varied experience in the chemical
field — pharmaceuticals, plastics, vegetable oil, and fom, After
starting out in the laboratory, I moved along to pilot plane work an

[ 1095 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

research and development, to production and personnel work, and
to my present job in process development with Standard Brands.

The problems at the moment revolve around our efforts to make
our instant coffee taste better, improve the margarine and gelatin
products, and make an instant tea that a true tea drinker won't
scoff at.

These pursuits were interrupted in 1942-46 when I served in
the Army Chemical Corps. Two years were spent at Pine Bluff
Arsenal in Arkansas in the production of chemical munitions, in-
cendiarics, and poison gas. This was my only experience in the
construction and start-up of a huge government installation. It
was stimulating to see a job accomplished under the most difficult
conditions, The next two years were at the Chemical Corps’ Tech-
nical Command in Maryland, where research work was carried out
on chemical munitions, I have remained active in the Army Re-
serve, with numerous two-week tours of active duty at summer
camps, [am presently a major in the Chemical Corps Reserve.

After the war, Anne and I settled down in New Jersey and pro-
ceeded to surround oursclves with the trappings of suburbia. We
built a house, got involved in do-it-yourself projects, and were an
easy mark for every civic group.

We recently moved to Connecticut and found we were still in
the same suburban scramble. My boy is in the Explorer Scouts and
I'm heading up the Troop Committee.

So far, we've been able to keep up with the children’s home-
work. My math is rusty but reviving, w hile Anne’s Latin has fallen
by the wayside,

My vouthful fondness for tennis, sailing, skiing, and mountain
climbing have been shunted aside, and fishing, skating, and garden-
ing have taken their place. This summer I tried to teach my son

some of the fine points of fly fishing, only to find he could run
rings around me with his spinning outfit.

My daughter is in Girl Scouts, struggles with the piano, loves
animals of ev ery description, and wants to be a veterinarian. My
wife, Anne, has been a never-failing source of inspiration and has
all the w ifely virtues save one — she thoroughly detests the game of
bridge,

I don’t think the metropolitan New York area is the ideal place
to live and raise a family. Too much rushing around to get trivial
tasks done on schedule and not enough time for some honest quiet

[ 1096 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

reflection on the things that really matter. When does one find this
tune? I hope it’s before the Fiftieth Anniversary Report is due.

GEORGE CHOATE PUTNAM

 

LAST KNOWN apDpRESS: 1501 Electric Ave., Seal Beach, Calif.

porn: Jan. 16, 1911, San Francisco, Calif. pareENTs: Arthur Putnam, Grace
Story.

PREPARED AT: Castlemont High School, Oakland, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932, 1933-1935.

PUTNAM has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since
104+4-

WILLIAM JOYCE PYLES

 

HOME ADpRESS: 1158 Fifth Ave., New York 29, N.Y.

OFFICE appress: New York Heart Association, 1o Columbus Circle, New York
19, N.Y.

BORN: June 20, 1914, Philadelphia, Pa. PARENTS: Franklin Pierce Pyles, Norma
Louise Gemmell.

[ 1097 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935
PREPARED AT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1931-1934. DEGREE: M.D., 1938.

MARRIED: Edith E. Sproul, 1941, Ridgewood, N.J. (divorced); Nancy Mann,
1951, Richmond, Va. cuiLoreN: Lorna Joan, June 4, 1944; Elizabeth
Agnew, May 19, 1955; Courtney, Dec. 24, 1958.

occuPATION: Physician; medical director, New York Heart Association.

OFFICES HELD: Associate attending physician, St. Luke’s Hospital, New York
City; assistant clinical professor of medicine, Columbia University College
of Physicians and Surgeons; associate editor, Nutrition Reviews.

MEMBER OF: American Association for the Advancement of Science; New
York Academy of Sciences; local medical society.

pusLicaTions: “Amyloidosis in hamsters with leishmaniasis,” A. Gellhorn, H.
B. Van Dyke, W. J. Pyles and N. A. Tupikova, Proceedings, Society for
Experimental Biology & Medicine, 1946, “The subcutaneous administra-
tion of plasma substitutes with hyaluronidase. Studies with dextran,” W.
J. Pyles and L. B. Dotti, School of Aviation Medicine, U.S. Air Force,
Report No. 55-2, June 1956; a series of unsigned reviews in Nutrition Re-
views, beginning in 1957.

FOUR years at the Harvard Medical School passed quickly. (Henry
Brewster was my only college classmate in this Class.) After
graduating from the Medical School in 1938, I spent eight years
in New York, four and a half of them in pathology at the Presby-
terian Hospital, plus clinical training at Bellevue and Morrisania
Hospitals and the Columbia Research Division at Goldwater Hos-
pital. I had originally planned to go back to Rio de Janeiro to
practise, but my interests became increasingly academic and the
years at the Medical Center were especially profitable to one trained
at Harvard. Columbia nominated Tom Hunter and me for brief
wartime fellowships in tropical diseases, and after a short stay in
Central America, we enriched this discipline at Columbia to a
dubious degree.

In 1946, an opportunity came for a three-year appointment as
associate professor of internal medicine at the American University
of Beirut, where a dozen American medical teachers went to replete
the staff after the war. The experience was fascinating medically
and otherwise, and every spare weekend was spent visiting the
extraordinary variety of Phoenician, Greek, Roman and Crusader
antiquities in the Near East. The variety of diseases was just as
extraordinary — many I had never seen,

On returning to New York, I became assistant director of medi-
cine at St. Luke’s Hospital, charged with developing a research and

teaching program in this clinical hospital newly affiliated with
Columbia University. Again the interesting task of starting some-

[ 1098 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

thing new, aided by a clinical appointment on the Columbia teach-
ing staff. Change does not come easily and cajoling staff, carpenters,
plumbers and philanthropists was a long but productive assignment
under a remarkable chief of service determined to make the grade.
I think we did. My duties, divided between research, teaching and
patients, became increasingly administrative and in 1958 I left full-
time hospital work to join the staff of the New York Heart Associa-
tion, where I am now the medical director. I continue my previous
interests with the hospital and university appointments and manage
to keep my hands in scientific work by some editorial work for
Nutrition Reviews. Unfortunately, I had to close my research
laboratory for lack of time, but I guess one can’t do every thing.

I was married to Nancy Mann, of Richmond, in 1951, and we
have lived in Manhattan ever since. We have two nice young chil-
dren and can testify to the enjoyment of life in the city. This irri-
tates all of our commuting friends who want us to share their hard-
ships.

I guess this answers the question another Harvard graduate

asked me when we were introduced recently: “Well, how have
you wasted your life?”

I. WARREN RABB

 

HOME apprEss: 36 Tamworth Rd., Waban 68, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: J. E. Wolf Co., 99 Chauncy Se. Boston, Mass,

BORN: Feb, 22, 1912, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Solomon Rabb, Rose Roath
PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934. DEGREES: A.B, clr laude. 1eig(ig)s Mea. Het
MARRIED: Eleanor Wolf, Oct. 19, 1947, Boston, Mass. cutuamis: Stephen Mark,

April 5, 1949; Kenneth Brian, June 15, 1gs0; Virginia Rene, May teat.
HARVARD BROTHER: Maxwell Milton Rabb, ‘32.

[ 1099 ]

ih tu Ranma

" HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

occupation: Owner, J. E. Wolf Company, manufacturers’ representatives.
OFFICES HELD: Town meeting member, Brookline; treasurer, 1956-58, vice-
president, 1959-60, Parent Teachers Association; treasurer, Cub Scouts,

1958-60.

AFTER graduation I crossed the Larz Anderson Bridge and em-
barked on the other side of the Charles, where I spent two pleasant
years at the Business School, receiving my M.B.A. in 1936. My
first major business venture, after leaving the “B” School, was in
the department store field at one of New York’s largest stores, a
very progressive organization, and an excellent basic training ground.
I began with selling, moving on to section manager, assistant re-
search director and. buyer. After four years, I returned to Boston
as general coordinator of a New England chain of retail stores.

Six months later I took a leave of absence to go to Washington,
D.C., with the War Production Board. My job was to be liaison
between the purchases division and the statistics division of W.P.B.
This was just one year prior to the United States entering World
War II, and they surely were hectic times. With our Lend-Lease
program and the probability of our getting involved in war our-
selves, all critical materials such as tin, steel, rubber had to be stock-
piled and rationed. How much should go to civilian use and how
much to the military? In cans, for example, how much tin should
be allowed for meat packing, for various vegetables, for dog food
—if any? Which items could be safely switched from cans to
glass or wooden barrels?

The W.P.B. purchases division drafted key men from all in-
dustries to help make these decisions. They were the Dollar-a-Year
men. The statistics division of W.P.B. had carloads of unassembled
figures. Mly work was to arrange and collate these data in a form
readily available for the use of the purchases division, Working
with these men was extremely interesting — particularly since all
were eminently successful in their own fields, and yet operated in
so many different and diverse ways. It taught me that there is no
one way to operate a business successfully.

From W.P.B. I went into the Navy, where I served as an officer
for four years. In the spring of 1946 I was released from active
duty, and returned to civilian life and to industry, One of the
Dollar-a-Year men with whom I had worked in the W.P.B. invited
me into his business consulting firm in New York City. Department
stores throughout the country and Mexico subscribed to our services,
which provided advertising, merchandising promotions, store lay-

[ 1100 ]

2§5TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

outs, aid to lagging departments and consumer surveys. T covered
stores in the south and Mexico,

The work was interesting, but the constant traveling wasn't. |
enjoyed New York, the theatres, foreign places, and its gaicty in
general, but I was away so much I saw too little of it. Besides, al-
though as a bachelor I enjoyed the traveling at first, after a while it
became monotonous, and being constantly on the move ts certainly
no way to settle down and establish roots. Early in 1947, I decided
to return to Boston. I now have my own firm — manufacturers’
representative — and I find the home territory far more desirable
than the constant traveling I had done.

Besides being my home territory, Boston had a more persuasive
and magnetic attraction for me in the person of Eleanor, a classmate
of my sister-in-law at Radcliffe, who had just returned from over-
seas, where she had worked with UNRRA in recruiting Furepean
personnel. In the fall we were married. And now, with our three
children, we live a quiet suburban life, taking part in local activities
such as P.T.A., Cub Scouts and charitable drives.

Although in my earlier years I participated in many sports, as
the middle years began to creep up on me I began to give up more
“strenuous” sports like squash, horseback riding, skiing, and to
substitute less “strenuous” ones such as golf and basking in the sun,
Paradoxically, as my children have been growing up, I find mysclf
once again taking part in “strenuous” sports with them — baseball,
tennis, ice skating and family skiing week ends in New Hampshire.
As we get older in years, we get younger in spirit and outlook. We
tend to relive our youth not only through but with our children.

My relaxation hobbies are graphology, oil painting, and piano,
Though I just recently began taking piano lessons in popular music,
and still can’t do much with it, I can really relax just pounding at
the keys. Sometimes I get w rapped up in my children’s hobbies
which are philatelism, numismatics, and clectric train. Another
hobby of mine, though I shouldn’t call it relaxing, has been playing
the stock market. I began buying stocks in Harvard Square w hile
at college. This fascination has stayed with me, and atforded me
lots of fun.

Working on the Twenty-fifth has been a real pleasure, partie u-
larly in contacting long lost classmates and renew ing old: friend-
ships. My family and Tare looking forward with heen anty bpatien
to the Reunion itself.

{ stor |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

HERBERT KINGMAN RAFF

 

HOME abpress: 151 EF. 8oth St., New York, N.Y.

OFFICE appREsS: Brown, Harris, Stevens, Inc., 14 E. 47th St., New York, N.Y,

BorN: April 9, 1g1t, Amityville, Long Island, N.Y. parents: Edson Raff, Mary
Edna Abell.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931~1933.

MarrigD: Barbara Stewart Franks, June 16, 1951, New York, N.Y. cHILpRen:
Peter Kingman, June 13, 1952; Nancy Walker, May 19, 1954; Mary
Brewster, Dec. 12, 1956. _

occupaTion: Vice-president in charge of commercial management, Brown,
Harris, Stevens, Inc., real estate business.

OFFICES HELD: Officer of The “Institute,” 1956; governor, Association of Ex-
Members of Squadron A.

MEMBER OF: Broker “C” Member, Real Estate Board of New York; National
Panel of Arbitrators; American Arbitration Association; Racquet & Tennis
Club of New York; Harvard Club of New York; Fly Club of New York;
Association of Ex-Members of Squadron A; Peter Minuit Post No. 1247,
Real Estate Post of American Legion; Real Estate War Veterans Associa-
tion; The “Institute.”

IN June of 1933, I left Harvard College. Because of the Depression
I thought I had better hustle around and get a job, which I managed
to do in a now-defunct stock brokerage house on Wall Street. Po-
litically, I became a rabid Democrat that year, when the NRA came
into being and my weekly salary was doubled.

In 1934, I was offered a job in the real estate company, then
known as Brown, Wheelock, Harris, Stevens, Inc., and since that
was no more depressed than the stock market, I decided to grab the
chance. Bob Borden, a classmate, and I decided to live the good life
and rented an apartment in Greenwich Village. Nothing particu-
larly good came of that, but we did decide to join New York's
Squadron A and overnight became horse cavalrymen. As a fighting

[ 1102 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

force, the Squadron was probably equal to the Monacan house-
guards, but as an organization, it turned out to be one of the finest.
After four years’ experience with the Army when the Japanese
attacked us, I joined the Navy under the guidance of another class-
mate, Lee Loomis, who guided my bewildered steps to the Navy's
then starting A.V.S. program, My naval training, though not as
rapid as that in the Squadron, I trust was more effective. After
some months as a cadet training officer in Pensacola and as Adimiral’s
Aide on the West Coast, I was attached to the USS Yorktown and
remained on her until the end of 1944 when I became operations
officer for the Naval Air Bases, Quonset Point, Rhode Island.
In 1946, I rejoined Brown, Harris, Stevens, Inc., and have been
diligently following commercial leasing since that time. In 1959,
I realized, to my surprise, that I had been with the company for
twenty-five years and instead of being one of the young junior
executives, | have become an old junior executive which, however,
T have decided has certain compensations.

In 1951, I married a lovely young girl (who didn’t know any
better) and we have lived happily thereafter in an apartment on
Lexington Avenue and 8oth Street, in New York City. The result-
ing progeny, Peter, Nancy and Mary, while still so young, seem to
grow older with each passing day as their ‘‘old man” scems to grow
younger.

In 1957, after several years of summer rentals, we acquired a
house in Dorset, Vermont, called “The Little Red.” by the kids.
As it served as a model for “Tobacco Road,” we have spent mest
of our time and money repairing it; and, may I add, of all the

places that I have known in New England, I have yet ta find a place
more peaceful and beautiful than the Dorset Valley.

[ 1103 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ROGER GLADE RAND

 

HoME apparss: 1200 Garficld Rd., E., Aurora, Ohio.
orrice appress: Roger G, Rand, Manufacturers’ Representative, P.O. Box 102,

Aurora, Ohio.
norN: Nove 1g, 1913, Warertown, Mass, parents: Roger Glade Rand,

Mabelle Laura Furber.
Parparto at: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1991-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.
stannieo: Muriel Henley Foster, April 30, 1938, Hingham, Mass. cHILoreN:
Marcia Foster, March at, 1939 (a. John Edgar Larabee, June 14, 1959),

Judith Furber, March 18, 1943.
OCCUPATION: Sporting goods manufacturers’ representative.

offices Ueto: Vice-president, 1957-58, treasurer, 1959-60, Aurora Country

Club,
Mestuer oF: National Sporting Goods Association; Aurora Men's Club.
AFTER spending my college years try ing to acquire some basic
knowledge to become a ecologist, I now find myself selling sport-
ing gouds equipment as a manufacturers’ representative. “Out of
necessity, after graduation [ took the first job available, which turned
out to be sclling fuel contracts rather than prospecting for gold. Ex-
cept for the period during World War IT, when I set up production
schedules for rubberized life saving equipment at Hodgman Rubber
Company in Framingham, Massachusetts, I have been trying to
make an “honest buck” in sales.

Aly connection with Hodgman Rubber Company led to my pres-
ent Occupation as a manufacturers’ representative. Selling items like
waders for fishing, parkas for duck hunting, air mattresses for camp-
ing, or sideline capes for football is a most enjoyable way of living,
as | have always held a keen interest for sports.

For recreation I have kept up my diversion on the golf course.
However, competition within my family is making me consider

[ 1104 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

retirement from the game. My elder daughter, Marcia, was co-cap-
tain of the Framingham High School Boys’ Golf Team, winning
rwelve out of the thirteen individual matches during her senior year.
In the thirteenth match she finished all even with her opponent. The
biggest thrill of my lifetime came this summer when my sixteen-
year-old daughter, Judy, became the U.S. Golf Association National
Junior Girls’ “Champion at Manor Country Club in suburban Wash-
ington, D.C. Asa result of this she was first on the distaff side to
be named as Golfer of the Year in the Cleveland district.

After living within twenty-five miles of Harvard Square all our
lives, during the summer of 1956 the Rand caravan pulled up its
roots and settled in Ohio. The picturesque village of Aurora, located
about twenty-five miles southeast of Cleveland, seemed to provide
a New England atmosphere for us. We found a remodeled Western
Reserve homestead with several acres to keep us busy weekends
and summer evenings, pruning fruit trees and cutting grass. Un-
fortunately, we also discovered that northern Ohio winters could
be as severe and uncomfortable as those in New England. We are
now in the thinking stage of locating in a warmer climate at least
for the winter months.

June, 1960, will be hectic for the Rand family. Since I graduated
in my dad’s Twenty-fifth Anniversary Reunion year, one of my
ambitions was to have a son graduate in my ‘I’wenty-fifth. I tried
in this respect, but Mother Nature failed to cooperate. As a result
I shall be the proud dad at my elder daughter’s graduation from
Ohio Wesleyan University this coming June. My younger daughter
graduates from high school, and one of my firms is holding its
biennial sales meeting the week before our Reunion at Harwich-
port on the Cape. By a wonderful coincidence, none of these dates
conflict — so I am looking forward to the next milepost on our way

of life.

[ 1105 ]

——__|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

PAUL ISAAC RANDOLPH

 

HOME appress: §4 Eaton Rd. Needham 92, Mass.

orrice appress: Randolph & Baldwin, Waltham, Mass.

porn: June 16, 1910, Brighton, Mass. paRENtTS: John Isaac, Elizabeth Laurila.
TRANSFERRED FROM: University of Alabama, University, Ala.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.

OCCUPATION: Business.

NO questionnaire returned.

RICHARD LOUIS RAPPORT

 

AppREss: 2306 Miller Rd., Flint, Mich.

Bor: April 10, 1915, Connellsville, Pa. PARENTS: James Rapport, Lillian Rosen-
blum.

PREPARED AT: Culver Military Academy, Culver, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933. DEGREES: $B. (Univ. of Michigan), 1937; Mo.
(Wayne Univ.), 1941.

{ 1106 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marriepD: Dorothy Bearman, 1942, Sioux Falls, S. Dak. cHitprEN: Richard, 2d,
March 21, 1943; Patricia, April 3 30, 1944; Peggy Jo, Oct. 8, 1950.
occuPaTION: Surgeon.

NO questionnaire returned.

THOMAS GIDEON RATCLIFFE, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 160 E. 55th St., New York 22, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Queens College, Flushing 67, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 13, 1913, St. Louis, Mo. PARENts: Thomas Gideon Ratcliffe, Kate
Flateau.

PREPARED AT: John Burroughs School, Clayton, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

UNMARRIED.

occupaTION: Play and talent scout, producer-director, lecturer, Queens Col-
lege.

OFFICES HELD: Adviser on drama, Protestant Council of Greater New York,
1946-47; member of board, Equity Library Theatre, 1950-53; president,
Stock Managers’ Association (theatre), 1950-53.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York; National Council of Teachers of
English; Modern Language Association, Actors’ Equity Association
(honorary withdrawal); American Educational Theatre Association;
American Association of University Professors.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on theatre in Encyclopedia Americana, Collier's Enuey-
clopedia, Oxford Companion to the Theatre, ll Spectacollo, shore story,
Coronet, 1938.

TWENTY-FIVE years after graduation finds me back at college
again working for a Master’s degree at New York University. The
irony of it all is that in my senior year in college I rejected all
thoughts of teaching as a career. Now, after six years as a lecturer
in English at Queens College, specializing in drama and play rit-
ing, I find this occupation the most exciting and satisfying work

[ 1107 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

] have ever done. My original goal was theatre; this I achieved in
the first two decades since graduation. After a brief session with
Old Vic in London, J returned to New York where I -was play and
talent scout and play editor for MGM (eight years) and Columbia
Pictures (two years). There were the usual four years in service
after the seven years with MGM. The postwar slump in the picture
business led to my opening the Sea Cliff Summer Theatre in 1948 —
as a summer job which rapidly turned into a full-time job. Mean-
while, John Gassner inveigled me into taking over his beginning
playwriting classes at the New School and helping him with his
seminar at Columbia University. ‘The theatre burned to the ground
in December, 1956, and, not being a Phoenix, has not risen from its
ashes, That fall, John Gassner, having also taught for two years
at Queens College, moved on to teaching playwriting at Yale, and
arranged for me to take over his classes at Queens. I am still there.
Of course, I miss producing, directing, and acting in my own
theatre. But every teacher should be something of an actor, and
every lecture should be something of a production. Now that I
am trying to be academic, I am also trying to win an academic
label.

Returning as a student to listen to lectures and to take exams at
the same time I am lecturing and giving examinations myself was
at first a bit disconcerting. Now, the split personality is adjusting
itself nicely. My one regret: I should have started teaching earlier.
My one lesson: you never can be truly certain what you will do
with your life.

LEONARD RAUM

 

HOME appress: Dorchester House, 2480 16th St. N.W., Washington 9, D.C.
oFFice. appkess: Commonwealth Bldg., 1625 K St. N.W,, Washington 6, D.C.

[ 1108 |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Born: April 6, 1914, Lynn, Mass. parents: Isaac Raum, Ida Ross.
PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933. DEGREE: A.B. (Columbia Univ.), to42.
UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Arnold Raum, ’29, LL.B. 732.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; partner, Wenchel, Schulman & Manning.

OFFICES HELD: Office of Chief Counsel, Internal Revenue Service, 1942-55.

MEMBER OF: Tax Executives Institute, Inc. (honorary member).

PUBLICATIONS: Contributor to: Harvard Law Review, Coltenbia Law Review.
Montgomery’s Federal Taxes (36th edition), Proceedings of New York
University Institute on Federal Taxation, Proceedings of Tulane Tax
Institute, Practical Aspects of Federal Taxation (Federal Bar Association),
University of Kansas City Law Review, Proceedings of American Univer-
sity Tax Institute.

LECTURER on taxation: Tax Executives Institute, Inc.; Ameri-
can Institute of Certified Public Accountants; Midcontinent Oil
& Gas Association; Federal Bar Association; Chicago Tax Club, New
York University Institute on Federal Taxation, Tulane Tax Insti-
tute; Pennsylvania Tax Institute on Estate Planning; American
University Institute on Federal Taxation, Pennsylvania State College
Institute on Taxation; Tax conferences sponsored by University of
Michigan, University of Kansas, Marquette University, Syractse
University, University of Dayton, University of Denver, University
of North Carolina and Duke University in conjunction with the
respective Bar Associations and Accounting Societies; Union League
Tax Group, Philadelphia; Tax Study Group, New York University;
various CPA State Societies; National Association of Cost Ac-
countants, Syracuse Chapter, Baltimore Chapter.

WILLIAM ALFRED REARDON

 

HOME appress: 56 Badger Circle, Mlilron 86, Mass,

[ 110g |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935
OFFICE appress: 15 Congress St., Boston 9, Mass.

BORN: July 30, 1914, Boston, Mass, parents: Alfred Arthur Reardon, Isabel

E. Hassan.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B, 1935.
marriep: Helen M. Hussev, Jan. 9, 1943, Washington, D.C. cHitpren: Susan

Virginia, Jan. 23, 1948; Helen Cynthia, June 6, 1949.
HARVARD BROTHER: Warren Joseph Reardon, ’34.

occuPaTION: Certified public accountant.
oFFicrs HELD: Auditor, Massachusetts Society of Certified Public Accountants,

1955-56.
MEMBER OF: American Institute of Certified Public Accountants; Massachu-

setts Society of Certified Public Accountants; various local social and

cultural clubs.
PuBLicaTions: Articles on accounting and tax matters in professional journals.

] HAVE spent my business life in the public accounting, income
tax, management service and related fields, except for the first two
years after graduation spent as a salesman, From January, 1942, to
June, 1946, I served as a commissioned officer in the Army.

We have enjoyed most of our summers at Truro on Cape Cod,
acquiring good suntans and catching very few fish. My principal
hobbies are those which get us out in the sun and fresh air. Although
keeping up with the fast pace of change in the federal and state
tax field is a constant indoor sport, it’s a fascinating game, trying
to find new loopholes as fast as they close up the old ones.

My social, political and religious convictions remain unchanged
from my college days.

JOHN JAMES JOSEPH REDDY

   

HOME appress: 428 Wilder, Helena, Mont.

[ 1110 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
OFFICE ADDRESS: % US. Immigration & Naturalization Service, Post Otfice
Bldg., Helena, Mont.

BORN: Sept. 9, 1913, Amesbury, Mass. parents: Anthony William Reddy, ta,
’g2, Sarah Louise Bradley.

PREPARED AT: Amesbury High School, Amesbury, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

marrieD: Ora Loiselle, June to, 1933, Exeter, N.H. cuivores: Alice Ann, May
18, 1934 (#2. William Harvey, Oct. 26, 1957); John James Joseph, Jr,
May 20, 1953. GRANDCHILD: Michael Scott Harvey, Aug. 3, 1954.

occUPATION: Deputy district director, U.S. Immigration & Naturalization
Service.

MEMBER OF: Helena Chess Club; Helena Badminton Club; Federal Business
Association.

AFTER leaving Harvard at the end of my freshman year because
of financial inability to continue, I was lucky enough to obtain a
job in a hat factory at a wage of $17.20 per weck. During the next
few years I held a variety of jobs including one with the WPA at
$12.00 per week. Also included were jobs as automobile salesman,
employment office interviewer and detective. In 1939 I went to
Washington, D.C., for employment with the Census Bureau. Two
years later I transferred into the U.S. Border Patrol, a division of
the Immigration & Naturalization Service. From iggt to 1957 |
held various positions with INS at Monroe, Flint and Detroit, Michi-
ean. In 1957 I transferred to Helena, Montana, as deputy district
director. This entails assisting the district director in overall super-
vision of all immigration and naturalization offices in Idaho and
Montana.

I never knew before what I was missing; the country out here s
gorgeous. The Continental Divide is only fiftecn miles aw av, and
both Yellowstone Park and Glacier Park are only four hours’ drive
from here, Shortly after arriving here I took up trout fishing again,
after a lapse of twenty-five years. Every fish I've caught here was
bigger than any fish I ever caught in Massachusetts. Peery thing
isn't ideal, though; the winters are long and cold (-56° the year
before I came out here, and -29° last year). But [still love it.

My hobbies, besides fishing, are tennis, badminton and che. |
only wish I had more time to devote to them. Labor would bhe a
thirty-hour week; I'd like a thirty-hour day.

[conn]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

FRANKLIN AUGUSTUS REECE, JR.

 

HOME appRESS: 312 Fairmount Ave., Milton 86, Mass,

oFFice appress: Reece Corp., Waltham, Mass.

BORN: March 23, 1913, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Franklin Augustus Reece, ’og,
Maria Teresa Brooks,

PREPARED aT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

Marriep: Elizabeth Barnett Eshleman, Oct. 12, 1936, Milton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Elizabeth Barnett, Nov. 4, 1938; Maria Teresa, Oct. 14, 1939; Franklin
Augustus, Aug. 24, 1946, Edward Shearon, April 19, 1948; Mary Eshleman,
Oct. 6, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Brooks Reece, ’41.

occupation: Vice-president and foreign sales manager, Reece Corporation,
machine manufacturers.

orrices HELD: Chairman, Industrial Division, 1948, various jobs, various years,
Red Feather Campaign; trustee, Noble and Greenough School, 1956-58,
Wentworth Institute, since 1958; member, General Board, since 1958,
Finance Committee, since 1959, Y.M.C.A., Boston; president, 1958, director,
since 1958, Waltham Chamber of Commerce.

MEMBER OF: Milton-Hoosic Club; Kittansett Club; Ow] Club; Varsity Club.

TWENTY-FIVE years gone and a report due! Can Time be con-
stant? Somehow this period looks shorter in retrospect than it did
in prospect. Do my accomplishments live up to my expectations of
so long ago? Tough questions for one who can claim neither publi-
cations nor citations, neither discoveries nor inventions.

My life is unspectacular, being divided in normal proportions
between job and family, both of which I find totally absorbing. It
turns out that I married a girl who is both gentle and kindly, likes
doing the same sort of thing I like, and is a competent cook and de-
voted mother, This couldn’t have been just blind luck. Or could it?

As to our family, our prewar girls have put their teens behind
them just as Franklin and Ned start knocking at that door, and

[ r112 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

eventually Polly (Radcliffe 75?) will get there too. Excellent or-
ganization from one point of view—no more than two sets of
college bills at a time. Betsy is becoming a working girl deter-
minedly and with good grace, if not unbounded enthusiasm, having
followed Bradford Junior College with a winter of postgraduate
study at the University of Florence. Terry, now taking her junior
year at Geneva, hopes to return to graduate from Sweet Briar in
‘61. It’s still too early to hope the boys will make Harvard. If
they do, it will have to be without help from their father who is
not much use in an age when eighth-graders, instead of doing arith-
metic, delve into the theory of numbers.

In such a sprawling family, ‘community of interest is not always
present, so it sometimes is quite a problem to decide where to go
for vacations, or find activities we can all join in together, This
was largely solved by going in on a ski lodge with one T. Gannett
and family. As they are seven in number too, lodge is not an ill-
advised word to describe that hideaway from nuclear fall-out,

A majority of my waking hours are spent working at the Reece
Corporation in Waltham, an outfit founded by my grandfather i in
1881, and energetically bossed by my father (Harvard ’og). Brother
John (Harvard ’41) and I are veeps. Such rampant nepotism is
likely to give the false impression that this is a cozy proprietorship,
but since the stockholders don’t seem to mind why should we? It's
a gamble to work with and for one’s relatives, but it’s fun when it
works as seems to be the case in this instance.

We specialize in intricate single purpose sewing machines for
industry, designing, manufacturing and marketing them here and
abroad. They are a never-ending source of fascination to the me-
chanically- -inclined, and could be the basis for the popular notion
that sewing machine mechanics, if not born that w ay, soon go off
their rockers, Having a large export business, my job prov ides the
romance of foreign travel, and I find that my association with our
many friends abroad has at least jarred the foundations of my New
England provincialism.

That’s about it, except Uncle Sam had held an option on my ome
from Harvard NROTC days. He exercised it for the duration
which turned out to be five years, and he tacked on a vear at the
Naval Hospital, Sampson, New York, located at the w av far ond of
Endsville, for good measure. T served on the USS Hatfield (11D 230).
Anderson (DD 411) and Lewis (DF. §35). Duty on Anderson was
the Navy at its best, She was a “hot” ship with a veteran well-

[ reg]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

trained crew in mid-1941, and even when I was detached some two
and one-half years later, and in spite of my having been “‘exec” for
nearly a year, she was still a good ship because her CPO’s and
other petty officers had been among her original plank-owners and
took fierce pride in her proficiency. We drew varied duty, princi-
pally carrier screening and close fire support missions for the rst
and 2nd Marines. We steamed a good many miles from Reykjavik
to Port Moresby, from Attu to Tongatabu. Leaving Anderson was
almost like leaving home. When I returned to the Pacific some
eight months later, in September, 1944, the big new navy -was really
starting to roll. But the intimacy of the earlier days was missing,
and despite having a nice new command of my own, the spirit of
adventure had disappeared too, at least it had for me.

All in all we've lived a rather quiet existence, our life revolving

around our family and a few old shoe friends. But that’s not to say
we don’t enjoy an occasional foray into giddier circles now and
then. I get in some golf, a bit more now that the boys are playing;
I ski in a rather gingerly manner, without form, and do the usual
tinker’s jobs that most professional artisans disdain today. My so-
called shop in the cellar is a retreat when Bettina needs help in her
garden and it’s a nice place to reflect on the state of the world and
the reasons for our being. No matter what direction my initial
thoughts may take, I usually return to wondering why we try, again
and again and again, social experiments that have failed again and
again and again because they fly in the face of the nature of men. I
wonder why millions of Americans, whose national policy for more
than fifty years has been to destroy concentrations of power, seem
to feel that monopolies controlling the job opportunities in whole
industries are beneficent and lead to greater, not less security, I
wonder why Slichters, Harrises, Galbraiths, et al., espouse eco-
nomic doctrines from which their own professions, and the very
institutions they serve, will suffer most. I wonder why conserve
is such a dirty word politically and economically, when it has virtue
in every other sense, I wonder, but I don’t find many answers.

L1rig]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALLEN BEVINS REED, JR.

 

HOME ApprEss: 1417 Tally Ho Rd., Meadowbrook, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Officer in Charge, Navy Regional Accounts Office, tyog N.
Broad St., Philadelphia, Pa.

BORN: June 11, 1912, Mare Island, Calif. parents: Allen Bevins Reed, Besse
Moorhead.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, RI.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932. DEGREES: s.B. (U.S. Naval Academy), 1936; a.ss.
(Roosevelt Univ.), 1959.

Marriep: Helen White, Jan. 6, 1943, New Orleans, La. cuipres: Allen Bevins
3d, Jan. 15, 1944; Boyd M., Jan. 23, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Captain, U.S. Navy.

MEMBER OF: Army-Navy Country Club, Arlington, Va.

AFTER completing the freshman year at Harvard, | entered the
Naval Academy. There I was on the Navy soccer and tennis teams.
(I recall that our Harvard freshman soccer team beat the Harvard
varsity team and there were write-ups in the Boston newspapers.)
Since graduation from the Naval Academy in 1936, I have had many
interesting and varied duties at sea and shore duties in foreign coun-
tries and in the United States. There’s never been a dull moment.
Life in the Navy has involved many moves and finding housing
in Philadelphia, New Orleans, Boston, Washington, Newport and
Great Lakes, Illinois, to mention a few of my duty stations in the
States. During the war as supply officer, T commissioned the USS
Miami, the first cruiser built at Cramp's Shipbuilding Company,
Philadelphia, and participated in the Mariana Islands eperanensy
Western Caroline Islands operations, Leyte landings and the Okt
nawa campaign,
I have been to the Boston area only a couple of uines unce fresh-
man year at Cambridge — while exccutive of the Supply Corps
School at the Harvard Business School at the cnd of the war (ap>

[tits ]

pais anrenee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

proximately 15,000 students completed various courses : there during
the war) and while a student at the Naval War College, Newport,
1950-51. Two of my best duties were when I was supply officer of
the Naval Base, Yokosuka, Japan, at the end of the occupation, from
1948 to 1950, and in Honolulu from 1954 to 1957, on the staff of
the commander-in-chief of the Pacific Fleet. Last June, while on
duty at Great Lakes, Illinois, on the staff of the commander of the
gth Naval District, I received a Master’s degree in education from
Roosevelt University in Chicago, by taking night courses. It was
good to get it over with as it was a rough schedule.

My w “fe Helen is interested in painting and has painted and
exhibited water-color and oil paintings at our various duty stations.
The two of us have left divots on many a golf course. Arrived back
in Philadelphia last summer and we bought a house in suburban
Meadowbrook. I hope to retire and settle down here as we like it
and also think we have moved around enough — at least until we
can get two teen-age boys through college. In spite of desire to
settle down in one place, the wanderlust bug bit again and the
four of us spent two weeks, at Christmas, traveling in Europe.

LAWRENCE LOWELL REEVE

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADpRESS: Manchester, Mass.

porn: April 5, 1912, Haverford, Pa, parents: Joseph Stanley Reeve, Katherine
Lowell Roosevelt.

prepareD AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: a.B., 1935(36); B.aRcH. (Massachusetts
Inst. of Technology), 1941.

marriepD: Eleanor Swift, May 13, 1938, Boston, Mass. cHILpREN: Cassandra
Swift, June 17, 1941; Corinna Roosevelt, July 23, 1943; Cintra Lowell, May
4, 19465 Abbott Lawrence, Jan. 24, 1949, Lowell S., March 23, 1951; Vic-
toria R., May 13, 1954; Joseph Stanley, 3d, Nov, 22, 1958.

[ 1116 |

2 5TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
occupation: Architect.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman of board, vice-president and treasurer, Seamloc Carper
Company, Sanford, Maine, president, The Stenton Trust (industrial real
estate); chairman, Manchester Industrial Development Board.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects; Manchester Vache Club (for-
merly commodore); Somerset Club.

NINETEEN THIRTY-FIVE is but this morning. The interven-
ing space between the years of then and now oftentimes ts blurred
by its very fullness.

When Harvard Architectural School and I severed our connec-
tions in 1936, there was great rejoicing amongst the new directors
of Robinson, swollen in their new-found power, and so avid to
keep their imported idols polished.

The second half of the thirties found us working in architects’
offices with too few commissions, in a brokerage firm, getting mar-
ried and then going to M.I.T. in 1939, to return to architecture.

By 1940 it became obvious that with some skill and sufficient
diligence our country could get itself involved in the war. These
efforts proved successful and yours truly fell into aeronautical en-
gineering at M.1.T., followed by a stint in the Navy.

Since the war we have pursued the profession of architecture .. .
sometimes with futility. Fame we have acquired for owning the
first Volkswagen to come to the United States, and for being one
of the first Volkswagen dealers. I never liked the city and because
of this, I have contrived to operate my conglomeration of affairs
from Manchester. This has been a most happy solution as it allows
me to squander much time on my children, my paintings, my lawn,
my rhododendrons and yews. We sail and race, we swim, we shi,
and always as a family.

“The world is too much with us” and our country has become
so Common-man conscious and so degenerate in its tastes that much
of my time is spent, perhaps unconsciously, in trying to insall in
my children a feeling for beauty, an awareness of the world around

. be it only bugs... and a self-reliance. The years have
been very full and very kind, I have just one w ish — please can

the days be made a litrle longer .. . perhaps seventy-two hours
each.

[att |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

CHARLES ISAIAH REMBAR

 

HOME appRESs: 190 Inwood Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y.

orrice appress: Rembar, Zolotar & Leavy, 521 Fifth Ave., New York 17, N.Y.

porN: March 12, 1915, Oceanport, N.J. PaRENTs: Louis Shapiro, Rebecca
Schneider.

preparED AT: Long Branch High School, Long Branch, N.].

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932, 1934-1935. DEGREES: A.B., Cu?” laude, 19353 LL.B. -
(Columbia Univ.), 1938.

marRiED: Billie Ann Olsson, Jan. 23, 1944, New York, N.Y. cHi_pren: Lance,
Jan. 26, 1945; James, May 8, 1949.

occupation: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: “Claims against Affiliated Companies in Reorganization,” Colum-
bia Law Review, June, 1939; “The Practice of Taxes,” Columbia Law
Review, March, 1954, and Journal of Accountancy, May, 1954.

AFTER college, Columbia Law School, attorney in prewar govern-
ment agencies, and the Air Force. For the past thirteen years in
law practice in New York. Pretty varied, from corporate and se-
curities work to publishing, motion pictures and the theatre. Most
recently engaged in the defense of Lady Chatterley,

{1118 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN GALE REYNOLDS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 60 Broadway, Hanover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Copyrite, 141 Milk St., Boston 9, Mass.

BoRN: June 14, 1912, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Frank James Reynolds, ‘og, Helen
Frances Parmenter.

PREPARED AT: Swavely School, Manassas, Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934.
marRIED: Dorothea P, Krake, May 5, 1947. CHILDREN: Patricia, Sept. 16, to48;
John Gale, Jr., March 23, 1951; Christina M., Aug. 20, 1952; Henry RK.

Sept. 29, 1955.
occupation: Advertising; free-lance writer.
MEMBER OF: Advertising Club of Boston; National Industrial Advertisers Asso-

ciation.

IT must have been after reading Gone With the Wind that | adopted
a Scarlett O’Hara-like philosophy of not looking back over my
shoulder. Suffice it to say, this precludes one’s mistakes — a pro-
cedure that is senseless anyway — for history records that neither
man nor nations have profited by the past. Thus, I have ducked
writing a squib for the Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report — but
those weekly post cards have become insistent.
- The thirties were indeed threadbare when I left the Halls of Elar-
vard behind me. At the time I had a yen to be a journalist. Hopes for
such a career were soon blighted, however, in that the newspapers
wouldn’t hire one “for no” as there were competent reporters on-
the-streets seeking employment. So the next couple of years were
devoted to batting around —seaman on an oil tanker, pumping
gas, detail man for a beverage and then tobacco manufacturer.
Came a spot in a Boston advertising ageney where [had an op
portunity to write copy, handle production and) contact chents
as an account executive, Early in Igo, On the advice of a former
prep school room-mate (an officer in the Regular Navy), Emade a

[ stig]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

stab at joining the V-12 program put found I was a year over age,
But a glib commander talked me into joining V-6 as a seaman first
class — and not too many months later the Navy had another hand-
cuffed volunteer.

December 7th, 1941, found me attached to the USS Arcturus,
laying anti-submarine nets in Argentia, Newfoundland . . . and
with several months of sea duty already behind me. With war
officially underway, the Arcturus was designed AKA-1, proud
member of the Amphibious Forces, The next thirty months were
busy ones — with landings in North Africa, Sicily, Salerno and on up
the coast of Italy. A CPO by this time, felt I deserved shore duty.
The Navy agreed I needed a change and assigned me to another
amphib, the USS Chara, Pacific bound. So again a series of landings
—starting with the Philippines and ending at Okinawa. Had we
made a thrust at Japan would have been there too, for I had the
Operation Orders snug in my safe when President Truman decided
to drop the Bomb — and end the mess.

In retrospect, can’t kick about the war. Saw a lot of the world,
rubbed elbows with all kinds of people, and in a sense enriched my
life. The Navy was kind too — for seven months before war’s end
made the promotion list with its reward of a thin gold stripe to re-
place my salt-encrusted crow.

Out of the service and into sales in 1946 with Brown Company,
Berlin, New Hampshire, pulp, paper, bituminized fibre pipe manu-
facturer. The next six and one-half years found me pounding the
roads of New England, enjoying work I wouldn’t have dreamed
of even doing when I left Cambridge. Again, a new set of acquaint-
ances, a few friends — and a whole new world of experiences.

Highlight of the years since the war was marriage — and marriage
led to four offspring. Still just sprouts, there are times I would
favor a Congressional Act prohibiting parents having children after
their thirtieth birthday, But then, my good wife and I are so busy
with Cub Scouts and Blue Birds — Little League and dentists —
broken legs and parades — we have little time to complain about
the aches and pains normally associated with middle age.

June, 1952, saw me become Brown’s advertising manager. For
seven straight years was never without a marketing plan that
shouldn’t have been put into effect yesterday. While there may have
been a dearth of grey flannel suits in my wardrobe, there were
sales meetings, conventions, deadlines, manhattans (don’t like mar-
tinis), direct mail, field trips, product testing — and inter-company

[ 1120]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

conferences by the score. It was all wonderful, exciting, satisf ving,
stimulating —~and exhausting.

So in June, 1959, I took a look — not over my shoulder — but at
the future. Decided I had become a “dependable number” in a
relatively large corporation — in danger of becoming nured in the

roverbial rut. Thus, my resignation and struck out on my own,
offering (advertisement) free-lance creative and copy service to
agencies and advertisers (end of advertisement). The future —
wouldn’ t even attempt to guess. At the moment am much too busy
trying to juggle ideas and words to suit the client — yet still fultill
the basic objective of moving merchandise to the consumer,

Breaking my rule — and looking backward for a second — I real-
ize that a quarter of a century has wrought many economic and
social changes. That “‘the- -world-is-going-to-hell-in-a-hack” is popu-
lar sentiment. Patriotism is dead, children are monsters — crime or
Russia will take over — all are standard pronouncements. Yet haven't
we always been faced with kindred problems? And will not such
problems exist a quarter of a century hence? Somehow, while f do
not believe I am an incurable optimist, and though the war year
have long since faded from memory, I do recall that when the
chips were down, men born in freedom came through. Tecan sell
remember a Navy cook — a mere youngster — rew inding a an arma-
ture under the shaded beam of a flashlight — w hile the Luftwatfe
zoomed overhead. His background — w ork in an electrician’s shop
afternoons while in high school. Pm going to continue to believe
America is made up of millions of Navy cooks — and that its future
is bright.

ROBERT CRAIG RIAL

 

HOME appkess: 440 Olympia Road, Pisbargh i, Pa.

[care]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

OFFICE ADpREsS: Pittsburgh Garter Co., 131-133 Fort Pitt Blvd., Pittsburgh, Pa,

BORN: July 27, 1913, Heilwood, Pa. Parents: David Weimar Rial, Jane
Craig.

paepanep ar Wilkinsburg High School, Wilkinsburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932. DEGREE: A.B. (Univ. of Pittsburgh), 1935.

MarrieD: Marian Sankey, June 21, 1941, Pittsburgh, Pa. cHILDREN: Robert
Sankey, June 15, 1942; Judith Ann, Dec. 14, 1947.

occupation: Assistant secretary and treasurer, salesman, Pittsburgh Garter
Company, manufacturers of men’s leather belts, wallets, and travel kits,

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, superintendent of Sunday School, Haven Heights Metho-
dist Church; former president, Chatham Village Club.

MEMBER OF: Alumni Association of Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

IT is somewhat embarrassing to recount the past years since attend-
ing Harvard College, as one of the outstanding years of my life
was spent at Matthews Hall in the Yard. Financial difficulties pre-
vented me from continuing studies toward a degree and forced me
to transfer to the University of Pittsburgh. After graduation, I
joined the Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York and
worked as a salesman with reasonable success until the war years
forced me to enter the metallurgical laboratory of the United States
Steel Company as a chemist. Later, in 1944, 1 went to work for
Rust Engineering Company and had charge of their office and field
payroll until 1945, when I was asked to join my present firm and
went on the road selling to retail stores and department stores the
roducts sold in men’s furnishing divisions.

My wife and I are proud parents of average children, Our son
plans to enter college in the fall of 1960. At present, he is undecided
as to the school he wishes to attend. However, he feels very strongly
he would like to attend a small co-ed college where he can be iden-
tified, rather than a large institution.

It is a rare privilege to see and talk with former classmates.
Occasionally Roger Rand, my roommate at Harvard, drops in and
we of course talk over old times. Vernon Gaggin and I used to see
each other regularly until he moved out of the state. Most of my
activities have been centered around the building of our new church,
which we hope will be opened early in 1960. As superintendent of
the Sunday School, I have the rare privilege of working with people
of all ages and trying to set the example for them,

[ 1122 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAY GOLDMAN RICE

HOME ADDRESS: 240 Blackmer Pl., Webster Groves, Mo.
* oFFICE ADDRESS: Famous-Barr Co., St. Louis, Mo.

porN: May 9g, 1911, St. Louis, Mo. parents: Charles Marcus Rice, May Gold-
man.

PREPARED AT: Los Alamos Ranch School, Orowi, N. Mex.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREE! A.B., 1935.

marrigD: Bonna Lafferty, Jan. 8, 1942. cHitp: Charles Marcus, 2d, June 20,
1946.

OCCUPATION: Retailer — buyer of books,

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Sc. Louis Audubon Society, Missouri
Nature Conservancy.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of St. Louis.

SERVED three and a half years in the U.S. Army in World War If.

HOWARD JEROME RICHARD

REE ERAT merece ora rm ae
g

a

    

HOME ADDRESS: 71 Commonwealth Ave., Chestnut Phill 67, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: New York Life Insurance Co., 75 Federal Se. Boston ¢, Maw.

BorN: Feb, 5, 1914, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Louis William Richard, abel
Beatrice Miller.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-193§. DEGREE: A.B, 193.

MARRIED: Roberta Weisman, Aug. 28, 1997, Boston, Mass. cutnmes: foun
William, June 12, 1948; Myles Jetfrey, Sept. 27, 1gs0; Jul Vietona, Sepe.
19, 1952; Jan Alison, Nov. 4, 1969.

OCCUPATION: Life underwriter, New York Life Insurance Company.

MEMBER OF: Masons, Odd Fellows,

MY business life is very easily described. During the past three
years I have sold some $13,000,000 of life insurance, have ranked
fourth, second and third, respectively, among the 7

[123]

é 9,cn reper exsents-

a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

tives of the New York Life throughout the world in 1956, 1957
and 1958. At the present moment, eleven-twelfths of the wa
through the year 1959, I happen to be once again in second place.
Some people think this is good; it is not. It is bad! The number one

man during each of these years was a young gentleman by the
name of Ben Feldman of East Liv erpool, Ohio. He writes $1 3,000,-
ooo every year. That is good! It gives the rest of us a fairly high
target to shoot at.

] am also preparing a book on how to sell life insurance over the
telephone and over the picture ‘phone for Prentice-Hall. That
sounds good, it is not. It is bad! It is bad because, on the basis of
the amount of work I have done during the past six months, it will
not be finished until the year 2020. That will mark the seventy-fifth
anniversary of the Class of 1935. By that time, you will be too old
to read it; [ shall be to old to enjoy the royalties which might flow
as a result of it. My own personal conviction is that the telephone
will have become obsolete by that time anyway. It’s probably just
a passing fad!

I have just been invited to address the Million Dollar Round
Table of the National Association of Life Underwriters at its Hono-
lulu meeting in May on the subject of selling over the telephone
and over the picture ‘phone. To many a person this is one of the
highest honors the life insurance industry can bestow. Conse-
quently, some people are under the impression that this is good.
It is not; it is bad. It is bad because the only way in which a man
can possibly create a record is by staying on his job, When he
goes far afield in order to expound on his own ability to sell, then
he is no longer doing any selling. He is merely talking. The only
positive method I know of in selling is to ask people to buy, to do
it consistently and to do it sincerely and faithfully. Just as we learn
in geometry, a straight line is the shortest distance between two
points, so in selling the shortest distance is by constant application
of one’s energies in the job he is attempting to perform. If more
people were concerned with the economy of time rather than the
economy of money, how much more successful each of us would
be because we would all be more productive.

All this, of course, is purely incidental because it merely leads
to something far more important, The only real permanent satisfac-
tion in life comes from the achievements of children. The successes,
such as they be, in the business field merely provide the means of
supplying the tangible and material advantages to those children.

[ 1124]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

If they are happy, healthy youngsters, with a strong sense of the
difference between right and wrong and with talents in several
different directions, then no parent can ask a greater reward from
life. Our four children, Rusty, Dusty, Jill and Jan, are just the
type of children one would requisition from Heaven if he had
the privilege of putting in an order in advance. And with this
type of material to work with it is relatively easy to assume both
the responsibilities and the advantages of parenthood. The pleas-
ures of life are ephemeral and quickly forgotten; it is only the satis-

faction of doing a good day’s work for the people 1 vou love that
has permanent value.

JOSEPH PRIESTLEY RICHARDSON

 

HOME AppREss: 114 Clyde St., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Shepley, Bulfinch, Richardson & Abbott, + Court Sc, Boston &
Mass.

BoRN: April 9, 1913, Charles River, Mass. parents: Frederick Leopold William
Richardson, ’99, Anne Blake.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. clam Laude, 1935; B.ARUM., tOgs.

MarRiED: Margaret Stevenson, Oct. 5, 1940, Glen Cove, Long Nand, NY.
CHILDREN: Joseph Priestley, Jr, Aug. 22, t9gt; Philip Stevernwn, Apal «
1946; Anne Blake, March 7, 1949; Alison Greenough and Finily Randolph
(twins), May 22, 1952; Margery, June 14, tgs.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Arthur Welland Richardson, “28 (deceased), Frederw h
Leopold William Richardson, Jr, "31. Pti.p., “gts Francis Boot Ra harbor,
"34; David Richardson, ‘go, Julian Hayden Richardson, ‘9.

Occupation: Architect; partner, Shepley, Bulfinch, Richanhan & Abbess.

OFFICES HELD: “Trustee, since tgst, Vice-president, teci-¢A. liwttute of Cea

temporary Art; vice-president, 1954-54, member, Roth Uras chag Se hebse-

ship Committee, igs9-63. Boston Society of Anchitcen, uae prreuade nse,

Massachusetts Building Congress, 19¢4- 46, Honton Architertural Centet,

[ at25 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

19573 district director, Massachusetts State Association of Architects, since
1955; chairman, Twentieth Reunion Committee of Harvard Class of 1935,
1954-55; co-founder and trustee, Boston Arts Festival, since 1954; president,
Harvard Graduate School of Design Association, 1957-58; executive vice-
chairman, United Fund, 1957.

MEMBER oF: American Institute of Architects, The Country Club, Brookline;
Century Club; Somerset Club.

AFTER a never-to-be-forgotten fling in China and the South Seas,
and with the exception of a four-year hitch in the Navy during the
war, I have devoted the last twenty-five years to building and archi-
tecture in one form or another. This life is intriguing with no two
days alike.

Every day I am reminded of John Storey’s (Harvard °35) de-
scription of a creative architect as one who merely grunts, while
the critic philosophizes and “belongs to the Society of Educated
~ Men.” Consequently I have been actively cultivating the art of
grunting as shown at our Twentieth when my vocal chords failed
to function even for one grunt. I am hoping to be in good voice
at our Twenty-fifth Reunion and temporarily leave the pig in the
sty, which today bears the honored name of Shepley, Bulfinch,
Richardson & Abbott.

In my dreams I still have the wanderlust and again vanish with
a guitar in my lap to an idyllic paradise — a South Sea island un-
fettered by modern life. Alas, this is not possible since in reality
my one and only. wife, Peggy, and our six children ranging from
six months to eighteen years keep me happily on the long and narrow
path,

After our wedding in 1940, I designed and built a contemporary
or so-called modern house as a honeymoon cottage. Our issue drove
us from its restricted walls and at present we live in a Victorian
monstrosity which nicely accommodates the brood with space left
over to welcome all classmates, Perhaps after our children have
flown the coop, we shall build an ivory tower overlooking the ocean!

My most interesting and grim experience was being jailed by the
Japanese in Inner Mongolia in 1935. The arresting general charged
me with espionage and impersonating a Chinaman because I was
wearing a Japanese kimono and wood sandals. I luckily survived and
consequently volunteered with alacrity after Pearl Harbor and
witnessed the defeat of Japan.

Today my hobbies are golf, real estate manipulation, occasional
purchase of contemporary painting and Indian wrestling —I am a

[ 1126 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

champion except when Fd Crane appears. I often yacht in imagina-
tion only, but hope it will be a fact when the children are educated.

As I write this memoir, I am in mid-Atlantic, traveling alone, re-
turning from a fleeting trip to Paris where Dotty and Randy Ridder
are so ably holding the fort for the United States, Not havi ing
traveled widely since the war, I was shocked both in Furope and
aboard ship by the materialistic approach of many Americans and
their complete lack of understanding or desire to appreciate the
customs of others. If we are to maintain our recently-earned world
leadership, each one of us must never sell our country short and
always make every effort to understand our neighbors, As the shi
moves on, I make a final resolution to have my ‘children taughe this
understanding and learn as many languages as possible during their
formative years so that they will be prepared to be better emissaries
of good will than our generation is at present.

WILLIAM EVERARD RICHARDSON

 

HOME AppREsS: Stanwich Lane, Greenwich, Conn,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jaros, Baum & Bolles, 730 Third Ave. New York, N-Y.

BoRN: Nov. 14, 1912, New York, N.Y. Parents: Charles Tiffany Rehardwn,
‘oz, Alice Strong.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, NH.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1931~1933.

MarRiED: Margaret Thomas, Oct. 25, 1958, San Juan, Pucrto Roce, cratnese.
William Tiffany, Dec. 15, 1939; Pamela C., Now. 04, toge, Rene E, Jas
7, 1955 (all by previous marriage).

HARVARD SON: William Tiffany Richardson, ‘6s,

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Titfany Richardson, Jr, ‘49.

OccuPATION: Lighting consultant, Jaros, Baum & Bolla mechanwal and elec.
trical engincers.

MEMBER OF: Delphic Club, Stamford Yache Club,

{ 1127]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

UPON leaving college I spent approximately fifteen years in the
theatre, stage managing and lighting a number of shows on Broad-
way, such as Sidney Howard’s “Yellow Jack,” “Winterset,” Giel-
gud’s s “Hamlet,” “Voice of the Turtle” and Jose Ferrer’s “Cyrano
de Bergerac.” Spent some years after that as an independent light-
ing consultant and since 1953 as lighting consultant for Hilton
Hotels, traveling far and wide designing the lighting for the Istan-
bul Hilton, Beverly Hilton, Statler Hilton in Dallas, Continental
Hilton in Mexico, Havana Hilton, the Queen Elizabeth in Montreal,
Berlin Hilton and the Nile Hilton in Cairo.

At the moment I am employed by the engineering firm mentioned
earlier, but am about ‘to assist in the opening of the Pittsburgh
Hilton and am starting the design of lights for the San Francisco

Hilton. I am also able to spend a bit more time at home than in the
recent past.

ALLEN BURR RIDER, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 131 Dunster Rd., Jamaica Plain 30, Mass.
OFFicE appkEss: Frontier Press Co., Lafayette Bldg., Buffalo 3, N.Y.; 25 Hunting-
ton Ave., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: May 29, 1913, Brookline, Mass. parents: Allen Burr Rider, Mabel Whit-
comb,

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.
MarRieED: Mima Borland Robertson, Feb. 17, 1940, West Roxbury, Mass, CHIL-

preN: Linda Borland, Aug. 27, 1947; Gillian Elizabeth, April 7, 1951; Allen
Burr, 3d, Feb. 25, 1954.

occuPATION: Educational publishing; vice-president and director, Frontier Press
Company; owner, A. B. Rider & Associates.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Theta Chapter, Professional Bookmen of America,
since 1951; trustee, Eliot School, since 1955; warden, St. John’s Church

[ 1128 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1956-58; president, Educational Salesmen’s Association of New Fngland,
1958-59.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Rotary Club of Boston, numerous busi-
ness and educational societies,

UPON my release to inactive duty as a naval officer in World War
II, I was asked to give my appraisal of the Navy and my association
with it. In my answer, I mentioned there were plus values. As I
reflect upon the past twenty-five years I can truthfully report my
reactions are similar. There appears to have been fairly steady
progress in the art of living, in my business interests and, above all,
in my increasing ability to gain a fuller realization of, and satisfac-
tion from, being a part of a dynamic society in an important era.

Shortly, I shall be spending a winter holiday in Quebec with
Bunty (my wife, so richly endowed with a fine spirit), which will
mark twenty years of my tremendously good fortune in having
been so privileged to share her company and to have bencfited from
her inspirational example and understanding. When I comment
on her many virtues she claims a strong Scotch ancestry and herit-
age are largely responsible. Our family of three youngsters await
each day with enthusiasm and joy. Linda, our oldest, is a student
at Dana Junior School, Wellesley. In common with many of you,
we are having the daily opportunity of assisting in seventh grade
math and preparation for “World Affairs.” Gillian, the younger
sister, is a keen student, filled with love for everybody and all thar
life offers. My young son, Tim, aged six, behaves not like his father
(as far as I can recall). In response to a word of parental disci
pline the usual reply is “O.K. Daddy-O!” To this I really do not
seriously object. I envision for him a fine future.

The special value of any personal account, I believe, may result
in mention of something 1 in which you fecl you may be to a deyrce
unique as to timing, or other qualifying factors. In June of tos
[ anticipate receiving an M.B.A. degree from the Boston Univ cry
Graduate School of Business Administration. I have been punuing
a graduate program for some time, more or less as an avocation,
I know a substantial number of our Class have earlier been awarded
graduate degrees. I believe a review may show a limited number
to be granted a degree in 1960, twenty-five years after having
completed undergraduate work, Ic has been an interesting prograin
although, at times, demanding in conjunction with other duties and
responsibilities,

In company with many of you, EP served as an officer in the US

[ razy |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

SAMUEL HOLE RINDGE

 

appress: sot S. Plymouth Blvd., Los Angeles, Calif.

BORN: Oct. 7, 1913, Los Angeles, Calif. parents: Samuel Knight Rindge, ’11,
Agnes Marion Hole.

PREPARED aT: Harvard Military School, Los Angeles, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935 (36).

NO questionnaire returned.

+ THOMAS BENJAMIN RIPTON

BORN: May 5, 1910, Johnston, N.Y. PARENTS: John Clarence Ripton, Charlotte
Ebbage.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932~1933.

MARRIED: Elisabeth Stillwell, Feb. 22, 1936, New York, N.Y. cuttpren: Rosina
Louise, Dec. 26, 1936; Hugh L., Sept. 18, 1939.

pigp: April 20, 1953, Milton, Mass.

wwow: Mrs. Thomas B. Ripton, 242-31 sist Ave., Douglaston, N.Y.

SINCE leaving college, Ripton had worked as a salesman, a market
analyst and as a mathematics instructor at Sampson College. He
spent six years as a statistician and deputy director of engine pro-
duction for the British government, for which he received a cita-
tion. He was survived by his wife and children.

[1132 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DONALD RITCHIE

 

HOME apprEss: 46 Thackeray Rd., Wellesley Hills 81, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 135 Clarendon St., Boston 16, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 24, 1912, Newton Center, Mass. parents: James Henry Ritchie,
Mabel F. Brown.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.

MarRRIED: Marjorie T. Roton, May, 1946, New York, N.Y.

occupation: Architect, senior partner, James Hf. Ritchie & Associates, specral-
izing in hospital design.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects; American Hospital Awocanon,
Brae Burn Country Club.

FRANK JOSEPH RITGER

  

HOME ADDRESS: 302 N. iith St., Newark, N_J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: White, Weld & Co. 20 Broad St, New York, NY.

BoRN: May 25, 1914, Newark, N.J. parenrs: Petor Feeoderek Rieget. Mary
Conroy.

PREPARED AT: Barringer High School, Newark, NJ.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1930~19}$. DPGRDEN: A.B, 1004, SUB, toh.

[1133]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935
occupation: Partner, supervisor of investment advisory department, White,

Weld & Company, investment bankers,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Business School Club of
Northern New Jersey.

FOLLOWING graduation I attended the Harvard Business School,
from which I received the M.B.A. degree in 1937. I majored in
investment management, which is my current occupation. At White,
Weld I work closely with Dave Weld of the Class of °34.

My previous work in the financial fleld was with the Continental
Insurance Company, in the investment department. There I was
an analyst calling on managements of major American corporations.
During the war I spent a year in Washington with the O.P.A. until
I was drafted into the Quartermaster Corps. Following O.C. S. I
spent two and a half years in Europe, divided among England, France
and Belgium. My most interesting assignment was command of a
German prisoner of war camp in Normandy. I was finally dis-
charged as a captain.

In today’s complex society, the investment of individual and
institutional funds increasingly requires specialized supervision. The

demands for this service are intense and I find little time for avo-
cations.

JOHN FAUNCE ROACH

   
  

CERN RN SRR

SANA AO RGN SAARI

 

HOME appREss: 306 Osborne Rd., Loudonville, N.Y.
oFFIcE apprEss: Albany Hospital, Albany, N.Y.

BORN: July 21, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Garrett David Roach, Louise
Barstow Faunce.

PREPARED aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-193§. DEGREES: A.B, 1935; M.D., 1939.

Marntep: Alicia Harold Tracy, July 22, 1939, Boston, Mass. cHiLp: John Faunce,
Jr. June 5, 1949.

[1134]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: Garrett David Roach, Jr., ’30.

occuPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant — associate professor of radiology, Johns Hopkins
School of Medicine, 1947-50; radiologist, Johns Hopkins Hospital, to4>-
50; professor of radiology, Albany Medical College, since 1950; radiobognst.
in-chief, Albany Hospital, since 1950.

MEMBER OF: County and State medical societies, American Medical Society,
Northeastern (N.Y.) Radiological Society (former president), New York
State Radiological Society (president); American Roentgen Ray Society,
Radiological Society of North America.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous scientific articles on radiology in medical publications,

AFTER college I remained as a student for an additional four years,
graduating from the Medical School in June of 1939. A month later
I was married to my boyhood sweetheart and we moved to Phila-
delphia where I had my internship at the U.S, Naval Hospital. In
December of 1940, the Navy sent me to sea aboard the aircraft
carrier USS Lexington. Here I stayed through the early days and
sea skirmishes of World War II, until we were sunk at the “turning
point” of the Pacific War, the Battle of the Coral Sea, in May of
1942. I was fortunate in being fished out of the water by a cruiser
after a swim of approximately three hours (with my trusty life-
jacket!). Eventually I was returned to the States and the the U.S,
Naval Hospital in Bethesda, Later the Navy sent me to Johns Hop-
kins for special training in radiology and then on to the US. Naval
Hospital in Chelsea, where I had an opportunity to renew fricnd-
ships with a few classmates from the College and many from the
Medical School who were located in the Boston area.

Finally I was discharged from the service in 1947 and I returned
to Hopkins to practice radiology in the hospital and teach in the
medical school. These three years are indelibly engraved on my
mind for they were a tremendous educational and professional ¢x-
perience. I can now look back and sce that I “grew” more during
this period than at any other before or since. There ix, however,
one Baltimore event that outshines all the rest —the birth of our
son J. in June of 1949. We waited a long time for him and perhaps
therefore considered ourselves more than. just unusually lucky. Ple’s
the image of his mother and a constant enrichment of our lives.

In 1950 we came to Albany, New York, to become profesor and
chairman of the Department of Radiology at Albany Medical Col-
lege and radiologist-in-chief at Albany Hospital. I was dehyhted
to find many Harvard friends here and have attended seme (mot as
many as I should) of the meetings of the local Harvard Club. Dur-

[1135 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ing these last nine years my time has been occupied chiefly b .
} P y by medi

cine but I’ve managed to find opportunity to return to the family-

type hobbies of music, boating and, more recently, fishing. Each

summer finds us in the waters of the Cape at Falmouth searching for
the elusive bass and blues.

When I look back to June, 1935, and recall how ancient, decrepit
and useless the then twenty-five-year class looked, I realize that m
lot in life has been far different, for I have remained youthful, vig-
orous, alert, fascinating and intelligent as, I suppose, has the rest of

’35. My secret for staving off the rocking chair is a growing son
and a loving wife.

+ EDWARD HUTCHINSON ROBBINS

 

. . ?
BORN: Noy, 29, 1912, Paris, France, PARENTS: Warren Delano Robbins, ‘08, Irene
de Bruyn.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934.

MarRiED: Louise A. Robbins.
HARVARD BROTHER: Warren Delano Robbins, Jr., ’3q.
pig: Killed in action, June 17, 1944, in the European Theatre.

EDWARD HUTCHINSON ROBBINS spent three years with our
Class. He played on the freshman hockey and soccer teams, on the
Adams House baseball team and was a member of the junior varsity
hockey team. In October, 1942, he was commissioned as first lieu-
tenant in the Air Force and was sent to Algiers during the North
African campaign to serve as a liaison officer with the French. In
1943 he was promoted to captain and later became a regular mem-
ber of a medium-bomber crew. He was killed when the plane on
which he was serving as radio operator made a crash landing at sea
in the course of a mission to Sardinia. He was survived by his wife.

[ 1136]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HERBERT ELLIS ROBBINS

 

appress: Columbia University, New York 27, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 12, 1915, New Castle, Pa. parents: Mark Lous Robbins, Celta
Keebansky.

prePARED aT: Taylor Allderdice High School, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 1935; A.M. 1934,
PH.D., 1938.

occupation: Professor of mathematical statistics, Columbia University.

WILLIAM JOSEPH ROBBINS

 

HOME apprEss; The Ledges, Glen Cove, Maine.
OFFICE appREss: First Universalist Church, Rockland, Maine.

BorN: Aug. 31, 1913, Somerville, Mass. parents: Wilham Vernal Robbur,
Nellie Adcline Orne.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. prGares: a.B,, cum bride. i9ig, ap. CNabowee
Newton Theological School), 1938) pico. (Brown Uniwd, tog.

MARRIED: Nadine Ratcliff, July 7, tgsz. cotpars: Naren Sole Moh ennev,
Dec. 1, 19425 H. Reed MeRenney, Oct, 18, taut (tepehiidrend.

[ 1137]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

occupation: Parish minister, First Universalist Church, Rockland, Maine.

oFFicEs HELD: Chaplain (major) U.S. Army, 1942-46; instructor, 1946, assistant
professor and chaplain, 1947-52, associate professor and chairman Depart-
ment of Religious Studies, 1952-56, Brown University; staff associate,
First Baptist Church in America, Providence, R.I, 1946-52; director,
Universalist Church of Maine, 1959-60; president, County Ministers Asso-
ciation; vice-chairman, Down East District, Boy Scouts of America; mem-
ber Planning Committee, Maine Mental Health Seminar.

MEMBER OF: Society of Oriental Studies; Society of Biblical Literature and
Exegesis; Dodeka; Rotary; Gallamander Club (hon.); American Associa-
tion of University Professors; Council on Graduate Studies in Religion.

pusLications: “Some Aspects of Pueblo Indian Religion,” Harvard Theological
Review, 1942; same abridged, Religious Digest, 1942, review of “Paddy
Wilson's Meeting House” by Arthur Wilson, Rhode Island History.

EFFORT is required to recall what the world looked like when
one was sitting on top of it in June, 1935. Having matriculated to
prepare for medicine, I concentrated in Romance languages and
literatures, planning to teach. Then I promptly determined to enter
the ministry.

At Andover Newton I received a B.D. in 1938, taking my middle
year at Harvard Divinity because I felt the appeal of the historical
approach dominant there during the ancien régime. Following a
bicycle trip to western Europe, I became an associate in a church
near enough to Harvard so that I could slip over for late afternoon
courses with Dean Sperry and Professors Nock, Bixler, Hocking,
Whitehead and other giants. Living in the bifurcated world of
parish and graduate school was an ordeal. In 1939 I decided to go
all out for the world of books and started work that would lead
to a Ph.D. In 1940 came a welcome opportunity to earn an honest
penny as an assistant at Brown. The experience there was more
sumulating than I had dared to hope.

December 7, 1941, brought a sudden decision to try to be a re-
sponsible citizen in the beleaguered world of twentieth centur
America. That very day I closed my tomes of Greek and Latin
texts with French and German commentaries and borrowed Max
Lerner’s “Ideas for the Ice Age” and Lewis Mumford’s “Faith for
Living.” At the Christmas recess I tried to enlist in the Navy, but
was half an inch short for their requirement. A visit to the Boston
Army Base led to the chaplain’s office, a physical the same day, and
a consequent commission in the chaplain corps of the U.S. Army.
I was assigned to the Air Force and sent to Colorado Springs. On
the day of the first snow the Fourth Photo Recon. Group entrained

[1138 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

for San Francisco Port of Embarkation, heading for the southwest
Pacific,

Until November, 1945, I moved northward with the Thirteenth
(Jungle) Air Force from New Caledonia, the New Hebrides, Solo-
mons, Admiralties, and Dutch East Indies to the Philippines, as the
island-hopping progressed toward Tokyo. After more than three
years as a Yankee padre in the South Seas, 1 had grave misvivings
about my intellectual and verbal qualifications for returning to the
ivy-leafed academic world.

Since teachers were scarce, my old job was waiting and I bent
every effort to complete my degree at Brown while functioning
as a graduate instructor. My veteran returnee students were a joy.
In 1947 the Ph.D. was conferred after I had submitted a thesis on
“Jewish and Hellenistic Legends of Moses, with Special Reference
to Philo’s Life of Moses.” To my knowledge nobody, including my
examiners, has ever read that contribution to knowledge. The same
year brought a promotion to assistant professor and appointment as
chaplain of the University, and an extended trip into the Indian
southwest to see Navajo and Pueblo Indians at first hand. In 1953
I resigned the chaplaincy on being named associate professor and
chairman of the Department of Religious Studies.

By 1952 I had fulfilled the familiar prediction of friends that
when I fell in love, I should fall hard. To keep them happy I even
married a girl who already had two children. The pressures of
institutional life and the spectral influence of organization man
were being felt before they could be read about in books. In 1956
my wife and I agreed to make a major change and put all of our
savings into a large guest-house and cabins overlooking Penobscot
Bay in coastal Maine. For one year I taught all the languages in a
g2-student high school, Then I closed the circle by accepting a call
to become minister of the Universalist Church in Rockland, “lob-

ster capital of the world.”

Now in the mellow retrospective mood T take a certain unholy
pride in the unorthodox course my steps have followed; try to share
whatever wisdom the day's of our years may have brought, put
a higher value than ever on the humanistic studies of colle ve days,
and still work and pray that in our contemporary revolution the
simple joys of the mind and the surprising, mystic fruits of con.
templation, which spring, Zeus-like, from the disciplined intelli

gence, may be wholly lose from the experience of men. Plus ga
change, plus cest la meme chose.

[ 139 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ROBERT CLARKE ROCKWELL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 13006 Ocaso Ave., La Mirada, Calif,

OFFicE appress: Cerritos College, 11110 KE. Alondra Blvd., Norwalk, Calif.

BorN: Oct. 6, 1913, Santa Barbara, Calif. parents: John Vernon Rockwell, Isabel
Garcia.

PREPARED aT: Carpinteria Union High School, Carpinteria, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: SB, 1935; S.M. (Univ. of Southern
California), 1948; Ep.p. (ibid.), 1955.

Marnieb: Elizabeth Jane Robinson, 1942, Glendale, Calif. cuitpren: Linda Kay,
Jan. 7, 1945; Robert George, May 4, 1948; Ann Elizabeth, Jan. 30, 1951.
occupation: College administration; vice-president and director, Cerritos Col-

lege.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Norwalk YMCA, 1955-58, Norwalk Chamber of Com-
merce, 1956-59, Southern California Junior College Association, 1957-60;
president, Rotary Club of Norwalk, 1959-60.

MEMBER OF: National Education Association; California Teachers’ Association;
Southern California Junior College Association, Norwalk YMCA, Rotary
Club of Norwalk.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles in education journals.

FROM 1936 to 1939, attended University of Southern California
Law School and School of Education. From 1940 to 1942, English
teacher at Covina High School (California). From 1942 to 1946,
military service (entered as private, received commission from OCS,
discharged as captain). From 1946 to 1955, employed at Fullerton
Junior College as teacher, registrar and finally dean of instruction
and guidance; during this period attended graduate school and
worked off Master's and Doctor’s degrees, Since 1955, vice-presi-
dent, Cerritos College.

[ 1140 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT SUTCLIFFE ROCKWELL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 74 Prescott St., North Andover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Merrimack Card Clothing Co., Andover, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 6, 1913, North Andover, Mass. parents: Henry Davis Rockwell,
Florence Lucinda Sutcliffe.

PREPARED AT: Johnson High School, North Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

UNMARRIED.

OccUPATION: Superintendent and assistant treasurer, Merrimack Card Clothing
Company, manufacturers of textile machinery.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant treasurer, clerk and director, Merrimack Card Clothing
Company, since 1937; discussion leader, three Great Books groups, since
1949; director, Card Clothing Manufacturers Association, since 19¢8:
treasurer and governor, Fine Arts Society, 1954-57; chairman, display
Committee, National Library Week, 1958; examiner, Boy Scouts; membcr,
various charitable and educational fund-raising committees.

MEMBER OF: Boston Arts Festival; Boston Museum of Fine Arts; Friends of
Boston Symphony Orchestra; Fine Arts Society; Great Books Founda-
tion; Great Books Discussion Group; Preview Associates; Adult Fduca-
tion Association; Industrial Advisory Committee, Card Clothing Mano-
facturers Association; Andover Badminton Club; Film Sociery, Associated
Industries; Chamber of Commerce.

C rrgt ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

WILLIAM PLUNKETT ROCKWELL

 

Home avpkess: 41 Andover St, North Andover, Mass.

orFicg appress: Davis & Furber Machine Co., 6 Elm St., North Andover, Mass.

won: July 2, 1912, North Andover, Mass. parents: Samucl Forbes Rockwell,
‘oa, Marion Campbell Plunkett.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N.H,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935(37)3 LL.B. (Boston Coll.),
1945.

marrtto: Mabel C, Arlit, 1952, North Andover, Mass. CHILDREN: Shawn Arlit,
May 11, 1957; William Bradford, Oct. 4, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHER: Samuel Forbes Rockwell, Jr. ’33.

occuPATION: Tax accountant.

orricss HeLD: Member, since 19go, treasurer, 1944-48, chairman, 1948-52, North
Andover Republican Town Committee; director, Davis & Furber Machine
Company, since 1942; chairman, Republican Finance Committee, North
Andover, 1948-52; instructor, Burdett College, 1948.

MEMBER OF: North Andover Country Club; Harvard Club of Andover.

WHEN young I had ambitions of being a mailman, policeman,
Buck Rogers spaceman, etc., and ater, when in school and college,
I had notions of being perhaps a writer, tennis player, circus per-
former, etc. After I got through college, I fancied myself as a
possible big wheel in the business world, and went fifteen years to
night schools in vain efforts toward such a goal.

However, having thus floundered around for so many years, al-
ways striving for I knew not what, I finally decided big things
were just not for me as they were not obtainable. So, about ten
vears ago I quit struggling. I decided not to be famous at anything.
I could never make it.

Am I happy! I am not fighting anything. I am not struggling
to obtain anything. Life is great.

[1142]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SUMNER RODMAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 94 Vine St., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rodman Insurance Agency, 10 Post Office Sq., Boston 9, Mass.

worn: Aug. 5, 1915, Malden, Mass. parENTs: Nathan Markel Rodman, Sara R.

Slater.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1935.

marriep: Helen R. Morris, July 2, 1942, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: Peter
Warren, Nov. 24, 1943; John Slater, June 21, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Melvin Rodman, LL.B., ’37.

occupation: Chartered life underwriter, insurance broker.

OFFICES HELD: Board member, since 1952, treasurer, 1956-58, Jewish Family and
Children’s Service; member, board of governors, Newton Squash and
Tennis Club, since 1954; vice-president, Camp Kingswood, 1954-55,
Brotherhood of Temple Israel, Boston, 1959-60; president, Boston Chapter,
American Society of Chartered Life Underwriters, 1955-56, Boston Life
Insurance and Trust Council, 1958-59; member, board of directors, Youth
Tennis Foundation of New England, since 1957; trustee, Associated
Jewish Philanthropies of Boston, since 1958, member, executive committee,
Roxbury Latin School Parents’ Auxiliary, since 1959, New England Lawn
Tennis Association, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Varsity Club; Million Dollar
Round Table; National Association of Life Underwriters; Shawmut Lodge,
AF. & A.M.; American Jewish Committee.

THE thought common to most of us at Reunion time must be —
“It doesn’t seem that long, does it?” Notwithstanding my being
the youngest living member of the Class, I avow the passage of
time leaves its imprint on all; one cannot be smug!

The major accomplishments are undoubtedly my wife and chil-
dren. I was a “war bride,” having been married in 1942. I bear the
dubious distinction of having been late for my own wedding. Due
to wartime restrictions and travel priorities, I was bumped from a

[ 1143 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

And that brings us to the close of 1959 with the “Big Twenty-
fifth” around the corner. Residing in metropolitan Boston has en-
abled me to be closer to the college and its activities than most of
the Class. The various luncheons and pre-Reunion affairs have been

ood fun, and in the process [ have even met a few classmates for
the first time. A fine group of men, indeed.

ARTHUR KENNETH ROEMER

 

HoME abpkEss: 2 Lawrence St. East Rockaway, N.Y.

ovrick appress: Sperry Gyroscope Co., Great Neck, N.Y.

woan: Dec, 1, 1912, Berlin, Germany. parents: Herbert Curtis Eugene Roemer,
Flora Jean Smith.

prepareD at: Lynbrook High School, Lynbrook, N.Y.

YRARS IN COLLEGE! 1931-1935. DEGREE: $.B., 1935 (36).

ManateD: Mildred Hebert Allison, Sept. 2, 1944, Bloomfield, N.J. cHttp: Ken-
neth Morrison, June 6, 1945.

Harvarp aroTHER: Walter Robert Roemer, 737.

occupation: Engineering; radar systems planning engineer, Sperry Surface
Armament Division, Sperry-Rand Corporation,

orrices neLp: Engineering publications and training supervisor, Servomecha-
nisins, Inc. 1952-58} chairman, District Camping and Activities Committee,
South Central District, Nassau County, former cubmaster, chairman, Troop
Committee, Troop 121, East Rockaway, N.Y., Boy Scouts of America.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Radio Engineers; Affiliate of R.P.I. Technical Writers’
Institute; Sagamore Troop, Nassau County, N.Y., Boy Scouts of America.

PUBLICATIONS: Professional engineering publications writer, ten years; books

mostly in the microwave measurement field, radar and electronic com-
puters.

CAREER HISTORY: After a taste of accounting in Wall Street
(ending with the °37 depression) and a stint as a private school
teacher, I spent the past couple of decades in the field of applied

[ 1146 ]

ot Seatbelt ae ds ahi ARAMA ads # hl ideas Ld bh ed

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

electronics — which in my particular case was spelled with a capital
“S” for Sperry and for Servomechanisms, Inc. One of the basic
characteristics of engineering is eternal change. This is probably
especially true of the defense industry of which I was a part. Dur-
ing my early years I became familiar with searchlights of a million
candlepower, mechanical “ears” that could detect a flying aircraft
miles away and with amazingly intricate bombsights destined for the
RAF. Just prior to and throughout the war years I did research
on “klystron” tubes, one of the microwave devices which made radar
possible. It was during this period that I was awarded a patent for
a discovery relating to this type of tube, as manufactured by Sperry.
An experience from those days that I shall never forget was that of
being a participant in the first U.S. voice transmission at ten centi-
meters — regarded at that time as an incredibly short radio wave-
length. After being associated with the production of an anti-sub-
marine radar for the Navy and an Army radar to detect “hedge-
hopping” planes, World War II was over. Since that time I have
for the most part been engaged in the paper-work end of the busi-
ness and in audio and visual communications with the customer, and
with the preparation of brochures, proposals, movies and hand-
books. It all adds up to no end of variety, quite a bit of travel and
an altogether satisfying way of making a living.

FAMILY: My family life couldn’t be happier. I married a girl
who paints beautiful water colors, loves kids, dogs and flower
gardens with great gusto . . . and who has made a side career of
helping the South Dakota Sioux Indians battle for life, education and
self-respect. My son Kenneth is now a high school freshman and is
beginning to wonder whether Harvard might not be a good place
to study astrophysics!

TRAVELS: Nothing beyond whirlwind business trips to Cali-
fornia, two-week vacations (55 and ’59) in South Dakota, land of
the rolling plains.

HOBBIES: Intensive activity in Boy Scout affairs. Family camp-
ing and hiking trips.

CONVICTIONS: (After twenty-five years’ observation!) (1)
The “status seeker” is the psychiatrist’s best prospect. (2) Human
happiness is only gained by giving of one’s self to others. (3) My
four years at Harvard are the richest and most rewarding experience

of my life.

[ 1147 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

GEORGE WEBB ROGERS

 

HOME ADpRESS: Blodgett Landing, N.H.
OFFICE AppRESs: Rogers’ Boatel, Inc., Blodgett Landing, N.H.

BORN: Oct. 12, 1914, Providence, R.I. parents: George Edwin Rogers, Ida L.
Webb.

prePARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: $.B., 1935.

margieD: Sherbrooke P. Yates, Sept. 23, 1939, Walpole, Mass. CHILDREN:

Richard W., March 9, 1942; Jean S. Aug. 10, 1944; Janet L., March 14,
1946; Gail F., July 5, 1950.

occupation: President and treasurer, Rogers’ Boatel, Inc.
oFFices HELD: President, Couples Club, Episcopal Church, Lexington, Mass.;
scoutmaster, 1952~55, explorer adviser, 1955-57, Ridgewood, N.J.; member,

Rotary Club, Cambridge, Mass., 1957-59; director, Chamber of Commerce,
1958-59.

MEMBER OF; American Chemical Society; American Oil Chemists’ Association;
Research Society of America; Harvard Business School Association.

THE years ahead seem limitless at graduation but looking back they
certainly have flown. Jobs were scarce to come by in the year
1935 and my starting salary was eighteen dollars per week at Whitte-
more Bros. on a temporary basis. In November of the same year
I started with Lever Bros. Company. During the interviews prior
to joining Lever, I well remember having quite a discussion with
the personne] manager as to whether it is better to be a big frog in
a little puddle or a little frog in a big puddle. This is a question I
have not yet resolved but I am still working on it,

To write this story properly, I must return to senior year as that
year marked the most important event of my life. One winter night
as a result of a skating accident, I met a beautiful and lovely young
lady. We were married in September, 1939, and she has been my
inspiration ever since, Our four children keep us hopping but we

[ 1148 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

still find time for some fishing and skiing, both water and snow.

For the past thirteen years vacations were spent at Little Lake Suna-

pee in New Hampshire and we all developed a love for this area of

the country.

To return. to business, I spent almost twenty-four years with
Lever Bros., having a variety of assignments in technical research,
as assistant to the president’s department and in production. During
this time we spent five years in New Jersey and I had the wonderful
opportunity to attend the 31st session of the A.M.P. at the Harvard
Business School. I then returned to Massachusetts as plant manager
of the Cambridge plant.

As a result of a decision to close the Cambridge plant, we decided
to go into business for ourselves. This summer we moved to Blodgett
Landing, New Hampshire, on the east shore of Lake Sunapee. We
deal in boat and motor rentals, boat storage and repairs, sales of
gasoline and oil, fishing tackle, marine supplies, etc. We also have
cottages and rooms for rental.

The sunsets are gorgeous, the fishing is good, the winters are cold
and the snow will be plentiful, It’s a new and different life but all
six of us think it’s great.

Which is better, the big or the little puddle? Perhaps we'll know
the answer by the Fiftieth Reunion.

DAVID ROME

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1075 Shadow Hill Way, Beverly Hills, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Olympic Plastics Co., Inc, 3471 S. LaCienega Blvd, Los
Angeles 16, Calif.

BORN: May 20, 1914, Fitchburg, Mass. parents: Lewis Rome, Julia Lavien,

PREPARED AT: Fitchburg High School, Fitchburg, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. maagna crm Lada, 191¢, 9 My tudt

[ 1149 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

marriep: Adele Rosenwald Stern, Oct. 16, 1947, New York, N.Y. (died
October, 1956); Elizabeth Baum, January, 1958, Beverly Hills, Calif.
cHiLpREN: Richard Leon, Jan. 19, 1950; Philip Lewis, Nov. 5, 1952; Clif-
ford, April 7, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Leon Rome, ’25 (deceased); Oscar Samuel Rome, "29
Harold Elliott Rome, '30, LL.B., "33. .

occupation: President, Olympic Plastics Co., Inc., plastics manufacturers —
custom molders for industry.

5

AS I recall those first years out of college, they were a period of
difficult adjustment. The delights of a liberal arts education had
spoiled me for the rigors of the outside world. The humdrum
routine of clerking was hard to accept after the heady wine of
liberal intellectualism; and a fourth floor garret in a New York
brownstone was a poor sequel to the ease and comfort of a suite
in Kirkland House.

I was one of those lucky members of our Class, so I was told,
who had a job lined up after graduation. One year as an actuarial
apprentice in the mathematical division of a major life insurance
company, however, convinced me that security wasn’t everything.
A siege of typhoid fever that laid me low for several months didn’t
help; so I left my thirty dollars a week job and accepted a teaching
fellowship at the California Institute of Technology in order to re-
turn to the glamor of the academic way of life. .

My year at Cal Tech was important in many ways other than
those I expected. This was my first visit to California. I discovered
the desert and Hollywood. I discovered northern California and
the delights of camping and mountain climbing. I also discovered
that I was a good teacher and an indifferent academician.

The following year I returned to my native city, where happen-
stance led me to the position of executive secretary in the mayor’s
office. Here I remained until the war. In 1942 I enlisted in the
Navy, was commissioned an ensign in June, 1942, at Annapolis.
After brief periods at Bowdoin and M.LT. and Pearl Harbor, being
initiated into the then esoteric mysteries of radar, I was assigned
as radar officer on the USS Chandeleur, a seaplane tender, After
two years in the Pacific [ had the good fortune of being ordered to
Cruft Laboratory at our own dear old alma mater, and in June,

1945, received a Master’s degree and enjoyed our Tenth Anniversary
Reunion, all under Navy orders and at government expense.

Early 1946 found many of us repeating the same soul-searching
and agonizing reappraisals of early post-collegiate years as we

[1150]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sought to find ourselves in a civilian world. For me it was Mexico
City and the plastics business, more or less in that order. Since that
time it has been Buenos Aires, Sao Paulo, Havana, New York City,
and Los Angeles, with Way-stops in between but plastics all the
way. In Mexico City it was Manufacturas Plasticas, in Buenos Aires
it was Plastix Argentina, in Sao Paulo it was Romplast, Lrda., in
Havana it was Plasticos Caribe, in New York it was David Rome
Associates, and in Los Angeles it is Olympic Plastics Company, Inc.
In 1947 I married Adele Stern. The expedition to the Argentine
was our honeymoon and the advent of our first child, Mac, in tgs50
was the signal for my return to the States. In 1952 Philip was born
and in 1954 came Clifford, our first native Californian. Shortly
thereafter it was learned that my wife had cancer and in two years
this dreadful disease claimed its victim.

In 1958 I married Betty Baum of Los Angeles and another native
Californian joined the family. We spend a great deal of time these
days talking and making plans for the 1960 Reunion. We see many
of our classmates who live in Los Angeles and look forward to re-
newing old friendships in June, 1960, with those who live afar.

LINCOLN ROSEN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 150 Overlook Circle, New Rochelle, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Eagle Clothes, Inc., 1107 Broadway, New York, N.Y.

BORN: Feb. 12, 1915, New York, N.Y. parents: Morns Rosen, Fanny Des tras
PREPARED AT: Townsend Harris High School, New York, N.Y,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREES: $.B., magia cin laude, voids tm

(Columbia Univ.), 1938.

MarRRIED: Dorothy Fein, Dec. 24, 1941, New York, N.Y. crnrpass: Robwrt,

Oct. 10, 1943; Nan, Nov. 2, 1946; Edward, June 28, 1954.

Crist]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

occupation: Treasurer, Eagle Clothes, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Lone Star Boat Club; Harrison Country Club.

IT has been a firm conviction of mine that attending Harvard was

a great privilege and a rewarding experience. Now that Iam faced

with my son’s problem of how to be admitted to Harvard, the

privilege seems greater and the experience even more desirable.

For me, the Twenty-fifth Anniversary comes at a most inoppor-
tune time, since it further emphasizes my own search for an answer
to the question of where I am going and what should I choose to
do during the next twenty-five years.

The first twenty-five years have offered sufficient variety to be
interesting and rewarding: four years of practising law; then four
years in the Army (American Theatre, New Guinea, Philippines,
Japan); followed by another four years of law practice. Just as
the routine became boring I had an opportunity to go into business
(first in England, then in the United States). The first four of
business were challenging and exciting, the last five years less so,
now I am faced with the decision as to whether to continue in the
same easy, comfortable niche or to start something new and chal-
lenging; and whether it should be in business or in the academic
field. Further, shall it be in the East or in the West?

Perhaps I am spoiled by having too many choices and a wife for
whom everything is easy and to whom every new experience iS
welcome. Only the children are stodgy and want to “stay put.”

The real question is how to keep the pressures of business and the
problems of others from smothering one’s whole life. I find it hard
to do things by halves and yet it seems to me essential for one to
have enough time and, more important, enough freedom of mind
to be able to pursue worthwhile activities, Perhaps I'll have the
answer by the Fiftieth Reunion,

[1152]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IRVING ROSENBLOOM

 

HOME ADDRESS: 32 Indian Ridge Rd., Newton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Julius Rosenbloom, Inc., Boston, Mass.

BORN: May 10, 1914, Boston, Mass. Parents: Julius Rosenbloom, Fannie E:sen-
stadt,

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Memorial High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREES: A.B., magna ctm laude, 1935, EDM.

1938.
MARRIED: Blanche I. Jacobs, Aug. 31, 1947, Boston, Mass. cuitpren: James

Paul, July 31, 1949; Barbara Ellen, Oct. 24, 1952.
occuPaTION: Treasurer, Julius Rosenbloom, Inc.; sales of paper products.

LOOKING back over twenty-five years is, in my Case, an ego-
destroying experience. I find no deed or achievement representing
progress to the human race, nothing done worth perpetuating in
print. My adolescent ambition to become a mathematics teacher
broke on the rock of the depression when it appeared as though
everybody wanted to be a teacher. Two years of substitute teac ‘he
ing in the Boston schools drove me into the next citadel of sec urity,
Civil Service, with the Massachusetts Department of Insurance actu-
arial division. Uncle Sam’s call gave me four years of time to think
about the future while analyzing weather charts as a meteorologist
and later as a classification and assignment officer. Four years of
time on my hands as a uniformed white collar worker led me to
forsake my teaching ambitions and join my family in business, Aftce
thirteen years of unambitious plodding I have finally: arrived at an
economic status above a laborer and below a bricklay cr.

I finally moved in the direction of achieving immortality: by
marrying and now find life’s ultimare purpose in trying ta cope
with two youngsters who can out- talk, ourt-think and our: “aryie
their parents. My outlook on the future is primarily concerned with

[1153]

_—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

the kind of world my children will face, and what must be done to
prepare them to cope with that world.

HOWARD ROSENFELD

 

HOME ADpRESS: 3519 Old Court Rd., Pikesville, Md.
OFFICE ADRESS: Uniformly Yours, Inc., Baltimore, Md.

BORN: June 25, 1912, Worcester, Mass. PARENTS: Morris Rosenfeld, Sarah L.
Abrams.

prePareD at: Governor Dummer Academy, South Byfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-10935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

marriep: Sarah Ruth Millman, July 11, 1940, New York, N.¥. CHILDREN:
Myra Nan, Aug. 17, 1942; Richard Alan, Jan. 29, 1945.

occupaTion: General manager, Uniformly Yours, Inc.

THE years extending from graduation to the present have been
pleasant, enjoyable, not exactly productive in pursuit of worldly

goods or fame, but they were as I made them and I wouldn’t have
done it differently.

In brief, | was married in 1940 to a very intelligent and alert
young lady who had just finished her studies and received her Ph.D.
that year from M.LT. In 1942 our daughter Myra Nan was born
and in 1945 our son Richard. In the last twenty-five years we have
lived in several places, a few years in Providence, Rhode Island,
about four years in Taunton, Massachusetts, nine years in Milton,
Massachusetts, and the last five years in Baltimore.

Our daughter, of whom we are quite proud, has grown into a
very mature, intelligent and beautiful young lady and is now attend-
ing Wellesley College. She did us proud with her school work at
the Brimmer & May School in Boston and the Bryn Mawr School
here in Baltimore, where she graduated with high honors. Our son,

[1154]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

who is turning into a fine young prospect for Harvard, attended
Milton Academy and is now at the Park School here in Baltimore.
He is very much interested and very talented in art, and perhaps
will make that his career. My wife, while utilizing her chemical
knowledge in cooking, did find some time to do some medical re-
search work in Boston and is doing the same here in Baltimore.

I have, during this period, held down two uninteresting and non-
stimulating jobs. This has been compensated by my steady, in-
creased activity and interest in painting, to which I hope in the
not too distant future to devote full time. Otherwise, I guess I am
in good shape; no ulcers, but a little less hair, -

LEON ROSENFELD

 

HOME ADDRESS: 14 Leonard Ave., Newtonville, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 636 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: July 15, 1913, Zguritsa, Roumania. parents: Noah Rosenfeld, Sarah
Fleishman.

PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1935, MMO.
1939.

MARRIED: Florence Mayer, Nov. 19, 1943, Brookline, Mass. crito: Paul Noah,
July 9, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant in surgery, Harvard Medical School, awocite in
surgery, Beth Israel Hospital, Boston.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; American Cancer Society, Boston
Gastroenterological Society; Phi Beta Kappa.

PUBLICATIONS: Several papers on the physiology of the lymphaue circulanen.

THE more I try to recapture and recount the experiences of a
quarter of a century, the more elusive they become. It seems as if

[1rss]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

events moved with awful acceleration leaving a certain unsatisfied
hunger of the soul, What stays ever of incomparable force, and
held in silent adoration, are the four years at Harvard.

From there | moved on to the Medical School —to new cate-
gories of activity, Over five more years of training at various hos-
pitals followed it, then T went into the private practice of general
surgery and part- -time teaching. That leaves barely enough time
to fly for refuge into the fourth dimension, the re-reading of Alfred
North Whitehead, landscape gardening, music, friends and travels

with my family to the West Coast and the Caribbean islands.
Politically, Tam a Stevensonian.

ARNOLD M. ROSS

pa TN NDS ARI A

  

HOME apowess: 136 Cross Rd, Oakland, Calif,

orricé apparss; Calaveras Cement Co. 315 Montgomery St., San Francisco,
Calif,

worn: Aug. 22, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: Henry Ross, Jennie Lipp.

preparep at: Fieldston School, Riverdale, N-Y.

VEARS IN COLLEGE! 1932-1935. DEGREES: A.B, 1935; M.B.A., 1937:

Maree: Florence Hartzell, Aug. 15, 1942, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN:

Victoria, Sept. 22, 19435 Joan Barbara, Apnil 13, 1945; Mark Hartzell, Aug.
20, 1947.

oceupation: Vice-president, Calaveras Cement Company.

arrices wep: Chief Class Agent, Class of 1937, Harvard Business School,
Steering Committee, member, Fuel, Power and Water Committee, Cali-
fornia Manufacturers Association.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of San Francisco (treasurer); Berkeley Tennis
Club, Contra Costa Country Club; Commercial Club; Commonwealth

Club, American Management Association; Security Analysts of San
Francisco,

{1156 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

puBLICATIONS: Twenty-five Years of Building the West-—The Story of Cala-
weras Cement; Oil Is Where You Find It—The Story of Bishop Oil
Company.

THE reminder post cards from Frank Knowlton, becoming pro-
gressively less gentle and more determined, plus the most recent
card from the young lady in the Alumni office who said she was
going to get fired if I didn’t cooperate, have finally had the de-
sired effect. I’ve been putting this off till mafiana too long, so it’s
about time. What’s more, it’s not often that ’m requested — even
urged and beseeched — to write my autobiography!

I know it’s painfully trite to ask where have they gone, these
twenty-five years. Looking back through the years to Harvard,
I find the memories are warm ones. First, the faculty comes to
mind: Edgell always urbane and impeccable, speaking at his mile-
a-minute-clip between slides; Merriman, belligerent, past master at
lecture platform histrionics, who made history come alive to me;
Greenough, unfailingly courtly and considerate, Lowes, the perfect
embodiment of the absent-minded professor; Kittredge, in his pep-
per and salt suit, closing his copy of King Lear and striding out of
the room just as the bell rang. Then, the buildings: the stately
houses along the river; Memorial Hall, not pretty, but distinctive in
a massive sort of way; above all, the Yard, especially after a rain
storm or in the fall, with the leaves swirling around John Harvard's
statue. Nlemories of a typical day at college: classes and lab at
Mallinckrodt; a late afternoon squash game in the Leverett courts,
dinner in the House dining hall in the days before the cafeteria sys-
tem took over; demi-tasse after dinner; then on to the House library.

So much for college memories; now the details on 1935-60. Fol-
lowing graduation I spent two very enjoyable years across the river:
at the Business School. Then five years of working in New York
until the war. I’ve always liked the ocean and ships, so the Navy
particularly appealed to me. However, the Navy doctors quickly
discovered that I couldn’t tell green from brown ‘and I flunked mv
physical because of color blindness. I ‘was married in August, 1942,
and a few months later received my “greetings” into the Army.
Then followed three years in the Army Air Corps, one year each in
Miami Beach, Florida, Pecos, Texas, and San Francisco, California.
My wife was with me for almost the entire three years, and my two
daughters were Army brats, having come into the world in army
hospitals in Florida and California.

I followed the familiar pattern of so many easterners who had

[1157 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

military service in California—and stayed on after the war. We
have lived in California for fifteen years now and I have never re-
gretted succumbing to the lure. I worked with the National Hous-
ing Agency in San Francisco for two years, then in 1947 I started
with Calaveras Cement Company, a medium-sized cement manu-
facturing firm headquartered in San Francisco. I have been happy
with the company and the cement industry and have been with
Calaveras ever since, My job has been very pleasant, due in large
part to the fact that my boss, also a Harvard man, is patient with my
mistakes. What with high taxes, inflation and three growing chil-
dren, I have not succeeded in hanging on to much of the long green.

We live a somewhat typical suburban existence, complete with
dog (poodle), trees and mortgages. Four months ago we bought a
large forty-year-old house on a half acre which my wife and the
real estate broker (in that order) convinced me had considerable
charm. Now in the throes of remodeling, I have come to the sicken-
ing realization that the old monster soaks up capital expenditures
like a sponge. Weekends I spend a good part of my spare time play-
ing golf without skill and tennis without distinction. Discretion
being the better part of valor, I now limit my tennis to easy doubles.
For the past two summers I have been an avid fan of the San Fran-
cisco Giants, The twenty-five years haven’t changed my waistline
noticeably but have taken a frightful toll of my top covering.

With two teen-aged daughters and a twelve-year-old son, I am
keenly aware of the imminence of higher education for my chil-
dren, with all the problems involved — financial and otherwise, The
admission situation troubles me, particularly with regard to men’s
colleges and my son’s entrance into Harvard, He and J and my three

ladies look forward with great pleasure to the Reunion this June.

+ JOHN OUSLEY ROSSER

BORN: June 7, 1915, Dallas, Texas. parents: John Elijah Rosser, Angie Ousley.
PREPARED AT: Terrill School, Dallas, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

DIED: Jan. 11, 1943, College Station, Texas.

JOHN OUSLEY ROSSER spent one year with our Class. The
only information the Secretary has of his activities after leaving
college is that he was director of radio station WIAW, Texas
A. & M. College, in College Station. He was survived by his father.

[ 1158 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT TREAT ROWE

 

HOME appRrEss: 81 Mayfield Ave., Akron 13, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1015 Second National Bldg. Akron 3, Ohio.

BORN: May 20, 1913, Medina, Ohio. parents: Henry Grant Rowe, Katharyn
McDowell.

PREPARED AT: Medina High School, Medina, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: $.B., 1935; M.D. (Yale Univ.), 1gyo.

MarRIED: Lucile Lyon Pratt, June 15, 1940, Elmira, N.Y. quiprex: Alvord,
May 30, 1944; Blake, Aug. 29, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Blake Rowe, M.B.a. °33.

OCCUPATION: Physician — pediatrician.

OFFICES HELD: Coroner, Medina County, Ohio, 1942-46; vice-president, Ohw
State Coroners Association, 1944-46.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Pediatrics (diplomate),; American Academy
of Pediatrics (fellow); Summit County Medical Society; Ohio Sate Medi
cal Society; American Medical Association; the Akron Medical Round
Table; Portage Country Club; Trout Unlimited.

MY academic career was interrupted by a bout with cuberculosis
during my junior year in medical school, so that I graduated a year
later than my confreres. My residency training was at the Henry Ford
Hospital in Detroit. This too was interrupted, by the war. Re-
cause of my recent TB I was ineligible for military service, and at
the request of the Ohio Procurement and Assignment Committee,
went into general practice in Medina, Ohio, for four year. Tf re-
turned to Ford Hospital in 1946 and finished my training in pedh-
atrics. After two years of pediatric practice in Grose Pointe,
Michigan, I came to Akron in 1949, The year 1953 found me
very eligible and attractive to the armed services, se PE marched
away to the Air Force as a major in the Medical Corps. “This
service was most kind to me. Heeding my plea for the wsrurh-
west, it stationed me at Nellis Air Force ‘Base pest outvate Pas

[1ts9]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Vegas. Besides the magnificent entertainment and an occasional
go at the tables, I found superb fishing. I purchased a boat, and
Lake Mead gave me the finest bass fishing in the country — and
year around, too. Even more enticing to me was the summer trout
fishing i in the nearby mountains of ‘southern Utah. After several
years “of sweating out the life of a pediatrician, I found this tour a
wonderful, poorly paid vacation. But in all sincerity, I enjoyed the
military life and hope I did a good job for the government. I found
my attitude so different from that of the younger doctors, who
hated the whole thing.

Iam back in Akron, hundreds of miles from good fishing, but do

get into Michigan for trout in the summer and into the Bahamas for
bone fish in the winter.

FRANCIS HOWARD ROWSOME, JR.

 

HOME appress: 27 Mill River Rd., Chappaqua, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Popular Science Magazine, 355 Lexington Ave., New York 17,
N.Y.

BoRN: March 12, 1914, Dedham, Mass. PareNts: Francis Howard Rowsome,
Caroline M. O'Grady.

PREPARED aT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

Makriep: Phala Hale, April 1, 1935, Elkton, Md. crip: Francis Howard, 3d
Feb. 15, 1940.

HARVARD SON: Francis Howard Rowsome, 3d, ‘62.
HARVARD BROTHER: David Howard Rowsome, ’29.
occupation: Magazine editor.

pusticatioxs: Trolley Car Treasury, 1956, They Laughed When I Sat Down.
1959; Many magazine articles.

THESE have been two and a half decades spent in such joyous and
[| 1160 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ephemeral pursuits as talking, drinking, writing, arguing and the
delicate readjustment of the written word. Such a time interval
can’t possibly be generalized beyond the bare verdict that these have
been fine years: gentle, sometimes goofy, and often happy.

EDVELLE SELDEN ROYS

 

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 5100 Interbay Blvd., Tampa, Fla.
BORN: Dec. 31, 1912, Oakland, Calif. parents: Edvelle A. Roys, Maybelle
Foster.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

ROYS has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since 1954.

JOHN BENDIX RUBENSTEIN

    

HOME appreEss: 171 Upland Rd., Newtonville 60, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Security Mills, Inc., 24 Munroe St., Newton 60, Maas.

BORN: Aug, 4, 1913, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Philip Rubenstein, tos. ‘oo, Vinane
J. Dreyfus.

[ 1161 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935
PREPARED at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MARRIED: Frances Weiss, Sept. 19, 1938, New York, N.Y. camp: Nina, April
7+ 1943+

oocupaTion: Executive vice-president, Security Mills, Inc., textile manufac-:
turers; vice-president, Yantic Woolen Mills, Inc., yarn manufacturers;
president, Security Mills of Canada, Lrd.

OFFICES HELD: President, 1954, 1955, chairman of board, 1956, Newton Chamber
of Commerce; director, Newton Chapter, American Red Cross, 1954-58;
member, Human Relations Committee, City of Newton, since 1954; mem-
ber, Budget Committee, Newton Community Chest, 1959; member,

executive committee, Newton Republican City Committee, corporator,
West Newton Savings Bank.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Business School Association; Republican Club of Newton,
Harvard Club of Boston; Massachusetts Bay Lodge, B'nai B'rith, New

England Chapter, Quartermaster Association; Republican Club of Massa-
chusetts; Rotary Club of Newton.

ON the advice of Henry Pennypacker, I abandoned my hopes for
a career in surgery and was quickly at work in the New York office
of Security Mills, selling knitted textiles to the cutting-up trade.

The late ’30s, those celebrated years of despair, were no less diffi-
cult in our industry. Nevertheless, my bachelor years in Manhat-
tan whisked by and ended with marriage in 1938, and everything
started looking better both economically and socially until Colum-
bus Day in 1943 when I was requested to leave my wife and six-
month-old daughter for an indeterminate tour of duty with the
Army.

From a winter in Portland Harbor, Maine, with the Coast Artil-
lery to a summer at Fort Monmouth, I finally had a cruise to the
Philippines, culminating in a five months’ occupation in Japan with
the 44th Tank Battalion, I said, “Sayonara” to Tokyo in February,
1946, and returned to settle once again in Boston and to the manu-
facturing phase of the business,

Suburban living within five minutes of the office has certain
obvious advantages other than the elimination of the tedium of
commuting into work; more time to spend learning outdoor cook-
ing (I hate doing dishes) and watching the superb results of a city
wife gone horticultural. Her gardens and plantings are beautiful.

There has been some time for travel, both vacations and business,
highlighted by trips to Europe, Cuba, Mexico and Canada, in con-
nection with heading up our foreign operations, In between, fly
fishing for trout and bass in the Belgrades each spring and an occa-
sional skiing fling in New Hampshire round out my extracurricular

[ 1162 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

activities except for golf. Starting as a real hacker, I managed to
break ninety | this year and I haven’t let anyone forget it.

Life since ’35 has certainly been kind to me and mine; however,
while attending the 31st Advanced Management Program at the
Business School in 1957, it was somewhat of a jolt to see under-
graduates again close at hand. I wondered as I watched them

whether I once looked so very young!

WILLARD RUBENSTEIN

Appress; 12 N, 72d St. New York 23, N.Y.
BORN: June 17, 1913, Brooklyn, N.Y. Parents: Isidore A. Rubenstein, Hattie

Roth.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1934.

NO questionnaire returned.

ALLEN DONALD RUBIN

 

HOME aApprEss: 70 Park St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: 141 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 11, 1914, Boston, Mass, parents: David Rubin, Rose Susser.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1939.
MARRIED: Marion Luftman, July 6, 1952, Brookline, Mass.

HARVARD BROTHER: Howard Rubin, ’32, LL.B., ’35.

OCCUPATION: Owner, general insurance brokerage business.

MEMBER OF: United Lodge, A.F, & A.M.

THE year 1935 was an unfortunate time for a college graduate to
find his niche in the business world and for that reason among others
equally poor, I went on to the Harvard Law School in the fall of

[ 1163 |

| L_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

1936. I had no love nor desire for the law but there I was any way,
Thus far, I hadn't found myself and to add insult to injury, at the
vear’s end I finally did find myself on the “outside looking in.” J
was part of that illustrious third of the class that was told not to
return next year because my grades had been so low. Of course |
was very unhappy, not because of my being precluded from re-
turning, but because it was such a terrible blow to my “Ego,” and
the first and only time I had failed in any courses in any school.
Had it not been for my dad, I might have gone through a great deal
of mental turmoil, but he helped me put the pieces together and |
promised to go to another law school in the fall in an effort to re-
habilitate myself. I picked the school with the highest entrance
requirements possible, namely that you had to be a Harvard Law
School “bust-out” — and so Boston University Law School inherited
me and J still had no desire to be a lawyer.

In 1939 I graduated with honors from Boston University Law
School and passed the bar examination without the slightest trouble.
This was also the case with other ex-Harvard Law men in my class.
I even practised law for three years until Uncle Sam beckoned. I
served at home and abroad for over four years in the Inspector
General Department and was mustered out in February, 1946.
While in the Service 1 made sure to tell my law firm NOT to keep
my place there for me because I didn’t want to be tempted to return
to the law as that would have been the line of least resistance.

At age thirty-two, I found myself along with millions of others
in the dilemma of “what to do.” After trial and error in different
fields I wound up in my present business — that of general insurance
brokerage — which I am glad to say has worked out well. My dad
passed on in 1952 and his real estate holdings devolved upon me for
management for the family and myself, so that these two businesses
keep me occupied and afford a comfortable living. I keep short
hours on a five-day weekly basis with vacations and long weekends,
taking off as much time as possible for other enjoyable pursuits
such as tennis, swimming, reading and enjoying the company of
my lovely wife. I married at age thirty-eight and was very fortu-
nate in my choice.

Today, I still have all my hair and have concluded that if we are
lucky enough to enjoy good health everything else falls pretty

well in line, and we have nothing to worry about. All that remains
is to keep looking forward with optimism and try to lighten the
other fellow’s load.

[ 1164 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HERBERT WARREN RUBIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Manor House Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Stedfast Rubber Co., Inc., Mattapan, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 31, 1914, Boston, Mass. pARENTs: Solomon Hyman Rubin, Henrietta
I. Sydeman.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MarrieD: Adrienne Lande, Dec. 25, 1938, New York, N.Y. cHitpren: Linda
Jane, May 2, 1941; Claire Joanne, June 17, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and treasurer, Stedfast Rubber Co., Inc. manu-
facturers of rubber and plastic coated fabrics.

MEMBER OF: Belmont Country Club; Massachusetts Bay Lodge, Temple Lodge,
A.F. & A.M.

I SAT at the feet of the great and near-great at Harvard and for
four years crammed my head as full as I could. I like to think, how-
ever, that there my education just began. As I enter my twenty-
fifth year as a Harvard grad I find that I am still learning something
new each day. Right now, I am learning a great deal about Harvard
undergrads — through the eyes of my Radcliffe daughter. I am
learning how to diagnose the reading and spelling difficulties of the
elementary school child — through the eyes of my language-teach-
ing wife. I am learning to be sympathetic to teen-age problems
through the eyes of my high school daughter. And the process of
learning continues as I encounter the many problems and rexponsi-
bilities of the business world.

Adrienne and I have enjoyed the communal and social life around
us. We like to travel and have done so whenever possible. Right now
we are planning an automobile trip for the whole family through
Europe and we expect to leave soon after Reunion. All in all, life
with my three gals has been full and fun and fruitful.

[ 1165 ]

“a olan! nari Ponenmesmenance natty

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

MILTON DAVID RUBIN

 

HOME apprEss: 19 Dorr Rd., Newton 58, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Mitre Corp., Middlesex Turnpike, Bedford, Mass.

BORN: July 4, 1914, Boston, Mass. parents: Solomon James Rubin, Matilda
Angel.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: $.B. ¢u72 laude, 1935.

MaRRIED: Tillie E. Feingold, Sept. 9, 1944, Boston, Mass. cHILDREN: Mark
Jonathan, May 16, 1947; Lise Diane, May 22, 1950.

occuPATION: Research engineer; Section Head, Mitre Corporation, radar sys-
tem design and integration.

OFFICES HELD: President, John Ward School P.T.A.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Radio Engineers, Society for General Systems Re-
search; Men’s College Club, Investment Club; American Rock Garden
Society; Scottish Rock Garden Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Six patents on electric circuits and printed circuits, Lincoln |
Laboratory Reports on Low Altitude Radar and Noise from Detectors.

I HAD grown up with an illusion of the knowability of the world
and that completeness of understanding was only a matter of time
and study. I have come to realize how unknowable is life and how
little is knowable in one lifetime, yet how little we use, collectively,
what is known. Knowledge is not power, knowledge can exist with-
out power and power can exist without knowledge. ‘Truth is not
beauty, nor is beauty truth. The two latter are separate and distinct
things. In fact, truth can be ugly and beauty false. All these things
I have come to realize. The world does not beat a path to your
door for a better mousetrap, it has to be convinced and sold that
you have a better mousetrap. I heard long ago that the race is not
to the swift, nor the battle to the mighty, it was many years later
that I read the next lines, that there is neither yet bread to the

[ 1166 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

wise, nor yet riches to men of understanding, nor yet favor to men

of skill, but all is in the hands of time and fate.

I do not understand many more things than I did twenty-five
years ago, but I am more able to act on my understanding. I do
understand different things than then, perhaps more practical things,
and these things help one to act. It is one thing to reason out a better
course of action, it is another to react to one’s own reasoning with
one’s muscle and bones and carry out this course of action. How
wisely can we choose an investment and then become panicked by
circumstances acting on our emotions, and lose our profit!

How many of us were deeply affected by the economics of the
times we lived through in our college years, to become less confi-
dent, less daring than we might have been, less than those boys who
were graduated ten years earlier or ten years later? Figures on
engineers indicate a slight dip in present salaries of those of our
era compared to those preceding and those following. It would
be interesting to see statistics on salaries of Harvard classes of these
eras.

I am in what is popularly known as electronics and have worked
as an engineer with various of the laboratories in this area, includ-
ing Raytheon, Sylvania, Lincoln Laboratory of M.I.T., and, for one
year, with our classmate, George A. Philbrick. I am, at the time of
this writing, with the Mitre Corporation in Bedford, Massachusetts,
trying to understand large-scale electronic systems. I had originally
hoped to become an independent inventor and philosopher, but it
looks as if I have become an organization man.

Originally working in the laboratory, experimentally and theo-
retically, developing and designing equipment, and finding it more
and more important to know why we were designing some device,
I have become more involved in studying the systems in which those
devices are to be incorporated.

There are so many developments in this field that one has to go
some to keep up with them, so a great deal of travel is involved,
with this, reading and writing reports, directing experiments and
analyses, giving briefings, and trying to think and argue our ob-
jectives meanwhile, I am busy.

While I had felt strongly about sophisticated mathematical analy-
ses of system problems, and resisted “broad-brush” treatments, [am
finding, with lead time making it necessary to think about svscems
ten years in the future, that requirements that far aw ay are so

[ 1167 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

tenuous that one must lean toward the “broad-brush” general
analysis.

This work and a wonderful family and other activities, such as
Investment Club, P.T.A., and gardening, seem to keep me fully
occupied and reasonably satisfy my creative urges.

My traveling is most pleasant when Tillie can go with me, and
we can combine business with pleasure, and such are my plans for
my next trip to the West Coast.

I have a daughter, who will be ten in 1960, with the temperament
of an actress, and a son, who will be thirteen, with the temperament,
we hope, of a scientist or engineer. At any rate, as far back as we
can remember, his ambition was to do what daddy does, even though
daddy never really explained what he actually does. In many ways
it is an interesting and exciting life and there always seems to be
something new around the corner, and as long as this condition con-
tinues, I shall be looking forward to the next anniversary.

CHARLES STEPHEN RUGG

 

appress: 726 N. Ardmore Drive, Los Angeles 29, Calif.

BORN: Oct. 14, 1912, West Summit, N.J. PARENTS: George Longman Rugg.
Alice White.

PREPARED AT: Morristown School, Morristown, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

NO questionnaire returned.

[ 1168 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES RUNYON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2200 Ridge Rd., North Haven, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Yale Law School, New Haven, Conn.

BorRN: May 13, 1914, New York, N.Y. parents: Charles Runyon, Cornelia
Peabody Montgomery.

PREPARED AT: Santa Barbara School, Carpinteria, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933, 1934-1936. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1935436);
1L.B. (Yale Univ.), 1939.

MarrieD: Mary Robbins, April 15, 1939, Great Barrington, Mass. CHILDREN:
John Robbins, Oct. 27, 1942; Nina Montgomery, June 16, 1944; Anne
Marshall, March 10, 1952.

occuPaTION: Lawyer; assistant dean, Yale Law School, since 1957.

OFFICES HELD: Attorney, Office of the Legal Adviser, U.S. Department of
State, 1948-57; other government legal positions, 1940-48 (with Navy
interruption, 1943-46).

A PLEASANT and undistinguished mid-century, professionally
oriented career has thus far been enriched by a liv ely family. ¥ ale
Law School (then and now), assignments at the U.N. General As-
sembly, staff work rebutting Senator McCarthy, the discovery of
Ocracoke, North Carolina, too few cruises under sail and one on
the USS Duxbury Bay (AVP-38).

You ask about convictions: I suppose belief in man’s capacity to
evolve effective international government and to respect human
rights has been, with variations in emphasis, a persistent article of
faith, running back to pre-college days. Happily, if mysteriously,
it survives in strength.

[ 1169 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ALAN CAPON RUSSELL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 152 E. 71st St, New York 21, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Russell Research, Inc., 6 E. 45th St.. New York 17, N.Y.

BoRN: Oct. 12, 1914, Brooklyn, N.Y. parents: Louis Russell, Josephine Capon.

prepareD AT: New Utrecht High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MarRiED: Jacqueline Dur, Dec. 31, 1940, Greenwich, Conn. CHILDREN: Bruce,
Jan. 26, 1946; Kent, March 5, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Kenneth Capon Russell, ’38.

occupaTion: President, Russell Research, Inc., marketing research.

OFFICES HELD: Committeeman, Boy Scouts of America, 1954-57; member,
Awards Committee, American Marketing Association, 1955; president,
1957, director, 1958, Marketing Research Trade Association.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Quantuck Yacht Club; Seventh
Regiment Association, American Marketing Association, Marketing Re-
search Trade Association.

PuBLicaTions: “Important Factors in Media Time Buying,” Printers Ink, 1956;
“Legal Problems in Marketing Interviewing,” 1958, “How to Market
Overseas Goods in U.S.A..” 1959, Proceedings of American Marketing
Association National Conventions, “Market for Bimoculars in U.S.A.,”
Marketing Report IV (Japan), 1959.

AFTER graduation I started in the market research field in man-
agement engineering. I then shifted to economic research and
statistics, publication research and finally general marketing re-
search, becoming director of research of a marketing research com-
pany when the war arrived, |

While pursuing this career, | married Jackie Dur in 1940. We
lived in the Village here in New York City, enjoying a gay, Bo-
hemian life. With the war we moved to Washington, D.C., with
WPB and then into the Navy. I ended the war as a lieutenant,
USNR. | ~

After the war, we returned to New York, had our first child,

[1170 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Bruce, and Jackie and I started our own business, Russell Research.
We had our second child, Kent, six years later, kept expanding our
business, and are now settled down to enjoying New York City
and its life. We have our own home in the city, a comfortable
brownstone, and [I usually walk to work, conveniently located only
one block from the Harvard Club. We have a summer home on
the Atlantic Ocean at West Hampton Beach, Long Island, where
we spend the summers enjoying swimming, sailing, tennis, etc.
We manage to travel a lot, generally combining business with pleas-
ure. Along with our domestic business, I act as market counsclor
to the Government of Ireland and include as clients a number of
other foreign governments and companies. In connection with this,
we generally go overseas for a month or two each year. In addition,
we travel extensively throughout the United States as the occasions
arise.

The demands of raising a family, running a business, social activi-
ties and travel keep us well occupied and happy. We keep in touch
with a few classmates and are renewing friendships with some with
whom we lost contact as the Twenty-fifth Reunion comes near.
Who’s Who in the East lists my career more specifically, but this
is the gist of it. I look forward to the Reunion and seeing everyone

again.

ROBERT SHAW RUSSELL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 26 Nelson Pl., Worcester 5, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Worcester Redevelopment Authority, 107 Front St, Worcestet

8, Mass.
BORN: Sept. 3, 1913, Milton, Mass, PARENTS: James Savage Russell, "8+, Family

Tyson Perry.
[1r7r]

HARVARD CLASS OF 193

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.; Le Rosey School, Rolle, Switzer-
land.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MarrigD: Elizabeth Newhall, May 17, 1943, Kaneohe Bay, Oahu, Hawaii. cu-
preN: Louise Perry, April 3, 1947; Mary Forbes, June 11, 1950; Anna
Elizabeth, July 2, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHERS: George Robert Russell, ’27, a.m., ’33; John Forbes Russell,
occuPamtos: City planner.
IT rook an uncommon long time for me to fix on a profession, and
then a couple of years more to catch a wife. I remember feeling
at the time that progress was slow. From twenty-five years, it
seems that deliberation was a good idea after all. Commencement
exercises in 1935 were by-passed in favor of a trip to China and
Japan in the company of R. Cummings and R. Hepburn. Then came
a tour of four years at the Columbia School of Architecture. Two
years were spent trying to be an architect. No dice —I just wasn’t
cut out to design buildings. But in the School was a Division of
Planning and Housing, and there I studied to be what was a rarity
at the time—a city planner. Bachelor days in New York were
well spent and well left behind. A succession of roommates passed
through 9 East g7th Street, some departing to the altar, others to
jobs in distant places. Perhaps it was our primitive housekeeping
that drove several of the lads into matrimony!

First planning jobs were in Nutley, New Jersey, and Chicago
(1940-41). Nutley was in range of New York friends and of the
broad marshes of Barnegat Bay for ducks. A sneak box was built
to ride a cradle in the rumble seat of the ’34 Ford roadster. A year
later same car and duck boat were charging across the flat black
lands of northern Illinois to Chicago. At that time, the Public
Administration Clearing House agencies were shining beacons for
those who aspired to professional public service. To me, it was good
experience in a big, hustling city. Northern lights at night on the
Midway, swimming in the Lake off the s5th Street Promontory,
and editing the Planners’ Journal. Looking at broad corn belt, it
was easy to see how the rocky New England farmsteads came to
be deserted. A year later, the view was different. It was the mag-
nificent mountains and clouds of the windward side of the Pali
Range on Oahu, as seen from the Naval Air Station at Kaneohe
Bay. Jn thirty months, I never tired of it, Kaneohe was an oasis of
beauty during the war. The I (singular) became we ( plural) when
a certain young lady from Chicago arranged, with a little help from

[1172]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

me, to get a job with the Honolulu OPA office. We were marricd

the day after she landed, and for eighteen months we had a houve

of our own on the edge of the Bay. It was quite a way to fiche the
war. The official honeymoon trip did not come until 1946, an auto
trip to Mexico. Here we saw the colors, the different standards
and styles of living, and the exuberant architecture of the Spanph
conquerors as imposed on the vigorous civilization of the native
Aztecs. From headquarters in Cuernavaca, we ranged up and down
the peninsula. This proved to be a Jast burst of carefree living
before jobs and children set in.

Louisville is populated with many pleasant people who have a
knack of working hard and at the same time enjoying life to the
rim of the cup. We were there five years, with the Louisville and
Jefferson County Planning and Zoning Commission. Our fire
daughters, Perry and Forbesy, are Kentucky born, and we are de-
lighted that they have this heritage. The Ohio River is a noble body
of water, and it has some good duck hunting on occasion, but it's
a long way from being an ocean and vacation time would see us
heading northeast to Cape Cod. In 1951 we started to move cast

ermanently in a shift to the newly-formed Planning Commission
of Steubenville, Ohio. Steubenville, also on the Ohio River, ts a
steel town with the soft coal smoke and down-to-earth politics that
one would expect in such. It is an hour’s drive from Pittsburgh
where we found old Navy friends and the fabulous urban redevelop-
ment which identifies this city as the nation’s outstanding example
in rebuilding. But we didn’t rebuild Steubenville in spite of the
efforts of many good people to put the town on the path of prog-
ress, However, we did buy an interest in eighty acres of aban-
doned farmland nearby and planted some 60,000 seedling trees with
the help of the local FFA. Thus began another hobby — forestry.
Our present address 1s Worcester. We moved back to New
England in 1954 to join the Planning Department of the city. To
date, the pattern of employment has been pretty steady, thar of
a “civil servant” with a city. It has its rewards as well as liabilities.
There are always pols with axes to sharpen as well as disyruntled
taxpayers who feel that anyone on the public payroll is lary, with
one hand outstretched and the other in his pocket, One of the
rewards is to observe the number of public employees whe are
honest and industrious and take pride in their work, City planning
is a fascinating field of endeavor, and T mean endeavor lrerally.
One “endeavors” a good deal to persuade people thar things shoul

[ 1173 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935 e

LEON RYACK

 

HOME AbbRESS: 25 Weybridge Lane, Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1093 Beacon St., Brookline 46, Mass.
BorN: Feb, 17, 1916, Boston, Mass. parents: Joseph Ryack, Mary Wasserman.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; M.D. (New York
Medical Coll.), 1940.

marrieD:; Florence G, Schiller, June 10, 1940, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN: Paul
Richard, Aug. 14, 1941; Jane Barbara, Sept. 27, 1949.

HARVARD SON: Paul Richard Ryack, °63.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Herbert Ryack, ’40.

occuPaATION: Physician — internist.
OFFICES HELD: Assistant clinical professor of medicine, Tufts University School

of Medicine; assistant physician, University Health Service, Harvard Uni-
versity; associate visiting physician, First and Third Medical Services
(Tufts), Boston City Hospital; associate in medicine, Beth Israel Hospital,
visiting physician, Jewish Memorial Hospital; active staff (medicine),
Parker Hill Medical Center; courtesy staff (medicine), Massachusetts
Memorial, New England and Brookline Hospitals.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association, Norfolk County Medical Society;
American Board of Internal Medicine (diplomate); American College of

Physicians (associate).

[ 1176 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES EDWARD RYAN, JR.

    
 

eo]

Nae

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Sheridan Rd., Stoneham 80, Mass. ;
OFFICE ADDRESS: New England Motor Rate Bureau, Inc., 125 Linceln Se,

Boston, Mass.
*
BorN: March 2, 1914, Boston, Mass. pareNTs: Charles Edward Ryan, Anna Vv’.

Farrell.
PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1031-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; LL.B. (Boston Coll.), 191g
marRiED: Mary T. Hampl, Oct. 10, 1942, Nashua, N.H. cettpres: Charles
Edward, 3d, July 17, 1948; Patricia K., June 2, 1952; Judith M. April 6

1954-
occuPpaTION: Lawyer; transportation; commerce counsel.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Traffic and Transportation, Inc., Awoctation
of Interstate Commerce Commission Practitioners; Delta Nu Alpha Trane
portation Fraternity, Inc.; Harvard Club of Eastern Middlesesi ‘Tratte
Club of New England, Inc.

CAREER HISTORY: I have been variously unemployed, over-
employed and under-employed. The unemployment tempered by
a devotion to the speed of horses; the over-employ ment accounted
for by marriage and fatherhood; the under-employ ment accounted
for by dullness which accompanies specialization in daw,

FAMILY: I am an average referee: Wife, forty-six, children,
twelve, eight and six.

TRAVELS: I have never been south of Charleston, Wese Vir-
ginia, west of Saratoga, New York, or north of Rockingham, New
Hampshire (see “unemployed” above).

HOBBIES: I own Great Books of the Western Worll, ( subs.
scribe to American Heritage, Hortson, Time, Rusiness Weck anal
The Reporter. My hi-fi collection includes the rewards of the
Metropolitan Opera Record Club, inter alia.

WAR RECORD: 4F.

 

[1177]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

GOVERNMENT SERVICE: None.

SOCIAL CONVICTIONS: Spoiled by English 28 (1931-32)
by a reading of The Spectator by one Addison, viz:

Thus I live in the world as a Spectator of mankind than as one

of the species; by which means I have made myself a speculative

statesman, soldier, merchant and artisan, without ever meddling
with any practical part [excepting taxes] of life.
Aggravated by Pope:
Happy the man whose wish and care
A few paternal acres [10,780 feet] bound
Content to breathe his native air
In his own ground.
Confirmed elsewhere:

“Let Me Alone.” Exodus 32/10.

POLITICAL CONVICTIONS: I voted for Willkie (1940),
Roosevelt (1944), Dewey (1948), Stevenson (1952 & 1956). My
record is one out of five. Maybe the law of averages will confirm
an affirmative conviction: W. Stuart Symington (1960).

RELIGIOUS CONVICTIONS: I am a practising Roman Catho-
lic.

RICHARD SAMUEL SALANT

 

HOME apprEss: Wing Road, New Canaan, Conn,

OFFICE aDoREss: Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc., 485 Madison Ave., New
York 22, N.Y.

BorN: April 14, 1914, New York, N.Y. parents: Louis Salant, Florence
Aronson.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: a.8., magna cum laude, 19353 LLB., cur
laude, 1938.

{1178 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Rosalind Robb, June, 1941 (divorced 1954); Frances Trainee, Decem
ber, 1955. CHILDREN: Rosalind Robb, 2d, Oct. 20, 1942; Susan Ny July
14, 1944; D. Robb, April 20, 1947; Priscilla, Jan. 18, 1953, Sarah Meigs
Sept. 13, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Corporate Affairs, Columbia Broadcasting Sve
tem, Inc., broadcasting and manufacturing.

PUBLICATIONS: Harvard Public Policy — ‘Political Campaigns and the Broad-

caster”; Law and Contemporary Problems—“The Functions and Prac-

tices of a Television Network.’
AFTER graduation from the Law School in 1938, [ became a
junior New Dealer working for the National Labor Relations
Board during its more controversial days. In 1939, worked for
the Attorney General’s Committee on Administrative Procedure,
whose chairman was Dean Acheson. I served as accounting director
of the Attorney General’s Committee until 1941, when I went to
the Solicitor General’s office of the U.S. Department of Justice,
where I remained until 1943 when I entered the Navy as an ensign.
In 1946 I left the Navy as a lieutenant commander and entered
private practice in New York City, with Rosenman, Goldimark,

Colin & Kaye, I spent a good deal of my time on the color tcle-
vision case. In 1951 I resigned my partnership in Rosenman, Gold-
ee }

mark, Colin & Kaye, to become vice-president of Columbia Broad

°
casting System, Inc. I made the shift largely because private prac-
tice was altogether too private and the field of broadcasting Was
as close as one could come to working for the covernment ny

general terms of the impact on the public.

GUSTAVO SALIVA, JR.

AppRESS: Box 38, Marina Station, Mayaguez, Puerto Rico.
BORN: Dec. 31, 1913, Mayaguez, Puerto Rico. Parents: Gustavo Saliva, ha

de la Sierra.
PREPARED AT: Staunton Military Academy, Staunton, Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

NO questionnaire returned.

[1179 ]

et

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

HENRY SALTONSTALL

   

HOME ADDRESS: Stratham, N.H.
OFFice appress: Exeter Clinic, 75 Front St., Exeter, N.H.

BORN: Jan. 14, 1913, Milton, Mass. parents: Robert Saltonstall, ’92, Caroline
James Stevenson.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter,
N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; M.D. (Columbia
Univ.), 1939.

marriep: Cecilia Beaux Drinker, July 27, 1940, Merion, Pa. cHivpren: Kent,

July 29, 1942; Henry, Jr., Feb. 27, 1944; Caroline, Dec. 26, 1946; Ellen,
Nov. 2, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Gurdon Saltonstall, ’28, a.M., 31, LL.D. ’53; Robert
Saltonstall, °33.

occupaTion: Surgeon; member, Surgical Staff, Exeter Hospital.
OFFICES HELD: Member, School Board, Stratham, N.H., 1953—-59.

MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons; New England Surgical Society;
Tourille Fish & Game Club; Northeast Medical Association; International
Society of Ski Traumatology.

PUBLICATIONS: Several medical papers on “Treatment of Burns,” 1940-43.

AFTER graduation, had four years of medical school in New York
City, then four years of hospital training in Philadelphia, then three
years of Air Force and Army and, finally, nine months of hospital
work in Boston. Arrived in Exeter, New Hampshire, in 1947 and
entered group practice of medicine with Charlie Houston and two
others. Can vaguely but with great pleasure remember the first
two years of surgical practice which were quiet and peaceful —
plenty of time to work on the farm, etc. Since then life increasingly
busy but still very satisfying — not enough time for skiing, sailing,
and loafing — need three months’ vacation a year but can’t have

jt, Have minimal number of social, political and religious convic-
tions.

[ 1180 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SAMUEL BERNARD SALVIN

    

   

aa
rn © .
vi

 

HOME appress: 908 S. Third St., Hamilton, Mont.

OFFICE appREss: U.S. Public Health Service, Hamilton, Mont.

BORN: July 10, 1914, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Benjamin B. Salvin, Lena Sall.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cut laude, 1935; ED.M., 1937, AML,
1938, PH.D., 1941.

MarriED: Helen Elizabeth Huleatt, April 21, 1942, Cambridge, Mass. cautoar~:
Helen Thalia, July 29, 1945; Carol Marjorie, Sept. 5, 1948; Donald Samuel,

Aug. 19, 1954.
OCCUPATION: Research and teaching; head, Section of Allergy and Immunology,

Rocky Mountain Laboratory, U.S. Public Health Service.

MEMBER OF: American Association of Immunologists, Federation of Amerwan
Societies for Experimental Biology; Society of American Bactenologet,
Mycological Society of America; Sigma Xi; American Association for
the Advancement of Science; Montana Microbiological Society,

PUBLICATIONS: Over sixty research papers on various phases of immunology and
hypersensitivity.

MY days at Harvard seem remote, both in time and distance. After

about eleven years wherein I progressed from a meek freshman

through graduate school to one of the teaching profession, | lefe

Harvard to join the Navy, and have not returned, With the chose

of the war, I entered the U.S. Public Health Service and carried on

research for almost four years at the National Institutes of Health
in Bethesda, Maryland. I then had the opportunity to go “West,”

a decision I hesitated to make but, when once made, ‘L have not

regretted.

We are now living in a small community of yooo, not counting
horses, sheep or cattle, in the middle of the Bitrerroot Mountains of
western Montana. No buslines, airlines or railroads paw throuyh
town. There is a highway at the edge of town, which runs nore

{ ri8t ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

to Glacier Park and south toward Yellowstone Park and on for
about 1500 miles to Las Vegas, Nevada. Because of mountains,
wilderness areas and the like, we cannot travel directly east or west.
In the winter, when the road conditions may become poor, we can
always travel by dog sled or, if the river does not freeze too solidly,
by kayak. Life can become difficult, however, as when the rainbow
trout are not rising in the summer or the elk are hiding in the winter.
Under these conditions, | am apt to vent my annoyance on the golf
course.

Since I have a wife and three children whom I am supposed to
support and who have become tired of eating game, I am also gain-
fully employed. I am carrying on research, primarily on allergy,
at the Rocky Mountain Laboratory of the U.S, Public Health
Service. This laboratory was originally built to study Rocky
Mountain spotted fever which had a high rate of incidence in
the area. Now with the problem largely solved, the laboratory is
the home of a variety of research disciplines, from allergy to aca-
rology to virology and zymology.

My wife, whom I met while she was at Radcliffe, and I sometimes
become nostalgic for the confusion and uproar of the big city. We
nevertheless probably shall continue to enjoy the area, where thus

far there is neither television, traffic, nor smog, but plenty of wide
open spaces,

GEORGE IRVING SAMANSKY

    

HOME appress: 48 Westover St., West Roxbury 32, Mass,

’ e INTS: orris S. Saman S
4 y q sk 4 Bess i¢

[ 1182 ]

:
r
¢
r
}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; B.J.£. (Hebrew Teachers
College of Boston), 1935; M.s.w. (Graduate School for Jewish Soctal
Work), 1939.

MARRIED: Yona Koppelman, Jan. 26, 1936, Boston, Mass. cHitpren: Judith Ann,
Sept. 12, 1940; Allan Jay, June 7, 1945.

occuPATION: Social worker; executive director, Jewish Centers Association of
Greater Boston.

OFFICES HELD: President, New England Association of Jewish Center Worker,
1949-51; chairman, Eastern Massachusetts Chapter, National Association
of Social Workers, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Jewish Center Workers; National Awo-
ciation of Social Workers; American Jewish Congress.

AS I ruminate about my life today, it is the everyday humdrum

things that come first to mind: off a diet and on, on smoking and

off, doing my share in the children’s car pool for school and hockey

practice, watching fuel bills, bemoaning soaring real estate taxes.

Not that my profession as a social group worker in the Jewish
Community Center isn’t exciting (even glamorous) and absorbing.
I can truthfully say that I work very hard, and have more than my
portion of “headaches” and tension, but I love it! Why? Very few
things can be as rewarding as developing (how one takes credit for
the accomplishments of his assistants!) a resident country camp for
the aged and receiving their fulsome gratitude, or new center build-
ings to which flock people of all ages for a host of recreational
activities; or a day camp site in the country to which over oo
youngsters come each day during the summer months.

I was tempted to write that I have never worked so hard in my
life. But the Twenty-fifth Anniversary of our Class draws me back
to an even tougher (and yet more satisfying) period when I had
not only my college undergraduate courses but also daily courses
at the Hebrew Teachers College of Boston, as well as daily Hebrew
teaching to earn a few dollars — plus a girl friend to try to keep up
with! Just picture it — home in the West End of Boston, Harvard
in Cambridge, Hebrew College in Roxbury, girl friend in Dorvhes-
ter, teaching Lord knows where. Through all this I learned several
lessons: how to budget hours even more ‘than money, how to write
themes on swaying subway trains, how to postpone dates with the
irl friend with plausible-sounding excuses —and, warabile dicty,
how to study!

The girl friend story ended happily. She did marry me. And
need I add that we lived happily ever after, at least to this point

[ 1183 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

My children, curiously enough, also bring back associations of
undergraduate days. As I review assignments with them (whenever
they can get me from behind the newspaper, or, I'll admit it, from
in front of the TV set), I find that with all that I have forgotten
from college days there is yet so much that I remember. My
daughter (Brandeis University, class of 1962) is awed as her father
expounds on the British parliamentary and constitutional systems.
My son, now at my alma mater, Boston Latin School, class IV
(ninth grade to the uninitiated) pulls up his Caesar and marvels that
his daddy (after the son has to give the words their translations) can
sort of fit the words into a pattern for translation. What greater
tribute can there be to well-grounded learning than that it sticks
after so many years, and that it earns the admiration of one’s chil-
dren to boot!

Hobbies? The simple ones: Boston Symphony, theatre, garden-
ing (here my wife and children might disagree, since they admittedly
have to pressure me to action), voracious reading — and, oh, yes,
co-leading a Great Books discussion group. I had my tiny odyssey
away from Boston — in New York, the Midwest, and other points —
but it was wonderful to come back home to all the pleasures and
associations connected with this city and environs.

JAMES MORRISON SAMPSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 70 Jerusalem Rd., Cohasset, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 18 India St., Boston 9, Mass.

BoRN: Oct. 31, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents; Edward Joseph Sampson, Lillian
May Morrison,

PREPARED aT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREFS: A.B. 19353 11.8. (Boston Univ.), 1939.
marriep; Carol Ruhl Clarke, Nov. 29, 1947, Brookline, Mass, CHILDREN: James

[ 1184 J

set tte

Gn area

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Morrison, Jr., Sept. 26, 1948; Julie Clarke, Aug. 17, 1951; Anne Ruhl, Okt.
27, 1952; Debra Morrison, Sept. 8, 1954.
occuPATION: Lawyer basically, but with considerable time supersising interests

in many varied fields.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Cohasset Golf Club, The Second Club.

THRICE have I labored to create a witty, smooth chef Tocmre, and
thrice has my wife turned thumbs down on my “masterpiece.”

So I have despaired of a well-rounded report. Instead. my contri
bution will be a few random reflections in retrospect of expenences

and errors.
I note from the Class Album that my intended vocation was

banking. Economics was my major. It was appalling how litde |
learned, due largely to the imadequacy of my tutor (now head of
the department! ) Seymour Harris, whose pet theory on money by
Lord Keynes has since been found to be completely unsound.
(Harris now advocates that all couples over sixty-five be guaran-
teed $6000 a year!) Mourning my wasted field of concentration, 1
did a quick flip into the law. “After law school and a bout with the
bar exam, I hung out my shingle.

Although one of the relatively few to take ROTC “before
Munich,” "T consider it the most rewarding part of my college edu-
cation in that it resulted in my becoming an assistant profesor ae
Harvard in 1940. My subsequent military service ended in 1944
in command of Berchtesgaden. Satisfaction with my partin the war
effort was dulled by the realization that many w ith no combat ex-
perience had left me far behind in professional knowledge, ¢v-
perience, income and family.

The lonely outlook of continued bachelorhood changed my leas
about marriage, and Carol and I were married in 1947. fv reser a-
tions concerning children underwent an abrupt and complete rc.
versal when our son, and thereafter three daughters, arrived. Greater
happiness in a completely happy married life would be ditheult to
experience.

The practice of law was found to be somewhat frustrating. Phe
certainty of right is too often cancelled by the whim of the yusdcc,
jury or politician. (I thought I was a hidebound Repubhean used
I was forced to pay a bribe to a top Republican legislator, Fam nos
an Independent.) I have therefore shifted emphasis to the ue ef
law more in relation to business investments. Asa resule, IN pees

interests are in many and varied ficlds, such as wholesale bist
oil wells, a Howard Johnson restaurant, stecl boats, a GN Mate,

[ 1185 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I 935

express terminals and real estate (ownership and development of
thirty acres of piers in downtown Boston). Never can I move far
from Boston, with the exception of occasional recreational sorties
to Europe.

Since I feel that the ROTC is most beneficial, I have spent con-
siderable time since the war assisting the department at Harvard as
a member of the Board of Overseers visiting committee. To me,
this has been a contribution to Harvard of a more personal nature
than the Program, and in a field with which I am in complete agree-
ment. (It puzzles me why the Program needs $16,000,000 to raise
salaries, when tuition has been tripled since the war.) In conclu-
sion —at long last —I feel substantially at peace with the world,
and happy with my family and way of life.

£.
|
|

JEAN PAUL SAMS

 

HOME appress: 2340 Guilford Lane, Kansas City, Mo.

Born: May 31, 1912, Topeka, Kans, parents: Louis Van Sams, Dolpha Green
Albert.

PREPARED AT: New Mexico Military Institute, Roswell, N.Mex.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932, 1934-1937. DEGREE: S.B., 1935 (38).

MaRRiED: Margaret Josephine Helmers, July 12, 1941, Kansas City, Mo. cHIL-
pREN: Flizabeth Edna, May 22, 1942; William Helmers, Feb. 20, 1952.

occupation: Colonel, U.S. Army; military traffic management and operations;
transportation officer, U.S. Army Pacific.

OFFICES HELD: Deputy for military movements, San Francisco Port of Embarka-
tion, 1941-45; executive officer and deputy port commander, New Orleans
Port of Embarkation, 1946-47; area transportation officer (Bavaria-Hesse-
Baden), European Command, 1947-51; deputy chief of staff for adminis-
tration, Seattle Port of Embarkation, 1951-54; doctrinal developments
officer (faculty), U.S. Army Command and General Staff College, 1955-
58; transportation officer, U.S. Army Pacific, since 1959; president, Asso-

[ 1186 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ciation of Military Traffic Managers, 1951-53; vice-president and prew-
dent, 1955-58, MFH, 1956-57, Fort Leavenworth Hunt.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Kansas City, Kansas City Country Club, Denver

Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in The Military Review and other professional journals.

THE seeds of Destiny germinate in strange places. For me the place

was Roswell, New Mexico, where, in 1928, I was delivered as a new

“bunny” into the hands of the “Old” cadets at New Mexico Military

Institute. Although the next thirteen years were to see me asso-

ciated with the Army Reserve in one way or other, if one of the

major prophets had risen at any time during that period to predict
that I would some day be a professional soldier I would have thought
him insane.

In 1931 I arrived in Harvard Square as the first offering from

NMMI to Harvard College. After a bout in the administrative

echelon, I was matriculated in the Engineering School (by mistake)

where I floundered in confusion for two weeks until the Freshman

Dean rescued me. Prior to Harvard I had never listened to a lecture

(outside my father’s office) nor taken a lecture note; and trying to

interpret the sounds of an instructor from Balliol, who advocated

the study of Latin as a spoken language, was not as difficult for me
as a chat with him in English. In short, I did not have the fecling
that I was among friends, and when this was topped by a sorry
showing at mid-term the only thing that prevented my disengage-
ment and headlong retreat was the compassion and understanding of
that same Freshman Dean (God bless you, Mr. Bender). Added to
this was the helpful friendliness of Whit Dall, who showed me haw
to take lecture notes, and my roommate, Bill Sibley, who studied
with his hat on, “To concentrate the brains,” he said, and urged me
to do the same. Thanks also to the patient counsel of my tutor, Knox
Chandler, celebrating the occasion of my almost making the Dean's
List with ceremony and wild enthusiasm, and to the Groves girls at
the Brattle Inn, pouring tea for lonely souls, where Flue Harp
wooed and took the lovely Elaine. It is the likes of these to whom |
am indebted for the enduring memories of my Harvard evpericnee.
For my diploma I am indebted to the confident indulyences af my
parents and the College.

In the summer following my freshman year I was commissioned
in the U.S. Army Reserve. This may have been a Elarvard “tiese,”
since I entered the College with three of the four requircd Mul Se
years behind me, and completed the senior year as a freshinan. IJ

[ 1187 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

EMERSON SAMUELS

 

HOME apprEss: 434 Old Clairton Rd., Pleasant Hills, Pittsburgh 36, Pa.

orFice appress: 415 Waddell Ave., Clairton, Pa.

BORN: June 9, 1913, Clairton, Pa. Parents: Bernet B. Samuels, Matilda Ilke.
PREPARED AT: Clairton High School, Clairton, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1935; LL.B., 1938.
MarrieD; Jeanne Kalish, March 20, 1945, Los Angeles, Calif. cHttpren: Cynthia
K,, May 21, 1946; Emily Anne, Aug. 15, 1949; Janet Lee, July 18, 1953.

occupaTion: Attorney.
AFTER working for the federal government during the war as an
attorney with the Office of Price Administration, I entered private
practice in 1945, at Clairton, Pennsylvania. I am continuing my
law work with emphasis on coal, oil, gas and property specialization.
I've been active in the usual community work — greatest recrea-
tion is travel, with one tour through North Africa, Spain, Portugal,
England, and France, and another recent trip to the northern coun-
tries, Politically I have wavered. Still a Republican, I have strayed

to the support of a few Democrats.

[ 1190 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT DANIEL SARD

 

HOME ADDRESS: 7073 Lindell Blvd., St. Louis, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Washington University, St. Louis, Mo.

BORN: Aug. 23, 1915, New York, N.Y. parents: Frederick N. Sard, Maria
Osipovna Belloch.

PREPARED AT: Friends Seminary, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1031-1935. DEGREES: S.B., magna cum laude, 1935, Na,

1940; PH.D., 1942.

MaRRIED: Mary Bell Marshall, Sept. 19, 1942, Cambridge, Mass. crutpren:
David Paul, Nov. 10, 1943; Frederick Marshall, Feb. 27, 1946; Hlannah
Belloch, May 31, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Arthur Sard, ’31; A.M., 732; PH.D. 736.

OccUPATION: Professor of physics, Washington University; teaching and re-

search.
MEMBER OF: American Physical Society (fellow); Italian Physical Society.
PUBLICATIONS: A series of papers on noise theory, special relativity (pedagogic),
cosmic rays, mesons and strange particles, since 1946 — at first alone and
later with students and colleagues; chapter on surveying and nuclear inter-
actions of mu-mesons, written with my former student, M. F. Crouch,

Progress in Cosmic Ray Physics, Vol. 2.

A SHELDON Prize Fellowship from Harvard enabled me to spend
the year 1935-36 at Cambridge, Paris and Leiden, opening up a
wonderful three-year period, spent mostly at Leiden, during which
I entered the world of physics research under the most INSpiringy
conditions. From this period I have an abiding love for France,
Holland and England. In the summer of 1938 I was forced by 6-
nancial considerations and parental illness to cut short my work at
Leiden and start my studies afresh in America. I returned to Elar-
vard as a graduate student and to Eliot House as a tutor. In thes
period I met Mary Bell Marshall, a brilliant pianist, whom [ larer
married. I owe this to Harvard, as we were introduced by my
music-loving tutor. (In fact, though I majored there in phvses

[riot ]

nl

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

I cherish most: singing in the Glee Club, and playing Bach with
my tutor, Martin Graban.) In the summer of 1942 I finished my
thesis, married, and started war research at Harvard on radar
countermeasures. The war work involved seven months in the
southwest Pacific as a radar countermeasures planner.

At the war's end I became a research associate in the physics de-
partment at M.IT., working with Bruno Rossi on cosmic rays. It
was exhilarating to be back in physics and in such a lively, modern
place. Then in the fall of 1946 to Washington University, St.
Louis, where I have been ever since. The life of a university pro-
fessor is a pleasant one, despite its chores. There have been two
sabbatical leaves. In 1951-52 we went to Manchester on a Fulbright
Fellowship. The year had a glorious climax in six weeks of taking
data at the Observatoire du Pie du Midi in the Pyrenees. Now

(1959-60) we are at Berkeley, a lively place with wonderful fa-
cilities,

CHARLES SPRAGUE SARGENT, JR.

 

HOME AbbRESS: 1155 Fourth Ave., New York 28, N.Y.

orrice aporess: William Iselin & Co., Inc., 357 Park Ave., S., New York 10,
NY.

Born: March 22, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: Charles Sprague Sargent,
’o2, Dagmar Wetmore.

PREPARED aT: St. Mark's School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934.

MaRRiED: Bridget MacBurney, Nov. 8, 1934 (died 1943); Marjorie Sullivan,
April 10, 1943, New York, N.Y. (divorced 1958). cHmtpREN: Selden, June
22, 1937; Charles Sprague, 3d, Aug. 12, 1938.

oocupaTion: Executive vice-president, William Iselin & Co., Inc., factors.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Manhattan Club; Ekwanok Country
Club (president 1959-50).

[ 1192 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
AFTER leaving college the end of my junior year to take on a
wife, I took the first job offered — with William Iselin & Company,
Inc., factors, and have stayed on ever since — twenty-five years —
now executive vice-president. Work has been increasingly interest-
ing. Up untl recently I traveled all over the country in search of

business; now I’m pretty well tied to home base.
Problems with family, ear drums, and totally unsuspected color

blindness prevented war service, I sweated it out on the job envy-
ing those in the thick of things. Not a pleasant experience.

I gave up the commuting rat race years ago and live in a New
York apartment with two grown kids, both working. They make
life interesting, even exciting at times. Plenty of romance but no
weddings in immediate prospect. Son didn’t make Harvard, but I
can’t really hold that against him; doubt if I could myself these
days.

We have a summer hideout, for weekends and vacations, in Man-
chester, Vermont. It’s a long tough grind up there and back, but
that mountain air and scenery are superb after a week in the steamy
city. Golf’s the prime attraction. The drives aren’t going quite as
far as they used to and the irons aren’t quite as crisp, but every now
and then all goes well together and a putt or two drops. That's a

real thrill.

RICHARD JEFFERY SAWYER

 

HOME apprEss: Box 1356, Deland, Fla.
OFFICE ADDRESS: American Agricultural Chemical Co., 100 Church Sc, New

York, N.Y.
BORN: March 25, 1912, Worcester, Mass, Parents: William Rrackett Sawyer,

Belle Jeffery.
PREPARED AT: Cranbrook School, Bloomfield Hills, Mich.

[ 1193 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932, 1933-1934.

Marniep: Catherine Montgomery, March 12, 1938, Edinburg, Texas (deceased);
Leone Brennan, March 12, 1944, Edinburg, Texas. caitpren: William B.,
May 20, 1940 (deceased); Marie Louise, Aug. 9, 1942; Barbara Brackett,
Feb. 3, 1950; Jo Jeffery, March 23, 1952.

occupation: Wholesale salesman, American Agricultural Chemical Company,
selling fertilizer materials to manufacturers.

SPENT years from 1933 to 1949 in South Texas, running cattle,
farming, four years in immigration border patrol and various short
periods working for the Department of Agriculture. Two years
in the Army, 17th CID Unit in France and Belgium, In 1946 ran
for sheriff of Hidalgo County, missing by about 250 votes.

Since 1939 have been with American Agricultural Chemical
Company, Lived in Plainfield, New Jersey, Clinton, Illinois, De
Funiak Springs, Florida, and now in Deland, Florida. My present
territory is Florida, South Georgia and Cuba. Am trying for Mexico,
Puerto Rico and Costa Rica.

Ardent Episcopalian, Democrat, Segregationist and now an ama-
teur orchid-grower. Have seen my ex-roommate Charles McIntosh
several times recently.

DAVID DANIEL SCANNELL, JR.

 

BorN: March 30, 1913, Boston, Mass. parENTS: David Daniel Scannell, ’97,
Elizabeth MacDonald.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931~1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; LL.B., 1940.
MARRIED: Elizabeth FitzSimmons, Nov. 29, 1947, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:

Elizabeth Rogers, Nov. 24, 1948; Joanna; David Daniel, 3d; Henry.
piep: April 11, 1953, Jamaica Plain, Mass.

winow: Mrs. David D. Scannell, Jr, 489 Walnut St., Jamaica Plain, Mass.

[1194 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER Law School, Scannell spent a short time as assistant to the
general counsel of the Howard D. Johnson Company and then be-
came associated with the law firm of Tyler & Reynolds in Boston.
During 1944-45, he was an attorney with the Office of Price Ad-
ministration in Washington, returning to Boston in 1946 to assume
a position with the Office of Price Stabilization. He maintained
law offices on Court Street in Boston.

During 1948-49, he served as Massachusetts State Chairman of
the Junior Bar Conference of the American Bar Association. He
was a clerk of the Massachusetts Civic League and served on the
Admissions and Public Relations Committees of the Boston Bar
Association. His memberships included: American, Massachusetts
and Boston Bar Associations, Massachusetts Civic League, Catholic
Alumni Sodality, Boston City Club, Footlight Club and the Jamaica
Plain Dramatic Society. From 1942 to 1944, he was a member of
the First Motor Squadron of the Massachusetts State Guard. He
was survived by his wife and children.

LUTHER SCHEFFY

 

apvreEss: P.O. Box 518, Fallbrook, Calif,

porn: April 8, 1914, West Mansfield, Mass. parents: Clinton Cyrus Schetfy,
’03, Elizabeth Leighton.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. ctim Tatude, 1935.

MARRIED: Marjorie Grace Coffin. caitp: Christabel, 1943.

NO questionnaire returned.

[1195 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

JOHN PHILIP SCHEU

  

HOME appress: P.O. Box 191, Bonita, Calif.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Convair (Astronautics Division), General Dynamics Corp.,
P.O. Box 1128, San Diego, Calif.

Born: Aug. 7, 1914, London, England. parents: Peter Carl Scheu, Sarah Jane
Kelley.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MarRiED: Georgetta Kent, Dec. 7, 1940, Scarsdale, N.Y. cHi_pren: Peter, June
12, 1942; Pamela, Jan. 4, 1945.

occupation: Chief, Support Planning and Control, Convair (Astronautics)
Division, General Dynamics Corporation. .

OFFICES HELD: Area director, American Red Cross; member, United Fund
Committee.

MEMBER OF: University Club; Harvard Club of San Diego (president, 1955,
member board of governors, since 1956); Astronautics Management Club;
American Management Association.

IN 1934 I came out to Southern California with Jack Morse, Norm
Cahners and Jack Healey to run the mile in the Los Angeles Coli-
seum. Twenty-five years later I find myself back in Southern Cali-
fornia and I am probably incapable of running a mile (how does
Frank Knowlton still continue to play such good squash?). This
does not seem like progress, A great deal, however, has happened.
Apparently it is the intent of the Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report
to have me inflict upon you just what has.

A careful check of our Fifteenth Anniversary Report, which I can
find nowhere, would doubtless indicate that in 1950 I had been
working with the Western Electric Company for nine years and
was well on my way to becoming a long-term Bell System em-
ployee. What it did not disclose was that ever since leaving Bonita
in the thirties, 1 hoped someday to return, This was in the nature

[ 1196 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of something I was going to do, like answering Sandy Bill's letter

of 1953, and Bill Dunbar’s of 1956. Somehow or other in 1952, much

to my surprise, I found myself negotiating with Convair. 1 came
to San Diego and have lived in nearby Bonita the past seven years.

Business concerns itself with Astronautics, where we are enyayed

in the Atlas ICBM project and the development of various “space
vehicles. I find that even some San Diegans are not aware of the
progress and efforts made in this field. Even the Russian advances
have been underestimated in relation to the possibility of actual
travel in space. Suffice to say here that the theoretical and mathe-
matical problems have been overcome. Everything about this busi-
ness is stimulating, including even the tremendous pressure under
which we generally operate. A few weeks ago, we had the Astro-
nauts here for a week and reviewed with them their part in the
Mercury Project. This is indeed stimulating.

I am, at present, in charge of Support Planning and Concrol at
Astronautics. “Planning and Control” is pretty obvi 1OUS, By “Sup-
port,” we mean the many things that are done by Conv air-Astro-
nautics after our products are engineered and produced. These in-
clude customer training, preparation of technical manuals and hand-
books, the determination, provisioning and sell-off of spares and
ground support equipment, the establishment of a maintenance and
repair depot and the activation of bases for firing missiles or space
vehicles. It also involves activities like QPRI, IWST and LOGBAL-
NET, which are conducted with SBAMA, AFPR, ATC, BMID'
STL/BMC, AFMTC, VAFB, etc. If any classmate expects me to
explain these terms here, now is the time for him to start reading a
different report.

Life has been very good to me — Georgetta seems to undemtand
the worrier to whom she is married, and Peter and Pamela run the
family all the time, while maintaining the semblance of my being
the head of it. Although there have been few moments when I
haven’t fretted and worried, the whole pattern of the twenty-five

years, oddly enough, seems serene, fruitful and happy in retrospect

There are then many things that give me pleasure. Muy farmuly, the
work I am engaged in, the “Southw est, swimming everyday licfore
breakfast (still not as good as Knowlton and his squash), reahiny,
photography, travel (Mexico several times, Hawaii in 'g4 and al
over the Southwest), play1 ing a litcle golf and an occasional yang af
bridge, the casual and informal way of life out here ant I ytse v4

[ 1197 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

there are other things, but if I sit and think about them, I never
will get this report in.

There are some things that disturb me. The lack of progress in
solving the international problems at the end of the last war, the
tendency to do what is practical as opposed to what is morall
correct (hey, I am getting old), and the terrible possibility that
the open country around Bonita might degenerate into being called
a fashionable area.

MILTON SYLVAN SCHILLER

 

HOME appDRESS: Caveswood Lane, Owings Mills, Md.

OFFICE apprEess; Weinberg & Green, 10 Light St., Baltimore 2, Md.

BoRN: March 18, 1914, Boston, Mass. parENTs: Louis Bernard Schiller, Augusta
Goldberg.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1935; LL.B. 1938.

MARRIED: Muriel Wilson, March 7, 1943, Worcester, Mass. cHtLpREN: Dorothy
Ellen, April 27, 1944; Leslie Ann, Nov. 23, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Irving Paul Schiller, ’37.

OCCUPATION: Attorney; partner in firm, Weinberg & Green.

OFFICES HELD: Sundry offices in civic, charitable and professional organizations.

MEMBER OF: Woodholme Country Club.

PuBLIcATIONS: Articles on taxation in “Taxes” (The Tax Magazine) and other
local publications.

FROM 1935 to 1960: twenty-five years! Quite a chunk of time
and yet it readily divides itself into three parts — the first ten, the
next fiftcen, and the next ?.

The first ten have been devoted to getting ready for the next
fifteen. This course of preparation consisted of:

(a) The Art of Learning: Three years at Harvard Law School

[ 1198 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and a degree of Bachelor of Laws in 1938; private practice in Ben.
ton; further study, primarily in the field of taxation, government
service in the Department of Justice and The Tax Court of the
United States in Washington, D.C., and

(b) The Art of Living: Married in March, 1943, to the vivacious
Muriel Wilson (Worcester, Mass.),; daughter, Dorothy Pllen, bern
in Washington, D.C., in April, 1944; and daughrer, Leshe Ann, born
in Baltimore, Maryland, in November, 1946.

The next fifteen have been devoted to getting ready for the next

. This course of further preparation consisted of:

(a) The Art of Continued Learning: A completely fortuitous
(answer to a blind ad in the IV. ashington Post), but thoroughly
satisfying and more than adequately rewarding association (whi h
has matured into a partnership) with the fine law firm of W cinbery
& Green in the city of Baltimore. Here I have been able, and fer-
vently hope to continue, to practise law (with emphasis on the in-
triguing problems facing business and business men, and the impact
of federal income, estate and gift taxes on them) in a manner whieh
has been intellectually stimulating; and I am just beginning to real-
ize that the education which In unwittingly absorbed at Harvard

College and at Harvard Law School has made this possible.

(b) The Art of Continued Living: My wife, my daughters and I
try (and to some extent succeed, I think) to enjoy our lav cly coun-
try home and the cultural experiences available to us in Ralranere.
The pressure of running a houschold, the pressure of an active law
practice and the pressure of just growing up atfects us all, and makes
the art of living a bit complicated but nevertheless normal, in that
at times it is not at all clear whether this is truly an art.

I have retained a keen interest in spectator sports, play golf (hast
not well), play at tennis (doubles only) and participate in the usual
community activities,

And after these twenty-five years, what about the newt ?,

(a) On a personal basis, a deep hope that my farmly and J prow
wise as we grow older, and that this greater wisdom teaches us bees
to realize greater and more satisfying enjoyment from our week
and play.

(b) On a broad basis, an equally deep hope that people every:
where will live in peace and freedom and with the divnuty of the

individual preserved. |

[ tt9y ]

__

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ASBURY WINFIELD SCHLEY

 

HOME apprEss: 117 Loomis Drive, West Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE appress: West Hartford Public Library, 20 S. Main St., West Hartford,
Conn.

Born: Sept. 6, 1910, Boston, Mass. parents: Robert Montford Schley, Alice
E. Rowe.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933, 1934-1937. DEGREES: S.B., 1935(37); A.M., 1943;
s.B. in Library Science (Simmons Coll.), 1948.

marniep: Eleanor V. Winberg, Boston, Mass. cumpren: Asbury Winfield, Jr.;
Scott Montford.

occupation: Head librarian, West Hartford Public Library.

MEMBER OF: American, Connecticut and Massachusetts Library Associations;

Torch Club; Harvard Club of Connecticut.

AFTER a number of things which included ten months in Paris
(1937-38), importing illustrated French tomes, forty months in
the Navy, and retail book selling, I entered library school in 1947.
(A bit lare in life, 1 must confess.) Since then, in addition to my
present position in the Nutmeg State, I have worked in a college,
a special and two public libraries.

I rather enjoy my profession, occasionally import a book or two,
follow Exeter and Harvard gridiron fortunes with interest, hope
that we shall someday be able to pen a page of history without
having to record a single blood bath and am quite satisfied with my
family.

I guess that’s about it.

[ 1200 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

"kr HENRY DONOVAN SCHMIDT, JR.

 

BorN: March 6, 1912, Washington, D.C. parents: Henry Donovan Schade,
Annie Pagan.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MARRIED: Margaret Farrell. cHiLpREN: Margaret; Ruth; William Henry.

DIED: Jan. 17, 1945, Gloucester, Mass.

HENRY DONOVAN SCHMIDT, JR., spent one year at Harvard
with our Class. The Secretary has no information concerning his
activities after leaving college. He was survived by his wife and
children.

PAUL KARL SCHNEIDER

 

HOME appreEss: 17 Evergreen Drive, North Caldwell, N.J.

OFFICE appREss: McGraw-Hill Book Co., 330 W. g:d Se, New York, NOY.

BORN: Jan, 25, 1914, Newark, N.J. Parents: Paul George Schnenlee, brsany
Henrietta Doell.

PREPARED AT: Newark Academy, Newark, N_J.

[ 208 |

1

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.
marrieD: Helen Elisabeth Rogge, March 4, 1950, Glen Ridge, N.J. CHILDREN:

Stephen Paul, Dec. 19, 1950; Cynthia Jeane, Feb. 25, 1953; Douglas Rogge,
Dec. 12, 1953.

occupation: Editor, Blakiston Division, McGraw-Hill Book Company, pub-
lishers.

FROM Cambridge I went to the medical school at New Haven
and after one year had to drop out for financial reasons. I was ever
hopeful that my luck would change and that I would be able to go
back to finish my medical degree, but the gathering war clouds in
Europe, U.S, entry in the war and my own involvement in the Navy
from 1942 to 1946, finally convinced me that the planned career
in medicine would never be realized.

The war saw me indoctrinated at Princeton Naval Training
School, assigned to the Amphibious Forces, participating in several
of the European invasions and, after V-E Day, assigned as the C.O.
of an LST taking occupation forces from the States to Tokyo via
the Canal Zone, Hawaii and Okinawa.

The combination of my premed training at college, the year at
Yale Medical School and a continued interest in medicine, all contrib-
uted to and strongly influenced my pursuit of a career in medical
publishing which I had started before the war. From 1946 to 1956,
I was the eastern educational sales representative of the W. B. Saun-
ders Company of Philadelphia. In 1954 the opportunity to get into
the creative side of the business presented itself, and I became an
editor of the Blakiston Division of the McGraw-Hill Book Company
where my assignment includes responsibility for this division’s pub-
lishing program in the field of nursing and the medical specialties.

Commuting to New York from our north Jersey home has its
traffic headaches, but our suburban community atmosphere and
activities make life pleasant and busy with increasing interests of
our children from a trumpet-playing nine-year-old Cub Scout son
and first-grader daughter to our pre-school youngest son, but, the
years fly by and another ten years will, we hope, see these “old

grads” reliving college once again with our “eds” and “co-ed.”

[ 1202 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HERBERT PAUL SCHOEN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1083 Farmington Ave., West Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hartford Accident & Indemnity Co., Harford, Conn,

BORN: June 30, 1913, Glens Falls, N.Y. parents: Otto Schoen, Rose Semm.

PREPARED aT: Glens Falls High School, Glens Falls, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., Cu laude, 1935: LL.B. 1935.

MARRIED: Jeanne Frances Ball, Dec. 15, 1945, Caledonia, N.Y. cuttpar~: Susan
Jeanne, June 25, 1948, Stephen George, Aug. 14, 1950, James Herbert,
Dec. 28, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; associate general counsel, Hartford Accident & Indemnity
Company.

IN thinking why any of you might want to hear the distillation of

my last twenty-five years, the memory of my first meeting with

Wallace Stevens, the poet, comes forcefully alive. Ele said: “Hells.

Pve been told I should meet you. Why-” My vears have ford

few of the answers.

But life has been good. After college, the Law School kept me
in Cambridge for three years and then an insurance company beck.
oned to northern New York, where I stayed until Columbia Uno-
versity, Division of War Research, naively thoughe T could: help
the war effort. The Navy made a similar error in trying to make
me a celestial navigator — but we both lived through we. Ther
another insurance company, this time in Hartford, let me in the
front door and I have never departed.

While in the Navy, a Wave finally consented te marry me and
in time we had the family which makes the nevt twenty-hye sear
look even more stimulating.

With all this were the usual rights and duties plaved in a tise
key, and if a distillate there must be — then it is that the tritley ta thee

[ 1203 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

totality are the main ingredients of happiness and of what one be.
lieves at the moment to be his measure of success,

FRANCIS SCHUMANN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 112 Rex Ave., Philadelphia 18, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 8815 Germantown Ave., Philadelphia 18, Pa.

BORN: May 13, 1914, Philadelphia, Pa. PaRENTS: Edward Armin Schumann,
Hazel Prince.

PREPARED AT: Germantown Academy, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; M.D. (Univ. of Pennsylvania),
1939.
marnieD: Ingeborg Heide Jenisch, July 1, 1950, Hochheim/Main, Germany.

CHILDREN: Linda, July 28, 1951; Francis Jenisch, May 13, 1954.
occupation: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant professor of surgery, Women’s Medical College of
Pennsylvania; associate surgeon, Chestnut Hill Hospital, Memorial Hos-
pital; attending surgeon, Veterans Hospital, Philadelphia General Hospital.

MEMBER oF: American Medical Association; Philadelphia College of Physicians;
American College of Surgeons; American Board of Surgery (diplomate) ;

Philadelphia Museum of Art, Wilderness Society; Wissahicken Skating
Club.

PusLications: Articles in surgical journals.

A REDUCTION of the events of my last twenty-five years to a
few lines on paper is about to prove much easier than I had ever
thought, a fact which humbles me at the outset. Sometime early
in my youth, I seemed destined toward medicine as a career. De-
spite moments of doubt and wavering both in college and medical
school, I have pursued this objective through the usual stages
of graduation, internship, military service, and then spent more
years in training in the specialty of general surgery. Most of my
hours are consumed somewhere in the maze of this profession —

[ 1204 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

either seeing or taking care of patients, teaching, and ovcasionalls

touching on investigation or trying to keep just a little up to date
on the fantastic amounts of medical literature. The distressing as-
pect of the whole business is that, despite all these vears, Lam feel.
ing more like a student all the time and less like the old grad re-
turning with the wisdom and answers that younger generations
have every right to expect of him. All in all, I have enjoved my
activities in surgery — actually almost half of the time since lcav-
ing Harvard was spent in preparation for this work, so that f sul
am relatively recent in its actual practice.

When I was added to the Army in 1942, 1 found my acceptance
papers stamped in bright red “Air Force.” Anticipations of excit-
ing flights i into dark and unknown lands gradually dimmed after wecks
of awaiting assignment and then finally being put to the examina-
tion of thousands of soldiers as they move ed through the various
phases of the Air Force program. After months of this, I felt that
I could tell with some accuracy the ethnic background and geo-
graphical home of a soldier just by looking at him in his “bares.”
and particularly by studying his teeth. I became practically hostile
toward the Air Force while attending the School of Aviation Medh-
cine, for here we students were not to be taken into the air at all
because of a fuel shortage! The situation did indeed change when
I was sent as a flight surgeon to a squadron in England. From then
on, I was only too glad to be on terra firma — after my “boys” had
demonstrated some of their special flying skills for the “doe.”

As a perennial bachelor of many years standing, I little thoughe
that I should meet my wife-to-be in her family home on the Rhine
River in December, 1945. Four years later, after finishing surgical
training and starting practice, I returned to Hochheim, Germany,
where three weeks “later Heide and I were married. The adjust.

ments to a new country, a strange language, and wide separation
from family and old friends have come slowly for Heide, yee Phila:
delphia has become so much our home together that we can warcels
imagine living elsewhere. Our two children, aved nine and ses,
are hardly in Reunion age and will, in all probability. not be trans.
ported to Cambridge this June, bur rather will accHmpiny us
on a proposed trip to Germany in the summer. “Thi iy alwaye a
time of highest excitement and bubb ling activity, expestilly we
in view of the fact that Hcide’s family lives direenly over the
own champagne factory and cellar. One of the poviove oe
duties, or both, of the Twenty-five Year Chins Member as to rent

[ 1205 ]

a |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

a condensation of his views on life and his times as he has seen
them to date, be he great or be he small. Such an essence, hopefully,
will issue forth with greater color at the Reunion tables than here
on a quick desk. If only now I could go to college, how much more
I would learn —I found myself thinking as the years passed. Yet
this is readily countered by the realization that at least I did have
four years’ exposure to that remarkable environment at Harvard
and that at no time since have I failed to be at least somewhat under
its influence. Then there is the problem of multiple interests, one
detracting from the time and energy due another and all inter-
fering with accomplishment in one’s principal endeavor. Too much
budgeting of time and inclination can close an otherwise open
mind and produce a first-class bore — following each lead will
lead nowhere. This age-old problem seems no closer to solution
than ever, and fortunately so, for its perplexities open new vistas
and viewpoints everywhere.

Then there is the question concerning what is good for man-
kind or rather for the individual therein. Intense investigation
seems consistently to prove that what has always been enjoyable
is really bad. A good old-fashioned meal is loaded with dynamite
in the form of cholesterol and a series of them may well bring
on our doom. Let us hope that our Reunion planners have not
read these reports, or if they have that they go ahead with dare-
devil menus, It seems that researchers are discovering how inex-
haustible human stamina and endurance really are when driven by
proper will, how much better off is he who runs rather than walks,
who bicycles rather than drives. Oh Rest, what folly hath been
wrought in thy name (but please let there be some strategically
placed cots to receive weary ’35’ers in June, 1960). Tobacco and
alcohol, bad in all respects, out of style, banished for years by
moralists and now by scientists. After Reunion, this will require
reconsideration in the light of newest studies. Despite the atomic
age, space exploration, mechanical brains and high-power gadgetry
of all sorts, I have found little substitute for human companion-
ship and camaraderie and for the need we have for one another.
Science would certainly seem to have a bright future, but I can
see even better days ahead for the family and the College Reunion!

[ 1206 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM EDWARD SCHWARZ

é
:
5
t
a
’
i

  

HOME ADDRESS: 5832 Itaska St., St. Louis 9, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Chandeysson Electric Co. 4084 Bingham Ave, Sc. Lous 14
Mo.

BORN: Dec. 22, 1912, St. Louis, Mo. ParENTs: Michael Schwarz, Maria Nothum.

PREPARED AT: Roosevelt High School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B. IN ENG., cum Inude, 1935.

MarRRIED: Helen Audre Ostertag, Aug. 5, 1939, St. Louis, Mo, Quipars: Robert
Emil, June 11, 1940; Diane Jean, March 30, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Emil Arthur Schwarz, ’33.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and general manager, Chandeysson Flectric Com-

any.

MEMBER OF: Greenbriar Hills Country Club; Engincers’ Club of St. Loun,

American Institute of Electrical Engineers.

FOLLOWING graduation, I returned to St. Louis and, after a
month of job-hunting, started at Chandeysson Flectric Company.
In 1940, I went with Westinghouse Electric in Pittsburgh, where i
spent the war years. I attended Carnegie Tech evening clases and
received my degree in chemistry in 1944. However, after two years
in chemical research, I returned again to the electrical field, this
time with Westinghouse in St. Louis. Then, four years lacer T was
back to my first job at Chandeysson Flectric, this time as general
manager.

Bob, our eldest, is in his second year at the University of Cole
rado. He believes that he ts best suited for accounting, Diane sin
her last year at high school and is seriously thinking of entering St
Louis University School of Nursing this fall,

Golf, at present, is my only outside activ ity which might penutdy
be classified as a hobby. My wife and I both enjoy the game whic
hacking away to about a thirty handicap,

[ 1207 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

DAVENPORT SCOTT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2550 Lake Shore Drive, Orlando, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Minute Maid Corp., P.O. Box 2711, Orlando, Fla.

Born: Nov. 30, 1912, New Rochelle, N.Y. parents: Stuart Scott, Anna Lawton,

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Sally C. Staley, May 20, 1950, Albany, N.Y. cHiLpren: Sally Daven-
port, July 18, 1954; Davenport, Jr., May 5, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHER: Stuart Scott, ’33.-

OccUPATION: Salesman.

WE have been living in Orlando, Florida, for the past two years.
We like it very much and hope to be able to stay for a while. For
five years before, we were at Dallas, Texas, and exposure to the
friendliness and vigor of the Southwest we wouldn’t have missed.
For three years previously, we lived in several parts of New Eng-
land and a year at Albany, New York, where Sally and I met and
married. Ail this time we have been mixed up in the sales activities
of Afinute Maid Corporation for whom we currently cover seven
southern states.

I keep saying “we” because a traveling man’s family lives his job
as acutely as he does; as many of you know. We have two wonder-
ful children who seem to enjoy growing up in central Florida.

In the past seven years we have been pretty much out of touch
with classmates and with the influence of the Harvard community.
We were pleased when the opportunity presented itself to serve as
Twenty-fifth Area Chairman. If these biographies and requested
funds have not appeared with as great speed as the hard working
and dedicated members of the Reunion Committee have decreed, it
is not because of the traditional slowness of the South. Rather this
area is vast in geography and telephone charges. Harvard associations

[ 1208 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have been dimmed by local agencies and commitments. We were
delighted to find twenty very pleasant gentlemen-classmates in our
seven-state area, only four of whom I had known in college or since.

When you are passing through central Florida we hope you will
have time to give us a call. We treasure the sound of a Yankce
voice and a chance to renew old memories. This has been my re-
ward in contacting twenty classmates as Reunion advance man.
We are looking forward to visiting with all of you in June.

DOUGLAS CHANNING SCOTT

 

HOME AppRESS: 15 Pilgrim Rd., West Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Scott Plastics, 410 Windsor St., Hartford, Conn.

BorN: April 20, 1912, New York, N.Y. parests: Donald Scott, ‘oo, Mary
Channing Eustis.

PREPARED aT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935.

MarRRIED: Amelie Sigourney, June 25, 1938, Cambridge, Mass. (diverced rac4',
Priscilla Spalding Zacher, April 22, 1959, Concord, Mass. Guunars: Nancy
Channing, Aug. 25, 1941; Carol Sigourney, Mav 14, 1944. Sosa Fast,
Oct. 10, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Donald Scott, Jr., "30.

OccUPATION: Manufacturing; owner, Scott Plasties.

OFFICES HELD: Clerk, 1951-38, burgess, 1955-38, Borough of Fenwich, mentee,
board of trustees, 1953-58, treasurer, 1956-57, Junior School ¢now Ress.
brook School), West Hartford; member, board of trustees, Pbsetfoed
Rehabilitation Center, since 1955, Horace Bushnell ELall Memorial Corper
ration, since 1956; member, board of trustees, since 19st, prevalent, stew
1959, Camp Woodstock; member, board of trustees, since ryes, progr are
committee, since 1958, Hartford County YMCA, member, ence nas ',
chairman, since 1959, Greater Hartford Council of Churches

MEMBER OF: Hartford Club; Harvard Club of New York, Unoverury € hice
(past member); Hartford Golf Club; Fssex Vache Claby Sas break Vee he
Club; Fenwick Yacht Club,

[ 1209 ]

—_—— L

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

YOUR recent reminder that I had not yet sent in my Twenty-
fifth Reunion form and photo as requested certainly showed that
both months and years have rolled by with startling rapidity. After
leaving Cambridge I had some thoughts of graduate work which
never did materialize. Instead I traveled to South America and
South Africa, between graduation and my marriage to Amelie
Sigourney (Radcliffe ’38) in June of 1938. After two years in the
life insurance business in New York, we moved to West Hartford
where I have lived ever since.

Three months of working for someone else convinced me that
I would rather make my own mistakes; so, in January of 1941, I
started Scott Plastics in East Glastonbury, a nerve-shattering drive
of seventeen miles past Pratt & Whitney in East Hartford. The war
years saw mainly work on Defense Sub-Contracts, with but little
work in plastic research, the original idea behind Scott Plastics.
Around 1944 I received an inquiry relating to the manufacture of
plastic bottle caps — so — after the war I closed out East Glaston-
bury and moved to Hartford where I set up an automatic operation
for the manufacture of this product. At the present time we have
a capacity of 400,000 caps per day, employ twenty to thirty and sell
to major cosmetic and pharmaceutical firms in the East, Middle
and Far West.

What with starting the business and the war we travelled little,
but did spend our summers at Fenwick on Long Island Sound near
Old Saybrook, where I particularly enjoyed sailing and motor-boat-
ing. We cruised the waters of the Sound and took occasional trips
to the Cape, Since we stayed in West Hartford all the girls went
to the Junior School and then to Oxford. While they all studied
piano both with and without persuasion and were subjected to a
rather large dose of classical recordings as they grew up, all three
girls grew to love music, each in a different way.

Nancy has a real gift of expression (she has an amazing sense of
pitch) which bubbles over into tonal exploration in a delightful and
sensitive way. Carol enjoys playing too, and is perhaps more techni-
cally precise without quite Nancy’s imagination. Susie plays with
abandon of a thirteen-year-old, but with very definite signs of both
her older sisters’ sensitiveness and appreciation, They all are very
fond of the symphony concerts which they attend from time to
time. It was a great personal joy to listen to each of the girls as
they played both for their own and others’ enjoyment while we were
on the Cape this last summer. They have all found that music makes

[ 1210 ]

—~_______

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
a lot of friends, and they will certainly find their lives richer and
more rewarding for it.

In April of 1959, I married Priscilla Spalding Zacher, daughter of
the late Arthur Cushing Spalding, ’99, thus acquiring two livels
young men — David, sixteen and Richard, twelve — Elarvard 255
Dave attends Hebron Academy near Lewiston, Maine. while Kah
goes to Renbrook here in West Hartford. We travel and vit re'a-
tives and friends whenever time permits, and hope to take same
trips abroad before too long. As I mentioned in the beginning, the
years since 1935 have passed surprisingly quickly, and we look for.
ward to the next twenty-five with an eager anticipation, born of
a mature and deeper understanding of our friends and the world in

which we all live.

WILLIAM RICHARDS SEARS

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 4720 N, Campbell Ave. Tucson, Ane,

BORN: Dec. 16, 1912, Boston, Afass. PARENTS: Wiailham Racharids Sear ye, Senne
Jolliffe.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1976.

MARRIED: Barbara Ruth Plumer, September, rogr, Breall NEE ct eon ed
1952). CHILDREN: William Richards, Jr. April ss, ger, Greene ge Bee bo
Feb. 12, 1952.

OccUPATION: Free-lance photographer and photopournalat ar 0
photography and magazine photojournaliwn,

MEMBER OF: Tucson Fine Arts Association; Tucson Chander ef Ce:
Arizona Sonora Desert Museum, Plarvard Clab of Pius wee

PUBLICATIONS: Photographs published in vartous national meyers ws
Time, Life, Fortune, Pageant, Louse and Garden, barra fcr Te
Home Journal.

UNLIKE most college graduates today, when Plot) Plies. f:

PT evra l

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Tam no longer married and very definitely miss my home and two
sons, George and Will. They still live here in Tucson, but I see
them only sporadically, 1 trust this may improve as they get older,
but at the moment the arrangement is not satisfactory.

For recreation and amusement Tucson has much to offer. I love
to travel and short trips are possible not only south into Mexico
but also north out of the heat. I have become an avid 35 mm. fan
and enjoy shooting color pictures to show to my friends. The
past two springs I have taken trips down the Colorado River from
Hite, Utah, to the Glenn Canyon Dam site. The wildness and
desolateness of this land is something to be seen, Unfortunately this
entire wild and superbly beautiful area will be under water so
that the inhabitants of our growing western towns may have a
place to swim and boat and water to drink. The hell with progress.

I get back east twice a year and always enjoy visiting my family
in Boston and friends and business associates in New York. With
an eye now trained in the art of secing, I ever delight in wandering
around Beacon Hill and even around the Yard in Cambridge. New
York as a place to visit and look at is quite enchanting. Whatever
one may feel about endless steel and glass office buildings as places
for people to live and work in, they do make wonderful subjects
for the trained eye behind a small color camera.

CARL SEEMAN, JR.

 

HOME appress: 53 Montgomery Pl, New Rochelle, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Seeman Bros. Inc. go W. 225th St.. New York, N.Y,

BorN: July 3, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: Carl Sceman. [ID
PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, New York, N.Y. » Dora Galland,

[3214]

w

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: $.B., Cuma lrude. 1979) Ub.w. CCebusndons

Univ.), 1938.
MarRIED: Shirl Rothenberg, June 21, 1940, New York, N.Y. cuupars Joba,

Jan. 13, 1943; Robert, June 8, 1944; Thomas, May 17, 1940.

ALLEN SEIFFERT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2418 29th Ave. Ct., Moline, Ill.
OFFICE ADpREss: H. O. Seiffert Lumber Co., 9:3 W. Second Se. Davenjere,

Iowa.
BORN: Jan. 17, 1913, Moline, Ill. parents: Otto Henry Seifert, ‘oA, Maree

Stephens Allen.
PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932. DEGREE: LL.B. (Northwestern Univo, roi

MarRrieED: Catherine Stephens Lea, Oct. 26, 1940, Chicago, Tk, centres Rete et
L., Oct. 17, 1941; Marjorie A., July 17, 1943.

occupaTION: President, H. O. Seiffere Lumber Company, retad dundee at
home building; president, Davenport Homes, Inc, home baikbog

OFFICES HELD: Director, First National Bank, Mobne. Uhewa, Davenpers
Friendly Society; vice-president, American Philatche Sowtcty, ryeg 9%

MEMBER OF: Rock Island Arsenal Golf Club; Davenport Club, Phatory Resend

Table; Outing Club.

[sass |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

EDWIN JACK SELBERT

   

HOME ADDRESS: 1521 Salem Woods Lane, Cincinnati 30, Ohio.

OFFICE appRrEss: Anchor Paper Co., 3090 Beekman St., Cincinnati 25, Ohio.

porn: April 24, 1914, Cincinnati, Ohio. Parents: Edwin Selbert, Bertha
Troehler.

PREPARED AT: Hughes High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

Maraiep: Illa Alexander, Nov. 12, 1935, Cincinnati, Ohio. cHitpren: Mary
Anne, Feb. 28, 1937 (mm. Jerome King, Sept. 5, 1959); Alix Kay, May 5,
1941; Betty Jane, July 28, 1942; Edwin Jack, Jr. Dec. 7, 1943-

occupation: President, Anchor Paper Company, Cincinnati, Premier Paper
Company, Louisville, Kentucky.

THE Class of 1935 celebrates it Twenty-fifth Anniversary in June,
1960; my wife Illa and I also celebrate a twenty-fifth anniversary
that year — twenty-five years of marriage. This alliance produced
four children: Mary Anne, twenty-two, Alix, eighteen; Betty
Jane, seventeen, and Jack, Jr., sixteen. Mary Anne was married
September 5, 1959, to Jerome W. King (E.E. from the University
of Cincinnati ’59 and M.E. due in ’61 from the University of
Pennsylvania) and now lives in New Jersey. She also attended the
University of Cincinnati as an applied arts major. Alix is a fresh-
man at Miami of Ohio; Betty Jane is a senior at Walnut Hills High
School and Jack, Jr., is a sophomore at the same school.

ve been associated with Anchor Paper Company since gradua-
tion, with time out for Army duty — five and a half years in the
field artillery, emerging as a lieutenant colonel. I was luckier than
some and spent only about a year and a half in the E.T.O.

Hobbies: trying to keep ahead of the weeding and minor forestry
work needed at our semi-rural home in my leisure time — precious
few moments snatched from an engrossing business.

[ 1216 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I would like to attend the Class Reunion but have my deulses,
my commitments in Cincinnati at that time of year are always
heavy and will include attendance at the high school graduation wf

daughter number three this year. However, even though Uo may
not be there in person, I'll be thinking of you. Give my regards to

those who do come and to Good Old Harvard!

WILLIAM SEBASTIAN SERAFINI

  
  

 

ADDRESS: Via Roma rr, Citta della pieve (Perugia), Italv.
BORN: June 28, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: John Serafini, Maddalena DE reeds.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Maw,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933. DEGREE: M.D. (Univ. of Rome), 193%

MARRIED: 1941. CHILD: daughter, 1942.
OccUPATION: Resident surgeon, Civil Hospital of Citta della picve (Peeug-s)

OFFICES HELD: Free profession, 1940-44; assistant of surgery, University od
Perugia, 1944-52; assistant surgeon, Civil Hospital of Aquila (Abbnases

CHARLES JOSEPH SEWALL

  

HOME apprEss: Rivermere-Alger Court, Bronwille a NY,

[1207 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

orice Appress: United Whelan Corp., 82 39th St., Brooklyn 32, N.Y,

BORN: Oct. 6, 1912, New York, N.Y. Parents: Duer Irving Sewall, Bertha G
Adams, :

PREPARED AT: Morristown High School, Morristown, N.J.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1935.

marrigp: Mary S. Moffett, May 26, 1951, Bronxville, N.Y. cutp: Samuel
Moffett, June 23, 1956.

occupaTIoN: Assistant secretary, assistant treasurer and chief accountant,
United Whelan Corporation and subsidiaries, retail chain stores.

OFFIcEs HELD: Active in adult work, Boy Scouts of America, 1935-51; member
and chairman, Troop Committee, Mountain Lakes, N.J., district secretary
and treasurer, Morris-Sussex Area Council.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Accountants.

DURING the twenty-five years since graduation, the overall pat-
tern of my existence has had a sameness about it, chiefly due to the
fact that I have lived and worked (almost twenty-two years with
the same firm) continuously in the New York Metropolitan area.
Family responsibilities over the years have contributed primarily
to the establishment of this pattern and to the fact that I entered
the state of matrimony and commenced raising a family at a later
date than most of my classmates. On the other hand, my daily
routine has been more hectic than otherwise, particularly in busi-
ness and in recent years, with the result that there never has seemed
to be enough hours in any one day (commuting three hours a day
hasn’t helped either! ).

Although my approximately twenty-two years in one business
and with the same concern have not resulted in the financial re-
wards or spectacular achievements that might have been attained
elsewhere, they have produced compensation in other ways. I have
made many fine friends among business associates and employees,
and gained a world of experience from them. I also sincerely believe
that very few other businesses or companies would have offered
me a better chance to acquire the business training and varied ex-
perience which I have had, especially when viewed in conjunction
with the history of my company from 1938 to date. After an un-
productive postgraduate period in Wall Street, I joined United
Whelan in 1938, starting as an accounting clerk. I have held the
positions of general ledger accountant, manager of general account-
ing, chief accountant and was made an officer of the company in
1951. My experience during this period has not been confined
entirely to the accounting side of the chain store business, but has
included, particularly in recent years, active participation in nearly

{1218 ]

epee

ae pene

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

all phases of the business and, therefore, has been most rew arding
and stimulating, albeit time-consuming to the exclusion of some
other worthwhile activities.

Postponing marriage and raising a family for as long a ume as I
did actually could not have turned out better insofar as 1 am con.
cerned. The rewards have been a wonderful wife (and in-laws
too!) and a healthy and smart (my wife and I think) son to carry
on the family name. The only possible drawback in this situatiot
is the fact that we found out quickly it would be a lot casier af
we were twenty years younger! However, we are “having a ke
of fun,” are looking forward eagerly to the future, and only hope
that fate will allow us the time, good health and a little “of the
necessary wherewithal to carry out some of our plans during the

next twenty-five years.

MALCOLM SEYMOUR

 

HOME ADDRESS: 605 Osgood St., North Andover, Mass

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bolta Products Division, Gencral Tire & Rubber Ca, Garba
Street, Lawrence, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 8, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: Malcolm Seymour, we, ey, Br hel
Anita Shrigley.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Concord, NE.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: S.B, 1935) 8.40. (\Maswchuwere bo of
Technology), 1936.

MARRIED: Mary deForest Wilson, May ao, 1038, Cobawet, \faw ert aes
Richard Hoe, July 29, 1939 (. Susan Gardiner, July ae, race. Vitae
Clark, May 14, 19413; Malcolm, Jr Jan. tt, tog,

occuPATION: Manager, Market Research Department, Rolea Prataee Phe oo
General Tire & Rubber Company.

OFFICES HELD; Member, Finance Commitee, Se. Seephen's Eprwecgad Choe 4
Cohasset, Afass., 1939-43; treasurer, New Pngland Ohapeee Wine. on

[ 1319 ]

eee |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Marketing Association, 1948-50; national representative to Boston Con.
ference, 1951 (resigned).

MEMBER OF: American Marketing Association; Society of Plastics Engineers,
Dublin Lake Club.

pustications: Author, U.S. and foreign patents on Dust Collecting Device,
Sole Attaching Machine; High Frequency Box Forming Machine; Method
of attaching Photoengraving Plates; Flexible Vinyl Tape; Plastic Wall
Covering; Cutting and Creasing Tool; Method of manufacturing a Flexible
Vinyl Tape.

SKIP SEYMOUR’S twenty-five years since graduation can be

summarized as follows: 1. Working on projects . . . in the business

world in an area where one tries to do something that hasn’t been

done before. 2. Working on projects on weekends; indoors and

out (the original do-it-yourself kid). 3. Getting to bed early

(9:30). 4. Trying to get the most out of life,

In June, 1935, we sailed to New London in the Phoenix, saw the
races and by virtue of a charter sped to Europe for six weeks, Same
routine for the summer of 736, after getting a degree of S.M. at
MIT. Spent ten days in the USSR with the late Lucius Wing, M.D.,
and John Homans, Jr. M.D. From seeing slides and lectures on
Russia today, it looks mighty like the same place it was in 1936

. an enigma ... and terrifying.

My first job was with a wonderful organization, where the ele-
ments of objective creativity were taught by the director of research.
My research contract with the United Shoe Machinery Corpora-
tion was signed for something like twenty-seven dollars per week
(with a two-year holdover clause). But that was in 1936!

On May 20, 1939, the carillon bells of St. Stephen's Church in
Cohasset, Massachusetts, pealed forth, announcing the marriage of
M.S. to the daughter of the rector, Charles Chase Wilson. Genealogy
says that we have two sets of common ancestors . . . I hike to think
that they saw the same things in each other the way we do. Then
followed five years of typical suburbia .. . until the war. About.
two years before Pearl Harbor, the Research Division began to throw
a protective cordon about its employees. I was told to resign from
a quartermaster training course. My war days were spent on R. and
D., traveling between contracting officers, test firing areas and in
report writing. The only tale I can tell my grandchildren was how
in one day a bunch of us: 1. Missed being mowed down on the run-
way at Aberdeen when a driver stalled a sedan in front of an A-20
on take-off. 2, Were missed by a rocket fired inadvertently by a
worker from a remote bunker on the “practice whistle.” 3. Ducked

{ 1220 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a rocket fragment that smashed into the screen when the front hat

arted from the rear.
The latter part of the war was spent at the BB. Chenue al Core.

any, in technical sales and product development; first in the war
effort and then gradually back into civilian pursuits. Durie pes
business career, Opportunities presented themselves for enyimate:
ideas and some of them were patented. During my last three years
at B.B., I worked up one product which carried me from one ent

of the country to another; in fact, 52,000 miles in one vear, mostly
by station wagon. This plastic reinforcing tape was badly needed
by the furniture industry at the time and thus began the aw akeniens
of one conservative New Englander to the scope of the peeple an
the land which is the United States.

Then came a business flirtation with one of the largest and
certainly the most aggressive plastics manufacturers, the Bolta Cain
pany (now a division of the General Tire & Rubber Company )-
“Get the Vinyl on the Wall” was the challenge, and in that we have
succeeded. The original product has led to a host of others My
scope of operation has been broadened to include all produce lines
in the division. I believe I more or less make my own job. Thats a
new product and out of the ordinary sales area, I get mixed up anat,

Hobbies, etc. If it flies and is in season, I think [have cather shot
at it or clubbed it to death. That goes for huns at Prince Edward
Island, woodcock in New Brunswick, ducks in Maine, grouse in
New Hampshire, pheasants in Groton and quail in South Care.
lina. Pointers, setters and a Newf-lander . . . we always have twa
or three around the place. Always manage to “yet out on the
waater” for a week or two. We hope someday to hve ona shallow.
draft “Out Island” boat, probably built by Uncle Wil Aliury at
Man O” War Cay in the Bahamas.

“Once a sailor, always a sailor” in our case speaks of the power
of the sea. Last summer we broke ground ata place we call “Seal
Point,” which is situated on the North Branch at the heal of J.
Bay in Maine. Cruising classmates look up chare gig. Plead for es
blue float at the end of a white picr, (Contemporary Tech b's
house.)

For the musically inclined, Tcan recommend that vou rywest ae
hooking up a Hammond organ as part ofa steree eure 7 mat ae
can play with Lester Lanin.” The stunal from the pon ecg
out of organ which, of course, can be play obatthe sce toe €,.¢
a variable speed turntable so that vou can tune the dhe tet ee a.

f rzz0 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Sound on film via magnetic stripe has resulted in an annual “F.

Festival.” Usually some resplicing of sailing, travel or hunt:
scenes,

Travel; Last December, Mary and I had a brief trip to Eurc
on business. We had actually been abroad five times and four tin
respectively, three times on the same boat, without ever meetir

Here was a chance to enjoy all the sights and sounds together. V
hope to do more.

There’s so much to be done and so little time in which to do
The Alcan Highway, Steelheads and Dolly Varden in B.C., sailir
in the Baltic, grouse shooting in Scotland, photographing game .

Africa, recording the sounds of a Bistro on the Left Bank, sk:
diving for grouper, All in two weeks’ vacation?

  

ELLIOTT KING SHAPIRA

  

HOME appREss: Apt. 2-7B, roo Memorial Drive, Cambridge 42, Mass.
OFFIcE ApprEss: Miner Hall, Tufts University, Medford 55, Mass.

BoRN: April 11, 1912, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Victor Isaiah Shapira, Alta Rita
Kurinsky.

PREPARED at: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; A-M., 19393; PH.D, 1941.

Marriep: Jane Thornton Holland, Nov. 7, 1946, Medford, Mass.

occupation: Educator and administrator; associate professor of Romance
Languages, adviser to foreign students, coordinator for Fulbright and U.S.
Government Grants, freshman counselor, Tufts University.

orrices HELD: Member, Advisory Council, International Student Center, Cam-
bridge, Mass., since 1951; faculty chairman, Tufts Second Century Fund,
1951-52; president, Tufts Faculty Club, 1952-53; deputy chairman, Educa-
tional Guidance Staff to the Commander, Boston Air Reserve Center,
1955-58; captain, Boston B Lockett Cup Squash Racquets Team, 1955-58;
member-in-charge, B-League Competition, Massachusetts Squash Racquets

[1222]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Association, 1956-58, chairman, Squash Racquets Comnurttce, blaeverd
Club of Boston, 1957-59; captain, Cambridge, Massachusern, Progean foe
Harvard College, 1957-59; associate director, Workshop in brenh, Lafes

Summer School, 1959.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Facultv Club, Benton Tofte

Club; Tufts Faculty Club; Military Order of World Wars, Rewrve (4%.
cers Association; Air Force Association, Modern Language Aweiuton of
America, U.S. Squash Racquets Association, Tufts Vanity Club (hen.

ary).

I HAVE taught at Tufts University since 1945, as instructor, awit.
ant professor and, for the last eight years, associate profesor of
Romance Languages. As a freshman counselor, advper to forayn
students and a member of the faculties of the Graduate School of
Arts and Sciences, College of Liberal Arts, and Jackson College for
Women, I have served on many committces and have also been an
assistant director of Student Personnel.

Although I have not written for publication, T have introduced
certain courses and trends of literary criticism. Specializing in the
seventeenth and twentieth centuries of French literature, | have
worked particularly on the social and psychological clements of
those periods. At present I am reorganizing my coure in con.
temporary French novelists with an emphasis on background and
bibliography.

As an Air Force Reservist, I am currently a lieutenant colonel
with a mobilization assignment to one of the deputy chicfs of Scatl,
Headquarters, U.S. Air Force in Washington, D.C. Because of my
Air Force association I have attended a varicty of courses at pls cs
such as the Air University in Alabama, and [have at certain tines
served periods of active duty in various locations, Lovally, U have
been both a squadron executive officer and also more recently the
instructor and commander of a speci ialized training tiyhe.

In World War II, I served on active duty for nearly four years
three of which were overseas, specializing in close support airte-
ground operations w ith a U.S. Fighter Bomber Group under a
Wing of the Desert Air Force, Royal Air Force, From iygi te
1945, we engaged in nine combat campaigns from EL Alaseny in
North Africa to the Po Valley in Italy, including abo Malta, Saute,
Corsica and Southern France. Upon my return ta the United Seates

in 1945, I taught combat intelligence for fighter bomber Operatives
to the French Air Force in training at Selfria lee Nie Bore Bae,
Michigan, Since 1945, I have served in the Active oe Ready Sue

Force Reserve.

[ 1223]

HARVARD CLASS OF 10935

Since 1932, I have enjoyed squash racquets and, although at col-
lege I played considerable golf, I have for many years been a con.
stant if not outstanding squash player. Because of this there have
been many rewards: good friends, lively competition and the o
portunity to win and lose as emotionally as you wish. On three
occasions, 1953, 1954 and 1958, I played on the Boston B Locketr
Cup Squash Racquets Team, competing in a tri-city contest against
Philadclphia and New York. For four years I had the honor of be-
ing captain of that team. | also experienced great pleasure and pride
on being chairman of the Squash Racquets Committee of the Har-
vard Club of Boston for two years.

Perhaps my favorite diversion is travel with the elements of
change and newness in foreign locations ever engaging and refresh-
ing, and [am still extremely interested in aircraft in general.

In the last tw enty-five Vears I have by will and necessity been
in many places under a variety of conditions and, while personally
inclined toward a mild scepticism concerning human behavior in
general, | have found a considerable amount of courage, accomplish-

ment and greatness in most people.

+ HARRY SHERMAN

 

porn: Feb, 28, 1914, Boston, Mass. parents: Abraham Moses, Shifra (Lubow-
ski) Shershevsky.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933. DEGREE: LLB. (Suffolk Univ.), 1938.

MarrigD: Irene Brody, Oct. 15, 1942, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Jessica Mimi,
Jan. 16, 1947; Alca Melinda, April 18, 1953.

pDiED: Sept, 18, 1958, San Francisco, Calif.

wwow: Mrs. Harry Sherman, 140 Woodland Ave., San Francisco 17, Calif.

[ 1224]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARRY SHERMAN spent two years with our Class. He taught
at Dartmouth for four years and then returned to school at Suffolk
University, where he obtained an LL.B. degree. He spent forty-nine
months in the Army in the Infantry and Transportation Corps.

In 1945 he went to San Francisco, where he was with the Veterans
Adininistration as legal assistance officer in the Adjudications Divi-
sion of the Regional Office. In 1955 he was back in New England,
enforcing the anti-trust laws with the Federal Trade Commission.

He later returned to San Francisco where he was living at the
time of his death,

ROLAND HENRY SHERMAN

&
R
FE

 

A's

HOME ADDRESS: 766 Great Pond Rd., North Andover, Mass.

oFFice appress: Lloyd & Sherman, 316 Essex St., Lawrence, Mass.

BORN: Jan. 17, 1912, Winchester, Mass. PaRENTs: Roland Henry Sherman,
Alma C. Haerle.

PREPARED aT: Browne & Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.; Phillips Academy,
Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933. DEGREE: LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1937.

MARRIED: Olive M. French, April 14, 1934, Waterbury, Conn. ciutpaen:
Roland Henry, Jr., Sept. 11, 1935 (7. Lova M. Ryberg); Ann H, Oct.
30, 1938 (m. Kenneth L. Robie); Leon F., Feb. 26, 1944. GRANDCHILDREN:
Joanne Ruth Sherman, Katherine Anne Robie.

occuPATION: Lawyer; partner in Lloyd & Sherman.

OFFICES HELD: North Andover Advisory Board, 1939-41; Andover town ninicr-
ator, 1952~56; trustee, Broadway Savings Bank, since 1954; director, Ten-

ney Educational Fund, Inc.; numerous offices in charitable organizations
at various times.

MEMBER OF: Pi Eta Club; Phi Delta Phi; Cochichewick Lodge A.F. & A.M,

North Andover Country Club; Lawrence Monday Night Club; Lanam
Club.

[1225 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

IN the TV vernacular of today — my pappy always told me that

work was doing what you don’t want to when you don’t want t
do it. I have always tried to avoid work under that definition. 1
would be easy, therefore, to say the account of my life since gradua-
tion is nil, since I never graduated. However, the autobiographical
task provides an opportunity for retrospection which may, perhaps,
not be work. Since the beginning of this account cannot be gradua-

tion, I feel free to go back a few years to my preparatory school
days, which, due to an unfortunate attempt to acquire the ex-

periences of social life reserved for college freshmen and sopho-

mores, were half again as long as the prescribed number of days.
As a result 1 cut short my interesting time at Harvard and, while
most of the class was enjoying the junior and senior years, | was at
Boston University studying law. The pattern set, however, did not

change, as [ met and married the beautiful lady who became the
mother of our three children and, as you will note above, there are
already two granddaughters, This tendency to jump the gun on

my part caused me to leave law school for one year for financial
reasons common to the mid-thirties. But I was persistent, returned,
finished, and got my LL.B. and passed the bar exams in 1937. From

1937 until the Navy called in 1944 I guess I was the typical young
lawyer trying not only to earn a satisfactory living, but also to do
my share in matters of community interest. Being unable to obtain
a commission during the first two years of the war due to poor eye
sight, 1 finally found that the armed forces did not consider good
eye sight so important for enlisted men. I then became a Navy
nurse, but because of physical discrepancies other than eye sight
could not obtain a commission as such, but carried on the duties
as a pharmacist’s mate, A high level meeting must have been held in
Washington, for after some months my commanding officer was
ordered, against his better judgment, to process me for a commission.
1 went to the Pentagon to school and my ship ran aground in Mans-
field, Ohio, where I finished out the war bravely carrying on the
battle of contract termination at Westinghouse. It was not exactly
work, as my wife and three children were there with me and we met
many interesting people.
After having served my country so nobly, I returned to the prac-
tice of law in Lawrence, Massachusetts, setting up a partnership
with a Yale man, believing that if my Harvard training had been
good the Yale man could be prevailed upon to do most of the work.
Since then life has carried on well. My wife and I have taken winter

[ 1226 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

vacations in Florida most years since 1938, and in the summer of
1957, when our elder son graduated from college, our daughter
from prep school and the younger son from grade school, all five
of us made the grand tour of Europe and Scandinavia. This was
a most interesting experience, which | would not like to repeat, but
I'm sure the young ones had almost as good a time as they would
have had at a summer resort at home.

Now our two older children are married and each has a daughter,
the younger boy is at Andover; and we are living in a converted
carriage house on an eighteen-acre tract of woodland and veyetable
gardens on the shore of a lake. It is a good life we are living and |
very seldom do anything I don’t want to do when I don’t want
do it. This task has brought into focus one well-known fact which
often escapes notice. The rate of the passing of time scems to in-
crease with the years almost by geometric progression. The first
twenty-five years of life seemed to last and last. Now | have been
both married and out of college for more than half my life and these

events seem in the very recent past. It seems only a little while aye
that I returned to civilian life — it was thirteen years ago, and im
thirteen years Til be sixty.

+ ABBOT WILSON SHERWOOD, JR.

 

BoRN: Dec. 2, 1911, Alton, Ill. Parents: Abbot Wik Sherwood, } thebe ya
Chittenden.

PREPARED aT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, NEI.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B, 1915016)

MARRIED: Mary Sue Thompson, May 6, 193q Dalla, Tesan crstomes San
Abbott, Jan. 3, 1942; Michael Davis, April ty, tage, Seman May pa pete
DIED: July 1, 1959, near Marion, Ohio,

(1227)

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

WHILE an undergraduate Sherwood was a resident of Lowell
House, captain of the freshman swimming team and member of the

swimming team, 1933-35, staff member of the Lampoon and mem-
ber of the Pi Fra Club.

From 1938 to 1942, he was Dallas branch manager for Owens-
Niinois Can Company, which later became the Continental Can
Company. During World War II, he served in the Army Air
Forces in the Pentagon, was awarded the Commendation Ribbon
and retired as a lieutenant colonel.

After the war he returned to the Continental Can Company as a
sales representative and at the time of his death in an airplane crash
he was an executive and sales manager for the company.

JOHN ASA SHIMER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 432 W. 22d St., New York 11, N.Y.

OFFICE appREss: Brooklyn College, Brooklyn 10, N.Y. ,

BoRN: May 24, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: Hervey Woodburn Shimer,
Florence French Henry.

PREPARED AT: Derby Academy, Hingham, Mass.

YEARS IX COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: $B. 1935; 8.M. (Massachusetts Insc. of
Technology), 1939, PH. (ibid.), 1942.

Magrizp: Genevieve Vaughan-Jackson, Sept. 6, 1947, New Haven, Conn.

OCCUPATION: Associate professor of geology, Brooklyn College.

MEMBER OF: Geological Society of America, American Institute of Mining;
Metallurgical and Petroleum Engineers, American Association for the
Advancement of Science, Sigma Xi; Country Dance Society of America.

PUBLICATIONS: “Spectrographic Analysis of New England Granites and Pegma-
utes,” Bulletin of Creoloyical Society of America, 1943, C irapbie Methods

in Structural Cieoloyy, co-author, Apol ; ; ‘bi
: KY, » Appleton-Century-Crofes, 1958; This
Sculptured Earth: The Landscape of America, Colunbia U city
34959.

niversity Press,

{ 1228 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER leaving Harvard, where [ majored in astronomy, TP teas:

ferred immediately down the river to MIT and started: the har
process of earning advanced degrees in another fichd, that of yeolory

I eventually achieved the Ph. D. in tog2 and from thea until tat
worked as a mineralogist in a defense plant w hich specialized wy the
cutting of quartz crystals for the control of radio frequend ies.

Since 1946 I have been a teacher of geology at Brooklyn Colexe
This is one of the large municipal colleges run by the Caty of New
York. With over 8,o00 students in the day sasion and another
7,000 who come as evening students, an instructor is ape to feel
oppressed somewhat by the sheer numbers. However, the pote es
challenging and I wholly approve of what New York City im try
ing to do for its younger citizens who for one reason of anather cat
not leave home for higher education or whose family can't afford
a private college. The whole atmosphere is certainly diferent from
that of a residential college, where the student body generally tepre-
sents amuch wider variety of geographical and cultural backgrounds

- An academic life leaves one free to move around a bit during
- the summer vacations, and my wife Genevieve and I have been
most fortunate in being able to cover a good bit of the yeoloyn ally
interesting parts of the United States. Our attendance at the Lloret:
national Geological Congress of 1948 in Fagland enabled uv tes
visit my wife’s family and school friends for the fine ting ume the
war. Since then we have had another trip to Purope, driving «
Renault aroud France and Italy, and in 1956 we were ata gerbes ol
meeting in Mexico, where we had a chance to vrut Parnutin and
sample the local bus transportation.

During the last five to six years, I have resurrected an am tive
interest in the making of music which had lain pretty well deeressree
since I played the violin in the Picrian Sodulity. Phave now adted
a somewhat tentative performance on the viola and Very rin h
enjoy a weekly meeting of a chamber music group whieh Genevieve
has also joined as a flutist, an accomplishment but revently a quired

One of our major interests, which we cach actually had before
we were married, is our common enthusiawn for all forms of Bae.
lish folk dancing — country, sword and more, We find thie a
weekly dance session with a congenial Lroup moa very wee
restorative for anyone leading a generally sedentary ble.

[ 1239 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

JOHN EARL SHOEMAKER

 

HOME apprEss: 1504 N. D St., Fort Smith, Ark.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 215 N. Sixth St., Fort Smith, Ark.

BoRN: April 25, 1913, Seattle, Wash. parents: John Earl Shoemaker, Eleanor
Hill.

PREPARED AT: Richmond Academy, Augusta, Ga.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1935; S.M., 1936.

MarRIED: Embry Scott, Oct. 30, 1936, Little Rock, Ark. cuttpren: Trudy,

Sept. 17, 1939; Katherine Embry, July 23, 1941; Eleanor Hill, June 11,
1944; Patricia Audley, Jan. 21, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Audley Hill Shoemaker, 36.
OccUPATION: Rector, St. John’s Episcopal Church, Fort Smith, Ark.

EMBRY SCOTT was a freshman at Radcliffe during my senior
year at Harvard and we each stayed on for one more year before
marrying in the fall of 1936. There was one late spring evening on
the Cambridge Common toward the end of my senior year when
we spent several hours comparing two rather opposite callings —
a graduate fellowship at the Harvard School of Engineering and a
try at the metallurgical field, or following the Reverend C. Leslie
Glenn, rector of Christ Church, Cambridge, into the Episcopal
ministry. Engineering won out,

Harvard’s metallurgical work was reinforced with several courses
at M.I.T. and led to the first job —in Ohio — with the metallurgi-
cal department of the Youngstown Sheet and Tube Company. Dur-
ing a break-in period I worked rotating shifts in the mill and thrilled
to the dramatic night-time sight of blast furnaces and piercing mills
but never caught up on sleep. One year later, during the “little steel”
strike, while back in Cambridge on a visit, we heard of an opening in
Detroit and packed our belongings in a Model A Ford and moved
to become metallurgist for the Bundy Tubing Company.

[ 1230 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Detroit became a real part of home. Three daughters were bar
there, we built our first house with the aid of the ELEN. found
many good friends, continued in Church and Sunday Scheel woes
and took some part in Harvard Club luncheon activities, After tive
years with Bundy, in early 1942, T became metallurgee for a nes
armor plate producing group, organized by Standard Steel Spey
Company under the Tank and Automotive Division of the Aen
Ordnance Department. This proved to be fascinaring work, i.
volving travel from Maine to Missouri, visiting the various plants
in the combine and helping former stove, saw, spring, bumper, bewk
plants convert to the heat treatment and fabrication of armor plate
—and the manufacture and testing of the product.

After the war, Standard Steel Spring started developing a protes -
tive zinc-nickel finish for steel parts and I spent one year more as
sales and development engineer with them. But the travel and the
removal of headquarters from Detroit to Pittsburgh pointed tow ard
a change —so, hearing of an Ordnance Department activity an
Arkansas, and being anxious with the children to live in a snailee
town and come back to the South, we moved te Favettevule,
Arkansas, home of the University of Arkanuy where the new
project, “ORDARK,” was to be installed, and where U resem ed
the appointment as metallurgist.

Arriving in a college town along with a huge intluy of veteran we
were fortunate to find a big old summer house en a picture boek
farm. The first rural problem was garbage divypenal — the wise
solved with pigs which we fed, chased and ate. A herse, nurterous
cats, dogs and a neighbor's cows added interest. The water prod
lem included two springs, a lovely creek and a deep well, but cated
for many an early morning foray to prime pumps and thaw pres.
In Fayetteville we found a delightful Fpicopal Church with @
tremendous spirit of fellowship.

When we found that the farm was noe for ule, we beuche a
large and old but comfortable house in town and moved an wits
the children and the horse, but not the pies. About this tree a
very surprising thing happened. One dav the univeruty presatens,
Dr. Lewis Webster “Jones, called me ¢o his office te ak wherhee f
would be willing to leave the post as metalluryise with the OR DVR
Research Project and become dean of men with the unwersiry
This was really astounding — since college lave PD had mee heey ce
of any other vocation than engincering, which Po enyov et on caees
way. Dr. Jones had ta take some time to explain what the doua ce

ae

[ szse]-

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

men did — why there should be one. I still do not know why he
picked on me—my only connection with anything of this sort
had been in part-time work at college as an undergraduate, and
that pretty remote. Anyhow, he made it sound sufficiently interest-
ing and challenging —so I undertook it and spent seven years at
the job.

During this time our fourth little daughter was born and I had
begun to do some serious reading in theology and Christian apolo-
getics. The freedom of thought, the rational approach and the deep
sense of reality of worship in the Episcopal Church had always been
most appealing. This background together with the reading and
the new experience in counseling and pastoral work as dean of men
led way back to that late spring evening on the Cambridge Com-
mon and a renewed desire to enter the ministry of the Episcopal
Church. Guided reading under the Fayetteville rector, the Reverend
Marius J. Lindloff, courses in Greek at the university, summer work
at the Graduate School of Theology at Sewanee and the fatherly
hand of Bishop Mitchell of Arkansas led to ordination to the diac-
onate in 1953 and to the priesthood in 1954. In the summer of
1955, we came to Fort Smith as rector of St. John’s parish and are
still deeply engrossed and overwhelmingly happy in the work here.

Our first daughter, Trudy, is in her junior year at Vassar, with
a major in mathematics and a friend at Harvard; our second
daughter, Kathy, is enjoying to the fullest a year in Neuchatel,
Switzerland, studying languages, music and snow, Our third
daughter, Eleanor, is the most enthusiastic of teen-agers, loving
high school, and our youngest, Audley, is making it through the
third grade although her real interest is in horses and ranches. Now I
am off to a six weeks’ term as fellow at the College of Preachers,

National Cathedral, Washington — and we all hope to be with the
rest of you in Cambridge in June.

* [1232 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM EDWARD SIBLEY, Il

 

HOME apDpRESS: 604 Parrott Drive, San Mateo, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Swett & Crawford, 130 Sansome St., San Francisco, Calif.

BORN: June 25, 1914, Sioux City, Iowa. PARENTS: William Edward Sibley, Jr.
Inez Althea Carroll.

PREPARED AT: Jefferson City High School, Jefferson City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1935.

MARRIED: Maye Louise Wymore, June 24, 1936, Glendale, Calif. ciutpres:
Robert Edward, July 31, 1945, Sue Ann, March 3, 1940 (7. Philip R.
Sloan, Jr., Sept. 4, 1959).

OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president, Swett & Crawford, correspondents for
Lloyd’s of London.

OFFICES HELD: Member, executive committee, California Surplus Line Associa-
tion, 1951-54; area chairman, Twenty-fifth Class Reunion.

MEMBER OF: British-American Chamber of Commerce; San Francisco Chamber
of Commerce; San Francisco Harvard Club; Delta Upsilon Fratemity;
San Francisco Commercial Club.

IN trying ° summarize what has happened to me in the past twenty-
five years, I suppose that most things come under the headings of
“career,” “family” and “hobbies”; although this eliminates a great
deal of time spent in bars and waiting for commute trains.

For quite some time after graduation I found my degree of very
little help in earning a living and, in fact, after several unfortunate
employment experiences, I found myself in Los Angeles in 1938
with a wife and no job. The degree was soon to be of assistance,
however. After two months on my job as file clerk and mesenger
boy with Swett & Crawford, I managed to lose the bank deposit
books, thereupon bringing to the attention of the brass that they
had in their employ a bright young Harvard boy who wasn’t quite
bright enough to make the bank deposits without goofing. ‘The
upshot — proving that any publicity is better than no publigity =

[ 1233 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935 |

was promotion and a ten-dollar raise! So I have been stuck inthe |
insurance business ever since. Two of the nicest fringe benefits] |
have are being forced to work in San Francisco and having to make
periodical trips to Lloyd's of London (with consequent opportu.
nity for plaving hookey on the Continent), |
Our daughter Sue graduated from Miss Burke’s School in San

Francisco in 1958, enrolled at the University of Colorado and soon
thereafter became engaged to Philip R. Sloan, Jr. They were
married early this fall and are continuing their studies. Robert is
fourteen and is a freshman at Menlo School for Boys, Menlo Park,
California. We have lived in San Mateo —a thirty-minute com-
mute to the city —since 1943 and think the Bay area is the great-
est place in the United States. i brid

When I was in college my principal hobbies were golt, bri ge
and drinking beer. As my handicap rose over the years, 1 gradually
drifted away from golf and haven't played a round for six or seven
years. I am still an avid reader of bridge columns but somehow
don’t get to play very often. Now that the children are away ae
ever, maybe there will be more opportunity. As I grew o es
found beer drinking more and more bloating, so these days _ am
forced to substitute Scotch whiskey (in much smaller quantities,
of course). Aside from the above, I have taken up home movies
and have become a ’goer football fan. Since the Giants came to San
Francisco, I have also become a baseball fan — along with my wife
and 900,000 other people. I also have a hankering to take up boat-
ing of some sort but so far am still in process of selling my wife the

idea. In the meantime, I fill in the balance of my spare time with
amateur cooking and barbecuing.

i

 

TI am afraid I have not developed any scholarly philosophical
theories over the years, but I am sure that whatever Harvard “in-
difference” I may have acquired in college has long since been
knocked out of me. I am looking forward to

the Twenty-fifth
Reunion and, having made that, see no reason {
the Fiftieth.

or not trying for

[1234 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN DAVID SICHER

 

HOME apprEss: 59 E.. Pettebone St., Forty Fort, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Liberty Throwing Co., Inc., Kingston, Pa.

BORN: July 26, 1914, New York, N.Y. PARENTS: Samuel Arwood Sicher, ‘oy.
Mildred Sternberger.

PREPARED AT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. Cu72 laude, 1935.

MARRIED: Dorothy Epstein, Aug. 12, 1940, New York, N.Y. catupars: John
David, Jr., May 26, 1945; Michael Atwood, Sept. 27, 1947.

OccUPATION: Executive vice-president, Liberty Throwing Company, Inc, yarn
processors and manufacturers.

OFFICES HELD: Director for Radio and TV, United Fund and Community Chew
Campaigns, 1955-58; member, Planning Council, Pubhewy Conuniteec,
Wyoming Valley Community Chest, 1956-57; president, West Side Com-
munity Center, 1958, 1959, 1960; public relations director, Luzerne County
Civil Defense Council, 1958-59; trustee, Temple B'nai Bnith, since 194%

MEMBER OF: Fox Hill Country Club; Harvard Clubs of New York and North.
eastern Pennsylvania; American Association of Textile Technologrrs,

WHERE and why do we wander from the course we set?) Where
are we going? What did Harvard do for me? These are questions
that many of us ask ourselves as we set out to write the Twenty-
fifth Reunion review,

As an English major, with a notion IT could write, PE started out
in 1935 to set the advertising world afire. After bricf stints at
Macy’s and Bloomingdale’s in New York, “to learn merchandising,”
J landed a job at Lawrence Fertig & Company, Inc., a fine, medi
sized New York agency. There, [ ran the gamut, and by togo was
writing copy and acting as account executive on small accounts
It should be noted that my copy writing career almost died at the
start — for my first task was to write an advertisement for maternity

[ 1235]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935
Conets C0 be run in the Journal of the American Medical Assoc;
tion —a truly dithcult assignment for a bachelor. cia.

In June, 1940, inspired by patriotism or wanderlust, I volunteereg
for active duty as a hrst lieutenant in the Field Artillery. A further
burst of enthusiasm inspired me, in the fall of 1940, to voluntee;
for Foreign Service. My first choice was the Philippines, my second
choice Hawai. Luckily, I got my second choice! Having acquired
a most attractive wife in the interim, we set sail for Hawaii in
February of 1941. There, we had the never-to-be-forgotten ex.
perience of going through the Japanese attack on December 7th,
1941.

I was fortunate during the war years. Most of the time was spent.
in Hawaii on the Central Pacific Headquarters staff, with the ex-
citing job of long-range supply planning for future operations,
with side trips to the “Forward Areas” and back to the Pentagon.
My wife, luckily, was able to stay in Hawaii, working in the radar
warning establishment during most of the war. She returned at
the end of 1944 and our first son was born in New York in May,
1945. .

My father-in-law, a Yale man, overlooked what he considered
an unfortunate college background, and after the war offered me
a chance to enter his business —a textile yarn processing operation.
The plant is located in the Wyoming Valley of northeastern Penn-
sylvania, near Wilkes-Barre, and it was therefore to this part of the
world that we moved in 1946. Settling in the little town of Forty
Fort, I buckled down to learn a highly technical business — a far
cry from Madison Avenue. So here lam, after thirteen happy years.
Our business has had violent ups and downs— happily, it 1s
currently in a modest “up.” Personally, I have acquired a second
son, and business-wise, we have diversified from processing silk,

rayon and nylon into the manufacture of elastic yarns. You can

have no idea just how difficult it is to make exactly the right yarn
for your wife’s girdle! |

  
 

When I first came, as a stranger, to this part of Pennsylvania, I

threw myself eagerly into community affairs. Being one who finds
it hard to say “no,” T soon found m

yself far too busy with board
and committee meetings, and in the last few years have been gradu-
ally disengaging myself from many of my outside activities, to con-
centrate on the few which interest me most,

Other than reading (especial

nee y novels and military and nav
histories of World War If), my hobbies are too few. and I want

[ 1236 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to develop one or more, T can still go three sets of singles w
my elder son (though soon he will be too much for me, [ hop.
Recently bitten by the stereo bug, [am starting to acquire yo
classical records. Fishing hereabouts is fine and I have a Com
sailboat on a nearby lake. But when all is said and done, it & ama
ing how, more and more, I catch a snooze or watch TV on wee
end afternoons when I could or should be outdoor, of “dow
something worthwhile.” Is this age? — or as I like to tell myse.
am 1 conserving my strength?

To sum up —a great measure of happiness and contentinent, bi
always a feeling that I could or should do more in my spare tine
with such mind, energy and intellectual resources as f may hav:

Maybe this feeling, in itself, is good, Maybe this inward cor
viction that a man can and should always reach out beyond hin!

is the great harvest of a Harvard education that we reap now anc
always.

EUGENE JEREMIAH SILBERMANN

 

OFFICE appREsS: 8o EF. 86th St. New York 28 N.Y.
BoRN: Jan. 13, 1915, Revere, Mass. Parents: Maunce Sslbermenn, Pauhewe
Ornstein.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mas.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932, Decrees; aa (Tufts Call), igi, wm iNew
York Medical Coll), 1943.
Marrieo: Esther Miller, Sept. 3, 1940, Swampscott, Maw, (dvntued rene)
OCCUPATION: Physician.
MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons, Ametican Bian af CRetsews
and Gynecology.

AFTER leaving Harvard, eventually found myself and revered
M.D. degree from New York Medical College. Spent tune mm Pe

{ 0237 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

cific as medical officer in U.S.N.R. during the war and returned for
postgraduate work and subsequent practice of medicine in the field

of obstetrics and gynecology. I am still associated with the medi.
cal school.

WARREN OSBORNE SILLEN

 

HOME appREss: 82 Phillips Rd., Lynnfield Center, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Haartz-Mason, Inc., 270 Pleasant St., Watertown, Mass.

porN: Dec. 2, 1912, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: John Daniel Sillen, Alma Bernar-
dine Anderson.

PREPARED AT: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932, DEGREE: $B. (Boston Univ.), 1935.
MarrieD: Myrtle Irene Raymond, Jan. 19, 1957, Beverly, Mass.

occupation: Assistant sales manager, Haartz-Mason, Inc., manufacturers of
rubberized fabrics,

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Boston University Alumni Associa-
tion,

MEMBER OF: Sales Executives Club of Boston.

NEEDLESS to say, economic conditions were very different from
today’s. When many of us left school to find employment, it was
often a case of a “job” rather than a particular industry or com-
mercial endeavor. After about eighteen months, things had im-
proved and one could make a change, which I did, from learning to
be a casualty insurance underwriter to sales work in rubber manu-
facturing. Following three years of service with the 102d U.S. Naval

Construction Battalion in New Guinea and the Philippines, I re-
turned to the same work but with a

smaller company. This is the
one with which I am still associated.

1am happy. My wife is a wonderful girl — energetic, buoyant
and generous. We enjoy many things together: golf, the theatre,

[ 1238 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

attending ball games. Both of us have been active on the board of

directors of the General Alumni Association of Boston niverity,
My wife graduated from there in 1942.

‘As far as philosophical thought is concerned, I might comment
at random, such as: “I don’t feel old at this time of our Twenty-
fifth Reunion. To the contrary, I feel that I am more likely at the
peak of my capabilities, such as they are.” "I have learned that
business is fiercely competitive, that from a rather naive asumpuon
that most of one’s associates would practise the golden rule, one
has to adjust to a rather militant attitude to keep from being sub-
merged. However, with strength but decency and with a sense of
humor, one can prevail and enjoy it.” “The fast-changing world
with its nuclear development, space missiles and all, does not frighten
me. I feel the world is more and more interesting and challenging.

And should disaster strike by chance, I have a deep religious faith thac

all will be well eventually, whatever the form and shape of life to
be.”

CHARLES VRTACEK SILLIMAN

 

HOME Appress: Apt. 1, 405 S. Osceola, Orlando, Fla.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 307 Metcalf Bldg. Orlando, Fla.

BORN: Jan. 11, 1914, Brooklyn, N.Y. Parents: Claude Watrous Silliman, Anne
Vrtacek.

PREPARED AT: Jamaica High School, Jamaica, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: S.B., 1936; LL.B, 1939
marriED: Dorothy McGuffin, 1946, Dorset, Ve. (diverced 1997). comme

Bradford, Oct. 18, 1947; Amelia L’Hommedicu, Sepe. 97, toag, Jenaneva,
Dec. 18, 1952.

occuPaTion: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Honorary consul of Mexico, 19ye-gt; asustant prutewne, Codie ge
of Law, University of Florida, 1948-51,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

MEMBER OF: Orange County Bar Association; Florida Bar; Orlando

for the Freedom Academy, Inc. Commintee

AFTER graduating from Harvard Law School in 1939, I practised
law for a number of years in Boston. During part of this time I was
appointed Honorary Consul of Mexico for the States of Maine.
Massachusetts, Vermont and New Hampshire. I had some interest.
ing experiences, many of which centered around the problems of
a group of Mexican railroad workers who had come up to work
on the railroad lines in Massachusetts in the middle of the winter
fully equipped with huaraches and straw hats.

After my marriage in 1946, I spent two years in the town of Dor-
set, Vermont. In 1948, | began to teach law at the College of Law
of the University of Florida in Gainesville, teaching partnership,
surctyship, municipal corporations, admiralty and public utilines.
[also taught a course in modern European history and Latin Amer-
can history during the summer of 1948. I have practised law in
Orlando, Florida, since 1951.

My present interest is in seeking passage of the Freedom Com-
mission Act (HLR. 3880, 5.1689) which I helped draft. We received
an excellent hearing before the Senate Internal Security Subcom-
mittee last year and hope for possible passage this year.

EMMANUEL SILVER

    

MOME ApoREss: 286 Oak Grove Ave., Atherton, Calif,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 5:0 Cowper St, Palo Alto, Calif.
Boar: Sept. 5, 1915,

Friedman, Boston, Mass, parents: Louis Serebriani Silver, Gertrude
marae at; Malden High School, Malden, Mass
TEARS IN QOLLEGE! 1933— ~pepe: .

Coll), 1939. 9 1935. DEGREES; AB, cumi laude, 19353 MLD. (Tufts

[ 1240 ]

5
i

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPOR

veansiep: Georgia Bennett, June 2, 1942. CHILDREN: Karen Hannah, April 24,
Woy ts Pamela Ann, Aug. 26, 1952.

oecupaTios: Physician.

AFTER the usual period of postgraduate training in psychiatry and

neurology (which was then followed by army service during World

War II), I migrated to California and have been in private profes-

wonal practice in Palo Alto since 1948.

GEORGE BORIS SIMON

   

; he
da. a *

 

Hons anpurss: Lauderdale Drive, MR 98, Binghamton, N.Y.

ovr aporsss: Link Aviation, Inc., Binghamton, N.Y.

poms: June 14. 1914, Boston, Mass. parents: Myer Simon, Charlotte Hurwitch.

perparrD at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; ED.M., 19393 ED.D., 1953.

Marnitp: Eleanor Boyarsky, Nov. 26, 1947, Shreveport, La. cHiLpren: Robert
Myron, Oct. 7, 1948, Barry Jan, Nov. 30, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Arthur Saul Simon, 737.

oocupaTios: Engineering psychologist; chief, Engineering Psychology Depart-
ment, Link Aviation, Inc.

oeveces HELD: President, Civilian Recreation Association, Hdqtrs. AF Flying
Training Command, Fort Worth, Texas, 1942; member, Board of Educa-
tion, Vestal Central School District, N.Y., appointed January, 1959, elected
June, 1959; member, Education Committee and Management Council, Link
Aviation, Inc.

MEMBER oF: American Psychological Association (Divisions of Evaluation &
Measurement, Industrial & Business Psychology, Engineering Psychology),
American Statistical Association; Human Factors Society; Psychometric
Society; Aero-Space Medical Association; American Association for
Advancement of Science (former member); Institute of Mathematical
Scatistics (former member); Phi Delta Kappa.

puBLICATIONS: “The Relative Effectiveness of an Air Force Training Devwe
Used Intact vs. With Isolated Parts’; “A Technique of Job Actwity

[ 1241 ]

_—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Description for New Weapon Systems: Task Equipment Analysis”; “A
Technique for Evaluating Multiple Criterion Measures and for Combining
Them into a Single Composite”, “The Combination of Separate Reliabili

Estimates”; “Evaluation and Combination of Criterion Measures by Factor
Analysis; a Study of B-25 Preflights by Airplane and Engine Mechanics”;
“The Development and Tryout of a Checklist of Observable Behaviors in
Preflighting the B-25”; “Records, Analysis and Test Procedures: Part Il
on Machine Records and Analysis”; “Procedure for Obtaining Six-Part

Scores from Answer Sheets in One Run Through the IBM Test Scoring
Machine.”

IN twenty-five years I have acquired much to be grateful for —
not the least of which are a seasoned humility, a re-affirmed liberal
and optimistic outlook, increased respect for and understanding of
my fellow man and ({ hope) greater wisdom. My appreciation for
the individual, for individual freedom and for social and scientific
progress has been strengthened. More than ever do I see a need for
the extension of the Harvard liberal spirit and our democratic prin-
ciples; for the elevation of our sense of values and our codes of
ethics; for increasing the quality and quantity of our education; for
more intellectualism; and for less complacency, less indifference and
less conformity. Perhaps the greatest need is for humanity to learn
to live together in peace and security in one world.

Work Experience: Successively my work experience involves
research and administrative work in the following capacities: edu-
cational tests and measurements, statistician, aviation, psychologist,
personnel psychologist (selection and evaluation), research psycholo-
gist (training research), technical adviser and reviewer, chief of
qualitative personnel requirements, chief of training equipment and
currently manager of the Engineering Psychology Department at
Link Aviation, Inc. Additional experience includes high school and
college teaching and consulting work. I have been associated with
the Carnegie Foundation, Educational Research Corporation, The
Air Surgeon (Air Force Headquarters), Air Training Command,
Human Resources Research Center (Air Force) and Air Force
Personnel and Training Research Center. After fifteen years of
government service (including almost four years of military service),
| accepted a position with Link Aviation in Binghamton, New York,
where I have had the pleasure of building up a human factors group
of recognized capability. Our work is both applied and research in
nature and all of it is challenging and interesting.

I have resided at Shreveport, Louisiana (1946-48), Colorado (1956-
58) and Binghamton (Vestal), New York (since 1958), Beyond

[ 1242 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my AB. degree, I have earned the EG. AL (tests and measurements}
and Ed.D. (research and evaluation) from Harvard Graduate Sheed
of Education. Since 1939, I have been concerned with edieational
and psychological problems, selection and training problems and
military and industrial psychology problems.

Military Service: I enlisted in the Air Force in tyy: and was
separated in July, 1946. During that time I rose in rank from private
to a major. Most of my service was with the Air Force Traming
Command Headquarters, as an aviation psychologist. I am now »~
lieutenant colonel in the Air Force Reserve on an inactive statuy

Our family is close-knit and we undertake many activities av a
group. These activities are social, cultural and recreational in nature
and they include outdoor sports, picnics and excursions, as well as
indoor games, reading and entertaining. We try to develop our
children to have well-rounded personalities with adequate self.

discipline and work capacity for serious effort and with a proper
sense of values, understanding and humor to adjust to and cope with
the many trials and tribulations of everyday living.

ROBERT EDWARD SIMON, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 25 E. 69th St., New York, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 250 W. 57th St., New York, N.Y,

BORN: April 10, 1914, New York, N.Y. parents: Robert Pulwand Samon, pbs
Weil.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B, cum Laude, 1944.
MARRIED: Helen Adam, July 24, 1939, New York, N.Y. (ded Nowemdet, cysy!

CHILDREN: Paul Douglas, Feb, 15, 1945; Margo Cameron, VWarch pices!

OccUPATION: Real estate investment.
OFFICES HELD; Trustee, Citizens’ Budget Committee, togte qa, baghetenon fiw

froed ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

the Blind, 1935-593 president, National Music League, 1953-58; vice- hai
man, Ethics Committee, 1954-59, director, Owners’ Division er

r 7 » 1958-
Estate Board of New York. 958-59, Real

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Huntington Country Club, Huntin .
ton Winter Club. 6

publications: Editor, Be Your Own Muste Critic, Doubleday, 1941.

THE theme of this Twenty-fifth Anniversary Year for me is travel
— weekly trips to New Haven and East Islip to see my son Paul,
fourteen, and daughter Margo, twelve, at their respective schools,
frequent trips to Dallas and Philadelphia, where there are shop-
ping centers for which I am responsible. Home during the week is
Manhattan; weekends and holidays, Syosset, where family and

friends have provided much welcome comfort since the recent
death of my wife.

GEORGE HENRY SIMONDS

Ce

   

  

       

  

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 42 Kenmore Rd., Belmont 78, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 23, 1912, North Andover, Mass. PARENTS: George Henry Simonds,
Gertrude Staples Badger.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: S.B., 1935; C-P.A. (Massachusetts), 1946.

mareiep: Elizabeth McCreary, February, 1945, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:

Elizabeth McCreary, May 8, 1948, Nancy Badger, June 18, 1950.
OccUPATION: Certified public accountant.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Margaret Fuller House, 1950-60, First Church Congre-

gational in Cambridge, 1959-60, trustee and treasurer, Belmont Day

School, Inc., 1953-60; assistant treasurer, Belmont Hill School, Inc., 1958-
60, Phillips Academy Andover Fund, 1959-60.

MEMBER OF; Massachusetts Society of Certified Public Accountants.
TRS ING - draw upa balance sheet representing results of twenty-
ve years of activity in small space is almost like attempting to pre-
L 1244]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sent the U.S, budget without aid of IBM. [have found great sure.

faction in showing people how to eliminate paper work, and watch
ing the results (hope no one gets a peck at my desk!).

When not engaged on other people’s problems, skiing, travel,
woodworking and, most of all, being a parent consume all of my
time. After going around the world on the same ship in the Navy
during the war, my curiosity about foreign lands has been greatly
whetted and I have come to the conclusion that if more foreiners
could and would visit the United States we could move cliner than
ever before to world peace. Last summer, Elizabeth and | mort.
gaged the homestead and toured Europe. Oh, those wonderful

Europeans, living in the middle of the most fantastic antiquities and
most always doing things the hard way! We loved them all and
wish we could show them « our way of life.

JAMES GLEDHILL SIMONDS

  

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Snowville, N.H

Born: Feb. 28, 1913, Montclair, N.J. parents: Frank Herbert Senonde, ‘on,
Mary Frances Gledhill.

PREPARED aT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.1.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREE: A.B., 1935 (34).

MarRiED: Joan Patterson, June 5, 1948, Warrenton, Va. cratomew Vargas,
March 16, 1950; Jonathan, Feb. 1, 1952; Moira, Apnl 7. so¢. Usema, Serpe
21, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Tree farmer,

MEMBER oF: Metropolitan Club, Washington, D.C.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

CHESTER RALPH SINGER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 120 Dorest Rd., Waban 68, Mass.
OFFICE appRESS: Wm. Filene’s Sons Co., Washington Street, Boston, Mass.

BorN: Dec. 29, 1913, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: Julius Singer, Mildred Sinsky,
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1935.

Marriep: Grace Lepie, Aug. 13, 1939, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Stuart Ran-
dolph, May 25, 1941; Allan Warren, April 16, 1944.
occuPaATION: Merchant.

SAMUEL SINNREICH

 

HOME appress: 1530 E. rgth St, Brooklyn 30, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Welfare, 250 Church St., New York, N.Y.

BORN: Aug, 25, 1912, Stanislav, Austria. PARENTS: Harry Sinnreich, Rebecca
Rudel.

PREPARED AT: Thomas Snell Weaver High School, Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932, 1933-1936. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1935(36)3
AM. 1938.

Mannie Anne Bergholz, Sept. 6, 1941, Brooklyn, N.Y. cup: Judy, Oct. 29,
1946.

[ 1246 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Supervisor, administration of public assistance programs, trang
and staff development, Department of Welfare, New York Cav.
orFices HELD: Chairman, New York City Welfare Supervisory Joee Salary

Conference, 1954-55.
MEMBER OF: American Public Welfare Association, American Federanon of

State, County and Municipal Employees, Welfare Lodge, Binas B meth,
LOST in the anonymity of Gotham, alas and alack, I can boast of
neither fame nor fortune, Only a rare trip to Florida, to the Wese
Coast or to New England has taken me from my family (small bue
gratifying), apartment (small and could be bigger) and a job (big
responsibilities but small pay). Courses at the New York School
of Social Work, periodic conferences and last summer's Institute
at Cornell have kept me alert to trends in my profession.

In times of general prosperity, one is apt to overlook the human
problems stemming from technological unemployment, maw mi-
gration, conflicts of cultures, housing shortages and the tmpovernh-
ment of the aged, the widowed and the disabled. Certainly, enor-
mous strides have been made in the areas of social insurance, group
insurance, group medicine, cooperative and public housing and edu-
cation for community living. However, there remain considerable
numbers of individuals and families who must necessarily, in full
or in part, for a short term or over an indefinite period, depend on
the programs of public assistance which have painstakingly been
developed since the Great Depression. These programs are cur-
rently under serious attack from many quarters.

I should like to see in our leaders of society a surge of interest,
not in the fostering of dependence but in the preservation of human
values, not in the encouragement of “chiselers” but in the salvaging
of family life, not in the coddling of the indolent but in the train:

ing for productive citizenship. Stated simply, T should lke our
men of influence to take more than a fleeting glance at the programs
of public assistance now in operation, to recognize the penitives
and to lend their support for improvement wherever flaws appear.
I look forward to the extension of comprehensive social services in
rural areas beyond the reach of voluntary agencies. Tam hopeful
of achieving a sustained clinical approach to the “multi-prabteny”
families who all too frequently constitute a blight upon the cents
munity. Finally, with ever-increasing shifts in population, it appears
inevitable that the financing of the public assistance programs must
become more and more the responsibility of the federal governiment

f 1247 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ALFRED ANDREW SKERPAN

   

HOME ADDRESS: 315 Rellim Drive, Kent, Ohio.
OFFICE appress: Kent State University, Kent, Ohio.

porN: March 21, 1914, Rochester, N.Y. PARENTS: Alfred Skerpan, Mary
Hoscoe.

PREPARED aT: Ansonia High School, Ansonia, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cunt laude, 1935; AM. (Yale Univ.),
1937; PH.D. (ibid.), 1943.
MarRIED: Ruth Elizabeth Penley, Nov. 24, 1951, Arlington, Va. CHILDREN:

Elizabeth Penley, Oct. 11, 1955; Alfred Lindsay, Nov. 6, 1959.
occupation: Professor of history.

OFFICES HELD: President, Kent State University Chapter, 1953-54, secretary-
treasurer, 1953-54, president, 1956-57, Council of the State Universities of
Ohio, nominee for National Council, 1955, American Association of
University Professors, president, Kent Council of World Affairs, 1956;
member, board of deacons, First Congregational Church, Kent, Ohio,
1954-58. oO

MEMBER oF: American Association of University Professors, American His-
torical Association; Ohio Academy of History; Ohio Historical Associa-
tion; Phi Alpha Theta; Faculty Club, Kent, Ohio; Kent Research Group.

PUBLICATIONS: “Views and Reviews of the Soviet Problem,” Aztioch Review,
June, 1947; “Liberalism and Eastern Europe,” AAUP Bulletin, winter,
1938; “The Idea of World Revolution,” South Atlantic Quarterly, spring,
1949; “War, the Soviets, and Walter Lippmann,” Cleveland Plain Dealer,
July 10, 1951; “Aspects of Soviet Antisemitism,” Antioch Review, Sep-
tember, 1952; “Russia and Soviet Russia,” in M. A. Fitzsimons et al., eds.,
Development of Historiography, Stackpole, 1954; “Soviet Policies Regard-

ing Nationalities,” Social Education, April, 1958.
IT has taken two decades to convince me that the choice of a career
1 made in college was the best I could have made for myself, Study
research, teaching, lecturing, and writing in the field of histor
and contemporary affairs, particularly in respect to Russia and the
Soviet Union, have ultimately made possible a great variety of ex-

[1248 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

periences. Indeed there were grim years, as after the second World
War, when society, however hysterical and almost mindlew over
the threat of Communism, rated the johnny-come- -carly expert in
Soviet affairs, financially speaking, lower than the cleaners of drains
Perhaps this was slightly better than being judged a potential sub-
versive for knowing the workings of the Soviet system, or a bar-

barian for preferring” to discuss Proust, Faulkner or the pre-Lolita
Nabokov rather than baseball or bridge.

Reconsidering my experiences I cannot see that life would have
been richer at three times my present earnings. In the realin of
sensation (where drop the places and names), Ruth and I have had
our extended Florida vacation, a leisurely tour of the west and of
Canada, and two tours of Europe. For myself I recall with some
pleasure or emotion four visits to Paris, matins at the abbey of Se
Denis, a midnight bus ride through ice and snow north of the Arctic
Circle, and Easter services in the | Lapp church at Karasjok, Norway,
No less memorable would be, just before the first spurmk went up,
a tour of the Soviet Union ending with a jet plane flight from Mov.
cow; and at Prague, over bottles of authentic Pilsner, a discussion
of Soviet science with the president of the international cancer so-

ciety.

It was my good fortune, after college, to study Russian and Soviet
history at Yale under George Vernadsky, generally acknow ledged
as the foremost authority outside the Soviet Union. One conse-
quence was that, in conjunction with events also, my carlicr anti-
Communist but sympathetic attitude toward Soviet polici ics had by
1937 resolved itself into a good deal more critical, informed and
moral rejection of Stalin as well as Lenin. However, to have been
a thorough anti-Communist before 1939 scems to have carried
serious penalties: before and during the war and after, in the aca-
demic world and out, such a position was judged by many as signi-
fying, probably, poor scholarship, but definitely pro-F ascist and pre
Nazi sentiments. Yet to have rejected the latter with equal convic-
tion signified to many others an anti-Communism that was evtremely
suspect. It came to seem at times that to have faith ultimately in
what may be considered essential American ideas was to be rather

naive or at least to stand for something pure cornball.

Whatever the pattern of my intellectual development, acalerne
training brought very satisfying professional acavity. Before a-
quiring the doctorate, I had taught first in a small, isolated volleve
— Norwich — in the heart of the Green Mountains, then in a shy-

[ 1249 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935
scraper classroom building of City College, New York Ww
brought me to Washington in 1942 for the Office of a
Services; later in London I participated in, then headed, a Mission
that carried on research, intelligence activity and liaison with British
intelligence agencies In respect to various aspects of Soviet capa-
bilities. The end of war brought me back: to Washington, now to

work for several months in the Department of State. 1 resigned my
post here in May, 1946.

Strategic

Four years of government service, part of which I spent in the
uniform of a detached naval officer (I resigned my commission in
1953), gave me a very broad knowledge of actual Soviet affairs, a
considerable experience in administration — augmenting earlier sum-
mertime experience in state park service management in Connecticut
—and also the conviction that a bureaucrat’s life was not for me.
All the same, there were soul searchings and wrenchings as I sought
to settle down in college teaching; foundations were not much in-
terested in supporting research in Russian history (at least by me)
and the academic world in the main — of course excluding Harvard
— was not really concerned with what I felt were the crucial prob-
lems of our times. It appeared then that the typical college of the
future was destined to become a combined psychiatric clinic, pleas-
ure dome, and sterile facsimile of a business corporation. In such
an atmosphere the professor was already losing significance, and
his salary, which in the thirties matched the earnings of a physician
(whose training was no more expensive), was declining in real
terms to where it would be for a while but a fourth. For about
eighteen months, therefore, I wrestled with the possibilities of a

return to intelligence work, a professional writing career (an old
dream), and of other academic locations.

A brief return to Washington in 1947, to investigate openings,
almost instantly dispelled doubts as to my earlier wisdom in leav-
ing government work. There followed a year in New York, where
Thad a fling at “being a creative writer”: writing, pub-crawling with
others of the ilk, participating in writers’ circles, and the rest. While
I published nothing, I was assured by recognized critics and editors
that there was talent; but greater familiarity with the writers’ world
and its uncertainties also assured me that with all its faults the aca-
demic world for me was better. Actually, I had been too much a
aot ep Fin even one yer: the tine

olumbia lectures and read-

ings in Russian economy, foreign policy and literature, as well as

[ 1250 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with the writing of an article on world revolution. Thus careers ise
the needle settled again on the true pole: research, if only on my own,
and teaching; location meant my initial one, selected originally an
a compromise between a Rocky | Mountain state university and an

old Atlantic seaboard university with limited fame and with pres.
ing demands for publication.

College work came to mean, apart from courses, continuing com.

mittee and advisory work, numerous extra-curricular talks and ad-
dresses, papers before the American Historical Association and the
Ohio Academy of History, and (so far) about thirty published con-
tributions of various kinds, although as yet no formal book. There
also has been much of “doing things myself,” amateur photography,
and activity in councils on world ‘affairs; and there were four years
of strenuous effort in the local and state organizations of the Ameti-
can Association of University Professors, where I helped promote,
on the one hand, an improvement of professorial salaries, and on the
other, not too successfully except in a parliamentarian sense, a clearer
and more virile conception of academic freedom. An academic
career has made possible some long vacations and tours, as well as
a stay at the University of Helsinki under a Fulbright rescarch
grant. Hardly least, it brought sufficient moral equilibrium to settle
into the proper state of man, marriage, and to secure the blewinys
past the age of forty, of a daughter and a son. Here indeed, with
hair already greyed, has there been another life beginning.

SAMUEL TREDWELL SKIDMORE, JR.

 

appRESs: % John N. Delafield, 15 William St. New York 4. VY
Born: Nov, 22, 1913, Lakewood, N.J. ParReNrs: Samuel Prestuell Sh abroereie,
Judith Dousman.

[1258 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., #/agna

cum laude I
OCCUPATION: Government service. » 1935+

NO questionnaire returned.

ROBERT MORRIS SLEGMAN

 

HOME AppRESS: 6547 Wenonga Terr., Kansas City, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Stern-Slegman-Prins Co., 3122 Gillham Plaza, Kansas City,
Mo.

BORN: Jan. 15, 1915, Binghamton, N.Y. Parents: Saul Slegman, Hulda Stern.

PREPARED AT: Southwest High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1935.

niarriED: Betty Harvey, Sept. 9, 1946, New York, N.Y. cuitpren: John
Robert, April 23, 1948; Dorothy Ellen, Nov. 24, 1950; Ann Elizabeth,
July 21, 1954.

MOCUPATION: Secretary-treasurer, Stern-Slegman-Prins Company, manufacturers
of women’s coats and suits,

FFICES HELD: Commissioner, Garment Industry Pension Fund, vice-president,
Garment Workers Health Center, Kansas City Apparel Association.

1EMBER OF: Oakwood Golf Club; Homestead Country Club, Harvard Club
of Kansas City; Friends of Art.

AFTER spending a year at the Harvard Business School, I started to
vork in the coat and suit manufacturing business. I soon learned
hat in the jungle of New York’s Seventh Avenue garment district,
he laws of supply and demand taught by Professor Taussig in his
conomics courses certainly were rigorously enforced. Many a day
fter trying to make myself understood by the various fur dealers
e purchased goods from I wished I had spent more time on modern
oreign languages and the fine eastern European or Oriental art of

argaining,

[ 1252 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Soon my apprenticeship here was ended and I returned to Kamas

City to learn how the raw materials I had purchased were turned
into finished garments. Despite the depression, our firm grew and
we began to distribute our product nationally and advertise our
“Betty Rose” label in many national publications. T remained up
to my ears in design and production until I went into service in
World War II.

It was obvious to the powers who controlled the destinies of those
entering the armed forces that anyone who had spent considerable
time in manufacturing garments should become a weather fore-

caster for the Air Force. This should explain some of the poorly
fitting uniforms and perhaps some of the unusual weather predic-
tions. I enjoyed the new world of meteorology and have continucd
to pursue this fascinating subject as one of my hobbies.

After the war ended, I returned to Kansas City and business and,
in 1946, married Betty Harvey of Long Island, New York. She ts
a graduate of the University of Michigan, ’44, and, at the time we
met, was a writer in New York City for United Press Association.

We settled down in a small home and started our family which
now consists of one son, John, eleven, and two daughters, Dorothy,

nine, and Ann Elizabeth, five. We soon outgrew our little house
and started to build a larger one at the same time we built a new fac-
tory for the business. The resulting double constructions left me
weak emotionally and financially. I remember viv idly that damp
day when the contractors called to say that half of our woodwork
and windows together with the machinery that made them were
under fifteen feet of water in the Missouri River flood of tg¢e.
Everything ended happily and we are very proud of both buildings.

As the children are growing up we find ourselves busily enyayed

in Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, PTA and sundry other organizations Ale-
signed to benefit the youth. For our vacations we love to play golf
and rest. Thus Bermuda, Nassau, Florida, New Mexico, California,
New York and Colorado have all felt the sting of our sliced shots.
We spend several weeks a year in the east, | working and Betty
catching up on family, friends and fun. When we are there in the
summertime, our children and we enjoy plying the inland water.
ways in our relatives’ very handy cabin cruiser,

[1253 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

HAROLD SUMNER SMALL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 720 Jerusalem Rd., Cohasset, Mass.
OFFICE AppRESS: Calvin Bullock, Ltd, 10 Post Office Sq., Boston 9, Mass.
BORN: Jan. 24, 1912, Portland, Maine. PARENTS: Harold Sumner Small, Viola
Crouch.
PREPARED AT: Tabor Academy, Marion, Mass.; New Preparatory School, Cam-
bridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.
MaRRiED: Joan Brown, Oct. 14, 1950, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN: Jonathan
Wayne, March 3, 1952; Anne Derby, Feb. 17, 1954.
occupation: Investment banking; Northeast regional manager, Calvin Bullock,
Lrd.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.
FROM where I sit, I have done actually nothing to change the
affairs of the nation during the past twenty-five years. The de-
pression was in full swing when I left our portals of knowledge
in Cambridge. My earliest ventures into the business world were
varied and extensive, but this was not a regime one would choose
to further a career: pumping gas, peddling eggs, selling brushes,
working in a factory. In short, whatever and wherever i could, to
pick up an honest buck. They were dark and frustrating times, but
1 was but one among many hundreds of thousands in similar cir-
cumstances. Then I met a benevolent gentleman who introduced
me to the wool business, From there I went in 1937 to the invest-
nent business, utilizing my previous connections to develop com-
nodity futures accounts. In March of 1941, as one of the first
‘selected,” I landed precipitously in the lap of Uncle’s Infantry.
searching personnel records frantically for those who might be
able to count up to twenty without removing their shoes, the fair
ame of Harvard was as welcome as Boston Light in a Nor’easter —

what could they do but put me in Intelligence? This salutary eX-

[ 1254 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

erience impelled me to call on my year of naval science at Plary art
plus a Yankee’s familiarity with the sea, and stuly furnoiunty foe a
competitive examination which landed me in the Coat Guard with
a commission. After Naval Intelligence School in Washington, the
usual series of transfers followed with a Varicty of intcrestung start
and operational assignments. Command was not to be ny fot, but
executive Officer. The Skipper was a crusty old Mustang and threw
the Book away when it suited expediency. Ie mattered httle mm
him that his Exec was outranked by a large handful of otheen. |
was “IT”? and I damn well had better run the outfit properly ~~ oF
else! Fortunately, we were a happy crew. Among future astsn-
ments involving craft that floated and craft that flew, I wound, up
in San Francisco attached to Search & Rescue (then known as Noe
Sea Rescue). It is so many years ago that details of all the above
fade into obscurity. It suffices to say that “although never was
there a bullet fired at me in anger,” my military stint was an Ev-
perience. After the usual boosts i in rank, I was released es entuatly
on the “Point” system in November, 1945.

Back to the cold realities of civilian existence; back to the invest-
ment business, where I remained until 1 was persuaded to return
to the wool business, and on in 1954 to my own shop as a wool
broker. Then in 1956 I became associated with the international
investment banking firm of Calvin Bullock, Ltd. and am new
northeast regional manager, as gratifying a job as onc could pesubly
imagine. Could Personal Progress be called one of the Graves
If so, I am embracing her with great gusto, In tgso Pomet Joan
Brown of Boston and we were marricd in New York City, We
have two children — Jonathan and Anne — the lights of our hte,
as it should be. How about leisure time? Due to job activities the
pursuit of same is confined to relaxation at home with my fasuly
doing the usual things one does when one lives on the scaerast,
enjoying the usual activities, constructive and frivolous wha h are
a part of life in Suburbia. Now and then Joan and Ttake a few
hours to add to our collection of antiques, especially Parly Neen
can glass and china; an occasional whirl with the lowal Dhecpean
society.

It seems to be de rigeur to divulge statistics on one’s phy sab de
cline such as weight, teeth, hair, and how much the ehiltved tire
out the Old Man. Well, taking them in inverse order: my chilben
don’t drive me—I drive them: hair is yraving (lke a bear, fas
told) but I still have to comb it; all teeth soll here, evectiies hae

[ 1255 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

been added and someday I’m going to put out an eye switching them

so bifocals are the next step; finally, as for an.“Alderman,” I still
am a “long drink of water.” Do I have a philosophy of living?
Political beliefs? Interest and participation in the Seven Muses?
Certainly! The first is a private affair; the second is silly for a mere
voter to commit on paper; the last ones are better left to the ani-
mated discussions of the drawing room! In my book, it’s Happi-
ness that counts, coupled with the satisfaction of going ahead in
Life. Talents and ambitions vary enormously amongst individuals,
We all want, probably, to be Chiefs, but there must be Indians!
lll put myself half-way between. It’s my niche and so be it.

 

DOUGLAS DAWES SMEATON

   

HOME apprEss: 19 Green St., Dover-Foxcroft, Maine.
orFice appress: Great Northern Paper Co., Millinocket, Maine.

BORN: May 17, 1913, Quincy, Mass. parents: Douglas Wilson Smeaton, Ethel
Louise Dawes.

PREPARED AT: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1935 (37).

Married: Greta G. Waitt, Oct. 18, 1940, Quincy, Mass. CHILDREN: Robert W.
Jan, 19, 1942; Donald L., Nov. 16, 1943; Linda J., Feb. 4, 1952.

occupation; Process engineer, Great Northern Paper Company.

[1256 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ HERVEY LEWIS SMITH, JR.

 

BoRN: April 23, 1914, Springfield, Mass. parents: Hervey Lewis Smith, Florence

Campbell.
PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Springfield, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cin laude, 1935; Ba. (Univ. of

Cambridge), 1937; M.a. (ibid.).

piep: May 6, 1956, Palm Beach, Fla.

HERVEY LEWIS SMITH, JR., was a member of the Flot House
Play, Committee and Library Board. In his senior year he was a
member of Phillips Brooks House Cabinet and Social Service
Committee. He was also a member of the Liberal Club and Delta
Upsilon fraternity. After graduation he attended the University of
Cambridge where he received a B.A. and an M.A. degree. In 1937
he returned to Eliot House and taught history at Harvard,

For our Fifteenth Anniversary Report he wrote that his occupa-
tions were farming, teaching and investments and he was teaching
literature at Marlboro College, Marlboro Village, Vermont. Since
then he had moved to Palm Beach, Florida, where he continued a
former interest in civic affairs, campaigning for Fisenhower in the
1952 election. He was survived by his father.

[ r2¢67 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

STANLEY WILLIAMS SMITE

 

HOME apprEss: 304 Chalfonte Ave., Grosse Pointe Farms 36, Mich.
OFFICE apprEss: Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co., Certified Public Accountants,
1700 Dime Bldg., Detroit 26, Mich.

BORN: Sept. 12, 1914, Kansas City, Mo. parents: Frank Earl Smith, Clara
Estella Williams.

PREPARED AT: Southwest High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MarrieD: Julia Margaret Callaway, Oct. 21, 1939, Kansas City, Mo. cHILpren:
David Callaway, Aug. 28, 1941; Margaret Williams, May 24, 1945.

occupaTion: Certified public accountant; principal of Peat, Marwick, Mitchell
& Co., in charge of tax department in Detroit office.

OFFICES HELD: President, 1949-51, controller, 1946-49, Mission Bell Wineries,
Inc, Madera, Calif, treasurer, 1953-55, trustee, 1955-58, president, since
1958, Grosse Pointe Unitarian Church.

MEMBER oF: American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, Michigan
Association of Certified Public Accountants; American Accounting Asso-
ciation; Grosse Pointe Yacht Club, American Radio Relay League; Radio
Amateur Civil Emergency Service.

I LIKE to think my life has turned out better than those who
knew me during my one year at Harvard might have expected,
Asa CP.A., I am proud of the position I have earned in my firm,
in my profession and in the business community, Along the way,
I won a gold medal for top grade in the November, 1942, C.P.A.
examination, held a position in San Francisco similar to my present
one in Detroit, and left public accounting to become controller
and later president of a large California winery. Then I was hit
by polio in 1949 and laid up for two years, but, with the aid of a
leg brace and crutches, I have been able to resume my career.

As a husband and father, I love and am proud of my wife, my
two children, and my home. Julia was a high school classmate of
mine who attended the University of Missouri, Besides being an

[1258 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ideal wife and mother, she is active in the Kappa Kappa Gamm
alumnae of which she is currently vice-president, and in our chury
where she has served in many capacities, including being presiden
of the Women’s Alliance. Dave is now a freshman at Wester
Michigan University and a fellow radio ham. Margaret (Candy
in a high school freshman and the top student in the family .

As president of our church, I am busy trying to build a nes
church building. Unitarianism is to me a way of life. As an activ
radio amateur, -WEWRB, I have charge of providing emergenc:
Civil Defense communications for eastern Wayne County and” ra:
chew” with fellow hams all over the world on twenty, fiftcen ane
ten meter sideband. Further, I am a moderately conservative Re

publican, an avid reader, and am looking forward to the day whes
1 have time to play tournament bridge.

WILLIAM EWING SMITH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 37 Belle Ave., Troy, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 203-205 Rice Bldg., Troy, N.Y

BORN: Nov, 1, 1912, Troy, N.Y. Parents: James W. Snuth, Helen Lb dberton
Ewing.

PREPARED AT: Albany Academy, Albany, N.Y
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. Cre laude, (y7$; bm. (Alay
Law School), 1939.

MarrieD: Elva Mae Fills, Sept. 14, 1940, Newtonville, N.Y. cuntomsn: Jame
William, July 8, 1942; David Hills, April 21, 1947; Elizabeth Anne, Now.
I, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Attorney and counselor at law; owner and operstos, Capital
District Insurance Agency

OFFICES HELD: Director, since 1952, vice-president, since eyes, Hetheuta Pleat
director, since 1952, vice-president, since 1996, Albany and Verna Mad
road; director, since 1952, treasurer, 1955-58

» Troy YMCA, member,
Fo yarn

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

executive committee, since 1953, Vice-president, 1955-57, president, 1957~
59, Troy Area Council of Churches; trustee, since 1953, secretary, board
of trustees, Trinity Methodist Church; director, since 195§, secretary
1956, Rensselaer County Bar Association; member, executive committee,
Legislative Commission of New York State Council of Churches, since
1957; trustee and president, Green Mountain College, since 1958; member,
Assembly of New York State Council of Churches, since 1959; member,

Committees on Compulsory Insurance and Court Reform, Rensselaer
County Bar Association.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Alumni Association; Harvard Association of Eastern
New York (former vice-president); American, New York State and
Rensselaer County Bar Associations; Albany Law School Alumni Associa-
tion; Troy YMCA; Troy Rotary Club; Troy Boys Club, Inc. (honorary
member); various Masonic Bodies and Knights Templar, Rensselaer
County Historical Society; Rensselaer County Office of Civil Defense.

ADMITTED to law practice in New York State upon graduation
from Albany Law School (LL.B.), 1939, and U.S. District Court
for Northern District of New York, 1940. Professional career was
interrupted by service in the Navy, 1944-46, in continental United
States and with the Seventh Fleet in Pacific area. “Visits” included
Hawaii, Okinawa, Philippines, and Shanghai, among other locations.
Ron Jamieson, '35, graciously entertained me twice in Hawaii dur-
ing naval service. Have been engaged in business pursuit of owner-
ship of Capital District Insurance Agency in Troy since 1943.

The pursuit of the practice of law sans partners has personnel ad-
vantages and disadvantages, together with varying economic sta-
bility, It renders personal and professional satisfaction by the enjoy-
ment of the life of the rugged individualist. Let the “organization
man” go down (up) his own road. The rugged individualist follows
his zig-zag road, sometimes hard to find by reason of adjacent foli-
age,

At times he seems to disappear from the scene. In 1935 many of
us treasured a healthy degree of non-conformity of thought and
action. For example, some of us were of the lost generation of Re-
publicans during the reign of the “Great White Father.” For the
sake of our sons, we may well ask if this opportunity of rugged
individualism has been lost in a now brief span of twenty-five years
during which conformism, with the aid of the “organization man,”
has steadily developed. It seems to me essential to the American
life that the rugged individualist be preserved in large numbers. (I
do not mean ossified for posterity on a museum shelf.)

As vice-president and a director of the Albany and Vermont

| 1260 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Railroad, I am associated with a curious sty le of railroad which aw ns
a right of way over which runs the main line of the Delaware and
Hudson for the last twelve miles from Montreal route into Albany,
For this the D & H pays an annual rent which the directors of the
Albany and Vermont divide among its shareholders after duc cut
to “Sam.” Our corporation owns no rolling stock or other cqurp-
ment and has no employes other than very white collar employes,
i.e., officers, directors, and counsel. (Shades of the Robber Barons.)
Do not request passes or use of private car. If anvone wishes to bring

his own private car over the road, let me know.
Between the Twentieth and Twenty-fifth, I have had considerable

experience with Councils of Churches, state and local, It is a creat
education to see how the clergy sometimes think, and sometimes
don’t think. The clergy, like lawyers, need some reformation,
Through such associations and executive civic duties, ic. YMCA,
etc., one in the white tower of professional life finds our about the
odd, and sometimes annoying, problems of personnel and adiminis-
tration. Such knowledge has not persuaded me to become an “or-

ganization man.”
It is clear from this story that I have not left the city of my

birth. No doubt many of the brethren will say, “Alas, poor Wil-
liam.” Reply: This approach indicates how much our society te-
sembles that of the migratory birds. President Conant, crecritus,
appears to think vast migratory population groups to be bencticial to
the country. I trust that it does not come to pass to such an cv;
tent as to impair or destroy the Republic by the breakdown of tra-
dition. Demurrer filed, no doubt to be overruled by the majority,

A re-reading of this piece indicates it an inadequate “ riting be.
neath the style which might be expected of the Alma Mater, but

then this is only a random synopsis.

{1261 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

CHARLES HEAD SMOOT, Jr.

 

Apnress: 1451 North Ave. Deerfield, Ill.
noan: March 24, 1913, South Orange, N.J. parents: Charles Head Snes

Katherine Ryan.
prepareo at: Gunnery School, W ashington, Conn,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.
occupaTion: Engineering.

NO questionnaire returned,

EDWIN MARION SNELL

 

appwess: 2294 28th St, SE. Grand Rapids, Mich.

BORN: Jan. 29, 1914, Grand Rapids, Mich. parents: Edwin F, SnelZ2
Shafer, 7

prepare at: Central High School, Grand Rapids, Mich,

VEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B, summa cum laude, 1935; A.—

MaArkieD: March 4, 1944. cuitp: Suzanne Marion.

occupation: Government service.

NO questionnaire returned.

[ 1262 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES McCLINTOCK SNITZLER, JR.

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 1534 29th St., N.W., Washington 7, D.C.

Born: June 18, 1913, Chicago, Ill. parents: James McClintock Snitzler, Ursula
Marshall.

prepareD at: Chicago Latin School for Boys, Chicago, Il.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: AB., 1935.

marrieD: Mary B. Harrington, Dec. 18, 1943 (divorced 1946).

occuPATION: Managing trustee for family trusts.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York.

WHEN called upon to write a “biography” of twenty-five vears
of one’s life, so many places, dates, faces, and events come to mind
that I find it difficult to sort them out and put them into a cohesive
and chronological whole.

The fall after graduation from college, I went to Northwestern
University Law School where I studied for a year and a half. Then
followed five relatively uneventful years in the investment business
in Chicago. Being an inveterate and indefatigable traveler, I man-
aged to sandwich in three trips to Europe and junkets to Hawaii,
Alaska, and Mexico between college graduation and World War UL.

In April, 1942, I was commissioned an ensign in the Navy, and
after going to Midshipmen’s School at Abbott Hall for three months
I was assigned to the U.S.S, Philadelphia, a light cruiser. My entire
naval career was spent on board the Philadelphia (with the excep-
tion of a month as a staff officer on the Augusta during the invasion
of southern France) —from August, 1942, until October, 1946,
when I was released with the rank of lieutenant. I was assigned to
the communications division from the start, and since the ship
usually carried a flag on board, life was always hectic, interesting,
and exciting. We participated in the North African invasion, plus
the landings in Sicily, Salerno, Anzio, and southern France. We

[ 1263 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

paintings. Ladd to my library continually and enthusiastically and
collect, in a desultory fashion, antiques and modern paintings.

It is indeed difficult for me to realize that twenty-five years have
gone by since I left Harvard. The years have been good, sad, inter-
esting, and exciting. Like the war years, the four years in college
were a complete entity in themselves, something unique in one’s
intellectual and emotional experiences. I certainly hope that I will
live to see another quarter century pass by, for if the changes in
our living and shocks to our outlook are as radical in the next twenty-
five years as they have been in the last, our world will be almost
unrecognizable by any comparative standards we have at present.
Harvard should play a very vital part in these continuing changes,

for its place as a center of independent thought and research will
be more important than ever.

BRUCE KINNIFF SNYDER

 

HOME apprEss: 10 Lookout Lane, Westport, Conn.

OFFICE appREss; Commercial Union Assurance Co., 1 Park Ave., New York 16,
NY,

porN: Feb, 20, 1913, Brookline, Mass, PARENTS: Thomas K. Snyder, Ellen
Smeaton.

prepareD aT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MarrigD: Leopoldine Countryman, Nov. 9, 1940, Albany, N.Y. cyitp: Kathe-
rine, April 16, 1945.
HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Snyder, ’37.

occupation: Assistant U.S. manager, Commercial Union Group of Insurance
Companies, in charge of casualty underwriting.

EXCEPT for a brief interlude, my entire business experience has
been in insurance, first with an insurance agency and later with a

[ 1266 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
company branch office in Boston. In rggo0 I joined the Occan Ag-
cident and Guarantee Corporation, then owned by the Commercial

Union Assurance Company, but operating independently. bor the

next ten years I held various production and underwriting jobs in

branches in Albany, Syracuse and Boston. In 1950 I was ‘called to

the U.S. home office in New York and the following year was made

assistant U.S. manager. Management of the individual companies
of the Commercial Union Group was merged in 1945 and, as ind-
cated above, my duties now involve supervision of all casualty under-
writing for the group. This includes responsibility for our autome-
bile insurance results. As the writing of this class of insurance has
been probably the most unprofitable financial endeavor one could
be engaged in for the past few years, I don’t find too much free
time for outside activities.

As we moved around the country quite frequently in the carly
years it was not until recently that we could have any thing we could
consider a permanent home. We tried living in sev eral of the subur-
ban areas around New York and finally settled on Westport and
have just been through that exciting but frustrating experience of
building our own home for the first time and sincerely trust for the
last. Needless to say the house and grounds have kept me well oc-
cupied this year. However, I still find time for a little golf (my game
hasn’t changed to speak of in the past twenty-five years) and ocea-
sionally fill in crewing for friends who have the time or money
to keep up a sailboat.

While I like to feel that I have kept a liberal outlook on social
and political questions, I usually find when I have thought over the
issues and personalities involved, that I vore the straight Republic ar

ticket on election days.

[1267]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

FRANK GODFREY SOHN

 

appress: P.O, Box 208, Forest City, N.C.

BorN: April 5, 1912, Williamson, W. Va. Parents: Eli Sohn, Blondina May,

PREPARED AT: Mercersburg Academy, Mercersburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B, 1935.

MarRieD: Elizabeth Jane Timberman, July 31, 1949, Williamson, W. Va. cun-
pREN: Frances Elizabeth, May 24, 1950; Catherine Louise, May 12, 1952;
Joan Ellen, Sept. 21, 1954.

occuPaTioN: Executive director, Rutherford County (North Carolina) Indus-
trial Development Commission.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, Mingo County Cancer Society, 1950-56;
seal sale chairman, Mingo County Tuberculosis and Health Association,
1951-54; member, various committees, West Virginia Industrial and Pub-
licity Commission, 1951-56, managing director, Tug Valley Chamber of
Commerce, 1951-56; member, 1951-56, board of directors, 1956, Southern
Association of Chamber of Commerce Executives; secretary, Kiwanis
Club, Williamson, Va. 1952-54; member, board of directors, 1953-56,
secretary-treasurer, 1954, president, 1955, West Virginia Chamber of
Commerce Executives; post commander, Eph Boggs Post No. 49, Ameri-
can Legion, 1954; secretary, Jackson County (W. Va.) Better Schools
Association, 1957-58; member, Education Committee, West Virginia
Chamber of Commerce, 1957-59; city councilman, Ravenswood, West
Virginia, 1957; chairman of public relations, Lions Club, Ravenswood,
1959.

MEMBER OF: Mingo Country Club (formerly); Green Hills Country Club,
Ravenswood; Masons; Elks.

AT the moment of preparing this brief biography for the Twenty-
fifth Anniversary Report, I am feverishly embroiled in an interest-
ing new job as executive director of the Rutherford County (North
Carolina) Industrial Development Commission.

By profession, I am a moulder of better communities — a type
of work that is far more gratifying to the soul than to the pocket-

[ 1268 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
pook. In my present position, I am striving to bring additional pas -
rolls into the county by stimulating the expansion of local business
firms as well as by attracting new, diversified industrics. Success in
my profession is based on organization of the citizenry se that they
can have communities capable of serving themselves and capable ve
meeting industries’ needs.

Invariably, I am asked what type of background is required for
this field of activity, and the best answer I can give iy to outline
the pathway I followed.

After Harvard, I owned and published a weekly newspaper in
my home town of Williamson, West Virginia. If vou have ever
fought the battle of the typewriter, the linoty pe machine, and the
old cylinder press, you know that this was romantic fun of the
blood-sweat-tears variety. Simultaneously, I presented Newscasts
and news analyses programs over the local radio station.

Then came the war.

In 1942 I sold my newspaper and volunteered for Army duty,
Eventually, I emerged from Officers Candidate School at F ort Bens
ning, Georgia, as a second lieutenant, Infantry. Most of my duty
was spent in the Pacific Theater of operations, where by shutile of
the IBM cards my newspaper and radio background came te lyhe
and I became a rare specimen known as infantry combat puble re:
lations officer. I had a team of newsmen and wire recorder operators,
and we covered many operations including the Leyte and Okinawa
invasions. There was, too, the not uncommon wartime marrage
that did not work out.

After the war I had a couple of vears of loose ends, including 3
brief career as a merchant. The brightest moments of this "ed rent
came when I met and married a lovely brunette, Betty Jane Tinber-
man, who has been my inspiration along with bringing three beauty:
ful little girls into the world to make my home a cheerful one.

In 1950 I became managing director ‘of the Tug Valley Chamber
of Commerce at Williamson, West Vi irginia, TV his was when P found
that organizational work was my dish, and in igsg Dhelped form the
Tug Valley Industrial Dev clopment Corporation, At this saine tine
Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Corporation WAS preparing fo gre
into’ West Virginia with a $2,e00,000 reduction and fabrics
facility.

By 1956 they were in the construction stave and found 0%
selves in need of a community relations representative WU, nice
came to their attention, and one fine day my phone rine wit

f 1269 ]

—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

result that shortly thereafter I moved to Ravenswood, West Virginia,
ro fill the new job.

The impact of the huge plant on the small community created
tremendous problem activities and also required the bringing in of
professional planners to outline how the fast growth should go.

By 1958 the professional planners left and there was the need for
the city administrator to guide the community in following the
General Plan that had been devised for orderly growth, It was
deemed wise that this administrator be a man equally acceptable to
the Kaiser Company, the townspeople, and the city officials. 1 was
selected for the job, which was set up to run for two years. We pro-
ceeded to create a city that, while it would not be what is known as
a “company town,” would be attractive to and would hold a stable
work force,

As the two years drew to a close, I was determined to stay in the
field of community development, with the resule that I learned
abour Rutherford County, North Carolina, where the people had
voted to tax themselves for the formation of an industrial dev elop-
ment commission, I joined the long line of applicants and here |
an. If you are ever down this way, drop by and see me, and what
is equally important, if your industrial firm is planning to move or
expand, don’t fail to get in touch with me. We have just the site,
the climate, and the fine supply of available labor that you are
scching,

And thar, dear classmates, is one pathway to becoming a moulder
of better communities, Along the pathway, of course, were many
other activities, the most important of which were elevation to dea-
con at the Willamson Presbyterian Church and to elder at the
Ravenswood Presbyterian Church.

[1270 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LINCOLN BUNCE SPIESS

   
  
 

 
 
  

ae

ae

. 4
~ee; ¢° «
F roy j

  

ae

 

i.

£

WOME ADDRESS: 4475 VV. Pine Blvd., St. Louis 8, Mo.

orice appress: Music Dept., Washington University, St. Louis, Mo.

moan: Nov. 14, 1913, Hartford, Conn. parents: George Nicholas Spiess, Rena
Emma Bunce. |

PREPARED AT: Braintree High School, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 19353; A.M., 1937; PH.D. 1948.

UNMARRIED.

oucuPATION: Associate professor in musicology, Washington University.

orrices HELD: Member, various university committees and committees of the
American Musicological Society.

MEMBER OF: American Musicological Society; College Music Society; American
Guild of Organists; Archeological Society of New Mexico; Medieval
Academy of America.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in professional publications.

JUNE, 1935, was really only the beginning of a long period of study
toward a university teaching career. Four years of Navy life in-
terrupted the flow of scholarly preparations, and the return to the
monkish stalls of the Widener stacks in 1946 required some readjust-
ments. Much was forgotten and a nearly-completed dissertation
now seemed the work of some anonymous medieval scribe. Eventu-
ally all was finished and I ventured out into the teaching world.
After a few disappointments, I finally took a position at the Uni-
versity of California at Los Angeles, substituting for the resident
musicologist, and spent a delightful and stimulating year. From
there the call of available positions took me to Miami University
in Ohio for three bucolic years, and finally, in the fall of 1951, Ecame
to Washington University. Our music department was only three
years old in 1951, and I like to think that I have had an important
role in building the caliber of our department which, while noe
large in the sense of some of the major state universities, has a sub-

[1271]

___}

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

stantial student body, including several studying for doctoral de-
grees in music. My own pride and joy is our music library which
has been largely collected under my direction and which is about
to be housed in a fine new building built especially for the music
library.

St. Louis has proved a most interesting city in which to live and
work. The city itself is undergoing a dramatic and challenging
renaissance. It is exciting to be a part of this revival of a great city
and to feel that we, in training young people in one of the arts, are

making some small contribution to the spirit and character of the
area.

HARRY MAX SPIRO

 

HOME apbREss: 146 Beaconsfield Rd, Brookline, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 17 Court St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 2, 1913, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Barnett Spiro, Ida Sheinin.
PREPARED AT: Chelsea Senior High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: AB., cum laude, 1935; M.D. (Univ. of
Buffalo), 1939.

UNMARRIED,
occuPaTion: Physician, specializing in radiology.
MEMBER OF: James A. Gibson Anatomical Society; American Medical Asso-

ciation; American College of Radiology; New England Roentgen Ray
Society; American Board of Radiology, New Century Club.

WERE it necessary to have a title for this brief report, one might
call it “I Remember Me.” One memorable event which comes to
my mind occurred a few hours after we received our diplomas on
Commencement Day. I chanced to come into the presence of one
of the distinguished recipients of an honorary degree in the Yard that
same day. After gathering up a little courage, I asked him if. he

[1272 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

would autograph my diploma. At first he hesitated for fear of s perl
ing this document, but after consulting his tall, lean aide the Lite
advised him that he thought it would be all right, whereupon the
internationally-known scientist affixed his signature to my cher
ished diploma. This famous person was Dr, “Albert Vi instr, Ths

next four years were spent at the University of Butfalo School o
Medicine, from which I received an M.D. degree. Thence to Chi
cago for internship followed by postgraduate training in’ New
York in the specialty of radiology. Somewhere along the line. -
also managed to absorb some knowledge in psychiatry, after having
spent a few years on the staff of several psychiatric hospital, am

was privileged to observe how the other half of the world lives ar
their own private worlds.

I was presented with a captain’s uniform in the Medical Corps of
the U.S. Army during the war, sandwiched in between vant
assignments as physician in the Veterans Administration in Indhana

and Wisconsin. During my assignment just outside of Madison,
Wisconsin, I acquired a kind of pseudo-alma mater, namely the
University of Wisconsin, since most of my outside activities were
centered about the University. Everything considered, my five-
year stay in this interesting and stimulating city of Madison was
very satisfying. Here I was introduced to what a cocd school is
like and also to Big Ten football. I attended most of the football
games during this period. However, I must say that there & “no
piace like Boston,” to which I returned in October, 1955. by way
of Providence, Rhode Island (June, 1953, to October, toss). te
certainly was a great thrill for me when I returned to Harvard Stadium
one. bright sunny Saturday afternoon in 1953 to see and enjoy seme
Harvard football again after many years of absence; E fclt alment
like an undergraduate again, but with some added maturity and
wisdom gained during this interval of time. Incidentally, in thes
connection, just the other day I happened to find an old newspaper
clipping (November 19, 1932) in my files from the now defunct
Boston Post commenting on the Harvard-Yale football game plaved
at New Haven that year and which our team lost by the swore of
19-6, if 1 remember correctly. This article included a pxture with
the caption, “Harvard Bandsmen Back from Bowl.” It showed
five members of the Harvard Band (including myself) as we arrived
at South Station on the Yale Game Special, “smiling even in the de.
feat of their team.” In the background, one of the group carned @
souvenir, a Yale Bowl sign, which someone removed from one of

[ 1273 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

the trolleys that transported us to and from the Bowl on that fate-

ful, pouring, drenching, rainy day. The main title of the article

was “Harvard Rooters Wet Lot” and the sub-heading ‘No Cheers,

No Color, as They Return from the Game.” By the way, on the

reverse side of this old clipping is a photograph of former Governor

Al Smith on his way for a round of golf at the Westchester Country

Club, Rye, New York.

I might begin to close this account of a few random thoughts as

I started it, by mention of another brief encounter with a famous
person of the genius class, namely Mr. Frank Lloyd Wright, Ameri-
ca’s great Twentieth Century architect. The occasion was when
my nephew (Harvard ’44) and his wife visited me in Madison
while on their way to Madigan General Hospital, State of Washing-
ton, where he was to be assigned as medical officer (U.S. Army).
I took them on a brief tour of the campus of the University of
Wisconsin and its environs, and we visited the then almost com-
pleted new Unitarian Church at Madison designed by Mr. Wright.
As we stepped into this beautiful edifice, we were a bit surprised
to meet this elderly gentleman and famous architect of this mag-
nificent structure; he was sitting on a chair looking over some blue-
prints as I recall. 1 also seem to remember that there was a “No
Visitors Allowed” sign. It is said that a monarch once charged his
wise men to invent a sentence to be ever in view and which should
be true and appropriate in all times and situations. They presented
him with the words, “And this, too, shall pass away.” Well, with
that here’s to the next twenty-five years, more or less,

oF FRANK LESLIE SPRECKELS

 

BoRN: Dec. 21, 1912, Pasadena, Calif. parents: Claus Spreckels Ellis M
’ oon,

[1274 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934.
MARRIED.

piep: May 7, 1948, Los Angeles, Calif,

AFTER leaving college, Spreckels started working as an ¢xper-
mental chemist for the Western Sugar Refinery in San Franco,
In 1936 he entered the National Air Races and won the Ruth Chat.
terton Derby from Cleveland to Los Angeles. Later he returned

to the sugar refinery in the capacity of assistant distribution man.
ager. He was survived by his wife.

JAMES WHEELOCK SPRING, JR.

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 277 Country Way, Scituate Center, Masa
BORN: Feb. 8, 1911, Newton, Mass. parents: James Wheelock Spring. “va Helen
Street Phipps.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934.

.

MARRIED: Lois Wheeler Weeks, Jan. 24, 1942, Chestnut Hill, Mas.
OCCUPATION: Horticulturist.

MY last twenty-five years have been meaningful largely to ms ve lf.
A stubborn Yankee by nature, I have learned to hve with mvself,
to make do or do without. I have a curious idea that a man’s heme
should be an asset and not a liability. I do not feel that advanced
gadgets make for a better understanding among men; I no honger
vote the straight Republican ticket.

After twenty years in various occupations — the listing of com-
pany names, positions held, etc., is meaningless — 1 have learned
that I am not a salesman, that I have a flaw for production and

merchandising, that I am better off working with my hands as well
as my brain and that I prefer to be my own bass.

[ 1275 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

And, in a very modest way, I am successful. My present occupa-
tion is broadly covered by the term “horticultural specialist.” This
title is purposefully ambiguous in that it gives me much latitude.
What I actually do is experimental work, both in growing, plant
introduction, packaging and merchandising. Once I get enough
data I'll try to sell some of my ideas. Until that time comes there
is little or nothing to say.

I don’t belong to any clubs, societies, etc., as I am definitely not

y
a joiner. I do play chess, watch the fights on TV and follow the
Red Sox.

JOSEPH WRIGHT STANLEY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4600 Reservoir Rd., N.W., Washington 7, DC.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Antitrust Division, Dept. of Justice, Washington 25, D.C.

worn: Aug. 2, 1913, St. Louis, Mo. parents: David Sheridan Stanley, Jane
Fordyce. .

PREPARED AT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-193§. DEGREES: AB., 19353 LL.B. (Suffolk Univ.), 1941.

marrige: Julienne Hilary Cahill, July 3, 1946, Washington, D.C. cHILD:
Florence Cahill, May 7, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Samuel Fordyce Stanley, ’28.

occupation: Trial attorney, Antitrust Division, Department of Justice.

OFFICES HELD: Commander, Augustus P. Gardner Post 18, American Legion,

1959-60.

MEMBER OF: Metropolitan Club, Washington; Chevy Chase Club; District

of Columbia Society of Colonial Wars, Military Order of the World
Wars,

THE year 1960! Not so long ago the mention of that year sounded
like the next century to me and seemed too remote to think about
seriously. Well, let’s face it. Here it is complete with Explorers,
Discoverers, Vanguards and the like and the question is where am I?

[ 1276 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In June, 1935, I followed the pattern that many of us dad namely,
spending a couple of enjoyable months in Furepe: [returned stare.
side on the. day that Huey Long was shot (September wh). Fever
that time until June, 1941, 1 was alternately in the Busines School,

Law School, working in Washington and obuining a law degree
from Suffolk.

On july 1, 1941, | began active duty in the Army as a first beu-
tenant in the Office of the Quartermaster General, War Depart:
ment, in Washington. This assignment confounded me for a while
since 1 was supposed to be a Ficld Artilleryman. Before bong. |
discovered that I was a wage rate analyst in the Labor Relations
Branch of the Construction Division Office of the Quartermaster
General. In spite of this civilian-like title, I was still an army offices,

Shortly after Pearl Harbor, the Army realized that its Corps of
Engineers and Quartermaster Corps were duplicating cach other
in the business of constructing defense plants; hence the construc:
tion business was put under one organization, i.e, the Foyincers.

Thus, I woke up one morning finding my sclf to be an Engineer of.

ficer after four months as a Quartermaster Corps officer. [ won-

dered what was to come next. The change was not long in are
ing. In February, 1942, I joined the Military Intclligence Drv renee
of the War Department and became a counter-intelligence staf
officer: my group was one of the first to move into the Pentagon.
Time and the war marched on and I moved over to the Othee of

Strategic Services (OSS) in early 1944; I was a sccunty officer.

Following six or seven weeks in the Washington Headkpuarters i

took off for my first overseas post, Algiers. This was a pleasant

enough spot where OSS had requisitioned two villas on the heyhts
above the city. We lived and worked in these areas for the ment

part. My stay in Algiers lasted seven months until November, 1994

During this time, I saw and worked with a number of Hlarvardhan

but none from our Class.

From Algiers the next stop was Caserta, Italy, where Albed
Forces and OSS Headquarters for the Mediterrancan Theatre had
been established. Caserta is a small town about fifteen mules neseth-
east of Naples. I spent my first and only Christmas away from home
in this spot and viewing the devastated town of Casuno, On as
about January 1, 1945, I left Caserta for @ station in Hara an the
Adriatic Coast; two months later I moved northward to anesther
OSS outpost outside of Leghorn where I remained until aftce VF
Day when I moved over to the quaint walled-city of Seems write d

f:297 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

about halfway between Rome and Florence. From there I final]
went back to Caserta, took a brief hop over to the Island of Capri
and sailed for home from Naples on July 4, 1945. Three weeks
later I was back in Washington.

Had not the atom bomb been dropped when it was, I would prob-
ably have gone to the Far East after thirty days’ leave. As it turned
out, I remained in Washington all during the fall «waiting for re-
assignment and was finally able to start my terminal leave in Octo-
ber; I got out of the Army in January, 1946. Since then I have kept
my reserve status and am now a mobilization designee to the Penta-
gon in the Office of the Assistant Chief of Staff for Intelligence;
my rank is lieutenant colonel.

From this point on I shall dwell only on the non-military aspects
of my life. In August, 1945, I met my first and only wife; she was
then Julienne (Julie) Cahill of Washington. She was one of those
comparatively rare specimens, a native Washingtonian whose father
was the same. We were married in July, 1946, about a year after
our first meeting; an interesting feature about our wedding was that
it was performed in the garden of my mother-in-law’s house by
Julie’s brother who had just been ordained a priest four days previ-
ously. After a honeymoon at St. Andrews, New Brunswick, and
points between here and there, we settled down and I joined the
Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice.

My connection with the Justice Department came about through
our eminent trust-busting (emeritus) classmate, Victor H. Kramer.
I began as a law clerk and graduated to the status of attorney upon
my admission to the bar of the District of Columbia in 1947. As of
this writing, 1 am still with the Antitrust Division, having known
both Democratic and Republican powers-that-be, Both types advo-
cate what we know as “fair but firm” enforcement of the antitrust
laws. My own work has variously involved civil and criminal actions
having to do with brick and tile manufacturers, oil companies, lead
producers and the Shubert Theatre enterprise, we take on anybody.

Outside of my work, I play some golf and tennis and take Julie
and our daughter Florence to Nantucket for several weeks in the
summer. Every other year we enjoy ourselves on the special train
going to the Princeton game and back. This is a joint venture of
the Harvard and Princeton Clubs of Washington. As one might
believe to be the case in this part of the world, the majority of the
passengers are adherents of Old Nassau. .

Other extracurricular activities include the Augustus P, Gardner

[ 1278 ]

eee meme TIS gg ff

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Post of the American Legion and the D.C, Society of Colonial Wars.
The former is a group of non-typical legionnaires in that we have
little or nothing to do with the rest of the Legion, never attend
conventions and never own anything resembling an American Le.
ion uniform. What we do do, is to meet once a month for luncheon
and listen to an interesting speaker. This year, I] am commanding
the Post and have to scratch around for speakers, LT have the same
chore with the Society of Colonial Wars, this is somewhat more
difficult since I am confined largely to the field of colonial history.
I shall close with the hope that by the time our Thirticth Reunion
rolls around there may have occurred some income tax relicf peace

on earth is nearer to reality and that Harvard has ample funds for
all programs. If Frank Knowlton or anyone else has questions on

what has appeared in this chronicle I shall answer them cheerfully.

HENRY LEOPOLD STANTON

 

HOME ADDREssS: Windmill Hill Road, Branford, Conn
OFFICE ADDRESS: Laird, Bissell & Meads, 44 Whitney Ave, New Haven. Cana,

BORN: Sept. 17, 1914, Branford, Conn. parents: Julian J. Zdanowwa, Peloge
Purzycki,

PREPARED AT: Branford High School, Branford, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE:

1931-1935. DEGREES: S.B, 1936; MOA (Univ. of Penn
vania).

MarRiED: Irene Orzolek, Nov. 10, 1945, Pratt, Kansas. cauomss: Sherry P,
April 23, 1950; Sally J.. May 18, 1952; Mindy BP. April re, roeg, Pbetiy ¢
Dec, 29, 1958,

OCCUPATION: Securities brokerage.

MEMBER or: Harvard Club of Connecticut Clifetime member), Sa teande send
Scholarship Committee for Harvard, in Connecticut

1 AM not much of a writer and apologize that [have nething farther

EF «amar 8

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

to add to the news that I have already mailed in during the past
few years,

JOHN ALDEN STANTON

  
 

avoarss: Hewlett Harbor, Hewlett, Long Island, N.Y.

pan: April zo, tgta, New York, N.Y. PARENTS: Frederick Lester Stanton,
Virginia Randell.

purpaaen at: Kirmayer School, New York, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: 8.8, 1935.

NO estionnaire returned.

ied Rew A AaRida ATES a ait conical

wou apoaess: Del Vista Drive, Valparaiso, Ind.

ovrtcé Anowess: Standard Oil Co. P.O. Box 431, Whiting, Ind.

wors: May 19, 1914, Boston, Mass. parents: Edward Thomas Steel, Edith
Rawson Janes.

prepare at: Hyde Park High School, Chicago, Ill,

YEARS TN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREES: $.B., cunt laude, 1935, s.m. (Mass. Inst.
of Technology), 1938.

[ 1280 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marriep: Margaret Elizabeth Stickney, Aug. 19, 1939, Orchard Park, N_J.
cHupReN: Margaret Stickney, Oct. 8, 1943; Marcia Taft, April 19, 1950,
Virginia, July 11, 1953.

occupation: Director, process design and economics, research and develop-
ment department, Standard Oil Company (Indiana).

orrexes HELD: President, Northview Parent Teachers Associanon, 1952~$4;
president, Mathesis Club, 1959-6o.

Memper oF: American Institute of Chemical Engineers, American Chemical
Society; Economic Club (Chicago); Mathesis Club (Valparaiso).
pisiicarions: Articles in petroleum industry journals.

UPON leaving Harvard I worked for a year as a chemist with
the TVA at the Wilson Dam, Alabama, fertilizer plant. Then fol-
lowed two years at MIT. leading to an S.M, degree in chemical
engincering. Since 1938 I have been with Standard Oil (Indiana)
at Whiting. My principal responsibility has been planning and de-
signing petroleum refining units for the company’s refineries, ex-
cept for three years during which I was in charge of pilot-plant
development work. All of this has been extremely interesting and
challenging work in a top-notch technical organization,

During the spring of 1956 I was back at the Business School for
the twenty-ninth A.M.P. From what I have heard since, I judge
that our group was one of the last to have free rein to work or plav, as
it happened to see fit.

There is little else to report, beyond the normal events in a grow-
ing family. We were very much attracted by Scotland on a com-
bined business trip and vacation in Europe a few years ago, and
we hope to make another, longer visit there one of these days.

KEITH CARNEGIE STEELE

 

HOME appREss: 76 Denny Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

st

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

OFFICE appRESS: Patterson, Teele & Dennis, 201 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass

BorN: Aug. 29, 1913, Hull, Alass. parents: F, R,. Carnegie Steele, Lydia A,
Twinam.
PREPARED AT: Rivers Country Day School, Brookline, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.
MarRieD: Jane Butler Smith, Jan. 4, 1936, Brookline, Mass. (divorced 1943);
Jeanne E. Fellows, Aug. 21, 1945, Boston, Mass. cHrLprEN: Diana Carnegie,
Sept. 14, 1936 (a. Anthony T. Sears, Sept. 10, 1956: divorced 1958); David
C., July 30, 1940; Sandra C., Sept. 4, 1947.
occupation: Certified public accountant; partner, Patterson, Teele & Dennis,
OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Harvard Twentieth Reunion, 1955; U.S. Golf Asso-
ciation National Amateur, 1957; Harvard Twenty-fifth Reunion, 1960.
_ MEMBER OF: The Country Club, Brookline, Mass.; American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants; National Association of Accountants;
Massachusetts Society of Certified Public Accountants.

ASIDE from the above statistics, there seems to be relatively little
of common interest to report.

After one false launching on the matrimonial sea, I settled down
with my present most attractive and understanding wife and (two
at home, one away) quite passable children.

Business hours have been claimed by my chosen profession which
has proven most interesting, largely due to necessarily close associa-
tions and relations with many businesses of a diversified nature.
Unfortunately, an insufficient number of classmates have realized
the benefits and prosperity .we bestow on our clients.

As is true of many of us, I have also headed and become other-
wise involved in local drives of the United Fund, Heart Fund,
Cancer Fund, etc. Leisure hours (all too few) are largely spent in
the roles of carpenter, plumber and general odd-job man, which
pursuits generate much work for the professionals in reconstruct-
ing, to their taste, what I have constructed, to mine. When able,
we spend weekends in Peyton Place (Gilmanton, New Hampshire),
especially in winter when the family (except I) takes a voracious
delight in a hospital-inviting pastime called skiing. I stand by with
the local doctor’s telephone number clutched in hand and observe.

I often wonder which is the most expensive pursuit — horse-
racing or child-raising. However, the latter, I am sure, is ultimately
more rewarding even though the underwriting of approximately
thirty-six years of private schooling, ten years of summer camps
and one wedding have left me financially dry. Whether country

living is preferable to suburban living, only eventual retirement
would seem to hold the answer. Amen!

[ 1282 }

2ST ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ANDREW BEAUMONT STEEVER

 

apprEss: 70 Benjamin Sr., Old Greenwich, Cann.
BorN: May 31, 1913, Pittsficld, Mass. pasesas: Millet Diusera Secuvce, Phe

Inglehart.
PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerficld, Maw
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DecRers: 3.8. cine lowte, wait, © IN &

ENGIN., 1936.

NO questionnaire returned,

BERKELEY PERRIN STPFEENSON

 

ApprESs: 157 S. Wheeling, Wheeling, HL.
BORN: Sept, 28, 1913, Chicaga, Ub pamesee ONsf Vorter Seti, &

Perrin.
PREPARED AT: Lake Forest Academy, Lake Porc, RE

YEARS IN COLLEGE? 193$t~0948.

NO questionnaire returned,

[ o2%y ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ALLAN LEONARD STEINBERG

 

HOME appress: 7 Buckingham St., Rochester 7, N.Y.
OFFICE appRESS: Smith-Hart Co., Rochester, N.Y.

BORN: March 1, 1914, Pittsburgh, Pa. ParENTs: Edward Steinberg, Frieda
Spatz.

PREPARED AT: Erie Academy High School, Erie, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MarrieD: Joan Gwendolen Clayton-Cooper, March 11, 1944, Dorchester,
England. cuivpren: Peter D, J. Scott (stepson) April 19, 1935; Frederick,
June 23, 1947; Edward R., Nov. 19, 1949; John L., Aug. 1, 1951.

occupation: Proofreader,

THERE is nothing noteworthy to report on my life to date. My
chief interest is the raising of our children, and my favorite form
of relaxation, playing with them (mainly sports), for which my
work permits me ample time and energy, as well as freedom of mind.
I am fortunate in having a wife who not only encourages this idyllic
pattern but also sees to it that we have a strong spiritual roof over
our heads,

Both she and I anticipate subsisting in our old age on little more
than Social Security and occasional reminders of the friendship of
the boys — grown, we hope, into reasonably happy adults. If it
turns out this way, we shall feel amply rewarded and sustained.

[ 1284 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THEODORE DAVIS STFINWAY

 

OFFICE ADDRESS: Steinway & Sons, Long Island City, N.Y.
BoRN: March 30, 1914, New York, N.Y. Parents: Theodore Edwin Steinway,

Ruth Davis.
PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.; American Institute, VMunwh,

Germany.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Jo Taylor, 1957. CHILDREN: Terry, 1945; Tina, 1950; Sascha, rad

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Ziegler Steinway, '37.

OCCUPATION: Piano maker.

MEMBER OF: The Westerners; The Bohemians; Kayak and Canoe Club of New
York; American Society of Mechanical Engineers; American Acouen al
Society; Colorado Historical Society; Faculty Club; Hlarward Mloun.
taneering Club; Speakers Club; Forest Products Research Secoty.

AS to my accomplishments, reflections and opinions, I SUppose that

my existence since Harvard has been relatively passive, vet not sloth.

ful nor unaware. Roughly chronologically, I have

made some pianos,

picked up a smattering of herpetology and attempted a rough
census of the remaining specimens of Pscudemys rubriventres
bangsi in eastern Massachusetts,

fallen off quite a lot of cavalry horses,

acquired Morse code (slow) and Japanese code (slower),

worried about semantics and communication between people,

distinguished myself as perhaps the sleepiese AdC in New Gunes,

acquired enough bazaar Malay and Melanesian pidgin to joke with
the locals,

lectured on codes and ciphers,

made the acquaintance — on paper — of most of the collaberitors
and spies and guerrillas and opportunists and jerks in the Jip

[ 1285 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

anese-occupied Philippines (at the behest of General Mac-
Arthur),

toured a lot of cow country and mining country in the southern

Rocky Mountains by thumb, narrow gage railroad, second-
hand Oldsmobile and sore foot,

learned about Fish,

and small mammals,

invented a skiing turn on the outside foot only (useless, and very
ugly),

rebuilt a Modcl A Ford (now for sale to a properly appreciative
buyer — advt.),

wised up on the history and topography of the West, principally
in the eastern drainage of the Green River,

descended quite a lot of swift rivers in a small kayak,

tried to find my way into social anthropology and the study of
national character (still trying),

discovered that the Eastern Alps are smaller than they used to be,
yet somehow much more difficult to climb,

designed a tent,

and a method of waterproofing maps,

acquired a passable Tango and Paso Doble,

poked into a number of canyons and caves in the A.E.C, — Basket-
maker country of western Colorado and eastern Utah,

got an appreciation of Chinese and Mexican cooking,

and learned how to spackle bathroom walls.

I have changed a lot of opinions and some habits, and gained a
raucous wife (her adjective) and three curious and enterprising
children. 1 feel strongly about the restoration of South Tirol to
Austria, the building of numbers of small dams high in a watershed
rather than big downstream dams, pianos in the home, and maturity
in collective behavior as well as in personal, and find that I remain
devoted in spite of better judgment to a sort of effort toward the

reduction of entropy, of all things. And remain doggedly hopeful
as to the state of the world and all the people in it,

[ 1286 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

STANLEY STELLAR

 

HOME appkESS: 280 Morrow Rd., Englewood, N.J.

OFFKE ADDRESS: 325 E. 57th St.. New York 22, N.Y.; 580 Broadway, Paterson 4,
N.J.

pex: Aug. 14, 1914, Somerville, Mass. PareNts: Samuel Stellar, Bella Edith
Marcovitz.

pasPareD aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN OOLLEGE; 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1935, MD.
magna cum laude (Tufts Coll.), 1939.

Manniep: Rosetta van Gelder, Oct. 2, 1941, Brooklyn, N.Y. cHitpren: Susan
van Gelder, Aug. 4, 1943; John David, June 4, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Lawrence Irving Stellar, ’34; Eliot Stellar, “41.

occuPaTION; Physician, neurological surgeon.

OeFKCES HELD: Associate professor of clinical neurosurgery, New York Univer-
sity-Bellevue Medical Center; associate visiting neurosurgeon, Bellevue
Hospital; associate attending neurosurgeon, University Hospital; consultant
in neurosurgery, St. Barnabas Hospital (New York City), Veterans Ad-
ministration Hospital (East Orange, N.J.), Englewood (N.J.) Hospital,
Se. Joseph’s Hospital (Paterson, N.J.); attending neurosurgeon, Barnert
Hospital, Paterson.

MEMBER oF: American Medical Association; American Association for the
Advancement of Science; Harvey Cushing Society; Association for Re-
search in Nervous and Mental Diseases; American Academy of Neurology;
New York Academy of Sciences, New York Society of Neurology.

pusLicaTions: “Planned Around the Patient,” The Modern Hospital, 1946.
“Brain Tumors,” with co-authors, Progress in Neurology and Psychiatry,
1948, “Subarachnoid Injection of Alcohol in Treatment of Spasticity in
Paraplegia,” A.M.A. Archives of Neurology and Psychiatry, March, 1954;
“Experimental Cerebellopontine Angle Tumors with Angiographic Scudy,”
with co-author, Journal of Neuropathology and Experimenral Neurology,
October, 1955; “Angiographic Evaluation of Vasodilatation in Cerebral
Vessels,” with co-authors, Angiology, February, 1956.

ALTHOUGH it is something of a minor shock to find myself
writing an autobiography covering my last twenty-five years, this

[ 1287 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

JOSEPH DORMER STEPHEN

    

HOME apprEss: 22 Academy St., Saranac Lake, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 84 Main St., Saranac Lake, N.Y.

BorN: Aug. 25, 1912, Dunkirk, N.Y. parents: Francis J. Stephen, Grace Dor-
mer.

PREPARED AT: Saranac Lake High School, Saranac Lake, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 1935; LL.B. (Albany Law School),

1938.

marrieD: Dorothy C. Kissell, Dec. 20, 1945, New York, N.Y. cHiLpREN: Joseph
Dormer, Jr., Oct. 2, 1946; John Leonard, June 25, 1948.

OccUPATION: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant Attorney General, State of New York, 1942; professor
of law, Albany Law School, 1945-47.

MEMBER OF: Franklin County Bar Association, Knights of Columbus; Elks;
Rotary Club.

FOR the past twenty-five years (with the exception of two time-
outs totalling about four years for reasons of health) my pursuit
has been the law, first as a student at Albany Law School, then
starting in small town practice with my father. In the early war
years I had no takers on enlistment and a very uncertain draft
status (ultimately winding up as q-F and in a TB san for a couple
of years), so I left private practice for the New York State’s Attor-
ney General’s office. A change in politics and I landed in New York
City with the firm of Baldwin, Todd & Lefferts. There I met the
girl who was called my secretary but was actually the boss and did
most of the work. Today she is called my wife and is still the boss
and still does most of the work. My first bout with TB ended the
New York phase of my pursuit. The next two years were spent in
enforced idleness. From there I went to Albany Law School as a
professor of law and after two years back to Saranac Lake to private
practice again. Seven or eight years ago the pursuit was interrupted

[ 1292 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY id

again by a recurrence of TB. This time the drugs and surgery i.
over and I have been told that I am insurable again,

The pursuit has led me from the smallest collection case an
Justice’s Court to bank mergers and liquidations, from teattic viele
tions to assisting in managing complex trusts and corperate held.
ings. I have followed many phases of the law in my pursuit. The
most satisfying and gratifying, though far from the mest hicratie,
has been small-town private practice. The opportuniney here tw
serve your fellow-man are unlimited,

In twenty-five years, as all of us must, I have gained and beat
many things. My losses have been inconsequential but my gain
can never be measured. My wife and our two boys, now aged eleven
and thirteen, erase from my memory the months of despair duriny
my “curing” days. The only problem today is to find enough
energy and hours to continue the pursuit of the law, keep up with
adult community life and share the boys’ interest. Pee Wee hockey,
Little League baseball, Cub Scouts, Boy Scouts and other sworted
activities can be time-consuming. I am not complaining bevsuse a
most parents I sometimes think I enjoy these more than the boys
Maybe it is as my wife says, I am just growing old and noe tuo
gracefully at that.

To usurp the privilege of my profession and sum up. The

twenty-five years have been good and, the good Lord willing, the
next will be even better.

 

 

S. WALTER STERN, JR.

  

HOME ADDRESS: 2856 Camp Sc., New Orleans 1g, ba
OFFice appress: J. Aron & Co., Inc., 336 Magasin Se. Naw Oleic ene te be

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

BorN: Aug. 1, 1914, Chicago, Ill, parents: S. Walter Stern, ’06, Josephine
Mayer.

PREPARED AT: New Orleans Academy, New Orleans, La.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 19353 M.B-A., 1937.

Markie: Simonne Trey, Sept. 18, 1945, Marseilles, France. cHiLprEN: Cathe-
rine Laugier, Dec. 3, 1946; Carole Anne, June 27, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Maurice Mayer Stern, 736.

occuPATION: Vice-president, J. Aron & Company, Ine., coffee importers and
sugar refiners,

orrices HELD: Director, Bureau of Governmental Research, since 1952, Family
Service Society, since 1952, Jewish Federation, since 1954, Metairie Park
Country Day School, since 1957, Touro Infirmary, since 1958.

MEMBER OF: Robert Morris Associates; Harvard Club of Louisiana; New
Orleans Country Club; Timberlane Country Club.

LOOKING back over the years since June, 1935, makes the inter-
vening period appear much longer than it has up to now. At the
moment, I am contemplating a change in my business affiliation.
After twenty-one years with the Whitney National Bank of New
Orleans, of which I was vice-president, on November 1, 1959, I
shall go with a concern in the coffee and sugar business, commodi-
ties with which my previous association has been limited to that of
consumer, While I shall leave the banking field with many pleasant
memories, I am naturally impatient to get started with the new work.

The period with the bank was interrupted between 1941 and
1946 by the Army. Three of these years were spent in North
Africa, Italy and, lastly, France, where I met and married my wife,
a native of Marseilles. My entire overseas experience was with
Sixth Port Headquarters, a distinctly rear echelon outfit. I finally
parted from the Army as a captain.

We have recently returned from a trip to France, the first since
the war. Of course, I found that lovely country far more pleasant
than it was during my previous visit. My younger accompanied
us, but the elder one refused to go, insisting that summer camp in
Tennessee had far more to offer. I am certainly hopeful that in the
future European travel will be on a more frequent basis.

Gardening is perhaps my only hobby, too time-consuming to per-
mit others. Over the years tennis has been my favorite sport, due
to the fact that ski areas are too far distant. A few years ago I dis-
covered the delights of skiing in the west and since have made several
excursions in that direction. In fact, this year I hope that the entire
family will spend Christmas in Aspen.

I find that I am not nearly as sure about things as 1 was twenty-

[ 1294 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

five years ago. Perhaps this is progress, but it was comforting te
believe there were more positive answers.

WARREN B. STETSON

  

HOME ADDRESS: 9 Cover St., Duxbury, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Distributors Group, Inc., 10 Post Office Sq. Boston, Maw

Born: Nov. 5, 1913, Boston, Mass. paRENTs: Frederick Winslow Stctson, “ys.
Josephine West.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: AB., 1935.

MARRIED: Jean Pierce, Oct. 11, 1947, Milton, Mass. cumpres: Carolyn, Jan. >,
1949; Samuel Stillman, Feb. 26, 1951; Sylvia Church, Sept. ta, toes.

HARVARD BROTHERS: F. Winslow Stetson, Jr., ’31; Brewster Stctwon, “gn.

occupaTiON: Resident vice-president, Distributors Group, Inc, New Vork
City, managers of the mutual fund Group Securities, Ine.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Duxbury Elementary School Building Connnuetes,
1952-53.

MEMBER OF: Boston Security Analysts Society; Old Colony Planar’ Club.
Duxbury Yacht Club; Down Town Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on investing and securities in The Analysts Jotermad xd
the financial section of The Christian Science Monitor.

EVEN while I struggle now to write a few reflections appropriate
to this Report, I find myself badly distracted by our youngest, a
seven-year-old, who still fancies an important function of het
daddy’s life is that of supplying animated reactions to hee hes
jinks. This in itself seems a little remarkable to me when fF hock
back to my long bachelorhood — but no less pleasurable,

It is almost as though I had lived a fairly full life since cote: yt
more education, a sampling of business, four and a half yearvaatte
Navy — and then abruptly started a second one. Direct! v fel ew.
ing marriage in the fall of ’47, we settled down here in Deaths

[ 1296 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Except during months when “the summer folk” take over, this
comes close to country living. Only i in recent years has Duxbury
developed traits of a bedroom town. And, of course, in a way we
regret the trend, which the new Southeast Expressway and its pro-
spective extension will probably hasten.

Time to enjoy all facets of this way of life is a problem, Facili-
ties for our favorite warm-weather recreations are practically at
our back door, Sailing, fishing, beach picnicking, cruising — collec-
tively and individually, we sample all. During a cold, snow-free
winter like last, we find plenty of opportunities for varieties of good
skating on numerous cranberry bog ponds in the vicinity. Even
skiing at old haunts in New Hampshire is no longer considered out
of bounds.

If it were not that my business pursuits require frequent trips
away from home during weekdays, I should try to participate in
town administration, I did manage to squeeze in service on a school
building committee, But this was a paltry contribution compared
with that of many of our neighbors, especially our esteemed class-
mate, Frank Perry.

As I said before, time is the problem — time to spend with the
family and the many relatives who live around us, time to develop
idcas in the growing and challenging mutual fund business, and
time to enjoy our good friends and classmates, a number of whom
reside here year-round or during the summer. I look forward
keenly to finding time for all this and more.

FRED BUBIER STEVENS

 

HOME Appress: 25 Hartwell Rd., Wethersfield 9, Conn.
orFice appress: Burroughs Corp., 580 Farmington Ave., Hartford Conn
9 ‘

[ 1296 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPO

porN: Oct. 27, 1914, Swampscott, Mass. PARENTS: Maurice Kennard Securna

’o9, Margaret Elizabeth Bubier.
prepareD aT: Pingry School, Elizabeth, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.
marrieD: Eleanor May Sherman, Feb. 8, 1941, Malden, Mass. cautners Judith

Anne, July 24, 1944; Fred Sherman, Jan. 23, 1946.

cUPATION: Sales representative, Burroughs Corporation, accounting and
computing machines,

LIFE since graduation seems to have been scctioned into roughly
five-year cycles, which facilitates the business of writing Reprrts,
The first cycle included becoming acquainted with the business
world by selling Burroughs adding machines and starting a bank
account. The second included those war years, all spent in military

service; marriage; the starting of a family.
During the postwar half-decade I built a house and became ac-

customed to the habit of mortgage paying. My career abanced
with sales-supervisory responsibilities. Stull true to the five-vear
cycles, I was promoted to branch manager in tgs0. This required
moving from our barely completed home to sccmingly remete
Burlington, Vermont. There followed no disappointinent, however,
for the branch flourished admirably, and the “Queen City” proved
to be a most pleasant place to live. Our two-offspring farnily was
increased by the acquisition of a large cow-shepherd deg who
every bit a member.

Fairly long Vermont winters helped foster construction ofa larye
operating “HO” scale model railroad the length of a large attn,
And the attraction in summer of beautiful Lake Champlain fed tm
an interest in boating, with the purchase of a small but fase out.
board runabout. It is amazing there are not more boats av this
uncrowded area, but perhaps the St. Lawrence Seaway will be a
stimulant. One of the highlights of my Vermont life was merter:
ship in Rotary, with interesting associations and partictpities os
worthwhile civic projects.

On schedule again in 1955 I accepted an offer te joi the start ef
an Electric Computer Division of the company, down at ite pese ate
center at Paoli, Pennsylvania. This meant the challenge of a re:
and fast-growing field with horizons apparently unhited poe
operation ” of these ‘ ‘brains” is fascinating, though full ef gee tg
ity. I called on hazy recollections of colle ye tnathemiaties Gre”
vith accounting principles learned through practical ov
Jetermine first applications for the Fron, ploncer of ¢ an

f 7

8

soca f . 4
wee be GR

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

computers. I had the satisfaction of installing the first such unit
on any accounting application, and it is still in use in the First
National City Bank of New York. I also had the opportunity of
presenting it to several other large banks throughout the country.

For two years my office was in Manhattan, to which I commuted
from Westport via the New Haven. Those required to do like-
wise have my sympathy; few of life’s exigencies have been more
happily abandoned.

The five-year cycle now closing finds me located in the Hart-
ford sales office, applying accounting-computing talents to the now
important field of preparation of data from daily transactions into
forms suitable for acceptance by the new electronic devices. And
for the moment, at least, with gratifying success.

HERBERT NATHANIEL STEVENS

 

HOME appress: Benedict Hill Road, New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE appress: Penick & Ford, Ltd., Inc., 750 Third Ave., New York, N.Y.

BoRN: Jan. 18, 1914, Brockton, Mass. parents: William Russell Stevens, Sarah
Little Davis,

PREPARED aT: Abington High School, Abington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1935.

Margiep: Barbara A, Sellars, June 26, 1937, Longmeadow, Mass. CHILDREN:
Linda G., Jan. 9, 1939; Sally T., Aug. 14, 1941.

oocupation: Marketing manager, Penick & Ford, Ltd., Inc., food business.

oFPices HELD; Member, Advisory Committee, Town of Hingham, Mass., 1952-
56; director, 1952-55, vice-president, 1954-55, National Fisheries Institute;
corporator, Hingham Institution for Savings, 1954-56; president, 1954,
chairman, Admission and Scholarship Committee, 1955-56, Harvard Club of
Hingham, director, Charles A. Faton Company, since 1957,

HOW does one sift twenty-five ycars to capture the flavor and

[ 1298 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

significance? Where is the orderly approach to the confusion of
detail — moves hither and thither, houses bought and sold, paint
and wallpaper on and off, storm windows likewise, acquisitions
good and bad, endless and deadly P.T.A.s, satisfying community
efforts, children born and grown, career crises?

Perhaps I should begin with my family. In the day of the larger
family we are a step behind, since there are but four of us. This de-
ficiency, however, our two daughters have attempted to overcome
by an ever-amazing display of activity. An early affinity for the
telephone has proved a remarkable asset, enabling them to keep in
rather constant touch with their own generation and to plan the
current diversion — skiing or skating, field hockey, swimming or
sailing (all seasonal), or dancing and boys (no closed season).

Linda, now a senior at Skidmore, is the real traveler of the family,
last summer she spent in Europe, part of the time as a counselor at
two French camps. Sally is a freshman at Wellesley and, in antici-
pation of train fares to Princeton, New Haven and even perhaps
to Cambridge, hoarded her summer earnings as a full-time mother’s
helper.

In the midst of such energy my wife has shown more restraint,
but over the years has contrived in some mysterious fashion to
manage the household wonderfully well, serve on numerous com-
mittees, survive the Girl Scout leader circuit and work for Welles-
ley, her alma mater.

Of necessity, the father in such an active group must give reason-
ably serious thought to a career. Mine has been almost wholly in
the food industry, the marketing of grocery products. In general,
the effort has been rewarding and if ever I feel any depressing ab-
sence of true accomplishment I know it is a common state of mind
in the mid-forties when the ear becomes more sensitive to the rush
of the racing years.

My work today is in marketing. For eighteen years I was a some-
times unwilling conformist, a corporation man with General Foods
Corporation. These were the years as salesman, sales manager and
then as marketing man. There were moves from Boston ta New
York and back to Boston. In 1954 came the inevitable return to
New York and I rebelled, tasted the luxury of non-conformity,
abandoned the corporate life, resigned from General Foods and
assumed the vice-presidency of a simall and struggling company.

Like many a rebellion this proved a futile effort to combine a satis
factory business life with the Boston suburban living so well suited

[ 1299 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

to our family needs. In 1956, the rebellion ended, I went to New
York to join Penick & Ford, Ltd., Inc., as product manager for
grocery operations.

Our Hingham years were filled with building a place in the com-
munity and pleasant participation in a wide range of community
affairs, An uprooted Yankee subsequently set down in the New
York area is likely to spend a certain amount of time in reflection
and philosophical examination of values. In this place and day of
the more abundant life, I sometimes fret over values which appear
distorted and regret the frantic pace which demands such an ever-
lasting eye to the future there is real danger of not seeing the present.

Confronted as we all are by the materialistic culture of the ap-
proaching 1960s, it is difficult occasionally not to feel out of tune
with the times, as if born into the wrong century. I am convinced,
however, there is much wisdom in learning to enjoy the present
and simply to appreciate the moment. If Harvard and the ensuing
years have helped to achieve this point of view, I am grateful.

HUBERT JOSEPH STEVENS

   

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 30 N, Penataquit Ave., Bay Shore, N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 17, 1913, Westhampton Beach, N.Y. parents: Joseph Tuttle Stevens,
Hildegarde Gierasch,

PREPARED at: Peddie School, Hightstown, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932,

marriep: Elizabeth Futtrup, April 9, 1942, Macon, Ga. CHILDREN: Joseph Paul,
May 28, 1943; Ingrid Elizabeth, Dec, 13, 1946.

oocupaTion: Painting contractor.

orFices HELD: Church school superintendent, First Congregational Church, Ba
Shore, N.Y, since 1956, » Pay

MeMeer or: Woodrow Wilson Democratic Club of Islip, N.Y.

[ 1300 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MOSQUITO and Malaria Control in Suffolk County, U.S. Public
Health Service and U.S. Navy (1943-45, as pharmacist’s mate,
first class). Since the war, continued as exterminator and four years
ago became a painter which is my present occupation. My previous
occupations included ten years as assistant chief inspector of the
Suffolk County Mosquito Commission and five years as area engineer
in Malaria Control with the U.S. Public Health Service.

I have strong political and religious convictions. I am proud of
the record my children are making in school, both academically
and extracurricularly. J take a keen interest in athletics of all kinds
and believe in being active and a worker in any activity in which
I become engaged. I regret having not completed my college edu-
cation and hope my son will be able to complete his.

JAMES STEWART

 

HOME AppRESS: Bayville Road, Locust Valley, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Frank B. Hall & Co., Inc., 67 Wall St. New York, N.Y.

BorN: Nov. 25, 1912, Freiburg, Breisgau, Germany. Parents: Cecil Parker
Stewart, Reine Marie Melanie Tracy.

PREPARED AT: Les Roches, Normandy, France; Middlesex School, Concord,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MarRIED: Elizabeth Kilbourne, Nov. 20, 1944, New York, N.Y.; Barry Martin,
Nov. 7, 1951. CHILDREN: Tracy, July, 1946; James Cecil, July, 1947; Reine,
January, 1949; Barry, September, 1952; China, June, 1955.

occuPaTION: Director, vice-president and secretary, Frank B. Hall & Co. Inc.
insurance brokers.

OFFICES HELD: Director, C. P. Stewart & Co., Ltd. London, and Sceatraders, Inc.
New York.

MEMBER OF: Society of the Cincinnati, Racquet & Tennis Club; India House,
The Creek; Meadow Brook Club; Whitehall Club; Oslo Golf Klub,
American Shipping Society; Bogey Club, Metropolitan Club (governor).

[ 1301 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

QUIT Harvard in late November, 1931 ( probably anticipating be-
ing fired),

1932 — worked as a movie extra, then on several cargo ships as
mess boy, wiper, oiler, water tender, ordinary seaman, able seaman
and quartermaster; then as salesman for the Electrolux Vacuum
Cleaner Company in Los Angeles.

1932-33 — Bancamerica Blair as runner and in statistical depart-
ment; 1933-34 (several months) — sold perfume and automobiles,

1934 (three and a half months) — worked in classified advertis-
ing department of the New Fork Timtes (seven months) — traveled
through forty-three states hitchhiking and riding freight trains; had
temporary jobs picking potatoes in Maine, cotton in Los Angeles,
melons in Colorado, oranges and grapefruit in California, worked
as longshoreman in San Francisco, Los Angeles and Houston;
pulled a rickshaw in Chicago World’s Fair in 1934; cleaned out
the public baths in St. Louis, etc.

December, 1934, to June, 1936: Worked for the Compagnie
Générale Transatlantique (French Line) in the publicity depart-
ment, and as cruise director; concurrently, was a professional blood
donor, did publicity for Armando Restaurant, was a model for
Rogers Peet, and took tours to Harlem and Greenwich Village (all
this in my spare time).

June, 1936: Got job with American International Underwriters,
111 John Street, New York; was transferred to the Far East; spent
several months in Manila, thence to China. Was in China, Indo-
china, Malaya, Siam, Burma for three and a half years, first as em-
ployee in the cargo department, and thence as manager of the
cargo department in Shanghai, branch manager in Hankow, South-
west China manager, officer and director of subsidiary corpora-
tion in French Indochina (Compagnie Francoaméricaine). During
this period was broadcasting news for Shanghai Evening Post and
Mercury. Did tour of duty with the American Machine Gun Com-
pany of the Shanghai Volunteer Corps (taken into the U.S. Marine
Corps Reserves).

Sailed for US. via Europe in August, 1939. Landed in France
September 2, 1939—the day the war started, However, failing
to join French Army, French Navy, French Air Force, French
Foreign Legion, became a member of the American Volunteer

Ambulance Corps, Quit this to become a correspondent for French

newspaper, Paris Soir, Left France December, 1939, by ship to join

[ 1302 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Eagle Squadron but ship didn’t touch England — came direct to the
U.S. — was unable to return.

Joined Frank B. Hall & Company in January, 1940, as director.
February, 1942 — joined U.S. Army; assigned to Signal Corps as
private. Basic training, thence crytographic school, thence Officer
Candidates school. Having completed seven weeks of O.CS. got
Navy commission which had been applied for in 1940. Was dis-
charged by the Army to accept a commission in the Navy. Went
to Pensacola for Navy training, thence Coronado Air Base, thence
to a glider squadron in Mustin Field, Philadelphia, where flew
gliders testing automatic towing equipment. Applied for sea duty
— was sent to South Pacific, first to Espiritu Santo, thence Guadal-
canal, thence Russells, Segi, Vella Lavella, Treasury, Bougainville,
Green, Manus.

Returned to U.S. on leave in November, 1944. Was loaned by
the Navy to the O.S.S. Went through “S” School training, thence
survival training in Catalina, then shipped to O.S.S. China head-
quarters in Kunming. Was sent in to Indochina in March, 19-45,
with radio to report on Japanese troop movements; repatriated in

late July, 1945. Since that time have been busy with present occu-
pation.

ALEXANDER STILLMAN

 

HOME abpreEss: Penny Road, Barrington, Ill.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 30 N. La Salle St., Chicago 2, Il.

BORN: Sept. 29, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: James Alexander Sallrman,
’96, Anne Urquhart Potter.

PREPARED AT: Washington Irving High School, Tarrytown, N.Y,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931=193§. DEGREES: A.B, 1935, BEAL CArt tise, of Chicago),
1956, M.F.A. Cibid.), rys,

[ 1303 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

UNMARRIED,

HARVARD BROTHER: James Stillman, M.p., 732.

occupation: Self-employed; artist and finance.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant cashier, First National City Bank of New York, 1935-
40; treasurer, Funds for Spain, 1936, Poland, Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia,
1937-38, Governments in Exile; commander and PPC, U.S. Navy, 1943-
45; foreman, International Harvester Company, 1948-52.

MEMBER OF: Fox Club; Racquet and Tennis Club; Harvard Clubs of Chicago
and New York; Outremont Club, Montreal; Analytical Psychology Asso-
ciation, New York; Jung Club, Zurich; Chicago Athletic Club.

pusLications: “The Social Organization of the Mayas,” 1936; “The Land is
Latin,” 1938; “Thumbs Up,” 1946.

TIME can be kind as well as being cruel. Twenty-five years in

retrospect recalls a bit of both.

I am not a depression baby but a product. Born with a gold
spoon clutched in Park Avenue teeth and had to modify it to meet
the time. Both the inheritance and the early working environment
molded many later actions and attitudes. In 1935 my father put
me to work with the usual words in a bank, as that was the family’s
tradition. Starting with the comptroller’s department where we
counted masses of money, not a little unreal and unnerving consider-
ing what was happening outside, I was shifted to Cuba for a year
to polish Spanish (and made the usual whoppers at the most select
moments. Needless to say father was not amused). My education
in sugar had progressed so that after a year in Mexico, I was moved
to South America where the National City Bank had sixteen branches
and about the same number of crop and mineral finance problems.
It was intensely interesting. I hated to come back to New York in
1938 as an assistant cashier. Next saw Europe with seven branches
but London being paramount. Arbitrage, foreign exchange and
commercial paper. Not to forget how incredibly fast a shaggy
dog story would shuttle around the world with sterling.

The year 1939 was also that of Sir Neville Chamberlain. In Paris
opinion was not even mildly optimistic and I tried to enlist at the
US. Embassy in the US. Navy. The reply to my application was
so grotesque I asked my kind but far-seeing boss in New York for
immediate return.

Granted a leave of absence from the bank, United Air Lines took
me on as pilot (very junior grade), taught me radio and put me
through a mechanic’s course at Oakland. I am much indebted to
them, for after Pearl Harbor I was to be at once one of those ninety-
day wonders of the Navy at Pensacola, A monstrosity to the regular

[1304 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Navy and a wonder to us that we stayed alive. After all Pensacola
takes four years and not at all leisurely.

Alaska; Dutch Harbor, Kodiak, Adak, Attu and Kiska was the
first duty. Patrol planes flying most of the time in a treacherous
fog. Next saw a carrier, even the deck was easy after the tiny CB
mats we were used to. Home and Hutchinson, Kansas, for another
tour, this time four engines and a crew of eleven. Guam, Tinian,
Iwo Jima. The flights were long, up to sixteen hours, and very de-
manding. We flew sectors. A piece of the pie would alw ays be
Japan with the consequent bombing of shipping. If successful, and
my plane, the Fightiw Lady and crew were to an inordinant degree,
it inevitably produced a dichotomy. We wished to win but the
mangled crew after crew we forced into the ocean preyed on our
thoughts.

Upon coming back from war I had a horror of paper work or
position or relative seats of power as they seemed devoid of mean-
ing. I chose instead to be a worker in a mill of the International
Harvester Company, where I rose to be foreman. I stayed there
for four years. In 1953 I realized this as not quite the answer and
so resigned.

Having made a modicum of success with money during the post
World War II years, I came back to my first love — art. In order
to do it better I went to school again for another six years, emerging
with the top degree attainable. Thus, I am amalgam of finance,
finely tutored and a window to art.

JOHN CUTTS STOREY

    

&
‘Ny
AQ A
HOME apprEss: 224 Hinckley Rd., Milton, Mass,
OFFICE appRESS: New England Mutual Life Insurance

204 got Bovkston Se.
Boston, Mass.

[ 1305 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935
BORN: March 6, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: Richard Cutts Storey, ’96, Anna
Ladd. ,
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. cunt laude, 1935; 11.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Patricia Van Schaack Pruyn, June 27, 1944, New York, N.Y. cur-
pREN: Peter Van Schaack, Aug. 22, 1945; John Haven, Oct. 10, 1949;
Philip, Sept. 14, 1952; Thomas Burnham, Feb. 4, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Richard Cutts Storey, Jr., °24,; Moorfield Storey, 26, Wil-
lam Ladd Storey, ’3o.

occuPaTion: Counsel, Law Department, New England Mutual Life Insurance
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Boston Arts Festival, 1951-56, Institute of Contem-
porary Art, 1951-56; treasurer, 1951-56, director, since 1957, Milton Chap-
ter, Red Cross; clerk and director, Channing Home, Boston, since 1954;
member, Republican Town Committee, Milton, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Association of Life Insurance Counsel; Massachusetts Bar; Asso-
ciation of the Bar of the City of New York (associate), Milton-Hoosic
Club; Somerset Club; Badminton and Tennis Club.

ON occasion in the decades that have followed seven years of aca-
demic labor at Cambridge the questions have occurred, would
greater profit, spiritual or material, have accrued if the labor had
been greater? less? performed elsewhere? performed at all?

The bare personal record of those decades provides no answers;
five years as a law clerk in an uncle’s Boston firm, five years as an
FBI agent, four of them in cities scattered across the country and
one abroad with Portuguese, then fluent now halting, as a principal
souvenir; two years in New York and Providence as house counsel
for Textron, Inc., a somewhat frenzied organization, and the last
ten in Boston as house counsel for a large life insurance company.

Nor can answers be found in fifteen years of happy marriage and
four sons; an accomplishment possibly ostentatious but in no way
attributable to intellectual endeavor.

Political, cultural and charitable activities provide no answers
either, but these have been sometimes things stuffed in the inter-
stices in the framework of raising the next generation and of getting
and of spending, requiring no university degree but only a warm
body present and willing.

The seven years were as they were, the succeeding decades have
been as they have been. For answers better than a quarter-century
must be lived again according to other lights and so there can be
no answers. Moreover, what might have been concerns the writer
little, for the days are consumed in coping with other things.

Law started with long hours and low pay much as it does with

[ 1306 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

others, the FBI was an arduous interlude devoted to catching crimi-
nals by honest, often dull and hard police work and to the fascinat-
ing process of getting criminals to talk themselves into jail. This
calls for real salesmanship.

Latterly, work has been on company investments primarily in
real estate and large commercial mortgage loans. These are arm's
length transactions with sophisticated fellows involving large sums
of money wherein naiveté is no help to company counsel or to
company policy-holders. This last year I have been working on
company taxes besides. I travel a bit on business, 1 even made Hono-
Julu at company expense a few years ago, staying there with our
classmate Jim Hague. Perhaps some of the pleasure in intellectual
activity has survived from college days, for I enjoy finding the
historic or economic reason for many business things that are done
without apparent reason.

On occasion I also cope with the innate malevolence of inanimate
objects: the two-foot putt that doesn’t drop, the forecourt that
moves as you serve, the expensive plank that saws itself off an
eighth too short on the home power saw.

A good deal of time is spent in maintaining order among four
sons, trying to get them to walk in the paths of righteousness or
indeed engage in any worthwhile endeavor at all. A certain amount
of time is spent with friends, neighbors and classmates in that tra-
ditional Harvard pastime: courting cirrhosis.

Perhaps it might have been different but then again it certainly
could have been far worse.

GEORGE FREDERICK STORK

  

HOME appress: 224 Lee Circle, Bryn Mawr, Pa.

[ 1307 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

orrice appress: J. C. Winston Publishing Co., 1010 Arch St., Philadelphia, Pa.

porn: May 18, 1913, Philadelphia, Pa. Parents: Charles Wharton Stork,
Elisabeth von Pausinger.

PREPARED aT: Penn Charter School, Philadelphia, Pa,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: a.B., cunt laude, 1935; B.Mus. (Univ.
of Pennsylvania), 1942; A.M. (ibid.), 1950.

marriep: Mary-Ernestine Weber, Oct. 27, 1945, Philadelphia, Pa. CHILDREN:
Lyrinda Christine, July 29, 1947; Elisabeth Marie, Nov. 17, 1948; Susan

Diana, May 31, 1951; David Geoffrey, April 27, 1954; Catherine Laura,
Noy, 22, 1957.

occupation: Editor, John C. Winston Publishing Company; salesman, W orld
Book Encyclopedia.

MEMBER OF: Accademia dei Diletranti di Musica.

pusticatioxs: Three photography articles, some photographs, pocms and
songs (four recorded).

FROM 1935 to 1940, I taught English and other academic subjects
in boys’ boarding schools in New Jersey and California. Then a
growing interest in music and composing led me to two years of
intensive music study at the University of Pennsylvania.

Military service, 1942-45, consisted chiefly in weather observing
for the Air Forces which brought me to England for an uncomfort-
able but interesting year, and then, with the 368th Fighter Group,
to the Continent.

Upon discharge I promptly marched down the aisle (to my own
wedding march) beside the charming music student with whom I
had been going at Penn. Then I brushed up on music at Columbia
and resumed teaching, now in the field of music. After two years
of boarding school work I was back in Philadelphia, where I taught
several instruments, chiefly piano, instructed in all branches of
theory, plaved dance music and wrote music in a considerable range
from the symphony orchestra down. However, when these multi-
farious activities didn’t add up to a living, I took a fling at direct
selling with C. W. Stuart, in the landscape products field.

This operation proved less than a shouting success; so I returned
to the relative stability of English teaching, first in a boys’ day
school and then for a tense year in a suburban public school. As
the well-known drawbacks of teaching seemed more and more to

outweigh the advantages, | became a representative for the wonder-
ful World Book Encyclopedia, in the summer of 1959. It has been
heartening to find every owner a booster and to feel that I am doing

both parents and children a real service by putting this work in
their homes. My last move, which was

taken in November, 1
and does not entire 2 1959

ly preclude World Book operations, has been
[1308 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to accept an editorial position with the Winston Publishing Com-
pany, where I am currently writing definitions for a dictionary.

One thought I might pass along is my belief in the importance
to children of the atmosphere their parents promote in the home
and the activities the latter carry on in it. I teach my children piano
and singing and try to encourage interest in art, nature study,
science, travel and sports.

In addition to original work mentioned earlier, I have written a
satirical book, travel essays and some verse, mostly humorous. Since
the latter seems unlikely to see print elsewhere and may serve to
vary this narrative, I toss in a couple of samples here.

TV OR NOT TV: An Unexpected Answer
Children watch TV too much;

I share the common complaint.
They get ideas for killing their teachers,

They hear “it don’t” and “ain’t.”

Our new set came in a big red carton.
My kids would surprise a fox.

After one glance at the new machine
They played all day in the box!

Differnitions
If a land has no food, there’s privation,
If a king quits, it’s called abdication;
But if all girls walked out,
Your state, without doubt,
Would have to be called a “stag nation.”

[ 1309 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

MARIO STORLAZZI

 

apprEss: U.S, Operations Mission to Brazil, APO 676, New York, N.Y.
BORN: May 12, 1912, Boston, Mass. parENTS: Pasquale Storlazzi, Evelina Galdi.
PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREES: A.B. (Boston Univ.), 1938; a.m. (ibid.),
1940.

MarRiED: Marion Francis Lyle, November, 1942, Washington, D.C. cHILpren:
Marianna, March 22, 1949; Evelina, January, 1953.

occupation: Public health: industrial hygiene advisor for the International
Cooperation Administration, USOM to Brazil.

OFFICES HELD: President, Veterans Mutual Building Association, 1949-55, a
cooperative group that built Norwood Village, near Bellevue, Washing-
ton —a suburban community of individually owned homes.

MEMBER oF: American Public Health Association, American Conference of
Governmental Industrial Hygienists, American Industrial Hygiene Asso-
ciation; American Chemical Society; Air Pollution Control Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Technical studies and reports.

CONSULTANT to the Brazilian government on the organization
and development of occupational health programs; at present serv-
ing as director of the Division of Industrial Hygiene in the Servico
Especial de Saude Publica, the cooperative health program in Brazil.

[1310]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT WETMORE STOUGHTON

 

HOME apprEss: 34 Cold Spring Drive, Bloomfield, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: State Dept. of Education, State Office Bldg., Hartford, Conn.

BORN: Nov. 5, 1913, East Windsor, Conn. parents: Lemuel Stoughton, Helen
Andrews Litchfield.

PREPARED AT: Enfield High School, Thompsonville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., Cum laude, 1935; AM. (Brown
Univ.), 1936; pH». (Univ. of Connecticut), 1955.

MarriED: Arline Elizabeth Goettler, April ro, 1941, East Windsor, Conn. cuitp:
David Goettler, July 5, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Litchfield Stoughton, Eng. Sch., 1932-33.

occuPATION: State Supervisor of Guidance and Counselor Training; consultant
and counseling psychologist; assistant professor of education.

OFFICES HELD: President, Connecticut Personnel and Guidance Association,
1945-47, New England Personnel & Guidance Conference, 1951; treasurer,
Beta Phi Chapter, 1950-55, vice-president, Gamma Mu Field Chapter,
since 1959, Phi Delta Kappa; regional secretary, National Association of
Guidance Supervisors & Counselor Trainers, 1955-56, member or chairman
of various committees, professional, community and church groups.

MEMBER OF: American Personnel & Guidance Association; Connecticut State
Psychological Society; National Vocational Guidance Association, Ameri-
can Psychological Association (Divisions of Counseling Psychology;
Measurement and Evaluation); Connecticut Valley Association of Psy-
chologists; National Association of Secondary School Principals; American
Education Research Association; Phi Kappa Phi; A.F., & A.M.; National
Education Association; Harvard Club of Connecticut.

pusLications: “The Differential Predictive Values of the Differential Aptitude
Tests,” 1956; “The Testing Services: A Design for Program Develop-
ment,” 1959; editor and contributor to: The Team: Approach im Pupd
Personnel Services, 1954, Current Practices in’ Connecticut Secondary
Schools, 1954, Education for Gifted Children and Youth: 40 Gide for
Planning Programs, 1956, educational articles and bulletins published by
the Stare Department of Fducation, professional journals, yearbooks and
conference proceedings.

[azn]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

AFTER receiving my Master's degree at Brown in 1936, I started
my teaching career at Ellsworth Memorial High School, South
Windsor, Connecticut, I remained there for seven years as teacher,
counselor and then principal. There I became acquainted with one
of my fellow teachers of the fair sex who lived nearby and we
attended many school functions together. Soon we were attending
(to) other things together; the fatal words were spoken and since
April 10, 1941, she has been my wife and companion.

I spent the next few years in student personnel and counseling
work at high schools in Bristol and Hartford, Connecticut, a com-
munity counseling center in Bridgeport and at Boston University.
After‘a year’s interruption during which I completed course work
for the Ph. D., I taught at Trinity College i in Hartford. From Trinity
I went with the State of Connecticut and for the past ten years have
been combining educational consultant and supervisory responsibili-
ties in guidance and testing with teaching in the graduate school at
the University of Connecticut, From time to time I also teach (or
have taught) as a visiting lecturer at the Teachers College of
Connecticut, the University of Hartford and New York University.

At present a large share of my work centers around attempting
to administer parts of the National Defense Education Act of 1958
in a way that will contribute to better programs in our public
schools, The controversial issues surrounding education today and
especially the current emphasis on guidance and testing make the
work increasingly challenging.

An interesting and stimulating professional life has been accom-
panied by many other enjoyable experiences. I’ve been somewhat
active in church and community, including membership and the
inevitable offices in various groups. With my son (now aged six-
teen and maybe headed for Harvard in another year — he hopes) I
enjoy an occasional hunting or fishing ‘ ‘expedition,” but leave the
skiing to him. My wife Arline and I do join him occasionally on
the golf course, and although he is very patient with us, we must
confess that we take two strokes (or more) for each one of his.
Recently we have been spending several summer vacations at Prince
Edward Island where we do enough relaxing to last us until the
next year,

an between ims the family and I try our hands at numerous
-it-yoursel projects at our hillside home in Bloomfield. T pical
projects are painting ceilings (functional? muscle building tech-

[1312 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

nique), repapering walls (steaming off old paper is a great way to
have a Turkish bath), enlarging the knotty-pine recreation room
(teen-agers and their friends need lots of room), electrical work
(the sparks surely are pretty), mending leaky roofs and pipes (any
comment about being all wet would be too trite). Yes indeed,
there’s no place like home! Someday we'll take time just to sit and
enjoy the twenty-mile view from our living room picture window.

Now and again my family and I join forces with former college
classmates and their families to witness a Yale game. “Reuning”
with old friends is always pleasant even if the football scores are
not. We take time occasionally also to think about what a Harvard
experience means. Perhaps one of the most important things for
me is a point of view which has grown stronger over the years —
a point of view that has become integrated as an essential part of the
philosophy of my work, viz.: a respect for the thoughts, the values,
the uniqueness and the potential of each individual. This, I believe,

is an essential part of the spirit of Harvard and is one of the most
desirable goals in American education.

WILLIAM JUSTICE STRAWBRIDGE

    

    

i

 

; yom. mes: Jud

HOME ADDRESS: 220 Rose Lane, Haverford, Pa.

BORN: Oct. 7, 1911, Philadelphia, Pa. PARENTs: William Justice Strawbrige,
Barbara Warden.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MARRIED: M. Gwinn Vaux, Dec. 14, 1935, Philadelphia, Pa. cautores: William
Justice, Jr., Dec. 13, 1936; Richard V., June g, 1939; Morris, May 24. 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Samuel Whecler Morris, 'go (half-brother). "

occuPATIoN: Retired.

MEMBER OF: Philadelphia Club; Gulph Mill Golf Club, Philadelphia Zoological
Society (board member).

[ 1313 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I 935

AFTER leaving college (by request of the College), I went to
Bristol, Rhode Island, where I hoped to learn the trade of naval
architect, and started a small business building and designing small
racing dinghies. In 1934 I decided to enter big-time racing and
bought the ninety-foot Class M racing sloop Istalena, which I raced
very successfully in Long Island Sound and New York Yacht Club
cruises. The next year there was talk of international races in the
twelve-meter class, so I built the Mitwza which I raced very un-
successfully for two years. In 1935, I married. This ended my big
ideas about yachting and I moved to Philadelphia, bought a sixty-
acre farm where we lived until last spring, and for the next few
years settled down to being a family man.

In 1940, war being imminent (the draft board was snapping at
my heels), I secured a commission in the Navy and went on active
duty in June, 1941. After indoctrination at Fort Schuyler, New
York, and two-month duty at the Torpedo Station, Newport, Rhode
Island, I went to sea in the ex-Fleishman yacht Corzayo; anti-sub-
marine patrol out of Pearl Harbor. The Navy was very much sur-
prised to find that two 3-inch guns made the ex-yacht rather top-
heavy, but they had the answer for that; ten tons of tombstones
in the bilges. In November, 1942, I was ordered to Boston to the
destroyer Ordranaux, where we saw duty at the landings in Sicily,
Naples, Anzio and South France, with a few winter convoy cross-
ings in the North Atlantic, just to wash things down. In November,
1944, 1 was ordered to executive office on the 1g00-ton destroyer
Shubrich, then at the Brooklyn Navy Yard. One more trip to the
Mediterranean and then to the Pacific, Pearl Harbor and on to
Okinawa, where we spent three harrowing months on radar-picket
duty, finally succumbing to the kamikaze on June 7th. War ended,
with me in command of the battered-up old Shubrich at the Brem-
erton Navy Yard in Seattle, Washington.

After the war, I went to work in an investment banking firm in
Philadelphia, but after three years I realized I just was not a city
boy. I took up shooting, and trout and salmon fishing; joined a
quail shooting club in South Carolina and in 1955 bought a 650-
acre farm in Chester and Lancaster counties, Pennsylvania, Winters
are now taken up with supervising the farm, with quail-shooting
expeditions sandwiched in, and summers alternating Northeast

Harbor, Maine, with trips with our three boys out west, to Scot-
land for grouse-shooting, or motor trips through Europe.

[1314]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN MILTON STREET

PG pO Age age me

  

   

HOME appREss: Jarmany Hill Road, Sharon, N.H.
OFFICE ADDRESS: W. F. Rutter, Inc., 19 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Feb. 8, 1914, Utica, N.Y. parents: Irving Whitall Street, Elizabeth
Dudley Butler.

PREPARED AT: Utica Free Academy, Utica, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1935.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Investment sales, W. F. Rutter, Inc.; assistant clerk, New Hamp-
shire House of Representatives.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Rules Committee, U.S. Squash Racquets Association,

since 1955; president, Massachusetts Squash Racquets Association, 1957-
59-
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Fort Schuyler Club, N.Y.

WARREN STURGIS

 

HOME apprEss: 20 Grace Court Alley, Brooklyn 1, N.Y,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sturgis-Grant Productions, Inc. 322 E. qyth St. New York 17,
N.Y.

[1315 ]

were st

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

porn: Nov. 26, 1912, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Sullivan Warren Sturgis, ‘90,
Edith Stuart Barnes.

preparep at: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B, 1935.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Somers Hayes Sturgis, ’27, M.p., ’31.

occupaTios: Motion picture producer; president, Sturgis-Grant Productions,
Inc.

oFFicés HELD: Director, since 1950, Vice-president, 1952-53, president, 1954-55,
Biological Photographic Association, Inc.; treasurer, 1953, vice-president,
1954, president, 1955-56, New York Film Council; director, Grenfell
Association of America, since 1950.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Society of Motion Picture & Tele-
vision Engineers; Screen Directors’ International Guild; Committee on
Physical and Mental Health Films.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles on medical photography and medical films
in Journal of the Biological Photographic Association and other photo-
graphic journals.

IT is quite usual for those on the inside of motion pictures to try to
debunk the aura of glamor and excitement with which Hollywood
has infected the minds of most people. The claim is: “It’s just
another job, when you're working at it day-by-day.” Personally,
after more than twenty years of producing films, I still find the.
work exciting, stimulating and, occasionally, even glamorous. And
this despite the fact that my pictures are inherently of the most
prosaic type, those dealing with scientific data. For the great
majority of them are in the field of medical education, although
from time to time there is a so-called “documentary,” and (heaven
forbid!) an occasional TV commercial.

I became prepared for this work through a combination of two
experiences, (Notice the use of a clumsy passive verb; to say “pre-
pared for it” would imply purposive action to that end, which it
most certainly was not.) Firstly: my seven years attending Harvard
University included, after college, one year as a graduate student in
science, and two at the Medical School across the river — which
allows me to put a “°4o-ex” after my name on the Harvard Medical
School roster, to receive the Medical Alumni Bulletin and to be
subject to all regular solicitations for funds. In addition to some
fundamental knowledge, one of the main things I gathered from
these two years of medicine was a critical discrimination concern-
ing teaching methods in a scientific profession, along with definite
ideas of how they might he improved.

Secondly: in the same way that the mother in Kaufman’s “Once

[ 1316 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in a Lifetime” started writing novels because a typewriter had been
left at her house, I began to take movies in 1924 because a rich uncle
tired of his gadget and gave my family his motion picture camera.
My earliest pictures were as bad — and as boring — as most “home
movies” are. But my technique improved and members of the 1935
track team may remember their manager shooting pictures of their
form over the hurdles or high jump, for later analysis.

Thus, 1938 saw me with two years’ background in the medical
sciences, a hobby of motion picture photography and a keen interest
in educational methods. A catalyst was provided in that a Boston
doctor whom I knew needed some help in filming a research study.
The reaction took place immediately and a career in medical educa-
tional film production came into being.

Quite properly, my initial attempt was for a distinguished Har-
vard professor and Boston clinician, Dr. Elliott P. Joslin. More
films for the Medical School followed, but it was Dr. Joslin’s film
which led to a year’s employment with the now-defunct “March of
Time” monthly film series. After one year of hectic commercial
production planning and directing, I left to establish a medical
department at the American Film Center, where I stayed unul sot

Somehow, having accepted me into their service, the U.S. Navy
allowed me to continue my own specialized work through W orld
War II. Being convinced of the value of visual education in train-
ing its personnel, the Navy stationed me at their medical center in
Bethesda, Maryland, where I set up and ran the motion picture
laboratory. First aid for medical corpsmen, hospital procedures,
dental techniques and surgical operations passed under my camera
rapidly in those days, and the resulting films were incorporated into
libraries at other medical centers.

After the war a brief stint with a commercial film company
annoyed me sufficiently to gather my courage and found my own
enterprise in 1948, with a partner skilled in the art of “animation,”
or what might be more popularly known as “screen cartoons.” A
secretary was hired and a drafty loft served as our “studio.”

Now, some twelve years later, we employ tw enty, on the air-
conditioned second floor of a small, modern building. With about
250 productions under our belt, the company is known IN Its Spe-
cialized field, and even a small profit sometimes rolls in — mainly
from the pharmaceutical industr yw hose members sponsor indis dual
projects.

A doctor may be a general practitioner, specialise or research

[1317 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

scientist. I find I must be a little of each. I deal in one moment
with therapy for arthritis, in the next with research studies on a
new drug. I study and prepare script on the embryological develop-
ment of a complicated organ of the body, and then am called on to
help visualize the phy siology of muscle. I am in the midst of editing
a picture on rehabilitation, when a phone call takes me out to cover
an unusual emergency operation. As medical progress today is
dynamic and exciting, so is my work, Perhaps it is this constant
change, this variety of subjects with which I deal, that keeps my
keen interest in this absorbing occupation.

And it is a job which could take twenty-four hours of each day
—if I let it. When I say that vacations have been short and few
(a three-week skiing trip to Switzerland recently having been the
only one of any length in twelve years), I do not mean to imply
that keeping a nose to the grindstone has been an onerous duty.
Wife? no; Children? no; Friends? plenty; Hobbies? many; Satisfied
with occupation? YES; Description of same? well, it’s hard to say:
sometime photographer (I still film surgery myself), director (of
clinical and documentary projects), writer (about half of our
scripts at present), producer (in the generally accepted frame-of-
reference for all my company’s films), but— perhaps most im-
portant —a would-be educator.

Now — anyone got a good, juicy Choledochojejunostomy com-
ing up of which he wants to keep a record?

MELVIN IRVING STURNICK

 

HOME appress: 25 Acacia Ave., Chestnut Hill, Mass,
OFFICE ADDRESS: 475 Commonwealth Ave. Boston, Mass,

[ 1318 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BoRN: Oct. 20, 1913, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Max Sturnick, M.p.
Stern.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; M.p. (Tufts Univ.),
1939.

MaRRIED: Sofia Stumberg, March 25, 1954, Brookline, Mass. cHILDREN: Mark
Alexander, Feb. 16, 1955; Carol Melanie, Oct. 14, 1957.

occuPaATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Clinical associate in medicine, Harvard Medical School, since
October, 1958; lecturer in medicine, Tufts University School of Medicine,
since October, 1958.

PUBLICATIONS: Several papers in cardiology and endocrinology.

» 04, Hortense

FOLLOWING graduation I went on to study medicine, I served
the usual internship and residency, both at the Beth Israel Hospital
in Boston. I was fortunate enough to just about complete my fresi-
dency in internal medicine before going into the Army in 1942. I
spent most of the time as a medical officer aboard troop ships,
finally ending up on the hospital ship, Blanche F. Sigman, which
operated in the Atlantic and Mediterranean.

After World War II, I started practice in Boston where I soon
confirmed the known fact that there is no shortage of doctors in
this town. I was able to occupy a good part of the time working
in clinics at the hospital and teaching second, third and fourth year
Harvard and Tufts students. Through the years, I have found this
to be one of the most gratifying aspects of this profession. One
soon learns that the fun of teaching outweighs the long hours, late
lunch hours, token remuneration and the occasional “know-it-all”
student. During this time, I have spent considerable time in the
Endocrine Clinic where there is opportunity to study diseases of
the thyroid gland. I have also had the opportunity to teach electro-
cardiography to practising physicians. This course is now being
given under the auspices of the Courses for Graduates at the Har-
vard Medical School.

I spend most of my spare time with my family. I enjoy w orking
around my home, fixing odds and ends and helping my wife with
the gardening.

In brief, I have found that the key to satisfaction is largely the
pleasure derived from always keeping busy and having a new
project on the fire before the old is completed.

[1319 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

JACK STUTMAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4958 Matilija Ave. Sherman Oaks, Calif.

one 1OORESS Quittner, Stutman & Treister, 639 Spring St., Los Angeles 14,

BorN; May 27, 1914, Manchester, N.H. parents: Israel Scucman, Ida Schneider.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; LL.B. (Boston
Coll), 1941.

Marriep: Vera S. Colmes, March 10, 1942, Boston, Mass. cuttp: Marc C., Dec.
9, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Samuel Stutman, '32.

occupation: Lawyer; partner, Quittner, Stutman & Treister.

OFFicES HELD: Past chairman, Bankruptcy Group of Los Angeles, 1951; chair-
man, Lawyer's Club of Los Angeles Committee on Insolvency; co-chairman,
Lawyer's Division U.J.WF. of Los Angeles, lecturer, California Bar
Continuing Education Program, 1957; member, Los Angeles Bar Com-
mittee on Continuing Education, 1959; member, California Bar Committee
on Creditor-Debtor Relations, 1958-61.

MEMBER OF: Del Rey Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Voice of the Gavel,” The Business Lawyer, November,
1958, republished in The Practical Lawyer, 1959; “Insolvency Planning,”
and other articles of legal interest.

I DOUBT that all of the scars of the economic depression of the
thirties have healed even in today’s era of lush living. After gradu-
ation I had to go to work to earn enough money to go back to gradu-
ate school; and while in one sense several years were wasted, on the
other hand I acquired certain skills which have stood me in good
stead. If the practice of law ever poops out, I can always go back
to driving a Greyhound bus.

IT remember once near Caen, France, during World War II

putting these skills to use in driving a six by six Army truck the
hell out of there! U.S. Army, 1942-46 — private to captain —

[ 1320 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

parachute infantry, roist and 13th airborne divisions. 1 would guess
I am the only qualified Harvard Greyhound bus driver-parachutist
in the business.

Since I had been beat up pretty well in the war, my wife (Smith
College 1941) suggested an easier way of life in that little sleepy
Mexican village called “nuestra senora la reina de los angeles,”
where we arrived early in 1946. However, in place of peace and
quiet, we found a lusty, brawling infant economy and have watched
with amazement the growth of an industrial giant with a rate of
bankruptcy filing four times as great as that of New York City.
The easier way of life went out the window and we began to beat
our brains out. However, on weekends we repair to our boat at
Newport, where we relax, get drunk occasionally, go fishing, and
contemplate the beauties of being a beach bum. Both my wife and
son are expert fishermen; I never get time because I am always
baiting their hooks, taking off their catch, and swabbing the decks.

By comparison with the thirties I am rich (not really), so I can
truthfully say I have been poor, I have been rich; rich is better.
I have a wonderful family and in my practice my chief function
is to minister to sick companies (I know from first-hand experi-
ence how it feels to be broke) in an effort to rehabilitate them, and
this offers all the satisfactions of the healing arts.

To any of our classmates in the Los Angeles area, because of the
old school tie, we shall be pleased to handle your personal bank-
ruptcy at wholesale.

RICHARD ALBERT SULLIVAN

 

HOME AppRESS: 362 King St., Cohasset, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Malloy, Sullivan & Myerson, to State St, Baston, Mass.

[i328]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

BorN: Jan. 4, 1913, Dorchester, Mass, parents: Albert A. Sullivan, Rose
Heintz.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: S.B., 1935; Jv. (Detroit Coll. of Law),
1945.

marrieD: Helen Tingdahl, June 6, 1936, Boston, Mass. cHILDREN: Richard
Albert, Jr., Aug. 30, 1938; Lawrence Mark, April 22, 1940; Lesley Gale,
May 18, 1943.

HARVARD SON: Richard Albert Sullivan, Jr., *60.

occupaTion: Attorney, partner, Malloy, Sullivan & Myerson.

OFFIcES HELD: President, South County Gas Company; chairman of board,
Pequot Gas Company, Blackstone Gas Company, Midstate Gas Company;
member, School Committee, Town of Cohasset.

MEMBER OF: International 210 Association (president); Harvard Club of
Boston; Cohasset Yacht Club, Varsity Club, Scituate Harbor Yacht Club,
Watch Hill Yacht Club.

LIFE has been good to me. I have a twenty-one-year-old son at
Harvard, a nineteen-year-old son on a Ballistic Nuclear Submarine,
a daughter, sixteen, at prep school and a wife who has made me very
happy. |

At the present time, I am chief executive officer of several small
gas companies, but still have time to be actively associated with the
Boston law firm of Malloy, Sullivan & Myerson, which specializes
in antitrust law.

For seven years after college I learned the utility business as elec-
trical engineer with the Massachusetts Public Utility Commission,
as consulting engineer for the U.S. Army Engineers and utility
analyst for the City of Detroit. When in Detroit, 1 went to law
school nights. I still remember reading law books with my then
young children climbing on my back.

After the war, the Transit Company in Detroit was pretty tired,
having done a terrific wartime job. I was picked as the general
manager to modernize the system. I never knew so many people
could love old streetcars until new buses began replacing them, In
the fall of 1947, a new mayor was elected on a campaign promise
to keep streetcars. Goodbye Detroit, hello Boston. Three turbulent
years in the transit business should have taught me that there is an
easier way to make a living, yet not till eleven years later, after
being assistant to general manager, superintendent of power and
general superintendent of transportation with the Metropolitan
Transit Authority of Boston, did I decide to get out of the transit
business and back to utility operation and law.

Sometimes work interferes with my family sailing and skiing,

[ 1322 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

but not too often. We have sailed everything from sailfish to
schooners, but our racing is done on those beautiful z10 sloops.
This 210 racing not only gives us plenty of tough competition in
our home port of Cohasset, but affords us good interclub racing
with other fleets. My one claim to greatness came in 1958 when I
won the International 210 Championships at the American Yacht
Club in Rye, New York. When sailing is over for the season, we
get the skis out, polish the boots and wait for the snow. I find that
‘ou don’t have to be good to enjoy skiing.

My sole elective public office was that of school committeeman
of Cohasset, but I have worked at dozens of appointive posts.

Among my present extracurricular activities is that of president of
the International 210 Association.

RICHARD CLAIBORNE SULLIVAN

   

Poe * ( |

HOME ADDRESS: 2133 El Roble Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.

BORN: Oct. 10, 1912, Cincimnati, Ohio, parents: Robert J. Sullivan, Norma
Windisch. :

PREPARED AT: ‘The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.
OCCUPATION: Actor.

NO questionnaire returned.

[ 1323 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

JOHN LORING SWASEY

    

HOME Abpress: 1150 Fifth Ave, New York 28, N.Y.

OFFice appress: Mitchell, Hutchins & Co., 1 Wall St. New York 5, N.Y.

BORN: Sept. 12, 1913, Taunton, Mass. parents: Albert Loring Swasey, Dorothy
Lovering.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., Cuz laude, 1935.

MarriED: Gladys Crocker, December, 1942, Washington, D.C. (divorced 1959);
Cherry McDonnell (Black), July, 1959. CHILDREN: Gladys Lovering,
October, 1943; John Loring, Jr., October, 1945; Carol Crocker, December,
1946; Malcolm Crocker, August, 1948; Leslie Denison Black, September,
1947; Caroline McDonnell Black, February, 1950.

occupation: General partner, Mitchell, Hutchins & Co., stockbrokers.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Tuxedo Club.

FROM graduation to the war, from which I emerged as lieutenant
commander, U.S.N.R., mostly with the Bureau of Personnel, |
spent my business time with a bank in New York, living as a bache-
Jor with various groups in the usual way. Subsequently, after my
marriage, and as the children appeared, our residence changed from
Noroton, to New Canaan, Connecticut, and then to Tuxedo Park,
New York, for ten years. The commuting life has now switched
back to New York, where I have been working since the war,
first for three years with a securities underwriting firm, and then
to the stockbrokerage and investment business of Mitchell, Hutch-
ins & Co., where I have been general partner for the last several
years.

During all of this period there has been the obvious requirement
of developing the means to support a growing family in a business
which, however, has brought great pleasure, challenge and _pleas-
ant association. In addition, there has been occasion to participate
from time to time in various local civic and religious activities.

[ 1324 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Last year I was remarried, and now enjoy the added interest
of two stepchildren, so that no one need be told that the pleasures
and problems of six growing people aged nine to sixteen keep us
well occupied.

ALVIN RANDOLPH SWEENEY, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 5126 Bradley Blvd., Chevy Chase, Md.

OFFICE apprEss: D.C. General Hospital, Washington, D.C.

BorN: Nov. 2, 1912, Lake Arthur, La. parents: Alvin Randolph Sweeney,
Rilla Adele Ingram.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; M.D., 1939.

MarRRiED: Beatrice Marcy, March 14, 1937, Media, Pa. (divorced tg50). cHIL-
DREN: Elinore Nichols, Nov. 28, 1937; Alvin Randolph, 3d, Aug. 16, 1940;
John Chalmers, May 16, 1945; Sara Wendell, Dec. 2, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Chalmers Sweeney, ’35.

OccUPATION: Associate in medicine, George Washington Medical School,
currently engaged in research under National Institues of Health grant.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American Heart Association,
California Society of Internal Medicine.

AT the completion of my medical training, I was awarded a Mayo
Clinic fellowship, which was interrupted ~ when I left to work on
high-altitude flight medicine under the auspices of the National
Research Council. Several papers reporting findings of the work
done were published. Thereafter I served in the U.S. Navy, being
assigned to the Marine Corps as flight surgeon, and was stationed
in the south Pacific.

Following the cessation of hostilities, T resumed my fellowship
at the Mayo Clinic, where I was awarded a Master of Science degree
in medicine, and then entered the private practice of medicine in

[1325 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935
southern California, which was interrupted by the dissolution of my
family.
After a period of readjustment, I became affiliated with the
George Washington Medical School as an associate in medicine.
Ac the conclusion of my present work in connection with a senior

research fellowship grant from the National Institutes of Health,
] plan to return to the practice of medicine in California,

EDWARD CHALMERS SWEENEY

    

HOME appress: Rose Valley Road, Wallingford, Delaware County, Pa.
OFFice appRess: Wallingford, Pa, and 2318 Packard Bldg., Philadelphia 2, Pa.

BORN; Sept. 17, 1913, Tompkinsville, Staten Island, N.Y. parents: Alvin Ran-
dolph Sweeney, Rilla Adele Ingram.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 1935; LL.B. (Univ. of Pennsylvania),
1941.

marrieD: Isabelle Margaret Seltzer, May 29, 1939, Philadelphia, Pa. CHILDREN:
Isabelle Oroian, Jan. 6, 1942; Elaine Catherine, Aug. 19, 19433 Ilfra Mar-
garet, July 10, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alvin Randolph Sweeney, ’35; M.D., '39.

occupation: Lawyer, general practice.

oFFIces HELD: Organizing secretary, Chapter 1 (Philadelphia) Military Govern-
ment Association (USA), 1947-48, organizing secretary, 1947, director,
1954-55, 1959-60, XIII Corps Association, Wilmington, Del.; organizing
secretary, Non-Partisan Programs, Delaware County, Pa., 1957-60.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Philadelphia, Philadelphia Bar Association; Rose
Valley Folk; Delaware County Institute of Science; former member
Lawyers Club, Juristic Society, Stradley Tax Group, University Club,
Citizens Council on City Planning, all of Philadelphia; Delaware County
Bar Association, Community Arts Center, Rose Valley Swimming Pool
Corporation, all of Delaware County.

PuBLications: Numerous, including Henry Van Dyke Eulogy; TV and the
Updating of Christian Symbologia, The United Nations Role in the De-

[ 1326 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

velopment of International Waters and Ocean Bottoms, Cameron Parish,
Louisiana, and Jefferson County, Texas, Area Project; 1.P.A.— Inter-
national Phonetic Alphabet, “Thy Glorious Majesty Be On Us, Lord”

(oratorio based on the Ninetieth Psalm), and a number of copyrighted
songs.

FOR years I have looked to these moments of accounting for
twenty-nine post-matriculate years to my alma mater, and to scores
of Class brothers of our Sacred (lay meaning intended) Order,
whom I got to know in varying degrees of friendly association dur-
ing the four academic and succeeding years. In a sense, I had John
P, Marquand’s H. M. Pulham, Esq. (an American classic) in mind
as a sort of guide. How well and what I had done that counted was
worth recounting with my superbly conditioned (or ought to have
been) powers (?) since receipt of a sealed scroll dated: “die Junii
XX.MDCCCCXXXV Collegiique Harvardiani CCLXXXXVIUII,”
and signed by “J. B. Conant Praeses.” But I have not Marquand’s
gift, his composing skill, his artful strokework and palette; nor his
spatial allowance and good-will, nor the presumptuousness even
to try collaterally. Had I, I should have called it “Great Expecta-
tions — Unfulfilled,” and then recounted a series of tragicomic epi-
sodes 4 la Alec Guinness in “The Horse’s Mouth” to bring me to
this stage of life where I have so little by the best people’s stand-
ards to show for my spent energies. Howbeit, I look beyond these
middling years with an undiminished capacity for enjoying R. L.
Stevenson’s world of “so many things,” and an accumulated store
of puzzle-set impressions which, stimulated, might come out some-
thing like Jaques “wise saws and modern instances” (Act II, se.
vii, 1. 156, As You Like It). But even in this I must almost defer to
Ralph Waldo Emerson’s (Harvard 1821) still fresh essay, “Politics”

(second series): “The Old, who have seen through the hy pocrisy
of courts and statesmen, die, and leave no w isdom to their sons”

(sixth paragraph).

PREWAR YEARS: Following graduation, I spent a year in the
Philadelphia and Washington, D.C., environs, preparing for the
1936 U.S. State Department's Foreign Service examination, but had
not sufficient preparation to join the life patterns of W. Barnes and
R, Kidder who did. Thereafter law school at the University of
Pennsylvania, interrupted by most of one vear (1939) on active
U.S. Army duty as a first jicutenant, field ‘artillery. During that
duty, on May ag, I married my Isabelle, “the fairest of the fair.”
Back to the University of Pennsylvania Law School: | graduated

[ 1327]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

with an LL.B. and passed the Pennsylvania bar exams that July
1941. During the last vears, I had an invaluable, spaced six-months
clerkship under a distinguished preceptor, WwW. W. Montgomery,
Jr, a law partner of Owen J. Roberts, eminent jurist.

WAR YEARS: Being a reserve officer with a one-year AD com-
mitment, in 1939 I applied for and got a thirteen-month tour of
duty with General Maxwell's Administrator of Export Control, a
joint Army-Navy operation, which burgeoned out into Vice-presi-
dent Henry Wallace’s Board of Economic Warfare. My duties
as a conscientious investigating and enforcing attorney of World
War II's version of the “Trading with the Enemy Act,” limited
to the Latin American field, were absorbing, and highly instructive.
I learned a great deal about high level Federal bureaucracy in the
Board and in the older coordinating secretariats: “Treasury, Com-
merce, State, Justice, A-P.C,, etc., as well as something of the detail
of our US.-Latin American export-import relations. I tried the
first cases before the Board’s Compliance Commissioner, and de-
veloped several cases for reference, and coordination with Justice.
Then followed thirteen months of intensely interesting positive in-
tellizence (economic, political, social data) duties with WD's G-2,
AIS, Miami Beach, Florida; also a joint Army-Navy and OSS
Latin American Intelligence Command under Generals Heard and
Cox. During the last six or seven months I acted as chief of the
Caribbean Section, and realized, thereafter, an earlier ambition of
attending the School of Military Government, University of Vir-
ginia, in Charlottesville (sixth class, which included California’s
former Senator William Knowland), and duty in the ETO for
eighteen months, the last eleven months of which were as execu-
tive officer of the G-5 (Civil Affairs-Military Government), X111
Corps (Gillem CG), NUSA, 12th AG, Our Corps was captor
of such German cities as Miinschen-Gladbach, Kerfeld, Wesel,
Munster, Hannover, Braunschweig, Magdeburg, and placed the
first Allied forces across the Elbe en route to Berlin. Here, too, I
realized an ambition — promotion in combat to a lieutenant colo-
nelcy, General Staff Corps, with a special commendation.

POSTWAR YEARS: After more than four years military duty
(where the emphasis, however, was always on control, or knowl-
edge of selected civilian activity in wartime), I returned to m
adopted city, Philadelphia, to take up my metier, the practice of
law. In October, 1945, | affiliated with the law firm of Donahue,
Irwin & Gest, 2318 Packard Building, in whose office I still have

[1328 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my desk. But the readjustment was a most difficult one, and one
which I still have not made fully, since I have not been able to
compromise some of the ideas and aspirations learned during my
schooling from infancy through the mature years, fought for
vigorously at domestic desk and on foreign field; or to tap the
deepest, best energies James of Harvard says we do have. My
practice has not been lucrative, and I have had to commit my feeble
energies on several stalemated fronts.

MY FAMILY: It is said about American men that wherever
you find a “‘successful one” you find behind or beside him a “suc-
_ cessful” woman. I have not played my last cards, and the game 1s

not over, so that if my life work does count creditably in some
way during these postwar years. I shall give my Isabelle a due
generous share, or credit. For it was she who gave me the best
years of her life, herself, and our sweet fruit. It was her unswerv-
ing faith, and devotion during the dark years against at times in-
human pressures, which awakened something vital and powerful
in my inner life which made, makes, or will make that success.

A photograph of my gifted, sweet daughters would say much
more than words.

CONVICTIONS: These will come later.

ROBERT WESSELHOEFT SWIFT, JR.

 

HOME appreEss: 704 Brush Hill Rd., Milron 86, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Swift Instruments, Inc. gs2 Dorchester Ave, Dorchester 24,
Mass.

BoRN: March 17, 1911, Philadelphia, Pa
Edith Steel.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933,

» PARENTS: Robert Wesselhoete Swift,

[ 1329 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

marrieD: Rosamond Whitey, June 15, 1941, Milton, Mass. cHmpreN: Rosa-
mond W.,, Jan. 13, 1943; Robert Wesselhoeft, 3d, Feb. 20, 1947; Madeleine
W,, Aug. 27, 1948; Joan H., May 21, 1953.

occupation: President, Swift Instruments, Inc., Swift Instruments International,
S.A. executive vice-president, Standard Thermometer, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Fox Club; Tennis and Badminton Club.

AFTER leaving Harvard in 1933 (under some duress), worked for
family textile business near Philadelphia until 1937. Then joined
Swift & Anderson as salesman (now Swift Instruments, Inc.).

Navy: 1941-45. Lieutenant (j.g.), Armed Guard, 1941-43; gun-
nery officer, USS Current (auxiliary rescue and salvage vessel);
then executive and C.O., operating in Southwest Pacific, through
1945 — Ulithi to Okinawa. Wound up as lieutenant commander.

Returned to Swift Instruments early in 1946, as sales manager.
Then successively, treasurer, vice-president and finally present job.

Hobbies: Sailing, tennis, golf, etc. Politics: Conservative.

Looking at the above it would seem to be lessence of stuffiness.
Nothing exciting ever happens, etc. I assure my brothers of 35,
however, that this is far from the case and I intend future years to
be as adventurous as possible,

GARDNER TAFT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 27 Woodhill Rd., Wilton, Conn.

orrice Anpness: Eastern Air Lines, Inc., 10 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20,

BoRN: March 1, 1913, Providence, R.L. parents: Royal Chapin Taft, Marianna
Field Gardner.

PREPARED AT: Salisbury School, Salisbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1931-1934.

MarkleD: Juliette Caze MacWillie, April 11, 1940, New Canaan, Conn. cHiIL-
DREN: Juliette Marianna, Nov, 22, 1941; Gardner Alexander, Aug. 17, 1944.

[ 1330 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPaTION: Commercial air transportation; assistant manager schedules,
Eastern Air Lines, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

MY pre-career period lasted four years. These include one at
the then Bryant and Stratton Business School in Providence, Rhode
Island (this should have been my senior year at Harvard), one in
Wall Street with the now defunct firm of Winthrop, Mitchell &
Company, where I was glorified office boy to the partners, and
two as a trader in the bond department of the then Industrial Trust
Company of Providence.

My career, which it must be since I am still in it, started on
October 1, 1938. On that date I went to work for Eastern Air Lines,
Inc., as a courier (baggage handler) at Newark Airport. Now
twenty-one years later I find myself still with the same company.
During those years I never got very far from the starting point.
I have worked at air ports in New York (La Guardia), Baltimore
and Philadelphia. I came to roost at the home office at 10 Rocke-
feller Plaza, New York City, in June, 1947. Job titles following
the first include ticket counter agent, assistant chief agent, chief
agent, station manager, research analyst, schedules analyst, senior
schedules analyst and now assistant manager schedules. I can truth-
fully say that all of it has been interesting. Fortunately, I find
the scheduling end of the business most interesting of all.

The war record can be covered quickly. My draft board seemed
to think an airline station manager important; I did not argue with
them; there isn’t any war record.

Raising a family and a pretty good one, if you will excuse me
for patting my wife on the back, has been my chief occupation,
other than trying to bring in the dollars to do it. This has limited
travel, except for business, and the more demanding hobbies. Every
summer the month of July finds us at Hammond Hill, Saunders-
town, Rhode Island, where I spent my youth.

My daughter, Jannie, is now eighteen and a freshman at Ran-
dolph-Macon Woman’s College in Lynchburg, Virginia. My son,
Alex, is fifteen and a sophomore in Wilton High School, We moved
out of New York City four and one-half years aga, a decision we
shall never regret, A commuter leaves the station at 6:49 a.m. and
gets back to the same point at 6:41 p.m. My comment is, “Ie is
worth it.”

I suppose I might be called an “ultra-conservative.” [Edo not
even go along with the “modern” Republicans, Tam an Episco-

[ 1331]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

palian, having been brought back into the fold by my children. I
belong only to the Harvard Club of New York. Our friends are
those accumulated over the years, neighbors, and, of course, family.

I also might mention two very important members of our house-
hold. At times you might think the place is run for them. They
are both very male — males of Felis Domrestica. One, Luke, is from
Maine, and has no tail. The other, Ringtail, is a waif from the

Rhode Island woods, who asked for a home when his predecessor
lost a battle with a bobcat.

HAROLD ERASTUS TAYLOR

 

HOME abpress: 111 Montgomery St. Rhinebeck, N.Y.

OFFICE abpRESs: Wappingers Central School, Wappingers Falls, N.Y.

porn: Aug. 24, 1913, Milford, N.Y. parents: Erastus A. Taylor, Clara E. Gano.

PREPARED aT: Johnstown High School, Johnstown, N.Y,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932. DEGREES: 8.8. (Hartwick Coll:), 1936; 5.M. (Syra-
cuse Univ.), 1940. _

marriep: G. Doris Cramer, Dec. 24, 1937, Rhinebeck, N.Y. cHmpreNn: Patricia

Ann, Nov. 7, 1941; Walter Milton, Aug. 22, 1945; Richard Lawrence, July
26, 1950; Starla Jean, Nov. 6, 1952.

occupation: High school science teacher.

FAMILY — Work — Church — Friends have been my chief in-
terests in life. Have lived and worked as follows:
Sag Harbor, Long Island, two years — teacher.

Richfield Springs, New York — seven years — teacher, guidance,
administration,

Ellenburg Depot, New York — three years — supervising school
principal.

Rhinebeck, New York (commuting to Wappingers Falls) —
eight years — as a teacher.

| 1332]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I am fortunate in having a fine family and family life of which
[am modestly proud, My work is interesting to me and somethin
which I consider worthwhile. Within the field of teaching is where
our major problems of the day reside. 1 am happy in my work and
avid to do it well.

My church, social, esthetic relations are mostly because of and for
the satisfactions received from giving (of myself and mine) to God
and my fellow-man in my small way.

My friends are steadfast and long-enduring in spite of my many
faults. I hope I may always be the same to them.

HENRY LONGSTREET TAYLOR

 

HOME apprEss: 688 Fairmount Ave., St. Paul 5, Minn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Gate 27, Stadium, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis 14,
Minn.

BorN: Feb. 2, 1912, St. Paul, Minn. parents: Henry Longstreet Tavlor, Ethel-
berta Geer.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul Academy, St. Paul, Minn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 1935; PH.D. (Univ. of Minnesota),
1942.

MaRRIED: Catherine Morton Elliott, March 21, 1941, Duluth, Minn. cHitpees:
David Hendrickson, June 23, 1944; James Fischer, March 27, 1946, Geof-
frey Elliott, Feb. 14, 1949.

occupation: Teaching and research, professor in Laboratory of Physiological
Hygiene, School of Public Health, University of Minnesota.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Minnesota Heart Association;
former president, Harvard Club of Minnesota.

MEMBER OF: American Physiological Society; Society for the Study of Biology
and Medicine, American Heart Association; Society for the Study of
Arteriosclerosis; American Association for Advancement of Science;
American Statistical Association; American Public Health Association,
Alpha Chi Sigma; University Club of Sc. Paul.

[ 1333 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

publications: Co-author, The Biology of Human Starvation, University Press,
Minneapolis, 1950, 2 vols., numerous papers in journals of physiology, bio-
chemistry, clinical investigation, etc.
GRADUATION found me heading for the Harvard Medical School
where a jam-packed curriculum kept me occupied until early in
1938 when pulmonary tuberculosis side-tracked me to Pokegama
Sanitarium in Minnesota for the “cure.” In such surroundings
yesterday is past and tomorrow never arrives, so you learn to savour
the events of the day. In retrospect, this has been a useful balance
wheel to the Protestant ethic that work is good and the economic
dictum that one advances by self-denial.

One of those improbable coincidences brought Dr. Ancel Keys
(who had been my tutor at Harvard in biochemistry) to Minneapolis
to accept a post in the Department of Physiology in the University
of Minnesota Medical School. He offered me the privileges of his
laboratory for a convalescent year following my release from
Pokegama, late in 1939.

Graduate work opened new vistas and in spite of my original
intention of returning to Medical School I stayed on to complete
the Ph.D. in physiology in 1942. At about this time, more frequent
trips to Duluth culminated in marriage to a patient and understand-
ing girl.

Late in 1942, the office of Scientific Research and Development
asked Dr, Keys and the staff of the Laboratory of Physiological
Hygiene to undertake to investigate the relationship of diet and
physical performance. So I stayed on to work with the problem
of how to measure performance and the effects of dietary deficiency
and semi-starvation on the capacity of soldiers to perform their
duties. After a year out in 1946 to quell a flare-up of TB, the
interests changed over to nutrition and cardiac function, to saturated
fats and coronary heart disease.

Finally, the course of events has carried our primary interest back
to physical activity. This time the emphasis is on the development
of coronary heart disease and the manner in which physical activity
may affect it, The work has been at times exciting, at other times
interesting and on occasion repetitious and dull.

It has brought us in contact with a wide variety of men of all
ages and from all walks of life who have volunteered to be “guinea
pigs” in a mutual effort to learn more about man. This has always
been a rewarding experience. It has provided an opportunity to do

field work in the Army camps, in the railroad yards of San Francisco

[ 1334]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and Oelwein, in the market place of Caligiari, Sardinia, and in the
fire departments of Minneapolis and Naples, Italy.

Contacts with other investigators in the field and constant prod-
ding by graduate students continuously demonstrate that medical
science iS not static, providing motivation for further hours in the
study.

Three growing boys have been a constant reminder that much
that was put aside some years ago can make valuable contributions
to living. They have on occasions presented problems which re-
quire patience, imagination and ingenuity. However, the experience
of watching one’s own childhood replayed with variations before
one’s own eyes is pleasurable, occasionally confusing and a source
of insight which would otherwise be lost.

Harvard gave me an invaluable start on my vocation by opening
the door and giving me a few tools but I am driven to the conclu-
sion that the men I met there who keep reappearing on the scene
have been my most important legacy from Harvard.

NATHANIEL LEWIS TENNEY, JR.

Reyer Nar ye, Ct

i
&
&
Xs
&
s
&
&
©
:

 

HOME appRrEss: P.O. Box 517, Princeton, B.C., Canada,

BORN: July 10, 1909, Brookline, Mass. Parents: Nathaniel Lewis Tenney, ‘03,
Ella Atwood.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934.
UNMARRIED.

I AM out here in British Columbia, with Phelps Dodge Corpora-

tion, Still single. This is great country but I'd very much like to
be back in good old New England. All the best,

[ 1335 ]

a eremarnnedllll

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

+ JAMES DINSMORE TEW, JR.

 

BorN: March 2, 1913, Akron, Ohio. ParENTS: James Dinsmore Tew, ’o5,
Elinor Bechtel.

PREPARED AT: Salisbury School, Salisbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Doretta Converse, May 25, 1934.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Bechtel Tew, °38.

piep: Killed in action, March 1, 1942, over Malta.

JAMES DINSMORE TEW, JR., received an A.B. at Harvard
with our Class. After graduation he worked as a reporter in Tren-
ton, New Jersey, then joined the staff of the Japan Advertiser in
Tokyo. Rejected by the U.S. flying forces as slightly overage, he
joined the R.A.F. and made a brilliant record in the Battle of
Britain. He was transferred to Malta and was shot down in an
aerial battle over the Mediterranean. He was survived by his wife.

JOHN ADAMS THIERRY

 

HoME appress: 1087 f. Thorne Lane, Fox Point, Milwaukee 19, Wis
9 +

[ 1336]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADpREss: Bucyrus-Erie Co., South Milwaukee, Wis.

BoRN: May 8, 1913, Watertown, Mass. parents: Louis Sidney Thierry, ‘or
Adelaide Hapylona Hamlin,

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1936. DEGREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 1935;
1936, LL.B., 1940.

mMarRIED: Mary Mills Hatch, June 6, 1953, New Haven, Conn. cuitp: Charles
Adams, March 20, 1954.

occupaTION: Lawyer; secretary and general attorney, Bucyrus-E-rie Co.; vice-
president and director, Bucyrus-Erie Co. of Canada, Ltd.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Public Expenditures Survey of Wisconsin; co-chair-
man, Special Taxpayers Committee on the State Budget; director, Mil-
waukee Patent Law Association, 1956-58, and Harvard Law School
Association of Milwaukee, major, U.S. Army Reserve, Corps of Engineers.

MEMBER OF: American, Chicago, Milwaukee and Wisconsin Bar Associations;
Harvard Clubs of Boston and Milwaukee; Milwaukee Club.

A TYPICAL day on the “continental divide” of this Twenty-fifth
Anniversary Report finds me in the midst of Wisconsin’s political
battle over sales tax. Debates, including one against Professor Groves,
“father of the income tax,” legislative appearances, talks, and TV
panels have temporarily replaced other outside activities. Explain-
ing the nature and nomenclature of craters on the moon and the
merits of rockets and space ships during breakfast with my five-year-
old son now serve to maintain my interest in and bewilderment over
developments in the physical world. Following breakfast I dash off
commuter style to an office where I combine responsibility for law,
planning and operational aspects of the business of a company w hich
makes those big, noisy machines that dig behind knotholes at Fifth
Avenue construction jobs. Back home to our “Gay Nineties” seven-
gable house on the bank of Lake Michigan, I tonight find the lawn
covered with great logs from the annual pruning operation, and so
look forward to another weekend outdoors. After supper comes a
bit of relaxation in our art library or in the form of plaving the
cello with piano accompaniment by my wife and enthusiastic but
extemporaneous violin of son Chip. We look forward to the
Twenty-fifth Anniversary Reunion, and to a portion of the summer
at our cottage in the White Mountains.

[ 1337 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

+ HUNTINGTON THOM

 

BORN: Aug. 10, 1913, Nahant, Mass. parents: Corcorran Thom, Mary Lay.
PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; LL.B., 1938.

MaRRIED: Rosemary Thom.

piep: Killed in action, Nov. 14, 1942, during Battle of the Solomons.

HUNTINGTON THOM graduated with our Class. While at col-
lege he played freshman and varsity squash and J.V. baseball and
was a member of the Hasty Pudding-Institute of 1770 and the
A.D. Club. He was a practising lawyer and at one time was with
the War Department in the office of the Assistant Secretary of
War. In August, 1940, he enlisted in the Navy as a midshipman
and was commissioned an ensign in September, 1941. He served
aboard the USS Wyoming, the USS Prairie State and at the U.S.
Naval Torpedo Station at Newport, Rhode Island. In October,
1942, he was promoted to lieutenant (j.g.) and served aboard the
USS Juneau until his death. He was survived by his wife.

[ 1338 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILBUR OTIS THOMAS

 

HOME ApDDRESS: 17 Middle St., Taneytown, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cambridge Rubber Co., Taneytown, Md.

BORN: July 16, 1911, Springfield, I]. parents: Otis Humphrey Thomas, Susan
Nicholson.

PREPARED AT: Springfield High School, Springfield, Il.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

marriED: Mabel Virginia Sharrer, May 31, 1958, Taneytown, Md.

OCCUPATION: Secretary, production assistant, Vul-Cork Sole Division, Cam-
bridge Rubber Company.

OFFICES HELD: Scoutmaster, Cambridge, Mass., 1937-30, Taneytown, Md., since
1942 (Silver Beaver award, 1955); treasurer, Reformed Christian Endeavor
Society, 1942-58; Bulletin editor, 1948-54, 1955-57, president, 1954-55.
Taneytown Lions Club; president, Frederick-Carroll Little League, 1957.

TO write these lines seems difficult indeed, for the past quarter-
century of this particular life can scarcely be of interest to any but
a devoted friend —and then only, perhaps, as a warning to his
offspring — but here it is.

After the halcyon undergraduate days in Cambridge, I tried the
School of Design for portions of two years, the w olf ever at my
door, then scraped along, through Scouting connections, in the
Cambridge council office, before landing a much- needed job with
Cambridge Rubber Company, moving with them to Taneytown,
here to remain until this hour.

Although I had had a childhood horror of the prospect of vege-
tating in a hamlet, my work proved interesting enough to tempt
me to try it; and though undoubtedly I have not set worlds afire,
I have grown to love it and the opportunities it offered for indulg-
ing in wholesomely | satisfying avocations while at the same tine
slowly progressing in the supposedly necessary accumulanion of
pelf. Happily associated with a divisional sales manager who, as a

[ 1339 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

true executive, delegates considerable responsibility, I like my po-
sition with the company more and more each year and of course
welcome the freedom to handle whatever problems may arise.

Taneytown has apparently been good to me in many ways.
Where else would I ever have had the | nerve to take up the piano at
age thirty "five, to sing in a choral society or a church choir partial
to the great composers with no especial training for such a role,
to play the Thespian as a very rank amateur? Would commuting
to the Big City have permitted the accumulation of more than a
year’s single nights of camping or the countless days of tramping
the Appalachian Trail? Or who would ever have imagined that a
then shy bachelor, not a very good mixer, would take on the presi-
dency of the most active and rambunctious of the service clubs
here? Here too I met and wooed and won my patient, lovely wife,
who has much to endure at the hands of one more than the usual
number of years her senior.

In this present scene of the play which has been unfolding dur-
ing these years the setting is simple, but it is tasteful and attractive
and filled with memories of the vistas which Harvard opened to
an untutored mind. If she has done no more, it was, as so many
of her great teachers revealed, to lay bare some pages — to make
us get at the heart of the matter and to think and then do a little
creative work of our own. Unspectacular though it be, to create
is to live, and it may be done anywhere.

PETER HUNTER THOMPSON, JR.

 

HOME appress: 52 Norfolk Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass,
orrice appress: Apex Realty Trust, 15 Vernon St., Brookline 46, Mass

[ 1340 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BoRN: Dec. 25, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Peter Hunter Thompson, mp.
’o1, Katherine Knight Macdonald.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1936. DEGREE: A.B., 1935 (36).

MARRIED: Alice M. Kreps, Sept. 28, 1945, Brookline, Mass. cHiLpREN: Nancy
Alice, Nov. 14, 1946, Katherine Evelyn, Oct. 29, 1948; Peter Hunter, 3d,
Oct. 20, 1950; Robert Wellington, April 13, 1955, David Ralph, Sept. 14.
1959.

occupation: Trustee, Apex Realty Trust, investment property management.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Badminton & Tennis Club, Longwood
Cricket Club.

FINDING myself equipped with a diploma from Harvard and a
good general education, I soon realized that I knew very little about
the business world. Hence, a concentrated year in business admin-
istration at Babson Institute taught me the difference between a
stock and a bond and various other details which proved useful as
the years crept by.

By this time a career in business of some type seemed to be
indicated and, after some conjecture as to which avenue to pursue,
the glamor of the airlines won me over. So, in the summer of 1937,
I embarked on a career with American Airlines, Inc. The glamor
part wore off after a few years but I enjoyed many happy associa-
tions and experiences through the years as I progressed to different
positions in the sales department here in Boston. There were many
opportunities to transfer to other parts of the country bur I could
never bring myself to leave permanently the Boston I enjoy so
much. Naturally, there were many occasions to travel by air for
pleasure both in this country and abroad which I took advantage
of when time permitted.

During the course of events, I met and married my ev er-loving
wife and we embarked on the joys and problems of raising what are
now five little ones. Shortly after we were married we mov ed into
an old house in Chestnut Hill which at that time seemed far larger
than we needed. It is now bulging at the seams but I am resisting
all suggestions of moving to larger quarters on the theory that in
not many years the young ones will begin to take off on their own.
Although it took us about twelve years to get the house the w ay
we wanted it, we enjoyed doing over an old house more than we
would have buying a new one. Needless to say IT went through much
of the do-it-yourself process but it didn’t take long to get over that

hase.

Finally, tiring of life in a large corporation, | relaxed for a

[ r34t ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

couple of years doing a little traveling by ship for a change; once
around South America and another to the North Cape and Europe.
During this interval I kept secking out in my mind what my line of
endeavor would be from here on in. It came to me in due course,
so for over a year now I have been happily self-employed as owner-
operator of three apartment houses in my home town of Brookline,
Massachusetts, No commuter problem and no retirement to be
faced in the future.

In closing I might add that I am still an ardent follower of the
Harvard football team and have rarely missed a game since leaving
college. The new enlightened attitude which now appears to have
engulfed Harvard football has certainly brightened up the fall
Saturday afternoons considerably compared to some that have been
endured in the past. May it continue ever thus.

ALEXANDER SCOTT THORBURN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 434 Glencairn Ave., Toronto, Ont., Canada.

OFFICE aporess: University of Toronto Athletic Association, Hart House,
Toronto 5, Ont. Canada.

BORN: April 15, 1913, Peebles, Scotland. parents: David Scott Thorburn, Alice
Elise Painter,

PREPARED aT: Loretto School, Musselburgh, Scotland.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933. DEGREE: B.A. (Univ, of Toronto), 1935.
UNMARRIED,

occupation: Accountant,
memsex OF: Badminton and Racquet Club of Toronto; Royal Commonwealth
Association, Fertesian-Lorettonian Association.

AFTER leaving Harvard in 1933 1 entered Trinity College, the
University of Toronto, and graduated from there in 1935. Upon
graduation I started to work for a firm of stockbrokers in Toronto

[1342 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

(Seagram, Harris & Bricker), From board-boy I progressed to
trader on the floor of the Exchange and eventually to statistician
for the firm.

In June of 1940, I joined the Canadian Army as a reinforcement

officer for the Royal Regiment of Canada, and in January, 1941,
I went overseas to England. In March, 1941, I joined the Regiment
as a platoon officer and the Regiment was rotated every six months
or so between defensive positions on the south coast and reserve
positions in the Aldershot-Camberley area. In June, 1943, I was
lucky enough to be selected for a course in photographic interpre-
tation (Intelligence), and after several postings I reached SHAEF
Headquarters in January, 1944. About one month before the inva-
sion, our Canadian A.P.I.S. unit assembled, and we moved through-
out the European campaign with the Recce Airfield. By this time
I was a captain. In September, 1945, I returned to Canada and was
discharged from the Army in December, 1945.

For the first year after my discharge I was office manager for a
new small bond firm which proved unsuccessful. Since then I have
been associated with the University of Toronto Athletic Associa-
tion,

Since the war I have been back to Scotland three or four times
with my mother to visit my brother and his wife and their two sons
and two daughters.

Unfortunately, three years ago next March, my mother had a
severe shock and ever since then our house has been filled with
nurses, housekeepers, charwomen and so forth. The nurses have been
good, bad and indifferent; we have had one or two drunks and one
who took drugs as well as snifters.

My chief hobby is a small seventy-acre farm near Uxbridge,
Ontario, which I bought in November, 1945. Each year I try and
make a few improvements and about five years ago I'made my best
investment of the lot when I put in a swimming pool.

Politically, I am a great admirer of both Macmillan and Fisen-
hower. I’m afraid I can’t say the same for Dulles, in spite of the
fact that my mother was born in Washington, D.C, in the house
next door to the Fosters.

I regret that I am unable to enclose a recent photograph due to
the pressure of business at my office, and to my many responsibilities
at home. Suffice it to say that I met a girl the other day whom |
had not seen since 1939 and she recognized me immediately,

[ 1343 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

RICHARD KING THORNDIKE

 

HOME appress: 69 West St., Beverly Farms, Mass.
OFFICE appREsS: F. S. Moseley & Co, 50 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

porN: March 16, 1913, Millis, Mass. PARENTS: Richard King Thorndike, ’o2,
Florence Adele Macy.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul's School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1935.

MarRiED: Lucy Saltonstall Rantoul, Sept. 21, 1935, Boston, Mass, (died May 31,
1958). CHILDREN: Richard King, 3d, March 27, 1938; Rose Lee, June 30,
1940; Sylvia Macy, Jan. 5, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Quincy Thorndike, ’33.

occupation: Investment banker and trustee; partner, F. S. Moseley & Com-
pany.

OFFICES HELD: Director, American Felt Company, since 1946, Daniel Green
Company, since 1947, Bowen Corporation, since 1956, Commonwealth
Housing Foundation, 1956-59; president, Home for Aged Women, since
1952, Association of Massachusetts Homes for Aging, 1956-59; member of
corporation, Winsor School, Boston, 1954-59; member, Board of Regents,
Avon Old Farms School, since 1958; member, various committees, Boston
and Beverly United and Community Funds and Red Cross.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Essex County Club; Somerset Club,
Boston.

AS a rule, J don’t believe in the supernatural, but certainly my life
since school has been vividly revealed to me through tea leaves and
palm reading. The timing of predictions has been surprisingly
accurate: 1) completed college and entered an unintended vocation
—banking; 2) married young — the fall after graduation, 3) had
a moderate-size family —a son and two daughters (guaranteed as
good entertainers for some lucky reunion sons and daughters); 4)
attained some small prominence in business and civic affairs — see
biography; 5) a sudden change of life’s course when my wife died.
Moved to Beverly Farms and remodeled and redecorated my father-

[ 1344 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in-law’s house. (Now I am told some lovely “chickadee” will marry
me for my house, if nothing else!)

Betwixt and between these five events, Lucy and I had fun rais-
ing our children, took in the 1937 Coronation (despite the change
of candidates). The whole family embarked on the North Cape
Cruise the summer of 1957. (I highly recommend it as a quick and
sane way of “growing up” thirteen and seventeen-year-old daugh-
ters.) Also on board were Alice and Peter Thompson.

We have had many a good laugh at the world, our neighbors and
ourselves. Without a sense of humor sprinkled among the sharp
pebbles of life, you might as well dig a deep hole and jump in.

One of our greatest enjoyments was the theatre, which I continue
now. I was ‘“‘wedded” to the Vincent Club show the first two years
of marriage, when Lucy was production chairman. Then we have
sat through many Broadway shows, both good and bad — even went
so far as to sponsor a group of Negroes to put on classical ballet.
The idea was good but the audience poor! At least I think I have
a tax loss!

A quarter of a century has passed quickly and without too much
damage; my physique has only slightly “rounded out” on the rough
edges; I haven’t lost a hair — count them — I mean all five — they’re
just shorter. I look with great interest to our Fiftieth Reunion,
surer of myself and the hopes that I can accomplish some small task
to make the intervening years more pleasant for all to enjoy.

TOWNSEND WILLIAM THORNDIKE

  

HOME aAbbREsS: Exeter, N.H.
OFFICE AppRESS: Sandwich Central School, Center Sandwich, N

[ 1345 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

BorN: July 24, 1912, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Townsend William Thorndike. ’ 97
Marv Elizabeth Cavford. sats

preparED aT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935.

marrtep: Martha Swift, June 17, 1938, Chestnut Hill, Mass. cHiLpREN: John,
March 28, 1942; Sylvia, Oct. 28, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Thorndike, °38.

occupation: Teacher-principal, Sandwich Central School.

OFFICES HELD: President, Men's Club, Exeter Unitarian Men’s Club, 1952.

COTTON went west, poultry south, As capital requirements for
a family farm unit pushed toward $50,000.00 while labor income
shrank to $1,400.00, these Thorndikes edged reluctantly away from
the manure spreader, For a few years, my wife and I worked in a
virus laboratory, while I turned to teaching, This new type of
farming suits us well, thanks to some wonderful friends at Phillips
Exeter “Academy, friends whose lives we study closely. At present,
I am teacher-principal of a school in Sandwich, New Hampshire.

We stand somewhat in awe of our own children. Sylvia is work-
ing hard at a tough school in Boston. John is a senior at Exeter
Academy where he | is on high honors (temporarily), president of
the Student Council and captain of the soccer team.

On farming: Although not without reason, the American public
inclines to impatient prejudice toward farmers, because of our
seven-billion-dollar surplus food problem. Many worried lives,
many social values are at stake. The irony of Mr. Benson’s :re-
discovery of Mr. Brannan’s hushed-up gross-sales-per-farm limita-
tion, under any program of federal subsidy, gives some hope that
eventually we shall stop building emergency grain bins, bins which
are already beginning to reduce our acreage by their simple presence.
An important part of today’s frontier is exploration of how a family
may grow, working and studying together, to understand the land
which sustains our present affluence, After saying which, I must
also confess that son John hated farming: “Gee whiz, dad, when do
we start to live?”

On schools: Although we read with sure gain many words of
the Barzuns and the Flesches, we recognize that these craftsmen
suffer naturally from the cold selection of their European tradition.
Our own Morisons, Sorokins, Friedrichs, Schlesingers, Galbraiths,
Kluckhohns, Riesmans, analyze better the preserving democratic
tensions implicit in our three- hundred-year drive toward universal
compulsory awareness of man’s potential. General Education in qa
Free Society, Harvard, 1945, and General Education in School and

[ 1346 ]

tall

cag te IO a Teg

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

College, Harvard, 1952, will best serve you as a guide to local action.
James Bryant Conant’s green sheets will put you hep to workaday
rumbles. "

What is the truth? Many of our kids can’t write, spell or think.
Many of those who can, have learned to do so in spite of teachers
who hate them (the hate part is not too serious) and parents who
ignore them. Of course, kids get in our way; but where are we
going? For all our recent talk, we continue to spend on education
the same old five per cent of a swollen gross national income,
against Russia’s sacrificial fifteen per cent. Mr. Toynbee reminds
us that hard blows are creative, but the trumpet need not sound
yet. However, it is a shame that a few fine organizations, such as
the League of Women Voters and the Councils for Better Schools,
have to carry so much of this creative burden.

Nor can we upgrade high schools and junior highs overnight. By
the upper grades, early teaching damage has done its work, only for
you to discover that you may not wisely push adolescents around:
they are sufficiently absorbed in vital dilemmas, academic and other-
wise. They now need your love and your most rigorous under-
standing. They need you, personally, to help chaperone school
dances and other sociables. Badly chaperoned, poorly run dances
are as fruitful of evil, both for those who attend and those not al-
lowed, as any phenomenon we have seen. Here is where the steadies
dance in isolation and the more healthy or insecure tend to segregate
by sexes, lying about the good time they should be having. Do not

believe them: to speak the truth here violates a makeshift integrity.
The bottle, the teenage marriage, the furious compensation precipi-
tates from this solution of parental default and teacher fatigue.

Offer to help your teacher correct compositions, so that writing
and thinking may regain their crucial position, When you help
your children and grandchildren with arithmetic, study the text,
and use its exact words in your explanation, since our present texts
follow closely the recommendations of the late Alfred North White-
head.

Your most worthy efforts, in the near future, will lie with in-
struction of children from six to ten years old. These wonderful
people can absorb punishment and swing with the punches, good
and bad. Perhaps as we arrive at standards here, our upper grades
will take care of themselves. At least this is my most restful illu-
sion about the pain that is learning. "

Personal: Since I shall not be with you this June, have one for

[ 1347 ]

vine li

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

me. Afine, too, are getting lighter each vear, but I am not really
fussy. P.S. The E nglish Department of Exeter Academy gave me
a wonderful scheme for rapid correction of compositions, which I
shall be glad to share with any parent. Send your request to the
Corner House, Center Sandwich, New Hampshire.

CHARLES FOSTER TILLINGHAST, JR.

 

appress: Weavervill, N.C.

BORN: Noy. 11, 1913, Providence, RJ. parents: Charles Foster Tillinghast,
Harriet Stites.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1935 (36).

MARRIED: Rosabelle Matteson, 1941, North Kingston, R.I. cHiLpREN: Rowena
Campbell, Sept. 20, 1945; Harriet Marcy, Nov. 4, 1946.

occupation: Gladiolus grower.

NO questionnaire returned.

SAMUEL TRESCOTT TISDALE

 

HOME appkess: 488 Main Sc, Greenficld, Mass.

[ 1348 |

se enc A TARE OO ggg

EAN TE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: Heselton & Tisdale, 393 Main St., Greenfield, Mass.

BoRN: Oct. 7, 1912, Taunton, Mass. parents: Trescott Wright Tisdale, Luella
B. Howes.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932. DEGREES: A.B. (Amherst Coll.), 1935; tbs. (Yale
Univ.), 1938.

MARRIED: Mary Ellen Summers, Oct. 14, 1944, Atlanta, Ga. CHILDREN: Frances
Ellen, Nov. 9, 1945; Samuel Trescott, Jr., Jan. 28, 1947; John Albert, March,
1949 (died January, 1954); Elizabeth Gail, May 24, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Wright Tisdale, Li.., 739.

occuPATION: Lawyer, judge, District Court of Franklin, Greenfield, Mass.

OFFICES HELD: Clerk, trustee, attorney, Greenfield Savings Bank, since 1948;
town counsel, Town of Greenfield, Mass., 1949-53; Junior warden, St.
James Episcopal Church, since 1957; president, Greenfield Rotary Club,
1959-60; trustee, Franklin County Public Hospital, five years, Greenfield
Public Library, four years.

MEMBER OF: American, Massachusetts and Franklin County Bar Associations;
Alpha Delta Phi; various Masonic bodies.

AFTER graduating from Yale Law School in 1938, went to Green-
field and started private practice of law with John Heselton, then
district attorney, and also did some dormitory and coaching work
at Deerfield Academy. Entered service in April, 1942, as lieu-
tenant (j.g.) in Navy Air Force (ground officer) and served in
Alaska at various stations in Kodiak, Dutch Harbor, Adak and
other places until late 1943 and then had tours of duty at Atlanta
Naval Air Station and at San Diego, with eventual rank of lieu-
tenant commander.

In 1946, returned to practice of law in Greenfield and in 1948
entered partnership with John W. Heselton, then U.S. Congress-
man for First Massachusetts District, and have continued in that
capacity to date. In December, 1954, was appointed judge of the
District Court in Greenfield and have served in that position since,
with occasional tours of duty in the Superior Court on criminal
and automobile tort cases.

So far as family is concerned, Mary Ellen and I were lucky
enough to have four children, two boys and two girls and unluc ky
in that we lost the younger boy (John Albert, born March, 1949
—died January, 1954). Frances Ellen, the elder girl and known
to us as “Frankie,” is now at Northfield School for Girls at North-
field, Massachusetts. Our son, Samuel Trescott Tisdale, Jr. whom
we call “Trec” after my father, and our other daughter, Flizabeth
Gail whom we call Gail, are and have been at Bement School in
Deerfield, Massachusetts, because the public school system did not

[ 1349 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

and does not do the job education-wise to enable children to be
adequately developed to compete in the struggle for college and
graduate school education as it is at present and will continue
to be. Since we believe that outside of a good home the only
thing that we can give or leave our children of real significant
value is good education, we probably shall continue to favor the
private over the public school system.

My own career as a country lawyer has been a most satisfying
one, except that I suppose I suffer like most country lawyers with
the problem of finding the hours to do the increasing work-load.
The nature of a small-town practice does not invite the delegation
of duties and work to subordinates. My first concern is for my
family, and I fear that I am not giving them a fair share of my
days. Fortunately, my judicial duties are only part- -time, and cer-
tain real satisfaction comes often in dealing with juveniles, broken
homes and the like where there is real need. I still like to fish and
hunt, but I found that it is more and more difficult to find the
time for those excursions to Maine and Canada, as well as the visits
to our local streams and woods.

Generally speaking, I suppose that to date my legal career and
my life have been pretty much in the pattern that one would expect

for a country lawyer.

HERBERT DAVID TOBIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 7438 Whitegates, Riverside, Calif,

OFFICE abpress: 541 S. Tyler Ave., El Monte, Calif.

Bors: April 30, 1912, Winthrop, Mass. parents: Frank [. Tobin, ’o5, Elizabeth
Epstein.

prepareD aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

[ 1350 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 193I-IQ35. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MaRRIED: Libby Friedberg, Sept. 26, 1936. cHitp: Anabel Jo, Dec. 2, 1939.

occuPaTION: Builder, president, Tobin Companies and associated companies.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Los Angeles Urban League, 1950-55, Calaero National
Horse Show, 1952-58; captain, Calaero Riding Club, 1953-55.

MEMBER OF: Los Angeles County Sheriffs Posse; South California Railway
Club; Southern California Cutting Horse Association; Rubidoux Riders;
Corral 16, Equestrian Trails, San Fernando Valley Horse Owners Asso-
clation.

WHEN I turned forty-five I had some vague doubts as to my suc-

cess in life. With great effort, I finally pushed them under the sur-

face and began to live again. Now having read the three typical
reports from the Class of ’34 that are offered as a guide, I know

“darn” well I’m not a success in life! I am neither a scientific Richard

Halliburton like one of those ’34 fellows, nor have I accomplished

a distinguished position in the world of finance or large corporate

business, nor lots of other things. I think I’m just middle, middle

class and probably the kind of petty bourgeoisie we used to read
about in the French literature courses . . . except that I don’t even

read French any more. But it’s been enjoyable withal, and maybe a

few small things have been accomplished.

In 1936, after leaving the Law School, to my father’s great dis-
appointment and Professor Williston’s great relief, I went into the
building business. By various degrees and at various times, that has
been bad — good —bad—and wonderful. Right now we have
great hopes and considerable gray hair. During the long interim
we've built a few thousand homes, most of them in Southern Cali-
fornia.

In 1945, at the end of the war, the whole family migrated west-
ward to Los Angeles. Once here we made some feeble efforts to
keep our interests in skis and music and other similar New England
appetites. However, pressure of local custom soon wore in on us
and we eventually switched to, first, modern ballet in which the
whole family indulged, including myself, and then later, horses.
The whole family also indulged in that, including myself, and it
has remained an abiding interest for many years now. As a conse-
quence, we’ve pretty well covered the back corners of the great
Southwest from the top of a saddle and have learned that the only
way to see California and Arizona is out of a car and off the road
and at the very slow pace of an old-fashioned horse.

Recently, because of the demands of our spreading business, I've
taken up flying and am now studying for a private pilot license.

[1351]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

This is a hobby that I was actually forced into, and I rather be-
grudge the time it subtracts from the other hobbies that are now
too much slighter — the color camera — the hi-fi that finall

g y came

to take the place in California that was filled by Symphony Hall in
Boston — and others.

Did I remember to tell you that at one time we owned the con-
trolling interest in a small airline that flew “twenty-three miles to
Catalina” all the way from the Los Angeles International Airport?
Interesting and lots of fun, During that interim, people tried to get
me to learn to fly! About the only thing I really kept out of that
adventure was a gold pass for life that entitles me to fly anywhere
in the world with my family on Catalina Airlines — as long as it’s
from Los Angeles to Catalina.

Physical condition during these years has varied from skinny to
fat—to fatter —to slim. Under all conditions, 1 have kept my
hair, acquired a moustache and developed considerable grayness
that is almost white. In fact, people have a distressing way of ad-
dressing me as “Pop.”

The family during this long period has consisted of one wife
(every other report will, undoubtedly, refer to the wife as “‘beau-
tiful and patient,” so I'll be different). (She is. Ed.) T’ve also ac-
cumulated one daughter, aged twenty, very cute, very much inter-
ested in the same things my wife and I are interested in and very
much a part of the family party. In fact, on overnight rides, she
handles the horses better than 1 do—and is also most fetching on
the dance floor. And then, of course, there are the usual accoutre-
ments — one poodle (used to be a poodle and a Great Dane, but
even that came to an end finally), a house — two horses complete
with trailer — and twenty-two credit cards,

I suppose the highlights of these twenty-five years have been the
trips my wife and 1 took to strange and out-of-the-way places
(where every tourist goes on Tour 4D & 7A) — Mexico, Pacific,
Europe and several corners of the United States. The time we
saved a young Negro from a first-class “railroading” to jail on several
pretty badly trumped-up charges of a very serious nature. The
theme song from a movie that we “angeled” (the movie was a flop,
the song was a flop, but we had fun!). The time we were selling
houses, for awhile that is, at the rate of seventy-five per week, and
we had so many people going through the models the ice cream

man ran out of stock at 3:30 every Sunday afternoon and had to
have a relief truck just to bring in more ice cream to sell our

[ 1352 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

visitors! And the time I went in for my first swim in my own Cali-
fornia pool. And then the time, after the novelty had worn off,
I suddenly realized that each swim was now costing me about $500
a ducking, they had become so infrequent.

In twenty-five years, there have not been any of the following:
Great writings and publications— absolutely none! Great art
created, or at least sponsored. Well, I've told you about that theme
song and the flop pictures, It sounded great in the beginning! And
The Great Star sang the blamed thing in my living room to a dis- |
tinguished audience (all Scotch drinkers, too).

I think maybe, in the end, Pve lived one life but would have
liked to have lived several others . . . the Secret Lives of Walter
Mitty, alias Tobin . . . perhaps.

+ RICHARD EDWARD TOBIN

 

BORN: July 29, 1912, San Francisco, Calif. parents: Edward James Tobin, Abby
Parrott. |

PREPARED AT: Portsmouth Priory School, Portsmouth, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934.

pieD: Oct. 26, 1941, San Jose, Calif.

RICHARD EDWARD TOBIN spent three years with our Class.
For our Triennial Report he wrote that he was working for the
Hibernia Savings & Loan Society in San Francisco.

[ 1353 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ARTHUR WINGATE TODD

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3303 Warrington Rd., Shaker Heights 20, Ohio.

orrice appress: Lincoln Electric Co., 22801 St. Clair Ave., Cleveland 17, Ohio.

BorN: Sept. 21, 1913, Cleveland, Ohio. PARENTS: Thomas Wingate Todd,
Eleanor Pearson.

preparep aT: Cleveland Heights High School, Cleveland Heights, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. magna cum laude, 1935.

marrieD: Dora Jane Steinfeld, March 6, 1936, Cleveland Heights, Ohio. cum-
DREN: James Wingate, Aug. 13, 1941; Anne Viney, Jan. 15, 1943; Robert
Curtis, May 21, 1945; Louise Mackenzie, June 7, 1950.

HARVARD SON: James Wingate Todd, ’63.

HARVARD BROTHER: Donald Pearson Todd, ’4o, M.D., "44.

occupation: Director of purchase engineering, Lincoln Electric Company,
manufacturer of welding equipment.

OFFicEs HELD: Editor, Cleveland Banker, 1939-41; secretary, Harvard Club of
Cleveland, 1940-47; councilman, City of University Heights, 19q1-49;
founder, first president, member executive committee, Cleveland Associa-
tion of Phi Beta Kappa, since 1945; director, College Alumni Forums,
Cleveland College, 1945-49; secretary and editor, Bulletin, Ohio State
Industrial Traffic League, 1949-57; teacher, Trinity Congregational
Church, since 1955; assistant secretary, Council of Lake Erie Ports, since
1956; troop committee chairman, 1958-59, other offices, Boy Scouts of
America; chairman, Great Lakes Ports Traffic Committee, 1959.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Mining; Metallurgical and Petroleum Engi-
neers; Society of Plastic Engineers, Electrochemical Society; Institute of
Radio Engineers, American Marketing Association; National Industrial
Traffic League; Ohio Shipper-Motor Carrier Conference, Cleveland
Chamber of Commerce; Mid-Day Club; Harvard Club of Cleveland; Pine
Ridge Country Club.

IN common with some of our classmates, we share the fortunate
coincidence of having our eldest boy, Jim, enrolled in the freshman
class at Harvard. This — in spite of our insistence that he carefully
consider at least six colleges and apply for not less than three, and

[ 1354]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

perhaps more relevantly, in the face of certain financial and scho-

Jastic obstacles — is a matter of great satisfaction to his parents, and

the fulfilment of one project which, twenty-five years ago, seemed

impossible. Jim, looking out from his Matthews window on the

Lowell House tower, would not see our laboriously constructed,

four-piece pink elephant, nor the first “collegiate” Christmas tree
in the courtyard, nor the daily Carmichael-McCoy-Todd contro-
versies over the New Deal in the stately dining room. Rather than
re-living a past, he.draws on a tradition of scholarship and free
government — so aptly symbolized by that tower — to build a new
and better life, as each succeeding generation must do, Father is
proud not so much of the fact that he goes there, but more because
he is a fine piano player, does well in a new sport — crew, and in a
matter of weeks picks up some of the human aspects of the Univer-
sity which it took his dad years to learn.

Life in 1935 was a common pattern for most college graduates.
Abandoning the medical career forecast in the Senior Album, largely
to conserve resources for the benefit of my brother’s career in that
field, we considered ourselves lucky to have a job at Bankers Trust
Company in New York. The unlucky ones also worked for banks,
with pay of $15 a week rather than $25. Both lucky and unlucky
in those days had to secure permission of the employer to get mar-
ried, under penalty of being fired. Nobody got ahead, nobody got
a raise — everybody worked like mad, eight hours a day for pay,
four hours more on many nights for a meal ticket, and in between ©
times, everybody went to AIB to learn about banking. Budding
bankers these days still go to AIB, but otherwise, everything now
seems reversed. Anyhow, we had a system. A forty-five-minute
ride on the Second Avenue El both ways gave daylight and a seat
to do homework, saved-up meal tickets gave us evenings out free
— we depended on the A & P butcher to keep our meat, and on
weekends we joined the thousands in the ninety-minute trek to a
broiling at Jones Beach. Then, in 1939, the World's Fair came,
and the world changed. Soon, the A & P would have no meat, and
later millions would spend 180 minutes trekking to Jones Beach.
We escaped that and came home to Cleveland where at Cleveland

Trust the progress was more progressive, the work more remunera-
tive and the couple became a family.

War, which brought a primary change to so many families, af-
fected us only secondarily. In that strange build-up period when
Uncle Sam somehow or other thought he could remain a store-

[ 1355 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

as money, achievement, etc., the one which has me stumped is how
to teach Sunday School properly. Rich in the heritage of music
from the Harvard Glee Club but poor in most other ways, con-
fronted with a mass of indifferent printed material and what at
times looks like more massive parental indifference, overdue debtor
on a promise made to a church bookstore some two years ago that
I would define what is needed, I bring to the class the many things
I learned —and not a few that I didn’t from the English 28’s, the
History 1’s, the books and the museums, our memories of our nos-
talgic trip to Europe and the old families in 1955 —- and yet these
hardly seem enough. In a word, this classmate, though contented,

o
is not satisfied. He still keeps searching for a better way.

+ PAUL BRADLEY TOLAND

 

BORN: Jan. 18, 1914, Boston, Mass. parents: Cornelius Henry Toland, Mar-
garet Doherty.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1935.

piep: March 7, 1936, Jamaica Plain, Mass.

AFTER receiving an A.B. with our Class, Toland went on to the
Graduate School of Arts and Sciences where he was doing graduate
work in government and international law. He was survived by his
mother.

[1358]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CYRIL LEO HERACLIUS TOUMANOFF
precme —

   

HOME ADDRESS: 3217 Connecticut Ave., Washington 8, D.C.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Georgetown University, Washington 7, D.C.

BORN: Oct. 10, 1913, St. Petersburg, Russia. parENTs: Prince Leo Toumanoff,
Elizabeth de Zhdanoff.

PREPARED AT: Lenox School, Lenox, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932. DEGREE: PH.D. (Georgetown Univ.), 1948.
UNMARRIED.
occupation: Associate professor of history, Georgetown University.

OFFICES HELD: Knight of Honour and Devotion of the Sovereign Military
Order of Malta.

MEMBER OF: Catholic Historical Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on Caucasian, Byzantine and Russian history in Speczltoi,
Traditio, Theological Studies, Le Museon, Catholic Historical Review;
chapter on “The Caucasian Frontier of the Byzantine Empire,” for the
revised volume four of the Cambridge Medieval History (soon to appear).

ARTHUR BERNON TOURTELLOT

 

HOME apprEss: 44 E. 63d St., New York 21, N.Y.; Belden Hill Lane, Wilton,
Conn.

[1359]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

OFFICE ADDRESS: 595 Madison Ave., New York 22, N.Y.

BoRN: July 23, 1913, Providence, RI. parents: Walter Roy Tourtellot, Ethel
Maude Harmis.

PREPARED AT: Marlboro High School, Marlboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932, 1934-1935.

marriep: Elizabeth Louise Davis, June 21, 1941, New York, N.Y. cHr~pren:
Jonathan Bernon, Oct. 8, 1946; Christopher Trayne, April 13, 1952.

occupation: Author; general partner, Earl Newson & Company, consultants to.
Standard Oil (New Jersey), International Paper Company, R. H. Macy
& Company, Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc., Reynolds Metals Com-
pany, Colontal Williamsburg, Eli Lilly Company, Kennicott Copper Com-
pany, Arthur Young & Company, Standard Vacuum Oil Company, Ford
Motor Company.

OFFICES HELD: Associate producer, March of Time Cinema, 1945-52; director,
Time, Inc. Television Productions, 1951-52, Wilton (Conn.) Town Asso-
ciation, since 1958; general partner, Earl Newson & Company, since 1952.

memser oF: Metropolitan Club of New York, Harvard Club of New York;
National Press Club, Washington; American Historical Association, Society
of American Historians (fellow); Concord Antiquarian Society (life
member); Lexington (Mass.) and Old Colony Historical Societies (life
member); Public Relations Society of America.

pustications: Be Loved No More, 1938; History of the Horse, 1939; The
Charles, 1941; Woodrow Wilson Today, 1946; Anatomy of American
Politics, 1950; LIFE Picture History of World War I, 1950, William
Diamond's Drum: The Beginning of the War of the American Revolu-
tion, 1959; articles in Atlantic Monthly, Saturday Review, Naval Institute
Proceedings, New York Times, New York Herald Tribune, etc.

I WRITE this from London — which I hope will give geographic
perspective as well as the perspective of the years to my reflections.

My career has been, I’m afraid, as ill-organized as my academic
years. I have lived —and continue to live — two professional lives:
a political and social historian (as such, I have produced seven books
and occasional articles); and a consultant to American business; as
such, I am occupied largely with the affairs of Standard Oil (New
Jersey), Columbia Broadcasting System and some of the activities
of the Rockefellers. I see, in these matters, Dick Salant and Allty
Boyer, both of the Class of ’35,

Privately, my life centers on two impressive sons who amaze me
with the range of their knowledge, and a wife who amazes me with
the range of her tolerance.

I admire the character of the English people with whom I am at
the moment, the affirmativeness of my own countrymen and, more

and more, the miracle of communications — both the ancient kinds
such as books and the modern kind such as television.

[ 1360 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Philosophically, I have always loved the eighteenth century best.
But I do not believe very much that its basically optimistic view
of life will ever be warranted. Man’s fate and position are — I sup-
pose — essentially tragic. But how great a thing is his immeasurable
courage! — And that is enough, I think, to keep the race going a
little while longer.

And now we have lost our celestial innocence and have cluttered
up the cosmos with roving hardware, and I expect that no good will
come of it. My sons, however, do not think much of my negative
talk on this score. And I see, for the first time, that the bridge
between my generation and theirs is much greater than that between
my father’s and mine. I am glad that they take a less negative view
and hope that they are right.

London is all quiet and peaceful and altogether lovely on this slow
September evening — almost as in olden times, except that I know
that I could be in New York for breakfast if I wanted to be. And
that is a technological miracle that I wholly approve. My father, I
suspect, would be amazed by all this mobility that we have (in a
matter of weeks, I have been in Florida, Vermont and California
and long enough to relax in each). But my sons speak restlessly of
the moon and of other planets— which do not concern me as

stopping places.

JAMES WILSON TOWER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 55 Andrews Drive, Darien, Conn.

OFFicE ADDRESS: Industrial Relations Counsclors, Inc., 1270 Ave. of the Americas
New York 20, N.Y.

Born: March 14, 1913, Chicago, Ill, parents: Walter Sheldon Tower, "03,
Lurena Louise Wilson,

[ 1361 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

marrieD: Dorothy Parsons Moore, June 29, 1938, New York, N.Y. cuitpren:
Susan Saunders, March 17, 1939; David Hathaway, May 23, 1941; Sage
Bailev, Oct. 6, 1943; Elizabeth Parsons, July 19, 1948; Steven Matthew,

Dec. 4, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Walter Sheldon Tower, Jr., ’29; Donald Bayley Tower,
"gl, M.D, "44.

occupaTioN: Management consultant in employee relations, Industrial Rela-
tions Counselors, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Various offices in local community organizations.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Noroton Yacht Club; various per-
sonnel associations.

FOR nine months after graduation, until March, 1936, I was with a
small publishing firm, which has since folded, where I did the dirty
work, concentrating on advertising, publicity and reading unpub-
lishable and often unreadable manuscripts. The period from May,
1936, to January, 1937, was devoted to an independent nation-wide
survey of personnel administration and industrial relations (as well
as a fair amount of fun). It led to employment for four years, until
June, 1941, as personnel manager of Dewey & Almy Chemical
Company in North Cambridge, Massachusetts, which is now a
division of W. R. Grace & Company. From July, 1941, to Septem-
ber, 1949, and since July, 1951, I have been a member of the staff
of Industrial Relations Counselors, Inc., in New York City and
additionally, since its incorporation in 1953, of its subsidiary, Indus-
trial Relations Counselors Service. The interval between Septem-
ber, 1949, and July, 1951, was spent as personnel director and
assistant to the president of Doubleday & Company.

Accordingly, 1941 may have been one of the major turns in my
life, initiating as it did more than seventeen years, thus far, with the
same firm, and some nineteen years, thus far, in the social, political
and civic complexes of one town. The twenty months with Double-
day constituted a less than satisfying interlude and my return to
IRC in 1951 may have been the only conscious career decision I
have yet made.

The passage of time has alone tended to make me a sort of elder,
both on the job and in the town. Darien has its own characteristics
as an exurb-suburb, and a reputation of which not all of the less
desirable facets are wholly deserved. My contribution to the local
public welfare has focused on a share in creating a joint charity
drive, and in a series of not wholly unsuccessful efforts to improve

[ 1362 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the structure and effectiveness of local municipal government. In
both of these much of the stimulus and more of the credit should
go to my wife who, with persistence and sensitivity, has on her own
achieved an enviable reputation for getting things done, especially
in the field of public education.

The work at IRC embraces practically all the phenomena arising
from the fact that, in modern society, many people work in groups.
Contrary to the opinion of some of my liberal friends, the firm
does not focus on strike-breaking, but it is properly and proudl
oriented to the management viewpoint and to the fulfillment of
management objectives, which themselves often demand clarifica-
tion. Without pretense of being expert and serving more as a
catalyst for action by a particular management, I have been at one
time or another concerned with practically all the countless elements
that go to make up a job except the actual work itself. Geographi-
cally, this consulting phase of the job has taken me to forty states
and into activities as diversified as government agencies, textile
firms, hospitals, aircraft manufacturers, oil companies, sugar planta-
tions, pharmaceutical concerns, paper mills, insurance companies,
shipbuilding, newspapers and universities, It is possible that in some
instances these efforts had led to management action which has at
the same time helped to achieve corporate objectives as well as to
encourage more complete fulfillment of the potential of individual
employees.

Another phase of the job falls into an ill-defined category of
research and has led to preparation of papers, usually for. private
circulation, or speeches on topics as diversified as employers’ experi-
ence with the physically handicapped, the status under union con-
tracts of foremen who temporarily or otherwise are no longer needed
in supervisory positions, overcoming the gap between industry and
the academic behavioral scientists, retirement practices affecting
executives, recruiting and training problems in the hotel industry
and in the artificial limb industry, personnel practices contributing
to stability of employment in general, college recruiting experience
of selected companies, opportunities for improvement of hospital
administration and opportunities for effective grants in the field of
medical education to be considered by a particular foundation.
Finally, the educational activities of the firm have given opportunity
for my participation in most of its thirty-seven industrial relations
conferences in this country and Latin America, lectures at assorted
universities, and guidance to perhaps a half dozen groups of foreign

[ 1363 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

industrialists seeking a better understanding of industrial relations
in the United States.

Ultimately classified by the draft as physically fit but unaccep-
table for other reasons (psychological flat fect? or moral turpitude? ),
my contribution to World War II involved assignments to the Na-
tional Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (now the National
Aeronautics and Space Agency) and to assorted producers of war
matériel, and with a most bureaucratic title as special civilian con-
sultant in Military Personnel Administration to the Surgeon General
of the U.S. Army.

All of this creates a vocational life which is marked by busyness,
unpredictable but fairly constant pressures, and continuing feelings
of dissatisfaction —no one piece or problem or client is given all
the attention that is deserved. Increasingly I have the feeling that
in industrial relations, and in all the complex of relations in a world
grown small and almost wholly interdependent, many of the shib-
boleths are meaningless, and many of the proposed accommodations
are equally ill-advised. So busy are we —as a family, as a class, as
a nation, as beneficiaries of a whole way of life —in getting and
spending and in looking out for number one that we sense neither
the true passage of time nor the real set of the current. We mouth
loyalties to great truths and violate those truths consistently. We
assert everlasting principles and daily act in disregard of them. We
accept the symbol | for the substance, the advertisement for the fact,
the word for the deed, self-importance for self-respect and posture
for position.

Despite such sombre thought, we have occasional moments of
pleasure — in helping our handful of kids mature individually, and
now in watching them give substance to the promise, in enjoying
our share of sailing and skiing, in building a home and in inconclu-
sive arguments over unanswerable issues,

[ 1364 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MICHAEL JAMES TRAVATO

 

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: % G. L. Salamone, 44 Pleasant St., Needham, Mass.
BORN: Oct. 5, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Angelo Travato, Mary Salamone.
PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, ‘Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1935.

TRAVATO has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since

1941.

JOHN THOMAS TREERY, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 173 Weston Ave., Braintree 84, Mass.

OFFICE appRrEss: John T. Trefry & Co., 125 High St., Boston 10, Mass.

BoRN: April 21, 1913, East Boston, Mass. parents: John Thomas Trefry, Eva
Cathryn Hiltz.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE! A.By 1935.

MarRiED: Grace G, Neal, July 16, 1938, Braintree, Mass. CHILDREN: Neal Adams,
May 24, 1940; Leanne, Feb. 10, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Owner, Boston general insurance agency.

[ 1365 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Braintree Savings Bank, Insurance Library Association
of Boston; past president, Boston Board of Fire Underwriters, Inc., Rotary
Club of Braintree; past master, West Roxbury Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; secre-
tary, Boston Delta Upsilon Club; commodore, Allen Harbor Yacht Club;
troop committee chairman and Cub master, Old Colony Council, Boy
Scouts of America; chairman, School Site Committee and Town Meeting
Member, Town of Braintree.

MEMBER OF: Photographic Society of America; Boston Camera Club; West
Roxbury Lodge, AF. & A.M.; Boston Board of Fire Underwriters, Inc.;
Braintree Art Association; Insurance Brokers Association of Massachu-
setts; National Association of Insurance Agents; National Association of
Insurance Brokers; Thayer Academy Badminton Club; Appalachian Moun-
tain Club; Allen Harbor Yacht Club; Dennis Yacht Club; Museum of Fine
Arts; Rotary Club of Boston.

PUBLICATIONS: Managing editor, “Along the Board Walk.”

THE ghostly spectre of superannuated man hovers over me as |
peer backward for twenty-five years to try and uncover for an
effusive Class Report editor some of the bold venture, glad tidings,
humor and pathos promised in this gigantic book. Probably, like
the year book of ’35, it will be so big it won’t fit comfortably on any
bookshelf as overt evidence to the public that here is a Harvard
Grad!

Bold venture sounds like a TV spectacular! Had I participated
in such intrepid travel I would gladly recount face to face encounters
with beasts of the jungle but we have indulged, instead, in a more
peaceful type of shooting — through the camera lens— while on
several trips of purely mind-enriching travel. More of that later.

In 1938 a persistent college romance which had been aided and
abetted by the territorial proximity of Harvard and Tufts blossomed
into marriage with Grace G. Neal, Tufts ’35, still my wife twenty-
one years later, With procrastination seldom heard of in this day
and age our first born arrived in 1940, a son, Neal Adams, now a
sophomore at his mother’s alma mater, Tufts. In 1944, a daughter,
Leanne, arrived. A sophomore now at Thayer Academy in Brain-
tree, Massachusetts, we are constantly reminded that time is pass-

ing quickly and soon she will be of driving age. Would that
momentous dates in academic history have the same impact on the
mind as do these age phases of youth!

Twice, en masse with family, in search of photographic adventure
we have traversed this great land of ours from east to west takin
in all of America’s wonders. Later we wended boldly north and
south and, finally, with all caution (and money) thrown to the four
winds we went south of the border to witness gory bullfights, Mexi-

[ 1366 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

can hat dances and crude wooden dugouts filled with breathtaking
flowers as the smiling sefioritas, plying their trade with tourists en-
treated, Compre usted una flor, por favor — (that means, “bu
flower, please” — my Spanish pocket guide told me so). Of all our
trips, a junket to the Caribbean was most delightful. Native music,
voodoo ceremonies, uninhibited dancing in Haiti and lush living
under swaying palms (assisted by a peculiar concoction called rum
bamboozles) in Jamaica helped us create “Caribbean Holiday,” the
best of the slide travelogues for which my wife and I have estab-
lished some claim to fame in the world of art and travel.

That we enjoy this photographic hobby is evident by a mild de-
gree of successful acceptance of our slides and prints in several
international photographic salons. To a degree that has even over-
shadowed that of the parents, Neal was infused with our perfection-
ist ideas of exposure and composition by winning a national news-
paper competition at the tender age of thirteen, followed by several
National Gold Key Scholastic Art Awards and awards in Eastman
Kodak’s National High School Competitions. Leanne also acquired
fame as a dilettante by winning recognition in a newspaper coloring
contest at the age of six.

My business career was as predetermined as night following day.
From date of 1934 while still in Adams House I found myself with
an insurance broker’s license, enjoying the life of a salesman instead
of burying my nose too hard in philosophy, economics, government,
history or any of those courses so prerequisite to a Harvard degree.
Not the least of this challenge to get a business jump on my class-
mates was the pleasant jingle of coins resulting from this endeavor.
As unwavering as was my determination then has been my career
to date, and at this writing I find myself solidly planted in Boston's
newest of office buildings in lovely quarters, brilliant with color
and contemporary decor on the eleventh floor of 125 High Street,
overlooking the harbor of Boston with its fascinating tugboats
pushing and pulling all varieties of ocean-going traffic. John T.
Trefry & Company is the nameplate on the door.

The preamble listing indicates how solidly I became engulfed in
the world of organization. All have been stimulating and reward-
ing, bringing with them new experiences and friends. But they are
time-consuming.

We summer at Brewster on Cape Cod, At present I am again
commodore of the Allen Harbor Yacht Club in Harw ichport,
Massachusetts. Quite naturally then, boating must be a hobby. We

[ 1367 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

look forward to the good weather opportunities of fishing and
cruising on our twenty-six-foot Cris Craft, the Mooncusser. But
if the seas are rough we resort to golf, tennis, badminton, creative
photography, portrait or landscape painting, or trail daughter
Leanne and her English saddle horse to shows, here, there and every-
where. I can’t believe there is any mania as irresistible as that of a
teen-age girl in quest of ribbons and trophies. Her room is full and
the parents are hopefully eyeing the day when the stalwart steed
becomes too old for competition. But horses live so long! Mean-
while I am becoming an accomplished groom, currying the horse’s
hide to a smooth and silky gloss all the while being careful lest he
decide to raise those hoofs high in my direction. This year Leanne
has received official recognition as reserve champion for New Eng-
land in one particular class.

When the snow begins to fall and the air has a cold bite, basking
in the warm sun of Florida has a magnetic attraction. We have
tried both coasts but prefer the relatively subdued life in Naples
on the lower west coast. While I dab ultramarine blues and virid-
tan greens, Grace diligently searches the sandy shores for exotic
and colorful shells for which this coast is famous. But all too
quickly winter vacation time passes and I can only hopefully look for-
ward to perhaps our Thirty-fifth Reunion when I have a fond hope
that if Neal comes into the insurance business with me, as seems
predictable now, my opportunity to bask longer in the sun will be
realized.

The challenge to accept the fullness that life has offered over
the last tw enty-five years I feel, as a family, we have successfully
met, Packed into this quarter-century have been all the joys: of
having children grow up with parents and now the parents trying
to stay young with the children. We cling fondly to a hope for

similar enjoyment and satisfaction in between this and our next re-
union report.

{ 1368 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LEON NATHAN TRITTER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 106 Pierce St., Malden, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Company, Inc., Malden, Mass.

MaRRIED: E'sta Frank, March 7, 1943. CHILDREN: Valerie, March 1, 1944; Marcia,
May 18, 1949.

occuPATION: Electronic engineering.

SHIGETO TSURU

 

HOME AppREss: 66 Shinsaka, Akasaka, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hitotsubashi University, Kunitachi, Tokyo, Japan.

BoRN: March 6, 1912, Usa, Oita, Japan. ParENTs: Kiichi Tsuru, Fujie Martsu-
moto.

PREPARED AT: The Eighth Higher School, Nagoya, Japan.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. #iagna cum laude, 1935; A.M., 19363
PH.D., 1940.

MARRIED; Masako Wada, June 29, 1939, Tokyo, Japan.

occupation: Professor, Institute of Economic Research, Hitotsubashi Univer-
sity.

OFFICES HELD: Member, executive committee, Statistical Research Institute of

[ 1369 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Japan, since 1948, Fabian Research Institute of Japan, since 1949, Tax
Research Association of Japan, since 1950; member, Japan Science Council
since 1951; councillor, International House of Japan, since 1952.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Political and Social Science; American
Economic Association; Econometric Society; American Statistical Asso-
ciation; Royal Economic Society (England); International Association
for Research in Income and Wealth; Japanese Association of Theoretical
Economics; Japanese Association of Political Economy; Japanese Associa-
tion of International Economic Studies; Japanese Association of Public
Finance; Japanese Association of Monetary and Financial Economics.

puBLicaTions: Essavs on Japanese Economy, Essays on Marxian Economics
(both in English); National Income and Reproduction, Postwar Inflation
of Japan, Facts and Logic of Economics (all in Japanese); several other
books and numerous articles in professional journals.

Y

A QUARTER of a century which has passed since graduation from
Harvard does not seem to create in my mind much of a gulf from
alma mater in spite of my permanent abode in Japan. ‘The reason
probably is that I stayed on in the Graduate School, later as an
assistant in economics, until June, 1942. Were it not for the war I
might have stayed on longer. Classified as I was then as an “enemy
alien,” my wife and I remained unmolested in Cambridge with
only a very minor unpleasantness like having to read my students’
blue books which often bore the headline “Remember Pearl Har-
bor!” We were repatriated by the first exchange ship Gripsholm, in
the summer of 1942. We came back again to Harvard for one year
during 1956-57, this time as a visiting lecturer in economics, and re-
assured ourselves that Cambridge is our second home.

Before I finally settled down in 1948 to the present job of an aca-
demic economist, the range of my wandering was fairly wide. The
Tokyo of 1942 was not a hospitable place for a returnee from USA,
and I lived on my father’s income for about a year. Then I held odd
temporary jobs here and there until June, 1944, when the inevitable
came and I was drafted as a private in the Japanese Army. Most
of you will recall that that was about the time when the eventual
defeat of Japan came to be clearly foreseen. I was stationed on the
southern island of Kyushu and was made to learn an extremely
primitive art of forced landing under enemy fire. The Japanese
Army must have been thinking of retaking some of the islands
Japan had by then lost. After three months, however, I was picked
out for Foreign Office, which apparently saw in my Harvard back-
ground a manpower fit for things other than being a private. Thus,
from December, 1944, till May, 1947, I was essentially a diplomatic

[ 1370 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

officer. I say “essentially” because my real job was often something
else. For example, for about a year from the spring of 1946, 1 was
attached to the Economic and Scientific Section of SCAP (the
Occupation authority) as an economic adviser and was engaged in
the task of economic stabilization.

One thing leads to another and my experience with the SCAP
opened up a new opportunity for me when the first general elec-
tion under the new Constitution brought into power the Socialist-
led coalition government. I left SCAP, thus the Foreign Office also,
and joined the Economic Stabilization Board as vice-minister in
June, 1947. Those were the hectic days. I initiated the idea and
wrote a large part of the Economic White Paper which since then
has become an annual affair of the government. A day before the
scheduled publication I went to the SCAP verbally to explain the
content and was told that the thing had to be submitted in English
in full. All through that night I worked on the translation; and the
Nescafé coffee, which was then a rarity among Japanese, saw me
through the job. I no longer seem to have such an energy, or it
might be that Japan has by now solved most of her basic problems
and there remain few issues that can evoke from government off-
cials sacrificial hard work of the kind we saw in the immediate post-
war period. I wish this were the case!

In 1948 I resigned from the government when the Cabinet for
which I served fell; and after loafing for a while I joined the Insti-
tute of Economic Research, Hitotsubashi University. I served as
director of the Institute for seven years until 1956, after which time
I enjoy a relatively free academic post of a research professor taking
leaves of absence every other year or so and giving one graduate
course only, again every other year, Bringing the story up-to-date,
I expect to spend our anniversary year in the United States, first at
Yale (God forbid!) and then at the Johns Hopkins. But my perma-
nent home is still in Tokyo where we had a small house built in
1954, to which the classmates or their sons (or daughters, of course)
are welcome when they come to Tokyo. “Tsuru” is an extremely
uncommon name in Japan and it will not be difficult to locate me
out of the more than nine million population of Tokyo.

[1371]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

STEPHEN JERRY TUCKER

 

HOME AND OFFICE appRESS: American Breeders Service, Box 54, Susquehanna, Pa,

BoRN: April 24, 1915, Staten Island, N.Y. Parents: Charles Rollins Tucker,
Mary Carruthers.

PREPARED AT: Randolph High School, Randolph, Vt.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934.

Margiep: Annahmira Burton, Oct. 11, 1951, Brattleboro, Vt.

occupation: Inseminator in artificial breeding business.

OF the years since I left college, by far the brightest seem the four
that I spent in the Army. I was in an engineer battalion that was
in the Pacific area for the whole duration of the second World
War, and for one thing I have counted up some hundred days at
sea that we spent in our travels there. I saw some of the bombing
of Oahu on December 7, 1941, and glimpsed in turn the fight for
Kwajalein, Saipan, Okinawa. Holding a long succession of jobs
from bugler to photographer, I gradually worked my way up to
the rank of private first class. Perhaps if I had done as tempted
and stayed in the Army I could have helped to write this book as
a colonel or a corporal.

But I returned, and the aimlessness of the next three years was
replaced finally by an interest in agriculture and my happening
upon the work I have done and enjoyed for twelve years now, This
is the artificial insemination of dairy cattle, which amounts to selec-
tive breeding for the purpose of increasing milk production and
thereby the farmer’s profits, It is notably difficult to convince a
great many farmers that this is what they need. This fact and the
heavy competition in the business combine to demand considerable
sales ability. And I have found mine almost adequate. It’s a job
where the little man sometimes gets swamped, but I am counting
on my medium stature to pull me through.

[1372 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

All told, I feel a Jack of distinction which I hope not many of
the members of Harvard 35 will be reporting for their lives thus
far, Still, I feel I must be unique among the Class in attempting to
support a herd of ten goats, a diesel-powered Mercedes car, and
300 acres of mostly unusable land. Also Pewssey, the perennial
cat that eats and sleeps. Not to forget the good wife I went back
to Vermont for and married at eight o’clock one morning in 1951.
Through the years of expecting a wolf at the back door we have
seen mostly deer there, and often, due to a fair-sized orchard that
I am hoping will produce for me some year. Then Ill be rich.
Then Ill show you!

In the meantime, to any who may read this, I would like to
extend a welcome to visit Annahmira and me and the goats on our
Pennsylvania hillside, any time. Come in search of deer in hunting
season, or of fossils or friendship. But don’t come for peace and
quiet, for three railroads run through the little valley below. And
I hope your fortunes have been as interesting as mine but far more
rewarding.

WILLIAM ARMAND TUCKER

    

HOME ADDRESS: 427 E. High St., Sycamore, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ideal Industries, Inc., Sycamore, Il.

_ BoRN: June 5, 1913, Denver, Colo. Parents: William Edmund Tucker, Mar-
guarite Anna Canavan.

PREPARED AT: Northwestern Military and Naval Academy, Lake Geneva, Ws.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935(36),

MarRieD: Margaret Marie Hurd, Jan. 31, 1942, Chicago, IIL cutpres: Wil-
liam Canavan, Oct. 11, 1943; James Dennis, Sept. 13, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Assistant to president and assistant secretary, Ideal Industrics,
Inc., manufacturers.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, board of trustees, Federated Church, 1956-58; various
offices, P.T.A. and B.S.A,

[ 1373]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

MEMBER OF: American Ordnance Association; American Marketing Associa-

tion; Sycamore Chamber of Commerce.

AFTER Harvard I entered the law school and later the Department

of Economics of the University of Chicago, For a few years my

education threatened to be as lengthy as Henry Adams’. However,
it was pieced out with work as a commercial insurance adjuster.

When the war began, I completed OCS at Fort Benning, Georgia,
and from 1942 to 1945, served in the Production Division of the
O.C. Sig. O. in Washington, D.C., and at Headquarters, AFWES-
PAC, Manila, P.L, in 1945.

Peg and I were married at the beginning of the war and our two
boys were born in Washington. This seemed like home and we
were happy to stay on for two years after the war while I worked
as an economist for the National Association of Manufacturers and
the Prefabricated Homes Institute.

But we seemed to want something more basic in work and in a
place to raise our boys, and in 1948 we found our spot here in Syca-
more. This is a complete, small town, sixty miles west of Chicago
on the prairie, Thanks to the early settlers, it is beautifully wooded
and so far the trees are little touched by Dutch elm disease. We
are looking forward to other classmates’ panegyrics to their ‘moun-
tain slopes or sunny seas, but the rolling prairie has us charmed.

Church and community activities keep us busy; golf and fishing
are my absorbing recreations; and my work in helping to run a
growing business is very satisfying.

FREDERIC HAROLD TUNNELL, JR.

    

EASA EEN OTA OHNE

_ SERIO

HOME ADDRESS: 4 Sharia Mazloum, Apt. 102, Cairo, Egypt.
orrice appress: Dept. of English, Cairo University, Cairo,

| 1374]

Fgypt.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BORN: Jan. 19, 1913, Philadelphia, Pa, pareNrs: Frederic Harold Tunnell, Alice

Margargee.
PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N.J.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 193I~1935. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1935.
UNMARRIED.
occuPATION: Teacher of English, Cairo University.
AFTER leaving Harvard I spent a year at the American School of
Classical Studies in Athens on a Norton fellowship which I had
won. This gave me a desire to live abroad, for which purpose I
spent several years preparing for the foreign service, mostly in
Washington, This came to nothing, however, so in 1939 I left
for Egypt and Greece. With the outbreak of the war I established
myself in Egypt, where I taught English for a time and was ulti-
mately drafted into the U.S. Army. I remained in Egypt for the
duration of the war and was sent back to the United States for
discharge in 1946. Most of this year was spent in futile efforts to
get a job in Washington, and I finally returned to Greece and
spent another year at the American School of Classical Studies on
the G.I. Bill of Rights. After that I had a job in the Greek Press
Ministry for a year. In 1950 I got a job teaching English at Cairo
University which I have held until the present time. I shall be
moving to Athens shortly, however, and hope to live there indefi-
nitely. I am afraid I shall not be able to attend the Reunion.

SAMUEL EPES TURNER, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 816 Portland Ave., St. Paul gE, Minn,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Gould-National Batteries, Inc., E. rith Floor, First National
Bank Bldg., St. Paul 1, Minn.

BORN: July 18, 1911, St. Paul, Minn, Parents: Samuel Epes Turner, ’os, Catha-
rine Ames,

[ 1375 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

PREPARED aT: St. Paul Academy, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN OOLLEGE: 1931-1035. DEGREE: A.B. 1935.

MarRiED: Mildred Virginia Olson, Sept. 7, 1939, St. Paul, Minn. CHILDREN:
Catharine Ann, Nov. 7, 1941; Dorothy Ames, Nov. 25, 1943; Susan Epes,
April 1, 1945; Mildred Elizabeth, July 22, 1947.

occuParion: Market research analyst, Sales Department, Gould National Bat-
teries, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Formerly, member, Governmental Research Association, Society
for Public Administration, former member and representative, Civil
Service Council, Sct. Paul Junior Association of Commerce.

MEMBER OF: St. Paul Athletic Club, Harvard Club of Minnesota; Science
Museum of the St. Paul Institute.

puBLicaTions: “St. Paul's Adjustable Salary Scale for City Employees,” Na-
tional Municipal Review, December, 1938.

THERE has been little of the spectacular or the unusual in my
life over the past twenty-five years since graduation. Life has fol-
lowed along for the most part on an even keel with the customary
ups and downs that mark the lives of ordinary individuals.

About twenty years of this period have been spent in the field
of governmental research, first with a municipal research bureau,
the St. Paul Bureau of Municipal Research, from 1937 to 1939, and
then with a state bureau, the Minnesota Institute of Governmental
Research, for a much longer period, 1939-56. These bureaus are
privately financed organizations dedicated to improving govern-
ment, municipal and state, for the citizen and taxpayer, eliminating
waste and extravagance, and promoting efficiency in governmental
operations, This work proved to be very interesting and satisfying
from the standpoint of the board objectives undertaken, although
far from lucrative in a monetary sense. A wide variety of projects
was undertaken, some of which resulted in much needed reforms,
and others rather futile attempts at the same. Progress in such mat-
ters where government is concerned is necessarily slow and involves
constant hammering away in order to achieve one’s objectives.

There is very little opportunity for individual distinction in this
type of work as these bureaus are largely concerned with the ac-
complishment of the desired reforms and improvements in govern-
ment and perfectly willing to have others, either interim legislative
committees, legislators or governmental officials, take the credit.
In turn, the individual working for such a bureau must hide his
identity and individual accomplishments in the work of the bureau
as a whole, any personal credit going by implication to the director

[ 1376 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of the bureau. This does little to further one’s individual career

and proves extremely frustrating at times.

As pointed out in previous reports, I have worked on numerous
surveys and studies covering a wide variety of topics including
governmental organization, finance, taxation, education, welfare,
personnel, etc. Many bulletins were issued during these years mak-
ing suggestions for needed improvements in these fields, as well as
informing the public of accomplishments in the field of govern-
ment by the legislature. As a research assistant I did much of the
original research for these bulletins, as well as writing up the re-
sults for publication. In addition, many surveys were made and
statistical information was gathered for governmental officials,
legislators, interim legislative committees and others interested in
good government, which were never published. I gathered, as-
sembled and analyzed much of this material.

During this period (1939-56) I also spent some time working for
the State Civil Service Department on loan by the governmental
research bureau and for the State Division of Administrative Man-
agement in the same capacity. However, all this came to an end in
December, 1956, when the Minnesota Institute of Governmental
Research went out of existence for the purpose of economy. The
individual subscribers to this effort decided that such a bureau had
become somewhat of a luxury. Most of the reforms had been ac-
complished, and their remaining objectives could be more satis-
factorily accomplished through the Taxpayers Bureau, a more
militant body to which many of the same individuals and organiza-
tions already also subscribed. After this unforeseen event I found
it necessary to begin life, as it were, all over again in an entirely
different field, market research and statistical analysis, for the sales
department of a private manufacturing concern.

Apart from my career, as it were, life has indeed been good to
me. My principal assets, acquired since graduation, are a charming
wife and four lovely daughters of whom I am indeed very proud.
They have proved to be a solace when the going gets rough and
an inspiration encouraging me to constantly strive “for i improvement
and advancement in the furtherance of life’s objectives. They have
been an endless source of pleasure and satisfaction throughout the
years.

We have, indeed, had many good times together on various and
sundry vacations during the summer and outings and picnics to-
gether over weekends at different times during the year. “Trips

{ 1377 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

have been taken by car to parts of Minnesota, Wisconsin and Michi-

gan, as well as Canada, ranging from Ontario to Quebec and includ-

ing the Black Hills of South Dakota, In addition, my wife and ]

journeved to the Canadian Rockies shortly after the war for a

pleasant stay at Jasper and Lake Louise, etc.. when the children

were still too small for such an excursion. We have made rather a

complete record of these various excursions with our movie camera
which we are seldom if ever without. The whole family has en-
joved exploring, hiking and sight-seeing together.

In addition to such outings we enjoy doing things around our
home, such as gardening, decorating and puttering around in a do-
it-yourself fashion. I have mapped out a plan for home improve-
ment. My wife is an inveterate gardener and has had marked suc-
cess with plants and flowers of various kinds. Incidentally, she has
also been very successful with the movie camera, getting some of
the better shots of the tribe in action.

My oldest daughter is now a freshman at the University of Wis-
consin and the youngest is in the seventh grade at school. The
other two are in the freshman and junior classes respectively of
high school. They are all doing well and have many interests and
activities.

As for philosophy of life, it is my belief that in general one gets
out of life about what one puts into it. However, there is a great
deal that is beyond one’s control, Good luck and bad certainly
play a large part in one’s life, Also the various individuals one meets
along the way have a good deal to do with one’s success or lack of
it in one’s various endeavors, However, what is worth doing is
worth doing well no matter how insignificant the task that comes
one’s way.

[ 1378 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

STEPHEN HIGGINSON TYNG

 

HOME ADDRESS: 38 Fairview Rd., Weston 93, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Naugatuck Chemical Company, Division of U.S. Rubber Co.,
Dedham, Mass.

BORN: Nov. 2, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: Griswold Tyng, Margaret Fuller.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; A.M., 1936.

MarRRiED: Gertrude G. Bent, Aug. 31, 1938, Brookline, Mass. cHiLpREN: Frances
Fuller, July 2, 1939; James, March 11, 1943; Stephen Higginson, Jr., Sept.
18, 1947; Richard Stuart, Oct. 24, 1956.

occUPATION: District sales manager, chemical and plastic sales, Naugatuck
Chemical Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1957, 1958, chairman, 1959, Weston School Committee;
member, Weston Republican Town Committee.

MEMBER OF: Rubber Division, American Chemical Society; T.A.P.P.I.; former
member, Harvard Club of Boston and Longwood Cricket Club.

IT is hard for me to believe that a full twenty-five years have gone
by since the Class of 1935 left Cambridge.

After a year of graduate work in the field of mining geology, I
entered teaching as Science Department head at the Lenox School,
Lenox, Massachusetts. Six pleasant years of teaching and coaching
were highlighted by my marriage in 1938 and birth of our first
child, a daughter, in 1939. It might also be mentioned that I was
talked into a gold prospecting trip in Nova Scotia with Ken Brown
one summer. (Lots of fresh air, but no gold.)

In 1942 I joined the Naugatuck Chemical Division of United
States Rubber Company and spent the next two years manufactur-
ing TNT at Williamsport, Pennsylvania. This was followed by
another year of production work in West Virginia as shift superin-
tendent of a synthetic rubber plant.

By 1945 my experience with and interest in shift work reached

[ 1379 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

the saturation point. Leaving West Virginia and returning to the
Boston area, I entered a new field, that of industrial sales engineer-
ing, still with Naugatuck Chemical. This has kept me well occu-
pied up to the present time.

The last fifteen years have seen many changes in the plastics and
synthetic rubber industries. Research and development of new
products has resulted in expanding markets which can only be served
successfully by aggressive sales personnel skilled in engineering
know-how. Most large companies are busy developing their Corpo-
rate Image through the media of advertising, sales promotion, etc.,
but somewhere, lost in the shuffle and confusion, is the Corporation
Man who is continually on the move, probably never really able to
hold his position on the treadmill of expanding products, new plants,
and more sales promotions.

My present duties and responsibilities include direction of all
sales activities of Naugatuck Chemical in New England and most
of New York State.

Three more children, all boys, have put in their appearance:
Jimmie, now sixteen and a junior at Noble and Greenough School,
Stevie, Jr., twelve and in the seventh grade at Weston Junior High;
and a late arrival, Ricky, now three, Our daughter Frannie is en-
joying her junior year at Wheaton College.

I believe that in raising a family adequate discipline coupled with
sympathy, love, and understanding should develop an individual
sense of responsibility and well-being with which the next genera-
tion can hope to carry on their part successfully in the years to
come,

Along the way, my extracurricular activities have included scout-
ing, Sunday school supervision, Little League baseball coaching,
and School Committee work. The pressing need for new schools
and better paid teachers has been an issue in our town, as in all other
suburban areas, and during my term on the School Committee we
have developed a comprehensive program which has put Weston
at or near the top with respect to teacher compensation and plant
facilities. The increasing demand for a college education requires
sound teaching methods and a full measure of achievement by all

students.

Participation in athletics is a worthy goal for even those who claim
that they haven’t time or have gained too many pounds and years.
I have found that athletics can be an important bond between hus-
band and wife, and between parents and children. The man who

[ 1380 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

says he can’t find time or energy for activities such as skiing, golf,
tennis, etc., is probably the one who is most in need of such.

While I have not become too deeply involved in politics as such,
it seems to me that lack of adequate knowledge concerning im-
portant issues points up a real need for better communication. Until
more people are willing to become better informed on current
events, we can hardly hope to elect good public officials.

The last twenty-five years have passed swiftly for me, and I look
forward to the next twenty-five with faith and hope that the many
pressing problems of the world we live in can be successfully re-
solved.

+ BRUCE FINLAY VANDERVEER

 

BORN: Dec. 23, 1913, Great Neck, Long Island, N.Y. parents: Stephen Lott
Vanderveer, Julia Finley.

PREPARED AT: Stony Brook School, Stony Brook, Long Island, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

DIED: Sept. 20, 1932, Westport, Conn.

BRUCE FINLAY VANDERVEER spent one year with our Class.
He had been the skipper of the Bandit IJ, winner in the Star Class
Yacht races at Southport, Connecticut, the day before he was killed
in an automobile accident.

[1381 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

LEONARD FREDERICK VAN ECK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1347 Murray Ave., Plainfield, NJ.

OFFICE ADprEss: American Cyanamid Co., Bound Brook, N_J.

porN: April 3, 1914, Paterson, N.J. PARENTS: Marinus Van Eck, Freda Senn.

prepared AT: Eastside High School, Paterson, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

marrigD: Helen Blackmur. cumpren: Leonard Frederick, Jr., Jan. 13, 19345
Virginia, July 4, 1937.

oocupaTion: Manager, Organic Pigments Manufacturing Department, Ameri-
can Cyanamid Company.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society.

WILLIAM MITCHELL VAN WINKLE, JR.

 

HOME abpress: 31 Centre St., Rye, N.Y.

OFFICE appRess: Verdi, Pierce & Van Winkle, 60 E. 42d St, New York 17,
N.Y.

BORN: Jan. 17, 1913, New York, N.Y, parents: William Mitchell Van Winkle,
08, Mary L. Busk.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

[ 1382 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: LL.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1939.

MaRRIED: Marjorie A. Boesel, Dec. 7, 1940, Rye, N.Y. cumpren: Elizabeth
Mitchell, Dec. 17, 1942; Susan Starr, July 9, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edgar Beach Van Winkle, 2d, 738.

occuPATION: Lawyer; partner, Verdi, Pierce & Van Winkle.

OFFICES HELD: Director, since 1947, president, since 1957, The White Memorial
Foundation, Inc.; director, since 1958, president, since 1959, Greenwich
Audubon Society.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Manursing Island Club, Greenwich
Audubon Society; New York State Bar Association.

WHEN our Class Report Chairman says this is to be an autumnal
task, I hope he is not suggesting, now that the first twenty-five
years have passed, that we are entering the autumnal period of our
lives. Perhaps we are, but those years have vanished so rapidly
it is difficult to remember exactly what did happen, let alone how
or why — in fact it still feels like summer.

Those first years after Harvard are vague, have been recorded
in other reports and therefore may be omitted. The results, how-
ever, are plain for me to see —a delightful wife whose charms still
intrigue me as on the day nineteen years ago when I saw her walking
down the station platform and decided the matter needed further
investigation — two daughters, one tall, dark and rooming with
Frank Knowlton’s daughter at Abbot Academy, the other short,
blond and still at Rye Country Day School—a house in Rye of
ancient vintage and undistinguished design —and finally the base
upon which all this rests, my work.

I have had my own law firm for the past eight years, formerly
with two partners, now one, specializing in trust and estate work.
In 1947 I became a member of the board of trustees of The White
Memorial Foundation of Litchfield, Connecticut, and in 1957 was
named its president. This work, which takes a good portion of my
time, has become of intense interest to me, involving a mixture of
charitable projects, conservation, forestry, wildlife management,
public recreation areas, a natural history museum and real estate and
investment problems. The Foundation, founded in 1913, owns
some 4,000 acres of woodland and lake front in perpetual trust for
the public welfare. Annually, 40,000 people take advantage of its
attractions and facilities. The area has been set aside as a wildlife
refuge where sound conservation techniques are practised and ex-
periments are conducted in conjunction with state and federal agen-
cies. Our own timber lands and sawmill supply us with lumber
with which our crew builds cottages. These in turn are rented,

[ 1383 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 193§

supplementing our endowment income. This enables us to rent
large summer camps for children to numerous charitable organiza-
tions and to operate public bathing and recreation facilities at a
nominal cost.

All this gives me a splendid excuse to quit my New York desk
now and then for the quiet of the Litchfield hills — if I can hold
those meetings to a minimum when I get there.

All class reports demand the inclusion of your hobbies, From
long experience in boring others, I have found that nobody really
gives a damn about them except yourself, For the record they are,
not necessarily in the order of their interest to me: collecting and
refinishing early American antiques and furniture, a collection of
several hundred early duck and shore bird decoys (this activity has
tapered off with the astronomical rise in price of these objects)
and, lastly, the study of birds (commonly and often rudely re-
ferred to as bird watching). Due to this last, I find myself involved
as a director and head of the Greenwich Audubon Society, one of
the largest groups of its kind in the country, and am currently do-
ing organizational work for the creation of a new nature center and
museum in Rye.

ALEXANDER NICHOLAS VARDAC

 

HOME appress: 1245 W. Grand River Ave. East Lansing, Mich.
orrice appress; College of Communication Arts, Michigan
East Lansing, Mich.
BorN: Aug. 15, 1914, Boston
Catherine Despotes.

PREPARED aT: Boston English High School, Bost Mass.: ‘ rn
School, Brighton, Mass, ston, ass. Brighton High

[1384]

State University,

» Mass. parents: Nicholas Constantine Vardac,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1935; PH.D. (Yale Univ.),
1942.

marrieD: Janine Pascaline Fauvergue, December, 1955, Saigon, Vietnam.

occupation: Educator and practitioner in film and theatre, writer, director,

critic and historian; associate professor for motion picture, College of
Communication Arts, Michigan State University.

OFFICES HELD: Supervisor, Yale Theatre Collection, New Haven, 1940-42;
director, USSBS, Motion Picture Survey of Japan, 1945-46; director of
production, Camden Hills Theatre, Maine; director, University Theatre,
associate professor of drama, theatre and motion pictures, Stanford Uni-
versity, 1946-53; chairman, Committee on Motion Pictures, 1949-51, Com-
mittee on International Liaison of University Theatre Companies, 1951-
53, American Educational Theatre Association; guest professor of dramatic
production, Carnegie Institute of Technology, 1949; deputy director, Joint
USIS-ICA Office of Motion Picture Production for the Associated States
of Indo-China, 1954-56; associate professor for motion picture, Boston
University School of Public Relations and Communications, 1956-57;

associate professor of communications arts, Michigan State University,
Since 1957.

MEMBER OF: Speech Association of America; American Educational Theatre
Association; American National Theatre and Academy; University Film
Producers Association; British Film Institute (associate member); U.S.
Naval Reserve (lieutenant commander).

PUBLICATIONS: Stage to Screen, Harvard University Press. 1949; “Photographic
Ideal in XIX Century Theatre,” Educational Theatre Journal, March,
1950; “Documentary Film as an Art Form,” Sight and Sound, London,
England, April, 1951; “Professional Training in Motion Picture and Liberal
Education,” Journal of Broadcasting, spring, 1959; and others.

THE notion itself is paralyzing! A quarter of a century! If you
are thinking glibly about things gained and lost, this runs all the
way from fleecing by confidence men to windfall in stocks and
calculated success at roulette. A balance sheet can be run off. If
you are thinking about things done, we might brew a legend of
variety and romance, properly tilted and embellished, running all
the way from the crisp Connecticut gridirons of preparatory school
coaching to the atomic valley at Nagasaki and eventually to the
sanctums of Saigon, its Red-infested countryside and the plots and
counter-plots of its plastic-bomb terrorists.

To make a long story short, my work has cut to the line of art
and entertainment, letters and education. But what does it mean
to say that I have written, directed or produced some fifty docu-
mentary films in various parts of the world, occidental and ‘oriental
and including America? Or that I have staged and directed about
the same number of stage plays, that I was on the ground with
Camera crews soon after the atomic blasts in Japan, that T have

[ 1385 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

carried on this work in four different languages, French, Greek,
English and Japanese, that I have appeared as professional actor on
stage and screen, or that I have written a book on this subject, Stage
to Screen, or that I have lectured in this country and abroad on
film and theatre and have served on the faculties of four of our
major universities, in all of which I have made many friends and
not a few enemies?

What does it mean, I ask myself, that I am now working on a
book entitled Film in a Free Society? Or that, during the Battle of
Saigon, I wooed and was married to a Frenchwoman who con-
tributes, with her taste and beauty, much of the sauce that gives
the course of life its meaning, or that the success of my students in
the theatre, in television and in film always gives me pride, or that
I have built a home very nearly with my own hands? Is there any
final significance or enduring meaning in having crewed a success-
ful ocean race, in having skied the Wasatch, the White, the Saw-
tooth, the Sierra, the Rocky Mountains and the Swiss Alps? Or in
having met and sometimes had the privilege of observing humbly
but at close range the methods of some of the great film-makers of
our times, David Lean, Alec Guinness, Vittorio DeSica, Frank
Capra, Basil Wright and others, or in having survived four years
of naval warfare, mostly in the Pacific? Or in having had the genu-
ine pleasure of studying and working with two such divergent
theatrical figures as Otto Preminger and Theodore Kommisarjevsky?

How do you add up this series of events? You don’t! Additively
nothing is left. The whole is not the sum of these parts! The value
and meaning of these events and all the rest is only in their power
to destroy flaws and create truths, My life, then, has been a proc-
ess of becoming, not being, and I am still working on it. Profes-
sional religion (father, uncle) and professional psychology (brother)
are in the blood and, like the sparrow in the wind-swept field, I,
too, must search for meanings. “You can’t put your foot in the
same river twice,” said the great Greek, Herodotus. Thomas Wolfe
said it a different way when he said, “You can’t go home again.”

Is the continuously changing process of life the key to its meaning?

[ 1386 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM DELBERT VESEY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 539 Florence Ave., Webster Groves 19, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Merck & Co., Inc., 4545 Oleatha St., St. Louis, Mo.

BORN: June 19, 1910, Newark, N.J. Parents: Clarence E. Vesey, Gertrude B.
Johnson.

PREPARED AT: Newark Preparatory School, Newark, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934, 1937-1938. DEGREE: S.B., 1935 (38).

MaRRIED: Agnes Craig, Oct. 26, 1940, East Orange, N.J. cHILDREN: Peter Craig,
Jan. 23, 1946; William Delbert, Jr., March 1, 1949; David Graham, June

8, 1950.
occUR ATION: Branch manager, Merck Chemical Division.
UPON graduation in 1938 I became associated with Merck & Com-
pany, Inc., of Rahway, New Jersey. Merck is manufacturer of
fine medicinal, agricultural and industrial chemicals. Responsibility
was in production control and planning function.

Entered Air Force in 1943. Served as private until commissioned
after attending OCS in September, 1944. Incidentally, was com-
missioned at Harvard Business School, after attending there for two
months. Served as a Statistical control officer at various locations
until March, 1946. Discharged as first lieutenant.

Returned to employment with Merck & Company in production
control function in Rahway, New Jersey, from 1946 to 1953. Trans-
ferred to St. Louis to manage plants of Merck & Company. In-
volves administration of western distribution facilities and some
manufacturing.

We have settled in Webster Groves, a fine community with ex-
cellent schools. Our three boys are attending school and all: plan
to attend college, perhaps at Harvard. I believe they would lke to,

Our interests have been in Scouting, PTA and church, We are

[ 1387 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

fortunate to have many opportunities available in this fine

: » Out-
standing community,

EDWARD VICTOR

 

HOME ADDRESS: 835 Case St., Evanston, Ill.

OFFICE appRESs: Northwestern University School of Education, Evanston, Ill.

BorN: March 4, 1914, Roxbury, Mass. parents: Maurice Victor, Anna Silbert.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; A.M. (Boston
Univ.), 1936; ED.M. (ibid.), 1941; Epp. (Harvard Univ.), 1957.

MarrieD: Jeannette R. Drucker, Dec. 28, 1936, Pawtucket, R.I. camp: Amy
Paula, Dec, 8, 1944.

occupation: Associate professor, School of Education, Northwestern Uni-
versity.

MEMBER OF: National Science Teachers Association; American Association
for the Advancement of Science; National Association of Research in
Science Teaching, Central Association of Science and Mathematics
Teachers; Illinois Academy of Science; Phi Delta Kappa; Kappa Delta Phi.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Converted Science Teacher,” pamphlet published by New
England School Development Council, June, 1957; several articles in
scientific and education journals, A Science Sourcebook for the Elemen-
tary School, to be published in 1960, by Harcourt, Brace & Company.

IN and out of school again — that’s the story of my life. Wanted
to be a doctor at first, so majored in biochemistry at Harvard.
Switched to straight chemistry after graduation and got my Master’s
degree at Boston University. As a graduate assistant in the fresh-
man chemistry course I became interested in teaching, so then took
courses at the Boston University School of Education.

Became married between semesters while at the School of Edu-
cation and started looking for a job the rest of the year. Teaching
positions were scarce (it was then the tail end of the depression).

[ 1388 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The best offer I got was a job teaching science in Humacao, Puerto
Rico, Stayed there one year and headed back to Boston. Became
instructor at the New England College of Pharmacy. Meanwhile

I continued to take courses in education until I got a Master’s de-

gree in the field of science education. When World War II broke

out, Boston University became involved in the ASTP (Army

Specialized Training Program) and I went there to teach the Army.

Soon after, I was offered a position as head of the Science Depart-
ment at Westbrook Junior College in Portland, Maine. Spent seven
happy years there. Those down-Easterners are slow in making
friends, but when they do, you have them for the rest of your life.
Oh, yes, while I was in Maine, I became involved doing blood tests
on those persons suspected of drunken driving. Interesting work,
and enough stories under my belt to supply a full evening’s enter-
tainment.

While in Maine I became vitally interested in the training of
science teachers, especially since there was such a rapid turnover
in my science department. So I began looking for a position nearer
Cambridge where I could both teach and study at the same time.
Found the ideal position in Newport, Rhode Island, as science
supervisor for the city’s school system. Both my superintendent
and principal were Harvardians and made time available for study.
So back to Harvard I went, this time to the Graduate School of
Education. Taught and studied for a while, then took time off for
my residence. This was the tough time. Jeannette went back to
work to help put me through. Amy was put in a private school
(which she hated). It was a long five-year chore, but well worth it.

Soon after, I became assistant professor at the University of Vir-
ginia —loved the climate, loathed the educational situation. Stayed
just one year and then moved on to Northwestern where I am now.
Increase in rank to associate professor, with accompanving finan-
cial increase. Love it here, although the climate is just plain disgust-
ing. It just isn’t fittin’ to have winter come so soon and stay so
long. And the flat, flat landscape! Make’s one yearn for New E ng-
land hills and mountains and the sea.

Now for some personals. Have just one daughter — a lov ely one
who promises to be a heartbreaker. A sophomore i in high se hool, she
wants to go to Radcliffe or Wellesley, then get her Master's de-
gree at Harvard (if she doesn’t get married first), She hopes to
become an elementary school teacher,

My leisure time is limited, since the nature of my work is such

[ 1389 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

that it carries over into the evening. However, I love my work
and it is no chore at all to devote so much time to it. And there
is so much to be done in and for science education today.

Before I became involved in university work I was quite the Little
Theatre man. Now that I am too busy, I do the next best thing:
go to as many plays, ‘operas and ballet performances as possible.

Am planning to write a methods book on the teaching of science
in the elementary school, followed by a science textbook series

for Grades 1-6. And I still haven't given up hope of geting located
nearer the East.

MARTIN VICTOR

 

HOME appress: Box 545, Locust Valley, Long Island, N.Y.
OFFICE apprEss: Babcock & Wilcox Co., 161 E. 42d St., New York 17, N.Y.

BORN: Oct. 3, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: Royall Victor, Anna Martin.
PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1935; LL.B. (Yale Univ.),
1938,

marrigp: Helene Peters, June 26, 1948, New York, N.Y. cHrpREN: Amy, Sept.
17, 1953; Helen, June 10, 1959.
HARVARD BROTHER: Royall Victor, Jr.,’

occupation: Secretary, Babcock & Wilcox Company, manufacturers of boilers
tubes, etc.

OFFICES HELD: Mayor, Village of Lattingtown, N.Y., since 1955; trustee, Com-
munity Hospital, Glen Cove, N.Y.

MEMBER OF; National Golf Links of America; Creek Club

YALE Law School and two years with a large New York law firm
followed my graduation, Then it was the Naval Reserve V-7 Pro-
gram, with an ensign’s commission and sea duty in destroyers and
destroyer escorts from sg4t to late 1945 and a return to the law in
early 1946. Helene and 1 were married in 1948. In early 1953 I

[ 1390 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

joined the Babcock & Wilcox Company, as assistant to the presi-
dent, and later became secretary of the company. I now find that
it is better to receive than to give legal advice and deciding whether
to take the medicine is a welcome change from prescribing it.

Aside from the usual “housekeeping” duties of the secretary of a

large publicly-held corporation, I have the opportunity of work-

ing with engineers and scientists in the organization and contract-

ing phases of nuclear power and research projects as well as the

company’s more conventional undertakings. Occasional participa-

tion in the creation of tangible work is a stimulating respite from

the world of paper and ideas. (I don’t mean to imply that engineers
don’t produce plenty of paper.) This has led me to appreciate the
fine balance which must be kept between the lawyers, accountants
and other staff personnel and the technical people. Over-adminis-
tration is stifling, but uncontrolled technical exuberance dissipates
productive capacity, although the effects are sometimes slow to
appear. It appears to me that not enough of us followed engineer-
ing and scientific careers, but this was natural as in 1931 we were
not being bombarded daily with announcements of technical
achievements. The problem of seeing that America’s technical
personnel demands are met should solve itself without our having
to disparage liberal arts and indulge in a “crash” emphasis on tech-
nical training.

I remember the wisdom of President Lowell telling us in Me-
morial Hall on our first day in Cambridge in September, 1931, that
we should select our courses and our fields of concentration on the
basis of interest and teachers’ personalities and not with a view to
what we planned to do in later life. I, of course, was too smart at
the time to take his advice and proceeded to collect as many courses
in government as possible as a preparation for law, a regrettable
trade school approach to Harvard College.

We were in college at a time when American democracy was on
trial. We saw authoritarian methods used and accepted i in our coun-
try and abroad. Fellow students were going to G ermany in the
summer and returning to report the vitality of a people on the
move. Recovery from depression was not a ‘fertile field for demo-
cratic processes. Our study of history failed us when we did not
foresee the excesses which came, However, I do remember Pro-
fessor Bruce Hopper in some lectures he called “Pan-Sovictism”
telling us as far back as 1932 that the Soviets would menace the
world, At least one older Harvard graduate should have sat in!

[ 1391 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

The job of mayor of a small Long Island village keeps me in touch
with the problem of trying to please most of the people and yet
hold down costs and plan for the future. As a hospital trustee |
experience the financial and administrative problems of providing
health services today and I at least sense some of the problems of
the medical profession and the problems laymen have with the
medical profession.

My leisure time is taken up by the usual household chores and
gardening, a little shooting and trying to prove that I could have
been a golf champion if I had worked at it. Helene and I get in an
occasional trip and we were in Spain recently, where I ran into
Drib Braggiotti whom I had not seen since graduation and who is
presently the American Consul General in Seville. You should
see his consulate and staff!

I close by taking my hat off to our Class Committee and to all
the others who through all the years have actively supported Har-
vard by giving their time and energy to fund-raising and other
duties and have at least in part repaid the debt we all owe to Harvard.

CARL FREDERICK VILTER

 

HOME apprEss: 1241 Hayward Ave., Cincinnati 26, Ohio.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 2328 Auburn Ave., Cincinnati 19, Ohio.

porn: Aug. 12, 1913, Cincinnati, Ohio. parents: William Frederick Vilter,
Clara Bieler.

prePARED aT: Hughes High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 1935; M.D, (Univ. of Cincinnati),
1939.

mareiep: Alice Bledsoe, June 10, 1939, Cincinnati, Ohio. caitoREN: Carol

Louise, May 29, 1941; Jean Alice, Aug. 3, 1943; Barbara Ann, Nov. 29,

1946.

[ 1392 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard William Vilter, ’33.

OCCUPATION: Physician: internal medicine, hematology.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant professor, 1948-58, associate professor of internal medi-
cine, 1958, Department of Medicine, University of Cincinnati College of
Medicine; president of staff, Deaconess Hospital, 1958; attending physician
at Deaconess, Christ and Bethesda Hospitals.

MEMBER OF: Central Society for Clinical Research, Cincinnati Academy of
Medicine; American Medical Association, Cincinnati Society of Internal
Medicine; Alpha Omega Alpha; Queen City Club; Hyde Park Country
Club; Leland (Michigan) Country Club.

PuBLIcATIONS: Main items of bibliography (all with co-authors): “Occidental
Beriberi Heart Disease,” Journal of the American Medical Association
131:717, June 29, 1946; “Observations on the Anti-Anemic Properties of
Folic Acid,” Southern Medical Journal 38:707, 1945; “Anti-Anemic
Properties of Thymine,” Blood 1:185, 1946; “Treatment of Pernicious
Anemia and related anemias with synthetic folic acid; observations on
maintenance of normal hematogic status and on occurrence of combined
system disease, etc.,” Journal of Laboratory and Clinical Medicine, 32:262,
March 1947.

THE two major goals which I envisioned and to which the years
at Harvard were a necessary and rewarding preliminary have now
been achieved with considerable satisfaction. I have a family that
I love and I am practising medicine, and there have been bonuses
along the way.

Four years at the University of Cincinnati College of Medicine
and an internship at the Cincinnati General Hospital were the be-
ginning. There were three more years of residency at the same
hospital, a year in Indianapolis at the Lilly Laboratory for Clinical
Research, and finally two years of research in human nutrition in
Birmingham, Alabama. These were eleven valuable years of grati-
fication in learning and discovery and in teaching. “This was also
a period when monetary return was nil or of subsistence magnitude,
when my patient wife was playing the major role in rearing our
family, The day after graduation from medical school we had be-
gun our happy marriage and the first of our three daughters was
born two years later. With the arrival of two more in 1943 and
1946, the time was ripe for an economic change.

In 1946 I entered solo practice of internal medicine, trying to
combine this with continued teaching and research, The demands
of practice dealt a blow to active research, but formal and informal
teaching continue to occupy a definite segment of my ACTIVITIES.

My household is obviously a female establishment but one that
I am happy to return to each evening. Our oldest daughter i wan

[ 1393 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

her first year at Denison Univ ersity. The two younger are at home
attending a Cincinnati preparatory school, I think this has been
and ts a “good life. The horizons of the early years have extended

so that there i is never enough time for the doing of all the things
that I want to do.

+ HARVEY MILTON VIOLI

 

BORN: April 16, 1914, Springfield, Mass. parents: Claude Violi, Mildred Bell.
PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 1935; M.B-A., 1938,
biED: June 27, 1944, San Francisco, Calif.

AFTER graduating with our Class, Violi went on to the Business
School where he received an M.B.A. While an undergraduate at
college he was a member of the freshman football and boxing
teams and Adams House baseball and football teams. He was
assistant to the president of the Automatic Electric Company in
Chicago, before entering the Navy in 1940. He was a lieutenant,
USNR, and had just returned from combat duty in the Pacific area

when he was in an automobile accident which resulted in his death.
He was survived by his parents.

| 1394 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PHILIP GEORGE VITAGLIANO

 

HOME ADDRESS: 196 Woodside Ave., Winthrop 52, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 197 Winthrop St., Winthrop 52, Mass.

BORN: Feb, 22, 1914, Boston, Mass, parents: John Carmen Vitagliano, Michela
Sarno.

PREPARED AT: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MARRIED: Luda V. Semenuk, Oct. 19, 1947, Winthrop, Mass. cHiLpREN: Dorothy
Alexis, Aug. 24, 1948, Philip George, Jr., Nov. 28, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Arthur Anthony Vitagliano, ’38.

occuPATION: Buyer, retail food market.

OFFICES HELD: Chapter chairman, American Red Cross; commander, American
Veterans of World War II; chairman and president, Winthrop Veterans’
Council; assistant cubmaster, Cub Scouts.

AFTER leaving college, entered food business until World War
II broke out. Entered the military service in April, 1942, and was
assigned to Camp Lee, Virginia. Was later appointed to attend the
Army Veterinary School at Army Medical Center, Walter Reed
Hospital, Washington, D.C. Was assigned to the 228th Station
Hospital after graduation from this school. Went overseas in Au-
gust, 1943, to a base in southern England, This hospital handled
the casualties from the D-Day invasion. Was discharged from the
service in December, 1945, with a rating of T/Sgt.

A few months later I was appointed to a position with the Depart-
ment of Public Health in the city of Indianapolis, Indiana, Returned
later to Winthrop and re-entered the food business, Elave been
here ever since and have been active in local veterans, charitable
and community affairs.

[ 1395 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

HUGH STEWART VOEGTLIN

 

HOME AbpRESS: 4766 Dudley Lane, N.W., Atlanta 5, Ga.

OFFIcE appress: Atlanta Newspapers, Inc., 10 Forsyth St, N.W., Atlanta 2, Ga.

orn: March 1, 1914, Washington, D.C. parents: Carl Voegtlin, Lilian
Kreuter.

PREPARED AT: Friends’ School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1936.

marriep: Anna Maria O’Shaughnessy, Sept. 30, 1939, Coral Gables, Fla. cui-
prEN: George Stewart, June 23, 1946; Carl, 2d, April 19, 1949.

occupation: Newspaper publishing; office manager, State Circulation Depart-
ment, Atlanta Newspapers, Inc.

oFFices HELD: Director, Theatres Service Company, Atlanta, since 1951.

FROM 1936 to 1943, with Pan American Airways traffic and sales
department, New York, Miami and Latin America, district traffic
and sales manager. From 1943 to 1946, attached to various Naval
Air Transport Service squadrons serving Latin America, air trans-
port officer, ensign to lieutenant.

From 1946 to 1950, with the Atlanta Journal, successive assign-
ments in all non-mechanical departments and liaison with all me-
chanical departments. From 1950 to 1953, traffic manager for the
merged Atlantic Journal and Constitution. Since 1953, office man-
ager, State Circulation Department.

Supplementing these activities, continuous Naval Air Reserve
duty with air transport and patrol bomber squadrons based at NAS
Atlanta and operating within and outside the continental limits, as
air transportation and administrative personnel officer, lieutenant
to commander.

[ 1396 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN JOSEPH VOGEL, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 342 Richmond Ave., South Orange, N_J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Starr, Smith, Biggs & Co., Inc., 1180 Raymond Blvd., Newark,
N,J.

BORN: Dec. 28, 1912, Boston, Mass. parents: John Joseph Vogel, Anastatia E.

Walsh.
PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREES: A.B. 1935; LL.B. (New York Univ.),

1941.
MARRIED: Mary Gertrude Heazel, July 1, 1944, Glen Ridge, N.J. cuipres:

Anna Keating, Sept. 7, 1945; John Joseph, 3d, June 7, 1948, Margaret
Ellen, May 12, 1952.
OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Starr, Smith, Biggs & Company, Inc., insurance

brokers.
MEMBER OF: Knights of Columbus; Maplewood Country Club; Newark

Athletic Club.

AFTER graduation, spent two years in Boston and two vears in
New York City with a domestic insurance company. Then one

ear as a civilian consultant on insurance to the Nav y Department,
followed by eight years of commissioned officer service with the
Navy.

Next four and one-half years with American International Under-
writers Corporation in the field of insurance for American clients
while overseas. The past five years in the reinsurance and excess
lines insurance business, pr imarily in charge of non-marine busi-
ness of all types and kinds placed with Lloyd's of London,

[ 1397 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ROSS VROOM, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 22 Seal Cove Rd., Hingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 29 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

BoRN: Aug. 20, 1912, Hingham, Mass. parENts: Ross Vroom, Caroline Potter.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 19311933. DEGREE: D.M.D., 1937.

marrieD: Mary Clark Hall, Feb. 7, r9qz, Atlanta, Ga. cump: Ross Clifford,
Feb. 11, 1947.

occuPATION: Dentist.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Dental Science; American, Massachusetts
and Metropolitan District Dental Societies; Harvard Club of Boston,
Cohasset Golf Club.

AFTER my sophomore year at the College I entered the Harvard
Dental School, from which I graduated in 1937. Along with a
diploma, I accepted a commission as a first lieutenant in the Army
Dental Corps Reserve. It being depression times, I was probably
saved from starving only by the fact that I was able to associate
myself with my father, who was a dentist with an office in Boston
as well as in Hingham. Even so, patients (or victims if you prefer)
were few and far between.

It appeared that I was making some progress in the struggle
when, in June, 1941, I received orders from Uncle Sam to report
to the Lawsen General Hospital in Atlanta, Georgia. A most
interesting and enjoyable six months followed until along came
Pearl Harbor, which for some reason or other raised havoc with
a most congenial bachelor officers’ quarters. Two months later I
was married to the girl who had lived next door to me in Hingham,
Massachusetts. After a much longer tour of duty in Atlanta than
expected, orders came in for Indiantown Gap, Pennsylvania; thence
to Scotland, England, Belgium, and finally back to Rennes, France,

[ 1398 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and the rggth General Hospital. I was separated from the Army in
October, 1945, and the sudden death of my father launched me
quickly into a busy dental practice.

Time since then seems to have accelerated. We had a son born
in February, 1947. In 1948 we built a house on the water’s edge at
Hingham, from which we can see Bob Maddux’s house across the
harbor. My spare time is spent mostly in boating, photography,
wrestling with Heathkit amplifiers, etc., playing golf like mad, but
not very well, and so it goes. ...

NORMAN ETIENNE VUILLEUMIER

 

HOME ApDpREss: 407 Marlborough St., Boston 15, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston University, Boston, Mass.

BORN: June 13, 1912, Newton, Mass. PareNTs: Jules Etienne Vuilleumier, Ethel
Turner.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: a.B., cum laude, 1935; ED.M. (Boston
Univ.), 1948.

UNMARRIED,

occuPATION: Associate professor of English and speech, Boston University.

MEMBER OF: American Association of University Professors; Speech Association
of America; American Studies Association; National Council of Teachers

of English.

AFTER our class left Harvard, I began teaching, which has been
my career ever since, That summer, thinking that I was anticipat-
ing the work I should be doing in the fall, I returned for further
study at the summer school, only to find in September that my first
job was to require me to teach areas that needed filling rather than
those that I expected. Of course I am now grateful for the carly
demonstration of the need for adaptability, for in these twenty-

[ 1399 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

five years I have given a wide variety of courses and taken part in
committee activities the listing of which would be meaningless to
those outside the academic world and too familiar to those within.

My war record is very dull, because, although assigned to per-
sonnel work in the Army after basic training, I was given an honor-
able discharge following hospitalization for a malady of the feet!

In 1948, after time out for graduate work preceded by nine years
of teaching at Andover, I joined the faculty at Boston University,
where I am now associate professor of English and speech, The
fields in which ] have particularly worked of late are the speaking
voice, poetry and American civilization. I have also been interested
in evening adult education and served as associate editor of two
magazines,

Music, theatre, photography and European travel might be called
my special hobbies, unless, in reference to my awareness of the
important work we have to do in education, I confess, with Frost,
that

My object in living is to unite
My avocation and my vocation
As my two eyes make one in sight.

HUGH MASON WADE

 

HOME appress: 9 Prince St., Rochester 7, N.Y., RFD 2, Windsor Vt.

orrice appress: Dept. of History, University of Rochester, Rochester 20,
NY.

BORN: July 3, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: Alfred Byers Wade, Helena
Mein.

PREPARED AT: The Choate School, Wallingford, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1931-1935. DEGREES: M.A, (McGill Univ.), 1955; up. (New
Brunswick Univ.), 1957.

[ 1400 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marRiED: Eloise Bergland, Dec. 29, 1951, North Hatley, P.Q., Canada.

occuUPATION: Historian; director of Canadian Studies Program and associate
professor of history, University of Rochester.

OFFICES HELD: Editorial assistant, Harcourt, Brace & Company, Viking Press,
1935-36; free-lance editor and writer, 1936-51; Guggenheim Fellow in
Canadian history, 1943-45; lecturer, Laval University Summer School,
1946-47, University of British Columbia, summer session, 1954, public
affairs officer, U.S. Embassy, Ottawa, 1951-53, Gray Lecturer, University
of Toronto, 1954; director, Canadian Studies Program, University of
Rochester, since 1955; member of council, Canadian Historical Association,
195§-58; member, U.S. Section, Canada-United States Committee, US.
and Canada Chambers of Commerce, 1958-59.

MEMBER OF: Canadian Political Science Association; American and Canadian
Historical Associations; Arctic Institute of North America; Authors
League; Modern Language Association, Academy of Political Science,

Rideau Club (Ottawa); University Club of Montreal; St. Botolph Club
(Boston).

PUBLICATIONS: Margaret Fuller, Writings of Margaret Fuller, Francis Parkman,
The Oregon Trail; Journals of Francis Parkman, The French-Canadian
Outlook, The French Canadians, 1760-1945; articles and reviews on Cana-
dian history and literature, and Canadian-American relations.

WHEN I was in college, my ambition was to be a writer. Twenty-
five years later I am still trying to be one, to the extent that aca-
demic and administrative duties permit. My chief interests remain
the same, history and literature, though my field has shifted from
the middle ages to nineteenth-century America and twentieth-cen-
tury Canada and to the intricate relationship between the two great
North American neighbors.

Since would-be writers must eat, I served a useful apprenticeship
as a book publisher’s editor after leaving college, while doing a bit
of writing on the side. After a few years I decided to devote my-
self to writing my own books rather than editing those of others.
An interest in the conflict between Catholicism and Puritanism in
New England led me to undertake biographies of Margaret Fuller
and Francis Parkman, and subsequently the editing of their out-of-
print or unpublished work. Parkman led me into the field of Cana-
dian history which has been my chief interest since 1940.

For medical reasons my wartime service was confined to acting
as a historical consultant. I was very fortunate in being able to ob-
serve and study on the spot the new Canada that was rapidly ev olv-
ing under wartime pressures. The pace was so brisk until 1945 that
it took me five more years to complete the study of French Canada
which had taken me northward in 1943. Meanwhile, I became more
and more involved in academic life. I was about to become a full-

[ yor ]

—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

time professor when the outbreak of the Korean War called me
into government service at Ottawa for two years. This was an
interesting period in the postwar evolution of the Canadian-American
relationship and of the “North Atlantic Triangle” of Canada, the
United Kingdom and the United States, and Ottawa is a good ob-
servation post,

But while the opportunities for acquiring knowledge and under-
standing are excellent in government work, there is seldom much
time for study and reflection, and I was glad to return to private
life in 1953. But since I had become convinced that the Canadian-
American relationship had entered a new and more difficult phase,
which demanded greater efforts by men of good will in both coun-
tries to assure better understanding of each country in the other,
two years later [ took on the job of directing the new Canadian
Studies Program at Rochester, which seeks to further that goal
through academic means.

Though my compass, unlike Thoreau’s, has pointed north since
1ggo, and I have enjoyed living and working in various parts of
Canada at intervals during the last twenty years, I still remain at
heart a “Little New Englander,” and still call Cornish, New Hamp-
shire, home. I find it the best place I know in which to write and
have even convinced some Canadians that the skiing and walking
are better there than in the Laurentians, and that the New Hamp-
shire hills are friendlier than the Canadian Rockies.

++ GORDON THOMAS WAGNER

 

BORN: Nov. 11, 1912, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Thomas John Wagner, Ad
Rothmann. , a
prepareD at: University School, Cleveland, Ohio.

[ 1402 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; M.D. (Western
Reserve Univ.), 1939.

marrieD: Ada Ruth Heavilin, Dec. 21, 1940, East Cleveland, Ohio. cui_pren:
Thomas John, April 16, 1943; Peter Gordon, Feb. 6, 1946, James LeRoy,
July 4, 1947; Michael Beall, July 10, 1949.

piep: April 5, 1959, West Richfield, Ohio.

wiwow: Mrs. Gordon T. Wagner, 2294 Main St., Peninsula, Ohio.

GORDON THOMAS WAGNER was a resident of Leverett House
and a member of the freshman wrestling team. He was awarded
the Crowninshield and Matthew Scholarships.

After graduation from medical school and an internship in an
industrial hospital, he entered the general practice of medicine.
During World War II he served in the Army as a captain, 32d
Fvacuation Hospital, ETO. Since the war he had been in the
general practice of medicine in West Richfield, Ohio.

He died in an automobile accident, survived by his wife and
children.

JAMES PHILIP WAITE, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2141 Westover Ave., S.W., Roanoke, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Niles & Niles, 2 Broadway, New York 4, N.Y.

BORN: March 24, 1915, Salt Lake City, Utah. Parents: James Philip Waite,
Nina N. Thorpe.

PREPARED AT: George Washington High School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933. DEGREE: s.B. (New York Univ.), 1935.

MARRIED: Clarice Lee Thacker, Sept. 3, 1950, Lawrenceburg, Ind. cup: James
Philip, Jr., Oct. 25, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Partner, Niles & Niles, certified public accountants.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.

[ 1403 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ROY SMITH WALLACE

 

HOME appress: 129 White Plains Rd., Bronxville, N.Y.

orrice appress: C. I, T. Corp. 650 Madison Ave., New York 22, N.Y,

BorN: Nov. 4, 1914, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Roy Smith Wallace, ’04, Grace
Sutton.

PREPARED aT: New Rochelle High School, New Rochelle, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1935.

marriep: Anne Roorbach, June 22, 1940, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN: Carol,

May 22, 1942; Helen, Nov. 26, 1943; Roy Smith, Jr., March 1, 1947; Anne,
Aug. 20, 1948; John C, March 29, 1953.

yecuPATION: Vice-president, sales director, C, I. IT. Corporation, industrial
installment finance.

FFICES HELD: Director, 1955-58, treasurer, 1957-58, Harvard Club of Southern
California; member, various committees, Community Chest, Boy Scouts
of America.

‘EMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Pocono Lake Preserve, Pa.

SUPPOSE most of us knew what we were going to do and why
¢ were going to do it when we left college twenty-five years ago.
as no exception. I knew what I wanted —a job. The corpora-
n that still employs me offered just that plus, I was told by ex-
rienced advisers, an excellent training in business methods and
cedures which would stand me in good stead in whatever field
iould finally decide to direct my efforts.

'rom a purely selfish standpoint, my original choice of a “job”
proven to be a fortunate one, The work has been and continues
de stimulating, challenging and interesting; it affords opportunity
meeting people engaged in varied types of activitics. I have
cled widely, headquartered at various times at New York, San
cisco, Los Angeles and now again, New York, with some
onsibility for the performance of fifteen divisional offices in

[ 1404 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

principal cities throughout the United States. And I’m still getting
that training in business methods and procedures.

Engaged in 1939, immediately thereafter transferred to San Fran-
cisco but managed to make it back to Cambridge in June of 1940,
where, in the Harvard Chapel, the wisest decision of my lifetime
was confirmed and solemnized.

Was commissioned an ensign in the U.S. Naval Reserve in the
fall of 1942, and saw the world from Melbourne, Australia, to Nome,
Alaska, as an armed guard officer on merchant ships. Never fired a
gun in anger which was probably just as well. Ended up the naval
career as a lieutenant and communications officer at the Naval Train-
ing Center in Miami.

Returned to C. I. T. and San Francisco for a year after discharge
from the Navy and then was transferred to Los Angeles early in
1947. Managed to stay there for eleven years and become some-
what involved in the affairs of the Harvard Club of Southern Cali-

fornia. My particular love was a two-year term as chairman of the
Schools. and Scholarship Committee — a tough job in competition
with the top west coast colleges, but we made some progress and
the work was challenging and eventually rewarding.

. The move to New York, which was accomplished in June of
1958, involved some readjustment, particularly for five children
who were born and bred Californians. Having experienced a New
York winter and survived a summer, all of them are willing to admit
that the East has some advantages and that Bronxville is a good place
to live.

EDMUND CARROLL WALSH, UI

 

HOME appress: 7475 Holliday Drive F., Indianapolis 20, Ind.

[ 1405 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

oFFice appress: Steel Parts Corp. 111 Monument Circle, Indianapolis 4, Ind.

por’: March 25, 1913, Clinton, Iowa. parents: Edmund Carroll Walsh, Hazel
Marie Hill.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MarrieD: Miriam M. Holleran, Sept. 1, 1937, Clinton, Iowa. CHILDREN: Frank
H., Aug. 26, 1938 (deceased Aug. 26, 1938); Judith Carroll, Nov. 16, 1940,
David Edmund, Mav 7, 1945.

occupation: Vice-president of sales and director, Steel Parts Corporation,
manufacturers of parts for automotive industry, etc.

OFFICES HELD: President, St. Thomas Aquinas Club, 1951; director, Indiana
Board, C.Y.0., 1957-60; member, executive committee, Manhattanville
College, 1959-60.

MEMBER OF: Woodstock Club, Indianapolis; Lambs Club; Indianapolis Athletic
Club; The Recess, Detroit,

AFTER one year at Harvard Law, with Johns-Manville Corpora-
tion from 1937 to 1952, and since then have been with Steel Parts
Corporation. After marriage to Mimi Holleran, Smith ’36, have been
blessed with two children: Judy presently attending Manhattan-
ville College, 62, and David, freshman at Park School, preparatory
in Indianapolis.

Served in World War II at sea with the Navy, as lieutenant,
Furopean area and Murmansk, Russia. Mimi and I traveled abroad

in the spring of ’57. Hope to do it again with Judy and Dave in
the summer of '62.

ROBERT WARNER

  

HOME appress: 106 Soldiers Pl., Buffalo 22, N.Y,

OFFICE ADbRESS: Children’s Rehabilitation Center, 936

9, NY. Delaware Ave., Buffalo
BorN: Feb, 16, 1912, Buffalo, N.Y Stee We
Bendheim. et PARENTS: Eugene Warner, ’98, Nellie D.

[ 1406 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Nichols School, Buffalo, N.Y.; New Preparatory School, Cam-
bridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1930-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; M.D. (Univ. of Chicago),
1939:

MaRRIED: Nancy Agnes Stern, June 15, 1939, Highland Park, Il. cuitpren:
Nancy-Gene, March 21, 1942; Robert, Jr., Dec. 2, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Eugene Meier Warner, ’31.

OCCUPATION: Pediatrician; medical director, Children’s Rehabilitation Center
and Buffalo Diagnostic and Counseling Study Center for Retarded Chil-
dren; associate attending pediatrician, Children’s Hospital; assistant pro-
fessor of pediatrics, University of Buffalo; associate on staff, Buffalo Gen-
eral Hospital.

OFFICES HELD: Member, executive committee, 1949-56, vice-president, 1953,
Buffalo Chapter, American Jewish Committee; member, medical advisory
and/or advisory boards, Camp Lakeland, since 1949, Community Welfare
Council, since 1956, University of Buffalo Physical and Occupational
Therapy, since 1957, Western New York Cerebral Palsy Association,
since 1957, Association for the Help of Retarded Children since 1958;
director, Men’s Club, Temple Beth Zion, 1950-52, Buffalo Symphonette,
since 1958; member, Nominating and Health Committee, Jewish Center,
1950-53, Allocations Committee, Jewish Federation, 1950-54; president,
Assistant Medical Board, Children’s Hospital, 1951, Buffalo Endocrine
Society, 1958; trustee, Temple Beth Zion, 1953-54.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Xi; American Academy of Pediatrics (fellow); Academy
of Cerebral Palsy (fellow); American Academy of Neurology; New
York Academy of Sciences; Buffalo Academy of Medicine, Western New

York Epidemiological Society; Buffalo Pediatrics Society; Harvard Club
of Buffalo; Buffalo Chamber Music Society; Albright Art Gallery; Mu-
seum of Natural Science; Public Education Association; Historical Society,
Maimonides Club; New York State, Erie County and Buffalo Medical
Societies; American Medical Association; National Rehabilitation Asso-
ciation; New York State and U.S. Public Health Associations.

PUBLICATIONS: Few scientific articles in medical journals.

IN looking back over the twenty-five years which have elapsed
since graduation, I am struck by the fact that what seemed so im-
portant at various times appears much less so in retrospect.

After graduating, my medical education became the all-consuming
master of my time. I worked the school year at the University of
Chicago and my summers in Buffalo at the General and Children’s
Hospitals. While a freshman at Chicago, I met the girl whom it
took me the rest of my school career to convince to marry me, and
we were married two days after graduation,

My internships and residencies were interrupted by the threat
of war. In June, 1941, I became a battalion surgeon assigned to the
Kentucky National Guard Regiment and later spent three years in

[ 1407 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

the South Pacific with the New York Postgraduate Hospital Unit
doing general medicine and X-ray on the South Pacific islands,
mostly vegetating and missing my family —my daughter having
been born forty-eight hours before I was ordered off for overseas
duty.

In 1946, I returned to pediatrics at the Children’s Hospital in
Buffalo and then in Cincinnati at the Children’s Hospital and Re-
search Foundation, where I resumed contacts with many of my
former Harvard friends,

Returning to Buffalo in 1948, I practised private pediatrics for
some seven years. I enjoyed teaching and spent much of my time
at the university and the Children’s Hospital, where I was on
a teaching service and also ran the Endocrine Clinic. In addition, I
served as a volunteer pediatrician for the Salvation Army hospital
for unwed mothers, for a rheumatic convalescent home and for the
Jewish Fresh Air Camp. I became involved with Temple Beth Zion
on various boards and with the executive committee of the local
chapter of the American Jewish Committee. Looking back, I know
I was hopelessly entangled and so busy that something always came
up which interfered with my attending local Harvard Club meet-
ings.

At the end of 1955, | presumably withdrew from the “rat race”
and settled down to a “nice easy nine-to-five weekday job,” as
director and coordinator of a small but comprehensive center to
treat handicapped children as a part of the university’s and Chil-
dren’s Hospital programs, Within a few months, we received a
federal grant and a year later another one, becoming the Children’s
Rehabilitation Center, and then also the Buffalo Diagnostic and
Counseling Study Center for Retarded Children. This mushroomed
the project into a large out-patient rehabilitation center with some
in-patient facilities and a big professional staff and more work than
I can ever finish by working nights and weekends. I had withdrawn
from religious and civic organizations to devote full time to this
work, only to end up on an entirely different set of boards and
advisory committees involving various types of handicaps. In short,
it’s a “can’t win deal,” very much like my support of Adlai Steven-
son in 1952 and 1956.

Unable to break a long-standing habit acquired at college, I have
made annual pilgrimages to Tanglewood to listen to the Boston
Symphony; on we commuted from Buffalo several weekends
(not the English variety) or combined a weekend stopover with

[ 1408 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

our summer vacation. Fishing vied with attending the closing
activities of the children’s camps in Maine. Our daughter Nancy-
Gene is attending Mills College in Oakland, California, and son
Robert, Jr., is attending the Gow School in South Wales, New
York. This spring we took time out as a family for a three-week
jet trip to France and Italy and are looking forward to the time
of our Twenty-fifth Reunion as our next family junket.

|
4+ GRIFFITH BOWEN WASHBURN 7

 

BORN: July 18, 1913, New York, N.Y. Parents: Philip Carter Washburn, Elinor
Daniels,

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., CU? laude, 1935.

MARRIED: Doris Kelsall, Feb. 3, 1943, Niagara Falls, N.Y. cuttp: Philip Carter,
May 28, 1946.

piED: Feb. 23, 1954, Niagara Falls, N.Y.

wivow: Mrs, Griffith B. Washburn, 2434 Niagara Ave., Niagara Falls, N.Y.

THE only information the Secretary has on Washburn since he
left college is that he fought on the Loyalist side with the Inter-
national Brigade in Spain and spent nine weeks in a hospital. He
was survived by his wife and son.

[ 1409 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

SHERWOOD LARNED WASHBURN

  
  

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2797 Shasta Rd., Berkeley 8, Calif.

orrice appress: University of California, Berkeley 4, Calif.

porn: Nov. 26, 1911, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Henry Bradford Washburn,
’o1, Edith Hall.

prepareD aT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: a.B., summa cum laude, 1935; PH.D.,

1940,
marrieD: Henrietta Pease, Sept. 10, 1938. CHILDREN: Sherwood, April 12, 19413

Stanley, Jan. 2, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Bradford Washburn, ’33.

occupation: Professor of anthropology, University of California.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor and assistant professor of anatomy, Columbia Univer-—
sity, 1939-475 associate and full professor, University of Chicago, 1947-58,
professor of anthropology, University of California, Berkeley, since 1958,

MEMBER OF: Several technical and scientific societies.

PUBLICATIONS: Many technical papers.

EDWARD WASHKEN

HOME ADDRESS: 45 Warwick Rd., Belmont, Mass.

[ 1410 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: Edward Washken Laboratories, 57 Bay State Rd., Cambridge,
Mass.

BorRN: Oct. 7, 1912, Quincy, Mass. parents: John Ignace Washken, Kazmiera
Zubrzynska.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; S.D. (Massachusetts Inst. of
Technology), 1946.

MaRRIED: Ruth Knapp, Sept. 18, 1943, Belmont, Mass. cuiLp: David Jan, Sept.

II, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Chemist and metallurgist.

OFFICES HELD: Research chemist, Arthur D. Little, Inc., 1936-42; director,
Edward Washken Laboratories, since 1942; research associate, Massachu-
setts Institute of Technology, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: American Crystallographic Association; American Society for
Metals; Harvard Club of Boston; Sigma Xi (M.LT.); Mineralogical
Society of America.

IN May, 1936, I landed a permanent job as a chemist at Arthur D.
Little, Inc., in Cambridge. Valuable research experience was gained
in the subsequent six years of employment as well as lasting friend-
ships in many parts of the country. In 1941, the first of a number
of traumatic events occurred which were, in effect, milestones in
my life. Each of these had a profound influence on its course.
From this point on I gradually learned that there is a God and that
He directs the destiny of men.

An old football injury required surgery and in the course of my
hospital stay I met a young nurse who later was to become my
wife. Romance took over, and love’s coup de grace was delivered
while I was confined to Mount Auburn Hospital after a serious
incendiary material explosion in the spring of 1942. The normal
sequence of events took place, courtship, engagement and finally
marriage in September of 1943. It may be of interest to note that
the accident occurred on the top floor of Gibbs Laboratory at
Harvard. While recovering from first-, second- and third-degree
burns of face, hands and arms, I had time to reflect and meditate.
Catastrophic events have been known to have converting influences
on the lives of some individuals. Certainly, the blinding flash of an
incendiary material helped me to make the transition from an agnos-
tic to a Christian, even though the change was not dramatic and
required a number of experiences over a period of years.

While working at Little’s I constantly had a yearning to do
graduate work. The accident at Gibbs and the period of conva-
lescence gave me an opportunity to evaluate myself with respect
to the future. Once the decision was made, an Opportunity was

[ 1411 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

offered me to undertake graduate work at M.ILT. I received m
S.D. in mineralogy and metallurgy i in June of 1946. The graduate
work was interrupted by a six- -month bout with renal tuberculosis
which resulted in the removal of one kidney.

Without giving a blow by blow description of my many ailments
and general state of health, my weight has reached astronomical
proportions in spite of recurring battles with tuberculosis, infectious
hepatitis and gout. At the time of this writing, my dear wife is
urging me to diet so that my old friends will recognize me in June.

While doing graduate work I organized a small research labora-
tory in Cambridge in 1942, under my own name. This research and
consulting business has been adequate to supply our needs. The
laboratory is engaged in research for industry and government
along chemical and metallurgical lines. To be more specific we
specialize in powder metallurgy, crystal growth, ceramics and high
temperature technology. ,

Recently a group of scientists and engineers whose roots are
Harvard and M.LT. formed Bay State Research, Inc. I am proud
to be a member of this team whose present quarters are in the same
building as the Edward Washken Laboratories. Bay State Research

was founded to be of service to government and industry in the
direction and performance of basic research.

I approach the Reunion in June with a deep sense of gratitude to
God for a wonderful wife in Ruth, a fifteen-year-old boy, David,
of whom I am proud and the material comforts which He has pro-
vided. As the years have gone by Harvard has come to mean more
to me than just the college from which I graduated. It is a privilege
and an honor to be a member of the Harvard family and to enjoy
its fellowship.

[ 1412]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARTIN MANUEL WASSERMAN

 

HOME ADpDRESS: 141 Watson Rd., Belmont 78, Mass.

BORN: June 16, 1914, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Samuel FE. Wasserman, Bessie
Reines.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MarRiED: Ruth Phillips, Oct. 11, 1942, Boston, Mass. cHILpreN: Lawrence, Aug.
18, 1947; Robert, Oct. 17, 1951.

TWENTY-FIVE years in retrospect can bring to mind the minor
successes and petty failures of an adult life. The main issue, how-
ever, remains constant. So it has been with me to find a share of
happiness for myself and my family and a slim thread of security.

As a matter of course, I have acquired a home, partly mine, a
wife and two sons (all mine) who keep the strand of security
mighty thin but the happiness level high. As Ruth says, I’ve kept
my waistline and my hair and what more can a guy want after
twenty-five years.

[1413 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

GEORGE HALL WATERMAN, JR.

    

HOME abprEss: 57 Forge Rd., East Greenwich, R.I.
oFFicE appress: Waterman, Merrill, Largen & Co., Inc., 1040 Hospital Trust
Bldg, Providence, RI.
BorN: Dec. 6, 1912, Newton, Mass. parents: George Hall Waterman, Anne
Elizabeth Germain.
prepareD aT: Noble & Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934.
marrigp: Helen J. Marshall, Oct. 26, 1935, Chestnut Hill, Mass. cutpren:
Helen Marshall, Oct. 26, 1936 (mm. Ned K. Buckman, Aug. 15, 1959);
George Hall, 3d, Dec. 1, 1937; Anne Germain, April 30, 1941; Elizabeth
Slater, May 29, 1944; Emily Greene, Oct. 14, 1946; Richard, March 23,
19§2.
{ARVARD SON: George Hall Waterman, 3d, ’6o.
CCUPATION: President, treasurer, Waterman, Merrill, Largen & Co., Inc.
FFICES HELD: President, treasurer, Waterman, Merrill, Largen & Co., Inc.;
president, treasurer, G. H. Waterman & Co., Inc.; vice-president, E. L,
Caldecott Garnetting Co., Inc.

EMBER OF: The Fox Club; Veteran Motor Club of America.

HAVE been in the textile business all my life and, in fact, left
arvard in good standing the middle of my junior year because of
excellent opportunity offered me at that time in this particular
ld, Helen and I have been fortunate in that we have six fine
Idren. Our oldest daughter, Penny, is married to Ned Buck-
n; our second oldest, George, hopes to graduate this year from
rvard, which has meant a great deal to him. Nancy is at the
nett Junior College in Millbrook, New York, and the three
ngest, Libby, Emily and Dickie, are in local schools here in
de Island, My hobby is still the same as it was in my college
, that of early automobiles, and they have been a source of
real pleasure ever since the collection was first started back

25.
[ 1414 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM HARRY WATKINS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 136 W., Plain St., Cochituate, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Welders Supply Co., Inc., Route 128, Burlington, Mass.

BORN: Oct. 1, 1910, Dunkirk, N.Y. parents: William Adelbert .\Varkins,
Florence Sara Schaler.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MarRRIED: Muriel Edith Johnson, Aug. 12, 1939, Scituate, Mass. CHILDREN: Jean
Harriet, 1940; June Margaret, 1942.

OccUPATION: Manager, Everett Branch, Welders Supply Company, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Marlboro Fish and Game Club.

AFTER leaving college, I sailed to London, England, to spend a
summer with my stepfather. On returning to this country, I tried
my hand at pro-football with the Boston Redskins but gave it up
as I hadn’t played for three years. Incidentally, 1 went under the
name of Harry Fink at Harvard but changed my name back to
Watkins when my stepfather disappeared and never came back to
this country. I then traveled all over the United States for six
months, taking in about thirty-five states.. When I completed this
I tried my hand at the automobile game but didn’t like it too well.
Later, I went to New York and worked for a year but wanted to
come back to Boston, so I returned and settled down here. [ met
Edie, my wife, and decided to start working toward a home of our
own. We had a lot of troubles from the start but things began to
iron themselves out and we finally bought our own home and are
enjoying life now.

As for hobbies, golf and fishing seem to be foremost with me,
although I follow all sports with keen enthusiasm. We vacation
in New Hampshire one year and on the Cape the next, so we al-
ways look forward to that time.

[r4rs ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

This isn’t very exciting for twenty-five but if one is content

that’s all that counts. I guess that about does it— would be glad
to hear from any of the fellows any time,

HENRY RUSSELL WATSON, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 29 Canton Ave., Milton, Mass.
OFFICE appREss: 40 Water St., Boston, Mass.

BORN: Sept. 29, 1912, Providence, R.I. parents: Henry Russell Watson, ’o9,
Elizabeth Hawes Swift.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1936. DEGREE: S.B., 1935 (36).

marniep: Eloise Honnet, April 1, 1944, Wilmington, N.C. curup: Henry Rus-
sell, 3d, Sept. 2, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER; Theodore Sedgwick Watson, °38.
occupation: Banker.
OFFICES HELD: Member, board of governors, Milton-Hoosic Club, 1947-48;

member, Warrant Committee, Town of Milton, 1948-49; secretary, Milton
Chapter, American Red Cross, 1948-50.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Audubon Society; Milton-Hoosic Club; Boston
Life Insurance & Trust Council.

LT SPENT my years from graduation to World War II with the

John Hancock Life Insurance Company, as an underwriter in
Boston.

As a member of Boston’s First Corps of Cadets (National Guard),
T entered the U.S. Army in September, 1940, and was discharged in
October, 1945, having commanded Battery A of the 126th AAA
Battalion.

Since discharge from the Army I have lived with my family in

Milton, Massachusetts, and have been associated business-wise with
the National Shawmut Bank of Boston.

[ 1416 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My hobbies coincide with the warmer months — golf, sailing and
wildlife conservation being the primary three.

WILLIAM PEPPER WATTS

EE RTOS

   

HOME ADDRESS: 219 Radnor-Chester Rd., Radnor, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: ‘Terminal Paper Co., 401 N. Third St., Philadelphia 23, Pa.

BORN: July 1, 1911, Ogontz, Pa. parents: Henry Miller Watts, Laura Esther
Barney.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.; New Preparatory School,
Cambridge, Mass. _,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935.

MARRIED: Janet Bromley, Jan. 15, 1938, Philadelphia, Pa. (divorced 1953); Sara
Hervey, Sept. 11, 1953, Radnor, Pa. cHiLpREN: William Pepper, Jr., April
22, 1939 (died July 11, 1955); Wenda Bromley, Nov. 16, 1940; Laura
Barney, May 12, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Miller Watts, Jr., ’25.

OCCUPATION: Salesman.

OFFICES ‘HELD: Lieutenant (j.g.)— lieutenant commander, USNR, 1942-46.

MEMBER OF: Philadelphia Club.

AFTER leaving college, I had an interest in a petroleum distributor-
ship in the suburban Philadelphia area, It was an interesting time
as we became involved in all aspects of that field, including con-
struction at one time of what might have been called mobile and/or
prefabricated gas stations. The war clouds persuaded me to leave
this organization. For six months before Pearl Harbor, I was asso-
ciated with a hosiery firm.

Four years of the Navy started with the first class at Quonset
for the A.V. (S) Ground Swells, a tour at Pensacola and then on
to some island-hopping with Marine pilots in the Pacific. Luck
clobbered me on my return stateside, as IT was sent to Westerly,

[ 1417 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Rhode Island, as O-in-C of the Naval Auxiliary Air Station. The
war ended within six months, but in that ume I gained great respect
for the night fighters who were passing through training at the
field.

After the war I became involved with a group who were out to
three-dimensionalize display and poster-type advertising. Three
tantalizing years passed before we were convinced our products
were too expensive and we were before our time. This led to utiliz-
ing our excellent photographic equipment for straight commercial
advertising. During these efforts, 1 met Sara, my wife, who was
then a food editor at Curtis Publishing Company. For several years
we both had a lot of fun working together on many projects. New
York photographic competition for the really big advertisers made
me decide to leave the company to join my present one. The past
five years there seem to have flown by as I have delved into the
ever-changing phases of the modern packaging world.

Sara and I live in a 1797 red barn. Many, many hours have been
spent on our hobby. If the ever-threatening expressway does not

go through our living room, we hope to carry on here and travel
as much as possible,

ROBERT CHARLES WEAVER

 

HOME ADpRESS: 780 Bay St., San Francisco 9, Calif,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Raybestos Manhattan, Inc., 168 Beacon St., South San Fran-
cisco, Calif.

porN: May 12, 1912, New York, N.Y. parents; Charles I. Weaver, Florence
Teller.

PREPARED aT: Columbia Grammar School, New York, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: 8.B., 1935,

marriep: Mary Porter, March 28, 1934. cum: Anthony Morgan, June 28
1938. ,

[ 1418 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Salesman, industrial rubber, asbestos and plastic products.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of San Francisco and New York; San Francisco
Commercial Club; Olympic Club of San Francisco.

I HAVE accomplished nothing except the production of one son,

at present a member of the sophomore class at San Francisco State

College. Pve been continuously employed in the industrial rubber
business since 1938 —still earn no more than today’s minimum
starting salary for any bright young college graduate. However,
I do reside permanently in San Francisco, which makes up for a
great many otherwise dull and negative factors in a generally un-
interesting twenty-five years since graduation. In short, I seem to
have fulfilled largely the predictions of those who were sure that
I would never amount to anything.

BERNARD HERMAN WEBBER

 

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 506 N. 52d St., Philadelphia, Pa.

BORN: Sept. 8, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: Morris Webber, Rose Apledorf.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934.

WEBBER has been carried as a “lost” man on our records since 1952.

[ r4ty ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ALBAN WEBER

  

HOME ADDRESS: 1005 Sheridan Rd., Evanston, Ill.

OFFICE appress: Northwestern University, Evanston, III.

BorN: Jan. 29, 1915, Chicago, Ill. parents: Joseph Alban Weber, Anna von
Plachecki.

PREPARED AT: Senn High School, Chicago, Il.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934. DEGREES: A.B., 1935 (34); LL.B. 1937.

marrieD: Margaret Kenny, Dec. 29, 1951, Winnetka, Ill. cutpren: Alban, 3d,
Nov. 12, 1952; Peggy Ann, Feb. 7, 1954; Gloria Jean, Dec. 15, 1955; Brian
Kenny, June 2, 1959.

occupaTion: Attorney; university counsel, Northwestern University.

OFFICES HELD: President, North Town Community Council, 1939-413 chief
counsel, Foreign Liquidation Commission, 1946; member, Chicago City
Council, since 1947; chairman, Trailblazer District, Boy Scouts of America,
1949-53; lieutenant governor, Illinois-Iowa District, Kiwanis International,
1951; director, Evanston Welfare Council, Evanston Chamber of Com-
merce, Bell Discount Corporation, Benjamin Franklin Fund, Inc., Home-
owners Mutual Insurance Company, Oakton Distributors, Inc.

SOMETIMES it seems only yesterday — and sometimes it seems eons
— that we left college life behind and ventured out into the world.
I wasn’t sure then in what direction I wanted to go, and twenty-
five years have only served to make me more wide-eyed and en-
thusiastically unsure than ever before, I can summarize little in
the way of basic convictions except an ever-increasing awareness
of the overriding importance of human relationships as the funda-
mental value in life. So old college friends, like wine in old casks,
take on an added significance! I left the Class of 1935 a year early,
having graduated in three years. My life since then falls naturally
into about eight periods or chapters, as follows:

1. Harvard Law School,

Studied under the greats — Williston, Beale, Pound, Scott, War-

[ 1420 ]

atta
spoons
cep AE EOI

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ren, Frankfurter, and the present dean, Erwin Griswold. A won-

derful grounding in the law, Received my LL.B. in June, 1937.
2. Pre-war Practice.

Admitted to the Illinois Bar and practised in Chicago with my
father. Elected president, North Town Community Council. Active
in Boy Scout work, Kiwanis, Republican politics.

3. U.S. Navy — World War II.

Went into service as an ensign, June, 1941, as legal officer, Naval
Air Station, Norfolk, Virginia. Commanded three ships during
the war — PC-564, U.S.S. Dempsey, and the U.S.S. DeLong; PC-564
in the Caribbean and South Atlantic, the Dewzpsey in the South
Pacific, and the DeLong as a school ship in Miami. Took part in
the Gilberts, Marshalls, Guadalcanal, Palau, Bougainville, Saipan,
and Leyte operations, sinking two Japanese torpedo boats, rescuing

many survivors of torpedoed ships, and discovering an uncharted
island, among other things. After war’s end, I became chief of the
International Law Section, JAG, U.S. Navy. Discharged as com-
mander, May, 1946. Subsequently promoted to captain, U.S.N.R.,
and now active in the Navy League and Naval Reserve.

4. State Department — OFLC.

Went to Rome in June, 1946, as counsel to the Foreign Liquida-
tion Commissioner for Italy, handling the disposition of over $365,-
000,000 of war surplus. Negotiated and executed the first US.
Embassy purchase with surplus funds, the acquisition of the Palazzo
Marguerita, the present US. Embassy in Rome. Promoted to act-
ing chief counsel for Europe, I then went to Paris. Resigned to
return to the United States in December, 1946.

5. Chicago City Council.

Campaigned as independent and was elected over Democratic
and Republican opposition. ‘Took seat as an independent Republi-
can and served four years. Still politically active, a personal friend
of both Senators Dirksen and Douglas, Governor Stratton, and
Presidential Adviser Robert E. Merriam.

6. Trust Business.

Affiliated as trust officer with Lake Shore National Bank in
1952. Taught at Illinois Bankers Association Trust Development
School at Northwestern University,

7. University Counsel, Northwestern University.

Because of varied experience in real estate, probate atters, estate
planning, gover nmental contracts, municipal government, and trust

developinent, I was chosen as University Counsel in 1gs5 and have

[ 1421 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

served in that capacity ever since, It is an interesting and challeng-

ing assignment that keeps me active in an intellectually stimulating
climate.

8. Family.

Another chapter, concurrent mainly with the latter period, would
be needed to deal with my marriage and family life. On December
29, 1951, | married Margaret Kenny of Kenilworth, Illinois, and
we now have four children — Alban, 3d (seven), Peggy Ann (six),
Gloria Jean (four), and Brian (seven months). I do not expect to
be a grandfather for at least fourteen or fifteen years.

+ LOUIS HILDEBRAND WEBER

 

porN: Feb. 3, 1911, Lancaster, Pa. parents: George R. Weber, Clara Hilde-
brand.

PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N-J.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.
pep: Dec. 15, 1947, Lancaster, Pa.

LOUIS HILDEBRAND WEBER spent the freshman year at Harvard

with our Class. The Secretary has no information concerning his
activities after leaving college.

[ 1422 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FREDERIC AUGUSTUS WEBSTER

 

HOME aApprEss: 62 Coolidge Ave., Cambridge 38, Mass.

BorN: April 3, 1912, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Kenneth Grant Tremayne
Webster, Edith Forbes.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935.
MARRIED: Priscilla Alden Little, March 5, 1938, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
Frederic Augustus, Jr., April 12, 1939; Katharine Kimball, Feb. 4, 1941.
OCCUPATION: Consultant to Lincoln Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology.

MEMBER OF: St. Botolph Club; Schussverein; Association Internationale de
Cybernétique; Institute of Radio Engineers.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Influence of Interaural Phase on Masked Thresholds,”
Journal of the Acoustical Society of America, July, 1951; co-author of
several articles (physiological) in scientific journals.

MY intention when I left college was to complete medical school
and go into physiological research; but the research got the better
of me about half way through, and I joined the research staff of
the Fatigue Laboratory. At first the work dealt with cardio-vascu-
lar studies, but the problems seemed to migrate from the heart to
the mind. Next thing I knew I was designing psycho-motor tests
for selecting aircraft pilots; and in 1940 I joined a Navy group
working on the selection and training of pilots, being assigned
briefly to the Naval Air Station at Pensacola. Our entry into the
war put me on duty as a research officer (lieutenant, j.¢., A-V(S))
at the Los Alamitos primary training base in California. But during
the next few years, I visited many of the training bases about the
country — encountering the usual array of experiences, both ex-
asperating and entertaining, Fortunately, the latter heavily pre-
dominated. (There was, for example, my first wartime assignment.
Trembling I arrived at the new base and was faced by a close-

[ 1423 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

cropped, fierce-looking executive officer who pierced me with his
eve and savagely proclaimed, “Webster, you'll take charge of the
liquor on this base!” Nor did the matter end there. For a junior
officer to be called out of the blue by the commanding officer gen-
erally connoted the most dire of transgressions by the junior. And
from time to time, the captain’s yeoman would arrive breathless]
at my door. “Sir,” he would pant, “I beg your pardon, Sir, but the
captain wants to see vou—on the double. Terribly sorry, Sir.
Best of luck.” “Well, Webster,” the CO would inquire, “what do
recommend in rum?”)

Toward the end of the war, I was attached to the Central Examin-
ing Board, once more at Pensacola; and left there (as commander
MSC) in the fall of 1945 to return to civilian life. My plan was to
work on certain fundamental perceptual problems encountered by
fliers, particularly with respect to training and instrumentation.
But most of the studies actually turned out to deal with how the
human auditory system detects signals that are buried in noise.
No matter what the problem, however, the approaches being used
always seemed to deflect from the central issues. In desperation
one day I called up M.1.T-’s eminent mathematician, Norbert Wie-
ner, never expecting to get beyond his fourth sub-secretary. Not
only did I reach Wiener himself, but within half an hour we had
completed plans for investigating something of the problem during
Wiener’s stay in Mexico that fall. In Mexico, of course, we never
solved any of the problems, but we had a most interesting time de-
bating about the significance of the various ideas that were going
into the book Cybernetics. The upshot of this expedition — though
delayed —was that I jomed the Digital Computer Laboratory,
M.LT., in 1951. Here I worked part time on air defense problems
— particularly the relations between human observers and oper-_
ators, on the one hand, and the mechanized equipment that must
compute, digest, and present, on the other. But there was a more
basic side to the problem. Between man and machine, there was
a communication boundary — how far could this boundary be pushed
from the machine to man? How much of the perceptual organiza-
tion or motor skill could be put into the machine? After a couple
of years, the Digital Computer Laboratory was swallowed u by
the new Lincoln Laboratories, and the pressure of immediate de-
fense problems left no room for long-range research of this type.
I resigned to write up our preliminary results and our plans in
comprehensive form, but like so many other good intentions, this

[1424]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

one is still in the works. In any case, the craving for active research
soon had me back in the laboratory — this time with Dr. Donald
Griffin at Harvard.

Griffin had hoped to learn something of how bats achieve their
unbelievably quick and accurate interceptions of flying insects,
solely by the use of reflected echoes from their own sound-pulses.
But the technical problems seemed pretty formidable. Being naive,
I thought Griffin was a pessimist and undertook to demonstrate
how simple the matter was. Two years later, I no longer think he
was a pessimist, and without his patient and painstaking coopera-
tion I am sure I would still be gazing into the night skies wondering
where to begin. Fortunately, also, Lincoln Laboratories became
increasingly interested. If a bat could do so much so fast, why
could not the intercept machines of man? Lincoln Laboratories
wanted to know. And so I became consultant on bats to the Radar
Division of Lincoln Laboratory —a position which I am sure will
cause some twitching of eyebrows if the news ever reaches the
august centers of the Pentagon.

ARNOLD AARON WEINER

 

fee earns Skelter. ai

  

HOME apbrEss: 35 William St., Andover, Mass.

OFFICE appRESsS: Bolta Division, General Tire & Rubber Co., co Garden Se.
Lawrence, Mass.

BORN: Dec. 25, 1913, Boston, Mass, PARENTS: Joseph Weiner, Carrie Sophie
Mindel.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.

marriED: Ruth Charlotte Trilling, March 28, 1gg:, Boston, Mass. cites s.
Lee Richard, Oct. 8, 1944; Jay Stanley, July so, rgyr.

[ 1425 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

occupanion: Coordinator of marketing,
Rubber Company.

MEMBER oF: American Management Association; National Association of
Bedding Manufacturers; Vinyl Fabrics Institute; National Association of
Upholstery Fabrics Manufacturers, National Association of Upholster
Salesmen. y

Plastics Division, General Tire g

REGRETFULLY, in 1933 it became necessary for me to resign
from Harvard and sever my physical relationship as a student be-
cause of a lack of financial means to continue and because of per-
sonal and family responsibilities. This was a real “kick in the pants”
since this decision at one tme shattered my hopes for my future,
temporarily deprived me of my many ambitions and meant that no
longer would I enjoy the many wonderful associations and friend-
ships I had been privileged to gain during my first two years at
Cambridge. The impact of this decision left its mark on me and I
must admit that even to this day its traces remain.

Fortunately, through sheer self-appraisal and self-determination,
I was able to embark on a business career, charting my course care-
fully and thoroughly. The years 1933 to 1942 were spent in retail-
ing and merchandising with the Filene organization in Boston. Dur-
ing 1941-42, I met, courted and later married my loving, devoted
wife, the then Ruth Charlotte Trilling of Lawrence, Massachusetts.

The call to the colors came in 1942 and in that year I entered the
Army Medical Corps. Upon my medical discharge, after eighteen
months of service, we settled in Andover, Massachusetts, where in
1944 our first son, Lee Richard, was born. Then in 1948, we were
blessed with our second son, Jay Stanley.

After a tenure as assistant to the president of the Keystone Camera
Company, I became associated with the Bolta Company in Law-
rence, then a small family-owned company which was very aggres-
sively engaged in all phases of plastics manufacture. Here, among
other duties, I was assigned to the market research and develop-
ment of a then new product — “Boltaflex” — the outgrowth of the
vinyl family of plastics which was then in its infancy. Through
hard work and sheer determination, my colleagues and I (my asso-
ciate was a Yale man of our vintage) were able to produce and
merchandise a product which in a relatively short time allowed a
national and international position in the home-furnishing, auto-
motive and allied industries. In this period, | became sales manager,
then vice-president for sales.

In 1953, the General Tire & Rubber Company, then in

[ 1426 |

 

the carly

poe ma ETT IE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

phase of its diversification program, purchased our company and
took its first stride forward in becoming the largest producer of
viny] plastics in the world today. My first assignment was that of
sales manager of the upholstery sales, and in 1958 I was promoted
to marketing coordinator of Boltaflex upholstery of our plants in
Lawrence, Toledo, Ohio, and in Jeannette, Pennsylvania.

The events, the results, the happenings of my business career of
the past fifteen years have been most fruitful and soul-satisfying.
My sense of accomplishment, the tremendous pride and personal
satisfaction at these achievements have gone a long way to heal the
wounds I had suffered earlier when I had to quit school.

My work entails considerable travel all over the country and
there is no greater thrill than to meet up with an old classmate in
Los Angeles or Dallas or points north, east, south or west.

In my community, within my time limitations, I try to fulfill the
prerequisites and then some, in the need for participation in matters
of philanthropic drives, town meetings, Little League, etc.

At home the Weiners keep quite active. Our summers have been
spent at Gloucester, on the North Shore of Boston, where we par-
take in very full measure of fishing, boating and golf. (Lee and
Ruth now give me strokes.) Both boys are quite active in baseball,
football, basketball, hockey, etc. — the “old man” is now struggling
to keep up with them. Scholastically, Ruth and I derive tremendous
pleasure and satisfaction from their achievements at school. Lee
Richard is now fifteen years old and is a Lower at Phillips Andover
Academy; Jay is now eleven years old and in the elementary grade
at Shawsheen School in Andover.

So you see, as the years move on, the initial impact of my physical
separation from Harvard was lessened. The development of my
business career, God’s blessing in my wonderful family and the
opportunities of this great big wonderful world have proved that
all was not lost. I just changed my course and my heading, and the
Good Lord was especially good to me — for w hich I shall ever be

grateful. I look forward with keen anticipation to our Reunion in
June.

[ 1427 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

PAUL ALFRED WELBOURNE

ry
YP Serre sseaoe

  

HOME appress: 1405 Littleton Blvd., Littleton, Colo.

oFFice appress: In-Com Realty Co., Denver, Col.

BorN: June 28, 1913, Newton, Mass. parents: Alfred Pacey Welburn, Capitola
Stiner.

PREPARED AT: Winchester High School, Winchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

MarriED: Eve Vivian Krasny.

occupation: Owner, In-Com Realty Company, industrial and commercial
real estate.

DURING the year following my departure from Harvard, maga-
zine selling took me from Massachusetts to California. At the
Huntington Hotel in Pasadena, I taught tennis and swimming for
two years. After an extended trip to Europe, I went to work for
Armour & Company, in Chicago, Sales and sales management with
Armour & Company in upstate New York were most worthwhile
experiences until the U.S. Army had other plans for me, During
the next four and a half years my travels in uniform were extensive:
southern U.S.A., England, Africa, Brazil, Italy and finally home
again.

Until 1951, I worked in sales and management for Thatcher
Glass Manufacturing Company and Crown Cork & Seal Company
in New England and New York City. Then in 1951, I found my
rightful vocation in real estate. Two years of experience in the
real estate ficld in the Wall Street area prepared me to come to
Denver for Bill Zeckendorf as director of renting for about $50,-
000,000.00 of projects. When these developments were under con-
trol in 1955, I decided to stay in Denver as a specialist in commer-
cial and industrial development. I now have In-Com Realty Com-

[ 1428 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pany, a participating interest in Blanding Construction & Investment
Company and several interests in related companies. God is good.

THOMAS DUNWOODY WELCH

 

HOME ADDRESS: Nanepashemet Street, Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: United Shoe Machinery Corp., 140 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: March 26, 1912, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Thomas Albert Welch, Lydia
A. Dunwoody.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1934.

MarRRIED: Marian Williams Moffat, April 13, 1935, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN:
Frances Emerson, March 21, 1937; Thomas Dunwoody, Jr., Nov. 8, 1940;
Marian Moffat, April 1, 1944; Evan Brook, Sept. 7, 1945.

OccUPATION: Assistant general manager, United Shoe Machinery Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Transportation Committee, Boston Chamber of Com-
merce, 1945-50; director, Texon, Inc., 1949-52, Celastic Corporation, 195 5-
59; incorporator, Lynn Institution for Savings, 1956-58; trustee, 1956-58,
president, 1958, Phillips Academy Alumni Council; trustee, Shore Country
Day School, 1957-58.

MEMBER OF: Tedesco Country Club, Swampscott, Mass.; Eastern Yacht Club,
Marblehead, Mass.; The Country Club, Brookline, Mass.

[1429 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

JOHN SALTAR WELD

 

HOME appress: Glen Aubrey Road, Maine, N.Y.

OFFIcE apprEss: Harpur College, Vestal, N.Y.

BoRN: April 13, 1914, Rockford, Ill. parents: Edward Howland Weld, Mary
Eleanor Saltar.

PREPARED AT: Rockford High School, Rockford, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., C7 laude, 1935; A.M., 19373 PH.D.
1940.

MarrigpD: Ann Bartlett, 1940, Cambridge, Mass. cHiLpreN: Jonathan Bartlett,
1941; Susan Leigh, 1943; Jeremy Saltar, 1947; Timothy Edward Kent, 1949,
Stephen Brooks, 1952.

occupation: Professor of English literature, Harpur College, State University
of New York.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Specialized articles on Renaissance literature.

AFTER taking my doctorate in 1940, I taught at Harvard for three
years. In 1943 I entered the Navy, serving under David Worcester,
29. Released in 1946. I taught at Princeton until 1950 when I came
to Harpur. My consuming interest is my work.

[1430 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANCIS HOLLAND WEMPLE

 

HOME AppREss: 44 Murray Ave., Port Washington, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Handy & Harman, 82 Fulton St., New York 38, N.Y.

BORN: April 1, 1914, New York, N.Y. parents: William Lester Wemple, LL.b.,
*03, Dorothy Gunnels.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; M.B.A. (New York Univ.),
1949.

MARRIED: Virginia Waller, Aug. 13, 1943, New York, N.Y. cuipren: Francis
Holland, Jr., June 28, 1946; Virginia, March 3, 1948; Martha, Nov. 19,
1951; Anne, Oct. 24, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Wemple, ’34.

occuPaTION: Treasurer, Handy & Harman, refiners and processors of precious
metals.

MEMBER OF: Drug & Chemical Club; American Institute of Mining & Metal-
lurgical Engineers, Inc., Commodity Exchange, Inc., all of New York City;
Port Washington Yacht Club.

THE form said my class wants to know all about my career history,
family, travels, hobbies, war record or government service and my
social, political or religious convictions. Without stopping to quib-
ble about the use of the word “wants,” here goes:

CAREER HISTORY: After a summer job at the New York
office of the First Boston Corporation, they agreed to a permanent
arrangement. From July, 1935, to April, 1942, I worked for them
at their then address at 100 Broadway, New York City. From
April through June of 1942, I had a temporary job with the Othce
of Price Administration in Washington, D.C. My office was in
Temporary Building D which was and still is on Constitution
Avenue. I took three years out for service in the Navy, which will
be covered under the proper heading, and in 1945 came with Handy
& Harman.

[ 1431 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

FAMILY: The statistics on marriage, children, ete., are already
listed, Naturally everyone’s children are the nicest, and Ginny and
J are pleased to report that ours are too. In spite of this we are glad
that they are now all in school, at last. Extra-curricular activi-
ties include Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, music lessons, dancing classes,
Sunday School and other miscellaneous activities usually associated
with suburban life, Inevitably we parents have become involved,
and I am serving on the Boy Scout Troop Committee and teaching
Sunday School.

TRAVELS: I assume this refers to peacetime travel. Being in the
silver business has given me the opportunity to visit Mexico occa-
sionally, and I have been down about five or six times during the
past ten years. I have also been to Europe, Canada and the West
Coast. Unfortunately, Ginny has not been able to go on any of
these trips with me, and so far our “foreign” vacation travel has
been limited to two trips to Bermuda.

HOBBIES: Getting the budget to balance.

WAR RECORD: In December of ro41, I signed up with the
Navy as an officer candidate under the V-7 program. They did
not expect to have room for me for several months, and in the
interim I joined O.P.A. in Washington. On July 2, 1942, I reported
for duty at John Jay Hall, Columbia University, New York, and
in October was graduated with the rank of ensign, USNR, with
orders to report to the USS duPont (DD 152), a 1919 vintage flush
deck destroyer, in Tomkinsville, Staten Island. Our duty was
Atlantic convoying, and we plied the lanes to Aruba, Casablanca,
Gibraltar, Algiers, Belfast, Glasgow, Recife, Bahia, Trinidad and
other ports I can no longer recall. We saw little action but got into
enough to receive a Presidential Unit Citation. My ship was trans-
ferred to Key West in November of 1944, and Ginny joined me
for eight months of soft duty. In June, 1945, I was transferred to
the War College in Newport, where we spent the summer. It was
from there that I received my discharge with a final rank of lieu-
tenant.

CONVICT IONS: Political: Generally vote Republican, some-
times without enthusiasm. Religious: We all attend St. Stephen’s

Protestant Episcopal Church in Port Washington with moderate
regularity.

[1432 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CARL UNTERMEYER WERNER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1095 Park Ave., New York 28, N.Y.

OFFICE aDpRESS: Gordon, Brady, Caffrey & Keller, 120 Broadway, New York 5,
N.Y.

BORN: Feb. 1, 1914, New York, N.Y. parents: Jacob Werner, Rita Moss Unter-
meyer.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School for Boys, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1031-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; LL.B. (New York Univ.),

1939.

UNMARRIED.

occuPaTION: Partner in law firm, Gordon, Brady, Caffrey & Keller.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant secretary, 1957-59, Vice-president, since 1959, gth As-
sembly District Republican Club.

MEMBER OF: New York County Lawyers Association; gth Assembly District
Republican Club; Harvard Club of New York, Sunningdale Country
Club.

THROUGH the years following graduation, there has often come
to my mind the orientation session on the system of majoring in
which our University President, Abbott Lawrence Lowell, ad-
monished that a would-be lawyer should overcome the natural
impulse to major in history, government, and economics and con-
sider a field like literature to develop an appreciation for and indulge
in good reading. Would that I had followed our President’s sage
advice. I majored in history, government, and economics, became
a lawyer, have had little time for pleasure reading, and have devoted
that time to reading which I am sure our professors would not have
labelled ‘“‘good.”

After graduating from law school, I worked with a single practi-
tioner and was in the process of learning the practical side of the
profession when Uncle Sam claimed me for a three-year, ten-month,
stint in the Army. I never got beyond the Abilene, Texas, area

[ 1433 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

because, according to my friends in the 12th Armored Division of
which I was a member from activation, through maneuvers, and u
to final preparation for overseas, I was able to activate an old ulcer
in the nick of time.

Upon my return to civilian life in due course, I felt destined to
become a top-notch lawyer overnight after being told that all the
best lawyers had ulcers. Unfortunately, my knowledge of the law
and legal savoir faire had become quite rusty and I found myself
starting at the bottom of the ladder, but fortunately with a young
and rapidly growing firm, Gordon, Brady, Caffrey & Keller. I have
been with the firm ever since and became a partner last year.

Although the law has been a jealous mistress, I have devoted a
great deal of time to her relative, politics. My choice of party was
influenced quite considerably by my college courses which
suaded me that the Republican Party stood domestically for free
enterprise in business, relatively unharnessed by government con-
trols, and that such a doctrine led to maximum economic growth.
I joined the local Republican Organization in the 17th Congressional
District of New York where I live. Serving as a district captain
and county committeeman in a minority New York City group
offers a great challenge and is most fascinating. I have derived much
satisfaction from our success in keeping the district Republican,
despite a couple of close calls.

On the recreational side, I specialize in weekend golf, which keeps
my handicap at a high twenty-nine. I wish that the College authori-
ties had made golf as compulsory as English I. My last five summer
vacations have been spent on Nantucket Island, which has just about
everything, including a golf course that is kind to my type of game.
I enjoy that spot so much that I may be writing my memoirs for
the Fiftieth Reunion Report from there.

L 1434 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANK LEE WESSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: Victoria, Ark.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wesson Farms, Inc., Victoria, Ark.

BORN: Feb. 18, 1912, Springfield, Mass. parents: Frank Herbert Wesson, ’o4,
Victoria Wilson.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.

MARRIED: Mathilde Overton, Jan. 1, 1938, Memphis, Tenn. cnitpren: Lee
Wilson, Oct. 1, 1938; Victoria, June 27, 1942; Frank Hawes, March 18,
1946.

HARVARD SON: Lee Wilson Wesson, ’63.

OCCUPATION: Farmer.

OFFICES HELD: President, Wesson Farms, Inc., four Victoria Corporations, three
Missco Implement Corporations, since 1948, Missco Real Estate Company,
Inc., since 1949, Blytheville Delinting Corporation, since 1957; director,
Smith & Wesson, Inc., Springfield, Mass., since 1947, Osceola Chamber of
Commerce, since 1952, Memphis Branch, Federal Reserve Bank of St.
Louis, since 1958; trustee, three fiduciary funds, since 1951; board member,
Luxora School, since 1952; member, executive committee, Calvary Fopis-
copal Church, since 1960.

MY history 1 Is two years longer than that of my graduating class-
mates and I am now conveniently hazy as tow hich of two forces
played the major part in my leaving Harvard at the end of mv
sophomore year — Dean Bender or the Great Depression. I prefer
to choose the latter. In any event, I went to work as a systems
serviceman for International Business Machines in 1933, at the
extravagant salary of $65.00 per month, Without any other re-
sources and with too long hours to hold down a second job, I can
vividly remember some pretty wooly situations concerning food
and laundry — stiff white collars to boot. IT wonder if any other
member of °35 ever relished one-cent-per-bowl barley soup in
Bernarr McFadden’s health restaurant under the C hicago clevated

[ 1435 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

tracks more than I did? However, all my experiences with the
great IBM were fascinating to me and I moved along from Boston’s
Kenmore Square office (boarding in Scollay Square) to Chicago,
to Endicott, New York, to Cincinnati, where | resigned in 1936.

The Alississippi River cotton delta of Arkansas drew me awa
from IBM in probably the same way that Boston’s Mark Hopkins
was drawn to California several generations ago. Twenty-four years
ago, when I arrived, Arkansas was one of the country’s few remain-
ing frontiers. In this comparatively short span of years, I have seen
“gun toters” disappear, malaria wiped out, cypress swamps cleared
and drained and farmland values increase from $5.00 per acre to
$500.00 per acre, Presently, Arkansas is rapidly and successfull
balancing its farm economy with a tremendous migration of indus-
try to the cotton South, It is now a fact that cotton is moving west,
cattle are moving east, industry is moving south and Negroes are
moving north, It is also true that Arkansas’ population has remained
static while the rest of the country has increased tremendously in
numbers, but the census figures do not show the racial changes. It
is reliably estimated that our local river-delta-population ratio has
gone from 75% negro and 25% white to 25% negro and 75% white.
This complete switch will continue and eventually transfer the
insoluble and knotty integration problem completely out of the
South.

With the exception of a few years during the war as treasurer of
American Aviation Corporation, my roots have gone deeper and
deeper as a transplanted Arkansan. For the past twelve years I have
qualified as a full-fledged dirt farmer and take full responsibility for
the success and failures of 7,700 intensively cultivated problem
acres, I have nightmares about the national farm problem or farm
“Mess” and believe that while the Democrats kept us browning in
the frying pan, the Republicans are cindering us in the fire. I can
see nothing bright in the farm future but will vote the straight
Democratic ticket in the next election, regardless of candidates, for
the first time in my life. National politics give me a pain in the
neck and I can only hope that through age I shall mellow and
possibly acquire a totally lacking sense of humor therein.

In spite of my thorny economic problems, my family life has
turned out extraordinarily well so far. My one and only wife
Mathilde, manages to put up with me, and our three children who
have all been away at school for several years, continue to give us
great pleasure in their accomplishments and company during vaca-

[ 1436 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tions. My frequent flying visits to the Northeast have been too
sketchy to maintain contact with many classmates. I would like to
assure all members who are ever in the vicinity of Memphis that
our welcome mat is always out,

PETER WILLIAM WHEELER

 

HOME ApprEss: Angle Pond, East Hampstead, N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 344 Washington St., Haverhill, Mass.

BORN: June 7, 1913, Haverhill, Mass. Parents: John P. Kolodziej, Sophie
Kolodziej.

PREPARED AT: Haverhill High School, Haverhill, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1939.

marrieD: Mary E. McCarthy, May 20, 1944, Manchester, N.H. cxitp: Nancy
Ellen, Feb. 12, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Physician; general practice.

OFFICES HELD: Member of staff, Bon Secours Hospital, Methuen, Mass., Clover
Hill Hospital, Lawrence, Mass.

MEMBER oF: National Board of Examiners (diplomate); Pentucket Associa-
tion of Physicians; Massachusetts Medical Society.

FOLLOWING my graduation at Harvard I continued my studies
for several years. In 1939 I graduated from Tufts College Medical
School and in 1940 I completed one year of general internship train-
ing at the Hale Hospital, Haverhill, my hometown. At that time it
appeared that our country would be involved in World War IT, and
there was a decision to be made as to whether I should continue
further studies or get out into general practice as soon as possible,
knowing that it would not be too long before I would be involved.

I chose the latter course, getting right into private practice im-
mediately upon completion of my internship, and practised until
1942, at which time I entered the U.S, Public Health Service and

[ 1437 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

was detailed to special duty with the Secretary of the Navy and
assigned to the Maritime Service. For the next three years I was
involved in the recruitment program in Maine and Connecticut. I
was stationed at Fort Trumbull in New London, Connecticut, and
later was aboard the SS Emporia, PF 28. Our assignment was in
the locality between Iceland and Greenland. In 1946, I resumed
private practice in Haverhill, and in southern New Hampshire.
During the war years I acquired a choice piece of shore property
at Angle Pond, East Hampstead, New Hampshire, which I have
made my legal residence and which has served as a splendid retreat
from my medical practice in Haverhill.

During the war years I met many seamen and officials of steam-
ship lines and became interested in peacetime duty as ship’s physi-
cian and in travel. My hobbies became cruises and travel in general,
and in the past several years, my family and I have enjoyed trips
aboard a banana boat to Honduras, cruises on the Great Lakes,
cruise to the West Indies and a cruise on the Saguenay River. Last
summer we purchased a travel house trailer and made a two months’
trip out west. We particularly enjoyed crossing the Rockies at the
Rocky Mountain National Park and the High Sierra Mountains in
Nevada and California. We also enjoyed staying at national parks
and seeing national monuments such as Yellowstone, Grand Teton
National Park, Crater Lake in Oregon, Estes Park in Colorado,
Dinosaur National Monument in Colorado and Utah and many
other interesting spots. One certainly can appreciate more the hard-
ships of our pioneers as they trekked out west, after having tried
it in a modern house trailer.

Medical work has proved to be quite interesting and at times
thrilling, but there is altogether too much of it, and I have looked
forward to getting away from it from time to time. A trip to Nova
Scotia is in the making for the coming summer, to be followed
shortly after possibly by a cruise around the entire coast of Africa
aboard the Union-Castle Line. The time between these trips is
consumed wholly by hard work interspersed with weekends in our
beautiful natural surroundings of New Hampshire. Boating, fish-
ing and swimming are enjoyed on our inland lake and during the
summer we make occasional trips to the seashore at Hampton and
Rye Beach, which is only approximately twenty miles away.

In the past twenty-five years 1 have been able to settle down and

get myself squared away and hope in the next few years to be able
to relax considerably more. 1 look forward very much to coming

[ 1438 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

back for a week of reunion with many of my friends and class-
mates, and hope to be able to renew many of my acquaintances and
enjoy seeing them more often.

CHARLES LEWIS WHIPPLE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 28 Percy Rd., Lexington 73, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Globe, Boston, Mass.

Born: May 8, 1914, Salem, Mass. Parents: Charles Augustus Whipple, 'o9,
Mary Belle Lane.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MarriED: Caroline Dalton Drane, Jan. 15, 1946, Portsmouth, N.H. CHILDREN:
Charles A., 2d, Sept. 23, 1946; Jonathan Landon, March 8, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Lane Whipple, ’37.

OCCUPATION: Newspaper reporter, Boston Globe.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

HARVARD has an unhappy faculty (no pun intended) for putting
its Twenty-fifth Reunion Classes into the Puritan stocks and asking
us whatever in the world we could have done with the quarter-
century that was entrusted to our care. I’ve been looking for it
everywhere — in the hall closet with my rubbers, down cellar with
my discarded golf clubs and (likely place) upstairs in the children’s
toy chest. It could have dropped out of my pocket, along with the
screwdriver while I was putting up the storm windows.

As she does with all lost things in our family, including her hus-
band, my wife reminds me what I did with it. I got married, that’s
what I did, and it has turned out most happily. We have two boys
who are sure to run for president some day against each other, so
how can I lose?

There are only a few other things I can remember and it’s a good

[ 1439 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 193 5

So let's see, where has that pesky quarter-century been? Now [|
remember: I hocked it for a smile and a song and what a journalist

sneakily described, in referring to the possessions of a prize-winning
snake, as a pit to hiss in. Yet I think, as I weave to and fro under
the charmer’s mesmerizing pipes, that I got the better of the bargain.

FRANKLIN PLUMMER WHITBECK

 

HOME ADDRESS: Fanton Hill, Weston, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cluett, Peabody & Co,, Inc., 530 Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y.

porN: March 13, 1913, Bronxville, N.Y. parents: Brainerd Hunt Whitbeck,
99, Edith Emily Plummer.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931—1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1935.

marrieD: Lila Bradbury Rand, Oct. 26, 1940, Rye, N.Y. CHILDREN: Franklin
Plummer, Jr., Dec. 11, 1941; Lisa, Oct. 30, 1947.

HARVARD BrotHers: John Fonda Ward Whitbeck, ’27; Brainerd Hunt Whitbeck,
Jr. 29.

occupation: Advertising and promotion of textiles; advertising manager,
Sanforized Division, Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, The Loomis Institute, 1947-57; president, Weston
Parent Teacher Association, 1948-49, warden, Emanuel Church, Weston,

1950-53; chairman, Loomis Development Committee, 1956-58; member,
Weston Planning and Zoning Commission, since 1957.
MEMBER OF: Fairfield County Hunt Club.

A LOT has happened in twenty-five years, but not much has
changed, really. We've seen two real live wars, the dawn of the
atomic, jet and space ages, the birth (and agony) of TV, the growth
of automation. But even Univac weather can be wrong. The New
Haven Railroad, instead of going faster, now goes slower. Auto-
mobiles that became so big and expensive are now getting smaller
and more economical. And the 35’ers riding the train from New

[ 1442 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

York to the Bowl last November 21 seemed very much the same
as they did a quarter of a century ago, give or take a few pounds
of flesh and a few strands of hair. Everything is ebb and flow and

a single generation brings no recognizable change i in the basic order
of things. A nine-country tour of Europe last summer confirmed
the cliché that people are the same everywhere.

For myself, I’m proud to be living in the same house after fourteen
years, still playing a fair game of tennis, still taking a hand in extra-
curricular activities, dabbling in art and the piano — just as I did
in college. Fighting with the Navy during the last five operations
of World War II in the Pacific gave me enough adventure to last
a lifetime, and without lifting me high on its shoulders, the business
world has treated me well enough. No complaints here.

My post-graduation career started idyllically with a trip to England

as a member of the combined Harvard-Yale tennis team to play a
combined Oxford- -Cambridge team. Lest history delete this item,
we won eleven matches to nine. Then life became real and earnest
and the chronology goes something like this: Procter & Gamble
in Cincinnati as a production trainee from September, 1935, to
October, 1936; back to New York with the John Prince Jones
Corporation, fund-raising and public-relations, from October, 1936,
to March, 1942; U.S. Naval Reserve as ensign to lieutenant from
March, 1943, to February, 1946, serving as communications officer
on the USS Edmonds (DE-406) on combat duty in the Pacific
(Morotai, Leyte, Iwo Jima, Luzon, Okinawa); promotion manager,
Parade Publications, from May, 1946, to December, 1951; director
of development, Norwalk Hospital, in a one-year experiment in
country working which I don’t recommend to the city-trained;
then to the Sanforized Division of Cluett, Peabody & Company,
now as advertising manager.

If any, my contributions to these activities have been in the area
of getting things done, effectively and on time, with some degree
of creativity. I’ve had the further satisfaction of being able to apply
the techniques learned in business to the benefit of community and
education development projects— for the church, for Loomis
School, and even for Harvard.

Most important is my family and my home. We bought a for-
gotten farmhouse with two and a half acres and a barn high on a
hill in Weston, Connecticut (a fifty-mile commute to New York)
in 1946 — then set about making a home of it. With our own hands
—and the help of paint, wallpaper, wood and nails —we have,

[ 1443 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

I think, succeeded. My wife keeps the house full of interesting
friends, paints pastel portraits of horses and dogs, supports me on
the tennis court, and teaches riding, which enables us to keep four
horses, Lisa is a skier and a diver and has a room full of horse

show ribbons. Whit plays good tennis, good hockey, skis with the

best and lends a strong hand to my carpentry and fence-mending

projects. I'll take a weekend of sports or working around the place
in the good company of my own family ahead of anything!

What's in the future? Who knows. But it will be fun finding
out, and fun to go on trying to appreciate more fully the built-in
wonders of people and the world, which no modern marvels can

ever change. Life for me is active and good and full of anticipation
for the years ahead.

+ ALBERT SAMUEL WHITE

 

BORN: July 26, 1912, Lida, Poland. parents: Jacob White, Jessie Darling.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1935; ED.M. (Boston
Teachers Coll.), 1937.

MarRiED: Pauline Miller, Sept. 10, 1938, Boscawen, N.H. cuitpren: Lois
Irene, Oct. 29, 1942; Sandra, Dec, 23, 1946.
piep: April 18, 1956, Seattle, Wash.

wipow: Mrs, Albert S. White, 9062 E. Shorewood Drive, Mercer Island,
Wash.
ALBERT SAMUEL WHITE spent three years with our Class.
While an undergraduate he was a member of Phillips Brooks House
Association, Turmwaechter Verein, Menorah Society and Avukah
Society. After graduation from Harvard, he Spent a year as man-
ager of a tutorial agency in Durham, North Carolina, and a year
at Boston Teachers College, receiving an Ed.M. degree in 1937, He

[1444 ]

2$TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

taught part-time at the Rockwood Park School in Jamaica
Boston Public Schools and the North Bennet Street Inc
School,

During 1938-39, he attended the New York School of Social
receiving a diploma in 1940. He then spent a year as a voc:
counselor in the Cincinnati Public Schools and two years as
rector of the Junior Red Cross in Cincinnati. From 1943 tc
he was American Red Cross Field Director in the Mediterr
Theatre of Operations (North Africa, Italy and France).
1945 to 1947 he was director of Home Service, Cincinnat
Hamilton County Chapter of the American Red Cross, and
became assistant director of Migration Services in the United Se
for New Americans. At the time of our Twentieth Annive.
Report, he was executive director of the Jewish Family and (
Service in Seattle, Washington. He was survived by his wife
children.

  

HENRY BOWEN WHITE

  

HOME AbDpRESS: Farm Street, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Essex Research Corp., Needham, Mass.

BoRN: Oct. 17, 1911, Boston, Mass. parents: Franklin Warren White, mp
gs, Ethel Plammer Bowen.

PREPARED aT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: S.B., cmt laude, 1935; M.B-A., 1927-

MARRIED: Susanne Crocker, Nov. 26, 1938, Milton, Mass. cHiLpREN: Susannah,
Dec. 27, 1940; Stephen Hopkins, July 16, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Trustee — financial consultant to small business.

OFFICES HELD: Currently: director, Maugus Manufacturing Company; vice-
president and trustee, Forsyth Dental Infirmary for Children; member

executive committee, board of managers, Home for Aged Women; graduate
trustee, Harvard Advocate; member, board of governors, Phoenix SK

Club; member of council, New England Historic & Genealogical Society;

[ 1445 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

formerly: assistant treasurer, Little, Brown & Company; vice-president
Boston Bank Note Company; director, Souhegan Manufacturing Com.
pany; treasurer and director, Maugus Manufacturing Company, Essex
Research Corporation; secretary and trustee, Charles River School; trustee,
Orchard Home School, Massachusetts Charitable Society; secretary, New
England Historic & Genealogical Society; Medical Associates — Massa-
chusetts Memorial Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Business School Association, Society of Colonial Wars;
Massachusetts Charitable Society, Appalachian Mountain Club; Eastern
Yacht Club.

I STARTED out in Boston and here I still am, older I know and
wiser I hope. I live in Dover, in the country, in an old farmhouse
all the year round, escaping in the winter occasionally to a camp in
Franconia, New Hampshire, for skiing, and in the summer living a
good deal of the time on a little cruising cutter that will just hold
the four of us and our poodle.

My business life has been spent in two very different chapters.
After graduation from Harvard Business School I started off in a
bank credit department and then became assistant treasurer of Little,
Brown & Company, publishers — elapsed time twelve very interest-
ing years.

I then decided I didn’t like being someone else’s man. I wanted
instead to work for myself, hoping to have a variety of experience,
and not settle into one rut, no matter how comfortable. The result
has been often painful but always interesting, and especially rich
in meeting all kinds of people and problems. I have been in effect
a financial consultant, either assisting small sick businesses, or help-
ing set up small new businesses. I have been in printing, lithograph-
ing, a medical clinic, real estate development, packaging, brush
manufacturing, plastic molding, poster-service and aerosol appli-
ances, I also have done some investment management as a trustee.
I am still hard at this kaleidoscopic existence.

On the side, I have enjoyed spending a lot of time working with
quite a number of charities. I have also dabbled with genealogy, an
old hobby, but I enjoy it, and feel it makes at least as much sense
to collect ancestors as it does, for example, to collect stamps.

As I look back over twenty-five years it seems to have gone ver
quickly with not enough time to savor the good things, but bus
enough to keep one from dwelling too long on the bad. Certain]

y

our families and friends loom very large in what has been worth
while. Harvard first opened our dewy eyes to what has been a
time of great changes.

[ 1446 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Perhaps one of the outings on our Fiftieth Anniversary will be to
the moon or a nearby star. In the meantime, we had best “Praise
the Lord and pass the ammunition.”

JOHN STURTEVANT WHITE

    
 

ose
ETON
2
8

TEARS NEE

 

HOME ADDRESS: Sugar Brook Farm, Central Village, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lubrication Engineers, Inc., Fort Worth, Texas.

BoRN: May 11, 1911, Brookline, Mass. parents: Norman Hill White, ’95, Ger-
trude Steese.

PREPARED AT; Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

’ MarrRiED: Margaret Randall Smith, Sept. 9, 1933, Boston, Mass. (divorced 1936);
Eleanor Lewis Hobson, May 15, 1937, Lansford, Pa. (divorced 1948);
Lehr L. Cooke, April 26, 1949, Danielson, Conn. cuitpren: Dorothy Hob-
son, Nov. 17, 1938 (died April 8, 1939); Eleanor Hobson, April 30, 1940;
William Hill, Nov. 20, 1945 (died March 26, 1955).

HARVARD BROTHER: Norman Hill White, Jr., ’20.

OccUPATION: Sales representative, Lubrication Engineers, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Lodge No. 1706, B.P.O.E., Danielson, Conn.

AFTER leaving college in the fall of 1932, my time was well divided
between the travel business in Boston and aviation in Pawtucket,
Rhode Island, where I did a great deal of flying and selling of air-
planes, with my cousin, Joshua Crane, Jr., Harvard ’19, with whom
I worked until his untimely death in 1936.

At this time, I opened my own travel bureau in Danielson, Con-
necticut, which was most unsuccessful. In 1937, along with my sec-
ond wife, we packed our belongings and moved to Pottsville, Penn-
sylvania, where I managed a large Ford agency. While in Pottsville,
Dorothy was born and died, and then came Bonnie. After the outbreak
of hostilities in 1941, our agency survived until 1942, when we again

[ 1447 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

packed our bags and returned to Connecticut. I went to work for
the Navy at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft in Willimantic, where I had
charge of the machine tool analysis, salvage and scrap departments,
This proved to be most enlightening and interesting and gave me a
thorough insight of big business, of which, as I said in my twentieth
report, I want no part. At the end of the war, we returned to
Pennsylvania where Bill was born. We remained there for one year
and then went to Akron, Ohio, where I set up and managed a new
travel department for the First National Bank of Akron. The spring
of 1948 brought domestic troubles and, as the saying goes, “once a
New Englander, always a New Englander,” I returned to the old
family home in Connecticut, minus wife and children.

In 1949 I finally found the gal I needed and Lee and I settled
down at our present address where I became representative for a
wholesale plumbing concern. Things went along smoothly and
happily for us until the spring of 1955, when Bill died after a long
illness.

The spring of 1958 brought us to a momentous decision, whether
I should continue working for someone else or become my own boss.
We decided upon the latter and we have had no regrets. I joined
Lubrication Engineers, Inc., as eastern Connecticut sales represen-
tative and eventually my territory was enlarged to include south-
eastern Massachusetts and the City of Boston. I have had occasion
to do a great deal of traveling for the company, training new men
and teaching, which I have found most stimulating. I have also had
an opportunity to see and visit with a lot of classmates. This is the
best part of the work.

We have been asked to mention a few thoughts for posterity
about our families, love, pursuit of whatever we've been pursuing,
state of the nation, etc.—so here goes!

As J sit here in the October sun, bending my elbow and fishing
for an olive, I think of my Bill who so untimely passed away from
this life; of my still and constant pursuit of that almighty dollar, all
too few; of these past twenty-five years, all too short; of m
and Bonnie; of our classmates who cannot be with us in June; of
sputniks, luniks and Mr. K.; and of goldenrod blooming, only to
die, bur, with Ike and a Republican administration, to bloom again!

y Lee

[1448 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

*k JOSEPH GERARD WHITE

 

BORN: Jan. 4, 1911, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: Denis Joseph White, Sarah
Edna Burke.

TRANSFERRED FROM: University of North Carolina, Raleigh, N.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932—1933.

pieD: Aug. 17, 1959, Nashville, Tenn.

AFTER leaving college White taught seven years in North Caro-
lina, one year in Honolulu and two years in Massachusetts, before
going to Florida in 1947.

During the war he spent two years in the Pacific area as liaison
officer and worked with the Fleet Marine Force and American Red
Cross.

At the time of his death he was drama instructor at Hialeah
(Florida) Senior High School, teacher-sponsor of Modern Music
Masters and Thespians, two student honor societies at the high
school, and directed the school’s dramatic productions. He had
previously taught at schools in Miami and Coral Gables. Dur-
ing 1948-49 he was president of Special Education for Dade County
and had also served as president of the International Council of
Exceptional Children.

He suffered a stroke at Peabody College for Teachers in Nash-
ville, Tennessee, where he was attending classes on television in-
struction, He was survived by his parents.

[ 1449 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

MALCOLM VERNON WHITE

aan ~ “seca

   

HOME appress: 710 Niles Ave., Kinsley, Kans.

OFFICE appress: First Congregational Christian Church, Kinsley, Kans,

BorN: Aug. 19, 1913, Berkeley, Calif. parents: Hugh Vernon White, S.T.M.,
19, Mabel Wright.

PREPARED AT: Stockton High School, Stockton, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREES: AB., cum laude, 1935; B.D. (Union
Theological Seminary), ’40.

MarRIED: Phyllis Lee Kinsman, Dec. 26, 1940, Framingham, Mass. cHILDREN: |
Nancy Ruth, April 26, 1943; Barbara Mabel, Jan. 31, 1945; Vernon Mark-
ham, Nov. 7, 1948; Rebecca Lee, April 27, 1950, Christopher Kinsman,
Oct. 4, 1951.

occuPATION: Minister, First Congregational Church of Kinsley, Kansas.

OFFICES HELD; Registrar, Western Association of Kansas Congregational
Churches; district supervisory, Christian Rural Overseas Program, Cub-
master,

MEMBER OF: Kinsley Kiwanis Club.

FROM graduation I went immediately to central Alabama to teach
in Southern Union Junior College — enrollment, thirty-five stu-
dents. My main subject was a survey course in the humanities in
which IT found Professor Merriam's famous course, History I, in-
valuable background. Thinking that I would like to continue teach-
ing, I enrolled in the graduate school of the University of Cali-
fornia. Before the year was over I felt the call to the Christian
ministry. Thus back to the East and three years in New York City
at Union Theological Seminary. Fach summer I returned to the
South, so on graduation was called to serve four rural churches in
north Georgia. Driving over tooo miles a month with shortages
of gasoline and tires was no easy feat, even with a high “propriety
rating” as a girl in the rationing board put it,

A brief stay in Nashville, Tennessee, and then came a pastorate

[ 1450 ]

spe caneeinomanensnee LA, RR A

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in Kensington, Connecticut, in a church founded in 1712, whose
records were older than the town. Here we were called to mis-
sionary service in north China. We were commissioned in the
Broadway Tabernacle in New York City in June, 1957. A trip to
California followed, with four months of language study.

When we arrived in Shanghai in January, 1948, the Communists
had torn up railroad tracks to the north, so we flew to Peking.
Our heavy baggage came by boat. When we went to Tientsin to
claim it, we discovered it had been bayonetted and thoroughly
pillaged. Language study was our main responsibility for a year.
However, the capture of Mukden by the Communists in October,
1948, was a signal for all foreigners who didn’t want to be “liber-
ated” to leave.

We flew to Foochow to complete preparation, in a Lutheran
Mission plane, the “St. Paul.” By now we had two small girls and
a two weeks’ old baby boy. The Communists caught up with us
in Foochow in August, 1949. My main duty in Foochow was teach-
ing in Foochow College, a boys’ high school. When fighting broke
out in Korea in June, 1950, we applied for permission to leave,
feeling we would be more of a burden than a help to our Chinese
Christian friends. Finally, in December, we were allowed to leave
overland, through the mountains and out by way of Canton to
Hong Kong.

A few months of rest and reporting in the United States and then
we located in Sabetha, Kansas. I am now serving a church in the
wheat belt of western Kansas, close to Dodge City, the wild west-
ern wonderland of television,

Our family being increased to five children, we cannot go any-
where without station wagon and trailer for baggage. Nearly

oo oO
every summer we take a camping trip, with a special preference for

the Rocky Mountains in Colorado and to the north.

I thoroughly enjoy the parish ministry and feel that my residence
in various parts of the United States and, particularly, my stay in
China and living under the Communists help me to preach to my
people a gospel relevant to the world in which we are living,

Cigst |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

+ CHARLES AUGUSTUS WHITNEY, JR.

 

BorN: Dec. 1, 1912, Newton, Mass. PARENTS: Charles Augustus Whitney,
Emma Ruggles.

PREPARED AT: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MarrieD: Elizabeth Haviland, Feb. 12, 1938. CHILDREN: Peter; Robert; Christo-
pher.

piED: Feb. 3, 1947, Winchester, Mass.

SINCE graduation Whitney had been a tutor to boys on a ranch in
Nevada, a sports director at Lake George and service supervisor
and assistant divisional manager of the Equitable Life Assurance
Company in New York City. During the war he was a lieutenant
(j.g.) in the Naval Reserve and served on the Tactical Radar Staff
of the Naval Training Station at Hollywood, Florida. At the time
of his death he was working for the John Hancock Mutual Life
Insurance Company in Boston. He was survived by his wife and
children. |

[1452 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THOMAS HANDASYDE PERKINS WHITNEY

 

HOME ApDbREsS: 65 Suffolk Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Army Research Center, Natick, Mass.

BORN: May 14, 1913, Boston, Mass, paRENTs: Charles Handasyde Whitney, ’or,
Colette Dumaresq.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: AB., 1935.

MARRIED: Frances Janeway Lannon, Sept. 7, 1935, New York, N.Y. (divorced
1948); Joan Blake, May 27, 1949, Boston, Mass. cHiLprEN: Colette Dumaresgq,
April 6, 1944; Mark Handasyde, Feb. 3, 1950; Thomas Handasyde Perkins,
Jr., May 28, 1951; Jonathan Blake, July 12, 1954.

occuPaTION: Training director, Army Research Center.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, New York, 1936-41, Boston, 1947-
56, Big Brother Association; trustee, Meadowbrook School, Weston, Mass.,
since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club, Boston; The Country Club, Brookline, Mass.

FROM October after graduation until World War II, I was a
general partner in the firm of Whitney & Elwell of Boston, stock-
brokers. During this period I held a seat on the New York Stock
Exchange and made my office in New York City.

During World War II, I was in the Navy, occupied almost con-
tinuously in ‘“‘convoy-escort” and so-called “hunter-killer” opera-
tions against submarines, mostly in the Atlantic and Mediterra-
nean and commanding various subchasers and destroyer-escorts. I'm
still fairly active in the Naval Reserve and hold the rank of captain,
USNR.

Though financially more rewarding than anything I've done
since, the brokerage business and “the Street” had never really
interested me. The war provided a good dividing point and since
its close I’ve worked in the field of personnel relations in industry
and government and teaching at the university level.

[ 1453 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Joan and I think nothing can beat, as a way of life, a cozy apart-
ment in the city, varied by frequent weekend and more extensive
travels off and on during the vear. So — we live in a rather too-big
house in suburbia, with three pre-teen-age boys and assorted pets,
Our “travels” consist of commuting varied by shopping trips.

No unusual hobbies to report. As far as “social, political or re-
ligious convictions” are concerned one thing is certain — they are
not, as yet, convictions. “Things” obviously could be a lot better
around the world and around the corner, On the one hand I feel
one should work, very hard, toward their improvement. On the
other hand, taking a long look inward, I wonder if I shouldn't,

secretly, be much relieved if it was certain that nothing would
ever upset the status quo.

GEORGE WOODWARD WICKERSHAM, II

 

HOME aporEss: Chocorua, N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Tamworth Associated Churches, Chocorua, N.H.

BoRN: Jan. 16, 1913, Lawrence, Long Island, N.Y. parents: Cornelius Wendell
Wickersham, ’06, Rosalie Neilson Hinckley.

PREPARED aT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1935; B.D. (Virginia
Theological Seminary), 1938.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Wistar Craighill, June 14, 1938, Leesburg, Va. CHILDREN:
George Woodward, 3d, June 18, 1941; Nancy Lee, June 28, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Cornelius Wendell Wickersham, Jr. °32, LLB. 735.

occupation: Clergyman, Protestant Episcopal Church.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant minister, Christ Church, Cambridge, 1938-39; rector,
Christ Church, Warwick, N.Y., 1939-41, Church of the Good Shepherd,
Greenwood Lake, N.Y. 1939-43, All Saints’ Church, Norristown, Pa.,
1945-§7, navy chaplain, 1944-455 president, Greater Norristown Council
of Churches, 1952-535 minister, Tamworth Associated Churches, since 1957

1 1454 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THE record of “Offices Held” provides as good a biography of the
Wickersham household as any wordage which might be supplied
here. Only the final entry needs amplification, because our present
set of circumstances is somewhat out of the ordinary,

The Protestant Episcopal Church, of which I am a hired hand, is
famous for committees, conferences and conventions on the subject
of church unity. The total result in actual performance, however,
is exactly zero. The P.E.C. is deeply involved in councils of
churches: local, state, national and international, but has achieved
no organic union with anybody. This, I believe, is due to the fact
that we have begun at the wrong level: the top. The quickest way
to start an argument is to call a convention.

Twelve years ago a Congregational Church and a neighboring
Episcopal Church in Ashfield, Massachusetts, quietly decided to
have one minister together. Under a far-sighted bishop (naturally:
he was a Harvard man), this decision worked well (even though
the minister was a Princeton man) and is still working well.

Three years ago three churches of different denominations de-
cided the same thing. The Community Baptist Church in Cho-
corua, New Hampshire, the Congregational Church in Tamworth,
New Hampshire, and the Episcopal Church in Whittier, New Hamp-
shire, took a chance on me as their sole padre. The three communi-
ties served by these churches are well separated by mileage, but
corporately united in the township of Tamworth. They also share
the same school. Now they are further united in the Tamworth
Associated Churches.

Everything here combines to make of our project “a natural.”
There are less than a thousand souls in the entire township. Sum-
mer doubles the population. The year-rounders are happily con-

stituted and independent in their thought. The summer residents
are pretty thoroughly Harvard!

Winter has a way of reminding us of our dependence on each
other. For five months we live with King Snow and sub-zero tem-
eratures. More than that, we are drawn together by the peculiar
spell of the mountains, The Ossipees to our south and the Sand-
wiches to our north tower over our every turn. You poor guvs
who have to spend your working hours in the city and your leisure
ones on the subway are welcome to come to the foot of Mount

Chocorua (or to the summit) and have a look-see. We promise to
send you home unhappy!

[1455 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

* FRANCIS SILL WICKWARE

 

porn; Dec. 10, 1911, New York, N.Y. parents: Francis Graham Wickware,
Margery Sill.

PREPARED AT: Salisbury School, Salisbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1931-1932.

Marniep: Katherine S$. Dana, Oct. 5, 1931; Joyce E. Gafke, Dec. 23, 1945, New
York, N.Y. cuipren: Dana Sill, June 26, 1933; Potter Smart, Jan. 5, 1941;
Roxanne Rowland, Nov. 26, 1946; Jared Griswold, Oct. 20, 1948.

pep: Aug. 26, 1951, New York, N.Y.

wwow: Mrs, Francis §. Wickware, 525 E. 84th St, New York, N.Y.

FRANCIS SILL WICKWARE spent one year with our Class. He
had been a member of the staff of the New Yorker and from 1937
to 1942 was associate editor of Fortune magazine. Since then he
had been a free-lance writer and had contributed numerous articles
to national magazines. He was the author of Tuesday to Bed, a
psychological novel, and Dangerous Ground, a murder mystery.
Several of his stories had been sold to motion picture companies.
He was survived by his wife and four children.

[ 1456 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANK LOUIS WIEGAND, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 855 Academy Pl. Pittsburgh 16, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 525 William Penn Pl., Pittsburgh 30, Pa.

BorN: Nov. 2, 1912, Butler, Pa. Parents: Frank Louis Wiegand, Augusta
Sophia Krug.

PREPARED AT: Shady Side Academy, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1935; LL.B. 1938; LL.D.
(Milligan Coll.), 1952.

MarRiED: Undine Phillips, Aug. 20, 1935; Butler, Pa. cHiLpREN: Frank Louis,
3d, Feb. 21, 1938; Phillips, Sept. 15, 1939; Roger Conant, June 14, 1941;
Bruce, Nov. 27, 1947; Andrew, July 21, 1951; Jeffrey Phillips, June 13,
1954.

HARVARD sons: Phillips Wiegand, ’62; Roger Conant Wiegand, ’63.

occuPaTION: Senior general attorney, U.S. Steel Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Associate attorney, Haussermann, Davison & Shattuck, Boston,
Mass., 1938-42; executive secretary, Massachusetts Bar Association, 1940-
42; attorney, Oil Well Supply Company, Oil City, Pa., 1942-45; secretary
and general attorney, Oil Well Supply Company, Dallas, Texas, 1945-48,
National Tube Division, U.S. Steel Corporation, Pittsburgh, 1948-58;
director, T. W. Phillips Gas & Oil Company, since 1948, Pennsylvania
Real Estate & Investment Company, since 1948, Ruud Manufacturing
Company, since 1950, Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club of Pittsburgh, 1954-
55, American Red Cross, since 1959; trustee, Central Christian Church,
1949-50, Milligan College, since 1952; chairman, Organization Committee,
1950-51, trustees, since 1950, Mount Lebanon Christian Church; trustee
and member executive committee, Bethany College, since 1955; senior
general attorney, U.S. Steel Corporation, since 1958.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston (former member); Harvard-Yale-Prince-
ton Club of Pittsburgh; Pittsburgh Athletic Association; St. Clair Country
Club; Mount Lebanon Tennis Club.

PuBLicaTions: History of Mount Lebanon Cbristian Church; miscellaneous
legal writings.

TO reflect on the years since college days is to bring to mind a

[ 1457 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

rushing tide of events and circumstances that form multiple par.

terns, some of which are only partly revealed. P

First, there was marriage shortly after graduation in 1935. This
forms the foundation on which these twenty-five years have been
built. It has been a wonderfully happy relationship, abundant
productive in so many ways — all unforeseen at the beginning. The
early years involved the grubbing toils of law school with its teach-
ing above all that hard work is rewarding in and of itself. Then
the uncertainty of beginning to practice, spiced with the thrills of
competitive achievement in a world unsheltered and sometimes
seemingly unfriendly. There was the disciplinary adjustment of
becoming a father—three times in the four years, 1938-41; the
blackness of the world at war; a gradual discovery that I was learn-
ing much about life from the young lives that had been entrusted
to us. With observation of these miracles of growth came first
a suspicion, then a dawning realization, that life with its good and
evil is a God-given thing, to be dealt with best by some sort of re-
lationship with Him. This developed into an interest, then mild
faith, then a determined plunge into the church. Our years since
1945, When this interest began, have been the happiest of all and
the most rewarding. I find that even with a rather sharp memory
of Philosophy A, I can wholeheartedly accept the simple doctrine
of the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ).

I left the general practice of law to become corporation house
counsel with plenty of qualms, but the decision was not to be re-
gretted, The arena of commerce is where so-called “property”
and “human” rights engage in their never-ending contest. As a
professional in the field of justice, counsel is challenged to be a
vocal representative of the corporate conscience. The focal point
of the contest seems inevitably to be in labor; and after years of ex-
perience with anti-trust, property, contract and general corporate
ficlds, labor negotiations and personnel have become a specialty.
The conflict as this is written wages hot with basic economic princi-
ples hoisted over the ramparts of the contestants. Which of these
principles prevails, it seems to me, is of vital concern to the future
of our nation,

Being on this field has provided a unique opportunity for intro-
spection and observation of the disclosed philosophies of others as
they participate in life’s ventures. The world is full of cynics and
at times it has scemed to me that cynicism is winning the battle.
But it has become clear to me beyond doubt that cynics are uni-

[1458 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

versally an unhappy lot. If we who are not cynics are being dupe.
or drugged by our beliefs, it’s worth it.

As the father of six sons (three of whom are in college, two a
Harvard), I have had a real workout as a parent. This include
physical workouts, as my interest in tennis, squash and golf hav
continued, even grown through the years. Frank, twenty-two, Phi!
twenty, and Roger, eighteen, have contributed much in the way 0
experience to their younger brothers, particularly the experienc:
they have provided their parents when each new period of life unfolds
It is apparently a never-ending evolution, for we shortly shall becom
in-laws, then grandparents, and these new relationships will require
the same sort of stumbling and recovery before the better way i:
known.

As a summary, I can only express gratitude for the richness of
life as it has unfolded to date.

ROYCE ATWOOD WIGHT

 

HOME aApDpREsS: 708 14th St., Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE appress: ICA, Dept. of State, Washington 25, D.C.

BoRN: Dec. 31, 1912, Glen Ridge, N.J. parents: Walter Atwood Wight, ’99,
Nathalie Royce Brown.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932. DEGREES: Dipl. (Ecole Libre des Sciences Politiques,
Paris), 1934; M.B.a. (Harvard Univ.), 1936.

MarRiED: Alice Leonard, Feb. 22, 1940, Washington, D.C. cui~prEN: Royce
Atwood, Jr., Jan. 9, 1942; Alan Claflin, Aug, 22, 1943.

OccuPATION: Foreign Service officer.

OFFICES HELD: President, University City Student League, Paris, 1934; secretary,
Columbia Yacht Club, Washington, D.C., 1939; member executive com-
mittee, New Alexandria Citizens Association, 1954,

MEMBER OF: American Foreign Service Association; American Airmail Society

[ 1459 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

pusLicatioxs: “Trading in Commodity Futures,” 1939;

. “Clipping the Axi
Wings,” 1943; “Brazil: An Expanding Economy,” Pping ws

1948,
EXCEPT for the first two years in investment banking, I have
spent my career in government service, mainly foreign affairs, With
assignments all over the world, this has been a fascinating and re-
warding experience.

When in the United States, as at present, we return to our modest
but pleasant home near Mt. Vernon on the shores of the Potomac,
where we enjoy boating and water sports. My wife Alice is some-
times engaged as a teacher, otherwise simply as being a housewife

and hostess. Royce, Jr, plans to enter the University of Virginia
next year; Alan, the year following.

JOHN BURKE WILKINSON

   

HOME apprEss: 8 Rue Benjamin Godard, Paris 16°, France.

OFFICE appress: Office of Supreme Allied Commander, SHAPE, Paris, France.

BoRN: Aug. 24, 1913, New York, N.Y. parents: Henry Wilkinson, Edith Lee
Burke.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1935.
Marriep: Frances L. Proctor, June 11, 1938, Boston, Mass. cHitpren: Eileen

Burke, March 2, 1951; Charles Proctor, April 6, 1952.
HARVARD BROTHER: Lawrence Wilkinson, ’34,

occupation: Government official and writer, Special Adviser to Supreme
Allied Commander, Europe, since October, 1958.

OFFICES HELD: Executive vice-chairman, Lionel Harvard Studentship Committee,
1936-56; chairman, Prentice Cup Committee, 1956-57; Deputy Assistant
Secretary of State for Public Affairs, 1956-58; director, U.S, Lawn Tennis
Hall of Fame, since 1958, commander, USNR (permanent rank).

MEMBER OF: Eastern Yacht Club; St. Botolph’s Club; Chevy Chase Country

Club; National Press Club, Harvard Club of New York, Racing Club
(Paris).

[ 1460 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PUBLICATIONS: Proceed at Will, 1948; Run, Mongoose, 1950; Last Clear Chance
1954; By Sea and By Stealth (Collection of Navy Stories), 1957; magazine
articles; book reviews in New York Times Book Review, since 1948.

IF one is caught— and who isn’t? —in the web of time, those
twenty-five years seem to divide themselves rather neatly intc
three compartments. There is a box labeled “Before The War,”
and a separate, almost watertight one called “The War” and a third
one, bigger now than any of the others, a sort of loose grab-bag
box, bearing the legend, “After The War.” Maybe for the purpose
of a summary like this, they are as good containers as any.

BEFORE THE WAR. The Harvard Studentship at Emmanuel

College, Cambridge, meant a year of sport and study (1936) before
the world cataclysm that was already clearly on the European hori-
zon. Then came work in New York, advertising (Lord & Thomas)
and publishing (Reynal & Hitchcock) and finally two years as
advertising manager at Little, Brown in Boston. Best of all, this
time brought marriage to Franny Proctor and three wonderful years
before the war came.

THE WAR. Mine was a navy war, mostly Atlantic and ETO.
Because some IBM machine said I had been to Cambridge Uni-
versity and so spoke a little English, I was sent to the British Ad-
miralty in 1943 on a liaison job — small submarines, harbor defense
work and such. This led in due course to Normandy, to harbor
clearance at Cherbourg, St. Malo and other ports, to magazine arti-
cles and eventually a novel, Proceed At Will, about this rather
specialized naval work. It also gave me the material for By Sea and
By Stealth, in which some of the now-celebrated underwater Allied
and enemy exploits, from Scapa Flow to Alexandria, were first told.

AFTER THE WAR. Like so many, I knew what I didn’t want
to do, but not what I did. I didn’t want to go back to a Beacon Hill
attic and write book jackets and plan ways of selling g people’ s books.
So I wrote two novels and a score or two of magazine articles,
played three Wimbledons with more sense of excitement than skill,
did some roving editing and sat back to watch the royalties from
the novels pour in. At very best they trickled in — months late at
that, after the publishers and agents had finished their depredations.

A second navy tour, Korea-time but Washington-bound, brought

me a brass hat and a return to reality. Two children and one more

novel later, when Bob Mcllvaine asked me to join him in the De-
partment of State Public Affairs Bureau, my sense of re: ality won
out over my sense of fiction and I signed on (1954). Later, when

[ 1461 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Bob, like so many of our classmates, entered the Foreign Service
and went overseas, I succeeded to his resounding title of Deputy
Assistant Secretary of State. As such I had the privilege of watch-
ing John Foster Dulles’ herculean labors to keep the free world
free, and even, sometimes, had the chance to help a little. Four
years at State (1954-58) and three trips abroad — including the
opening of the Brussels Fair which I helped in some measure to
plan — made the Wilkinson family restless. Paris, with an advisory
job on General Norstad’s staff for propulsion was the answer and
a most rewarding and interesting one it continues to be. My job is
policy planning in relation to public affairs and includes travel with
General Norstad to the various NATO countries.

CONCLUSIONS. The three boxes are of course mirage and
illusion. Nothing emerges except chronology. ‘The real strands
that tie a life together are the sustaining ones that run — sometimes
unseen — from box to box. In my case these strands are: a happy
marriage; children so young they keep us young, or so we like to
think; a modest skill with words that has opened quite a few jobs
to me and resulted so far in four books, which is just a start; an
average skill in tennis which, by remaining the same as the years
pass, now seems to be slightly above average (Whitbeck will, I hope,
care to dispute this next June); a critical faculty that has resulted
in some hundred book reviews in the New York Tires and some
articles on Scott Fitzgerald that have caused me to be given a share
of the credit for the revival of interest in that fine writer’s work

. finally, a belief that, because one is a jack of several trades,
one need not necessarily be master of none. The one I seek to master

is the craft of fiction. Who knows what the next box will hold?
The end-product will be the test.

[ 1462 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PHILIP DEAN WILKINSON

 

  

#8 Moy f ~
AK y
ea teh

Loic ail

HOME ADDRESS: Martin’s Pond Road, Groton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Walther Associates, 661 Boylston St., Boston, Mass.

BorN: April 19, 1914, Somerville, Mass. parents: William Dean Wilkinson,
Hilda Roos.

PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Phyllis Houser, May 21, 1938, South Hadley, Mass. cHiLpreN: James
Dean, Nov. 9, 1943; Holly, July 6, 1946; Andrea, April 7, 1948; Alan
Edward, Oct. 29, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Chemist and technical writer.

OFFICES HELD: Research chemist, Essclein Research Corporation, 1935-40, B.F.
Goodrich Company, 1940-42; director of research, 1942-44, partner and
vice-president, 1944-58, Bacon Laboratories; technical writer and ac-
count executive, Walther Associates, since 1958.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Alpha Chi Sigma; Association of
Harvard Chemists.

LIKE the boy who was born at an early age, I began on the rung
below the bottom one washing beakers for a chemical research firm
in Boston. In the post-depression year of 1935 it seemed to justify
completely the four years of great preparation in chemistry.

Five years later, a stint with the B.F. Goodrich Company in
Akron satisfied my curiosity about working for big business west
of the Hudson. I returned happily to New England to become re-
search director, later partner, in a firm of chemical consultants in
Watertown.

A year ago I forsook chemical consulting to try my hand at
technical writing. I am now schooling myself in the mysterious
ways of writing understandable copy from misty notes scratched
hastily by high-powered technical teams. It’s a fascinating business.

[ 1463 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ARTHUR KIMBALL WILLEY, JR.

 

HOME AppREss: 13 Joachim Becher Str, Apt. 3, Frankfurt-am-Main, Germany;
92 Flagler Ave., Chesire, Conn.

OFFICE ADpREss: American Consulate General, Frankfurt-am-Main, Germany.

BoRN: Jan. 17, 1914, Montpelier, Vt. parents: Arthur Kimball Willey, Nettie
Emma Brush.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1935.
Marriep: Harriet Elizabeth Daigneault, Jan. 3, 1943, New York, N.Y.

occupation: Information officer, U.S. Information Service, Frankfurt-am-
Main, Germany.

OFFICES HELD: Reporter or editor with: Schenectady Star, Lititz (Pa.) Express,
Montpelier (Vt.) Evening Argus, Vermont Press Bureau, 1935-42 and
1945-51; Vermont district information executive OPA, 1946, REA infor-
mation specialist, 1951-53; Library of Congress press officer, 1954; USIS
information officer, since 1954; public relations chairman, Washington
County (Vt.) Famine Relief Drive; chairman, REA Blood Donor Drive.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Heidelberg, Germany; National Press Club,
Washington, D.C.

ON dividing up the twenty-five years since graduation, I find |
that roughly half of that time I was employed by private enterprise,
almost exclusiv ely as a newspaperman. The other half, I have been
on the public payrolls, including three years of more-or-less volun-
tary service with the Army during World War II. The remaining
nine years or so have been spent in various kinds of government
information activity including, most recently, six years with the
US, Information Service in Pakistan and Germany,

I have found frustrations and rewards in both newspaper and
government information work. I must admit at times I have thought
life would be much more interesting as an ordinary newspaperman,

but particularly since joining USIS, this fecling has been much less
frequent. The challenge of adapting one’s self to new surround-

[ 1444 |]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ings, the feeling of doing something necessary and important, and
the learning of a new language well enough to use it in defending
and explaining America’s position in a controversial situation —
these all compensate for the satisfaction that a journalist gets in
reporting and interpreting the news as he feels it should be done.
In this sense, the jobs are the same; we of USIS are trying to report
and explain America to the rest of the world, But we are also trying
to convince the citizens of many countries that our interests are
similar. The difficulty of this task varies greatly from place to place
and time to time, but it is never dull, and it has its own rewards.
The first few years out of college gave me my initial newspaper
training as a cub reporter. (My only connection with the Crimson
was to read it and try to sleep through some of their parties held
across the way from Adams House.) After a year or so in Sche-
nectady and a short stint in Lititz, Pennsylvania, on a Pennsylvania
Dutch weekly with Nevin Danner, also Harvard ’35, I spent the
rest of my newspaper career in Montpelier, Vermont, covering state
house and political activities for various papers and Wire services,
with some news broadcasts on the side. After becoming quite
familiar with Vermont politics and introducing my own column,
which frequently conflicted with the editorial policy of my paper
(but which was always printed), I finally left for Washington as

an information specialist with the Rural Electrification Administra-
tion.

The Vermont part of my life included three years in the Army,
of which half was spent in Europe attached to the Eighth Division.
Although the shooting was too close for comfort many times, luck
was with me, and it could have been much worse. The practice I
had in speaking German then was useful as a foundation eleven
years later when I came back with USIS and found a much dif-
ferent Germany.

It was also during the war that the most important event of my
life occurred, my marriage to Harriet E. Daigneault of V ergennes,
Vermont, whom I first met in Montpelier in 1938. We have had a
very happy and adventuresome life, although the limitations of our
war-time marriage did not allow us much time together until after
the war. It was on our “second honeymoon” in the Laurentians
of Quebec that we heard the news of Hiroshima, and the future
was again changed for better or worse. The immediate result for

me, however, was that I was able to leave the Army and did not
have to continue on to Japan,

[ 1465 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

We have enjoyed our tours with USIS. East Pakistan took some
adjusting for both of us, but we now have many fond memories
and excellent friends there. At the completion of that tour of du
(a little over two years), we continued on east, circling the globe,
reporting back to W ashington preparatory to our next. assignment.

Germany is almost like being home again, but of course it is
needless to point out that the contrast of West and East Germany,
particularly in Berlin, dramatizes more than any other place the
difference between the Free World and the Communist way of
life.

We are now in our second two-year tour of duty in Germany,
and shall be here (Frankfurt-am-Main) until approximately March,
1961. We know not what our next assignment holds in store for
us. If it should be Washington, which will occur sometime along
the line, we hope to renew acquaintances with a few of my class-
mates, since I am afraid it will be impossible for us to make the
Twenty-fifth Anniversary Reunion. Not being able to be present
at that time is a particularly sad thought since Harvard has repre-
sented a beneficial, even if sometimes intangible, contribution to

my life and personal philosophy.

FRANCIS PRYOR ANTHONY WILLIAMS

    

we . at
Src “
f i.
g
\

eo BA

 

HOME appress: Rowledge Pond, Monroe, Conn.

OFFICE appRESS: Main Street, Stepney Depot, Conn.

Born: Aug. 12, 1911, Bridgeport, Conn.
Florence Pryor.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933, 1934-1437. DEGREFS: 8.B., 1935(37):
York Medical Coll.), 1944, » 1935497); Mi. (New

{ 1466 ]

PARENTS: Frank James Williams,

—

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marriED: Elsie N. Blight, June 16, 1941, Riverside, Conn. cHiLpreN: Michael,
Sept. 1, 1945; Brian, Aug. 30, 1946; Mary Jane, Oct. 10, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Physician: general practice.

OFFICES HELD: School physician, since 1946, director of health, since 1947, medi-
cal examiner, since 1951, Monroe, Connecticut; vice-chairman, Connecticut
Commission on Alcoholism, since 1953; associate attending physician,
Bridgeport Hospital, since 1955, president, Greater Bridgeport Area,
American Academy for General Practice, 1957-59.

ACCOMPANYING me to Harvard was a burning desire to be a
doctor, and, due to the vagaries of our economy, little else. It took
therefore a little longer than I had planned to acquire a degree.
My S.B. came in 1937. The following four years provided a liberal
education in the workday world. I drove tractor-trailer rigs for
the Boston and Maine Railroad, hauled freight for the New Haven,
and in 1941 entered medical school.

Following internship at Bridgeport Hospital came a tour of duty
with the Navy. Then at last I was able to do what I had aimed at so
many years—start a country practice. It has been a wonderful
adventure. My wife is a nurse and has borne a large share of the
burden while simultaneously doing a swell job of raising our three
children.

We had just begun to feel well established when along came
Korea and another two-year stint with the Navy. This was a fabu-
lous tour of duty and very interesting.

We are now part of a fine, growing community. I have an ex-
cellent partner in my practice who makes it doubly interesting and
also possible to spend more time with our growing family. We
live on a lake well stocked with trout and bass and in country
adequately stocked with upland game. My boys are avid out-
doorsmen. I am sure that keeping up with them is the proper pre-
scription for keeping out of the rocking chair!

It has been a full and interesting life— from Harvard to the
present. I hope my children may be so fortunate as to live in a world
like it, and to have a preparation for it such as Harvard can con-
tribute.

[ 1467 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

*SETON SAWYER WILLIAMS

 

Born: May 7, 1914, Boston, Mass. parents: Robert S. Williams, Bertha Dornes,

prepared aT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935:

MARRIED: Flossie Nell Hagan, March 29, 1941, Tucson, Ariz, CHILDREN: Roy
Hagan, Nov. 20, 1943; Mary Seton, July 30, 1946, Robert Sawyer, Dec.
22, 1949; another child.

piep: May 26, 1954, near Eloy, Ariz.

wivow: Mrs. Seton $. Williams, 1519 N. Dodge Blvd., Tucson, Ariz.

AFTER graduation Williams spent a year in graduate study at
Harvard and a year at M.I-T., before joining the engineering staff
of the Phelps Dodge Corporation in Bisbee, Arizona. From 1941
to 1946 he served in the U.S. Naval Reserve, retiring as a commander.
Upon returning to civilian life he spent eighteen months doing
refresher work in mining geology at the University of Arizona and

then set up a consulting office in Tucson. He was survived by his
wife and four children.

[ 1468 ]

on pean At OO

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

STILLMAN PIERCE WILLIAMS

 

HOME ADDRESS: g Sheridan St., Lexington 73, Mass.

BORN: June 13, 1912, Winchester, Mass. pareNts: Stillman Pierce Williams, ’97,
Frances Ropes.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1935.

MARRIED: Muriel F. Speare, Dec. 20, 1939, Bound Brook, N.J. cxttp: Lindsley,

Jan. 11, 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Breck Williams, M.B.a., 733.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant huts manager, Appalachian Mountain Club, 1935-36;
power economist, Tennessee Valley Authority, 1939-43; lieutenant (Com-
munications), U.S.N.R., 1943-46; executive director, Migratory Labor
Health Association, 1946-48; program analyst, World Health Organiza-
tion, 1949-50; editor and treasurer, World Order Library, Inc., since
1952; senior systems and procedures analyst, Sylvania, 1958-59.

MEMBER OF: American Veterans Committee; American Association for the
United Nations; Appalachian Mountain Club Hutmen’s Association; In-
ternational Society for General Semantics; Star Island Corporation (ex-
co-chairman, Family Week); United World Federalists (Chapter officer,
Atlanta, Ga., Lexington, Mass.); World Affairs Council, Boston.

THE idea of graduate school was much with me at the time of
Commencement. But which profession and what school? I de-
ferred. A year with the Appalachian Mountain Club Huts in New
Hampshire aided my sights toward public administration, particu-
larly city management. Prefaced by Harvard Summer School in
1936, I invested the next two years at the University of Chicago.
The administrative target was amended to region and nation, and
I deemed myself lucky t to sign with the Tennessee Valley Authority
in early 1939. In late 1939, life also began wondr ously anew in that
important big step — marriage. Each of the next three years (both
Muriel and I were originally working for TVA) brought succes-
sive positions and with each a new location and residence, In 1941

[ 1469 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

hoc sanctions and participation, McCarthyitis was a national disease
more serious than any one misguided man. It was not quite “re-
spectable” to think, let alone talk, about world law, disarmament,
inspection, and peace. Could there be a bridge between and among
organizational and personal viewpoints on world affairs and world
order? What about an educational association, non-profit and tax-
exempt, which could help a reader into important books in the
field? Might it not also be a successful financial enterprise?

I tried to find the answers to these questions. In my search, I

had help from many persons concerned with communications,
world affairs, and world order —old friends and new, professors,
publishers, editors, clergy, and specialists in internationally oriented
organizations. In March, 1953, with myself as editor and treasurer,
World Order Library was incorporated in Massachusetts. Its
principal service was to make important and representative books
—and information about these books — easily and systematically
available to the general reader, groups, and libraries. This was ac-
complished by preparing one-page reprints of selected book reviews
for a given book. A cumulative series was built up and sold in the
form of subscriptions. Books were also sold, whether reviewed or
not. World Order Library worked closely with other groups,
such as the American Friends Service Committee (from whom a
small office was rented at their Cambridge center), American As-
sociation for the United Nations, Carnegie Endowment for Inter-
national Peace, Foreign Policy Association, United World Federal-
ists, and World Peace Foundation, These groups helped promote
World Order Library, as did occasional news stories. Among the
latter was a splendid feature story by Charlie Whipple in the Boston
Globe. World Order Library operated as a pilot project in antici-
pation of obtaining federal tax-exempt status. If exemption were
granted, World Order Library would then be eligible for financial
subsidy from foundations and tax-deductible contributions from
individuals. The Bureau of Internal Revenue, however, deemed
the enterprise “essentially commercial” in 1955; and again, upon re-
application, in 1956.

When World Order Library’s operations were curtailed, I went
back to carpentry. With mixed pleasure and profit, I made cabinets
and did jobbing for about two years, During this period, I had a
half-year’s association with a Boston subscription fulfillment house
trouble-shooting some of Saturday Review's subscription headaches
and problems. In July, 1958, I joined Sylvania’s BMEWS (Ballistic

[1472 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Missile Early Warning System) Program Office, located in Wal-
tham and later in Needham. Here I was responsible for the systems,
procedures, and communications flow needed in the BMEWS crash
program. Sylvania’s part in BMEWS concerned the design and
manufacture of data-processing equipment and site computers for
the Air Force’s two long-range radar stations, in Greenland and
Alaska, which are being established to give ICBM surveillance to the
land masses of northern Russia. The work was fast, full, and fasci-
nating. But somehow in administrative matters, we too often were
not able to take the time to do certain jobs right, although we
perforce took the time to do the same things over. I left Sylvania
in November, 1959.

My saga of the past twenty-five years is not one of conventional
success in the sense of continuity of accomplishment and accumu-
lation of material gain. Yet I feel rewarded and rich in other im-
portant ways. I have done many of the things I wanted to do.
Lindsley, now a freshman at Haverford, can and does well for
others and himself —his professional sights are on architecture.
Muriel and I have our health, and— God willing — our youth. I
hope I shall be able to continue to help, in small ways or other,
address the historical imperative of today —man’s realization of
his identification with the human race — not merely its competing
sub-groups, In this endeavor, success is no longer a personal equa-
tion. The next twenty-five years are crucial.

WEBSTER FAIRBANKS WILLIAMS, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 90-20 2218t Pl., Queens Village, N.Y,
OFFICE ADpRESS: 218-08 Jamaica Ave., Queens Village, N.Y.

[ 1473 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935
BoRN: Jan. 5, 1912, Hollis, N.Y. PaRENTS: Webster Fairbanks Williams "or
Rachel Nichols Simonds. a)

PREPARED AT: Brooklyn Polytechnic Country Day School, Brooklyn, N.Y
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935.

MARRIED: Doris DeWindt Hauser, April 15, 1939, Merwood, Pa. (divorced
1945). CHILDREN: Elizabeth DeWindt, Sept. 29, 1940; Webster Fairbanks,
3d, May 27, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Calvin Williams, ’40.

occuPaTION: Owner, Williams Bros, retail-wholesale tires, hardware, marine
supplies, boats, motors, sporting goods, etc.

oFFices HELD: Chairman, various committees, Queens Village Rotary Club;
member, board of directors, Queens Village Chamber of Commerce; presi-
dent, Queens Village Rotary Bowling League, coach, Hofstra College
Fencing Team, 1937-38, Queens Fencers Club.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Varsity Club, Harvard Club of Long Island, Queens
Village Rotary Club; Queens Village Chamber of Commerce; Associates
of the Engineers Corps and Company K, Seventh Regiment; American
Bowling League; Fencers Club of New York; Sea Cliff Yacht Club.

THIS well-meant invitation to record those hurrying years that
form the bridge from college graduation to the present brings an
uncomfortable awareness of the number of years involved. Very
likely, we would all prefer to Jook ahead with anticipation than
to contemplate the past. So, in the sense that this is prelude and
not finale, let us go back to 1935 and my early efforts in the world
of business. Wall Street was still staggering from the shock of the
Great Depression and yet was a fascinating place. Those hardy
souls that had resisted the urge to jump from tall buildings were
trying to piece the financial jigsaw puzzle together again. It was
slow work and I wanted more action. I didn’t stay for the come-
back. ] found action a-plenty in the field of retailing — action and
hard work. I started in Harvey Firestone’s business empire. The
founder had passed on, but much of the color and vitality of the
man remained in his great dream, I started as a manager in install-
ment sales, was called to the company offices in Akron, and after
some time returned to New York and became district budget super-
visor.

Meanwhile, I had evolved a dream of my own, I wanted to start
my own business. This became possible in 1946, with the war be-
hind us and what looked like clear sailing ahead. The business was
patterned upon the Firestone model and included a retail-whole-

sale tire distribution as well as twelve other merchandise divisions
In recent years, we have expanded the marine de

partinent due to
the popularity of family boating

and became distributors of out-

[1474 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

board motors and boats. We take part in the Boat Show in our
area, showing the latest in family runabouts and sport fishing models.
Sporting goods is another active department. We furnish much
of the baseball equipment used by the Little League and Babe
Ruth teams in our area. We were proud to have the baseball team
we sponsor win the League trophy this year.

Looking back again to the late 1930’s I recall the “Queens
Fencers Club” that Harvard roommate Bob Ackerman and I
coached in Hollis, New York. We had an enthusiastic group of
about forty teenagers, boys and girls, Our teams competed with the
freshman fencing squads of many nearby colleges and took part
in a Long Island Invitation Tournament which we initiated. This
organization continued until it was terminated by the second World
War when most of our boys went into service. We Long Islanders
are blessed with a great variety of divertissements. In pleasant
memory are the weekend sailing parties at Sea Cliff, the deep sea
fishing trips from Montauk, water skiing from Port Washington,
and clambakes on our incomparable beaches. And so as not to be-
come too provincial, we added horseback riding in the Berkshires,
skiing at Bromley (Vermont), swimming at North Eastham on
Cape Cod, dude ranching at Cimarron in the Putnam Valley, and
ice skating at Lenox (Massachusetts).

So much for the past. My greatest present effort is trying to
keep up with two active children. Betsy is a sophomore at Drexel
Institute of Technology and, along with her scientific studies in
home economics, has learned to share my love for English litera-
ture. Webster, 3d, is sixteen and six-feet-three. He plays basket-
ball, manages his high school J.V. team, and plays in the school
band. We hear so much of progress and change at Harvard, and
yet if there was one thing I would keep the same it is the quality
of her teachers. It was a great privilege to study in the society of
those splendid men, men such as George Lyman kittredge, Wil-
liam Ernest Hocking, George Townsend Copeland, Bruce Campbell
Hopper, Roger Bigelow Merriman, Kirsopp Lake, and many others.
Their genius has put a mark on our times, and the wealth they had
to give is the finest this world has to offer.

[ 1475 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

ARTHUR WILLIS, JR.

 

HOME AbpREsS: 64 Canton Ave., Milton 87, Mass.
OFFICE appress: J. D. K. Willis & Co., Room so09, 50 State St., Boston 9, Mass.

BorN: Nov. 9, 1912, Brookline, Mass. parents: Arthur Willis, Sara Cunning-
ham.

PREPARED AT: Rivers Country Day School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., cu72 laude, 1935.

markieD: Judith Drew Miller, June 20, 1940, Boston, Mass. (died July 14,
1956); Beatrice L. Murray Bilodeau, June 21, 1958, Milton, Mass. CHILDREN:
Arthur, 3d (Rory), July 30, 1942; Judith Drew, Jr., April 28, 1945; Harri-
son McCann Bilodeau, May 9, 1943 (stepson); Cynthia Wesson Bilodeau,
Oct. 12, 1945 (stepdaughter).

HARVARD BROTHER: John Cunningham Willis, ’32.

occupation: Broker of industrial and commercial real estate; proprietor and
owner, J. D. K. Willis & Company.

OFFICES HELD: Corporator, Warren Institution for Savings, Rivers Country Day
School; director, Germania Cooperative Bank, Trinity Neighborhood
House, East Boston, Mass.; former chairman, Real Estate Division, Greater
Boston Community Fund; former member, House Committee, Harvard
Club of Boston; elected member, Town of Milton Republican Committee;
member, Admissions Committee, Greater Boston Real Estate Board, deputy
secretary, Society of Colonial Wars in the Commonwealth of Massachu-
setts; director-at-large and director, Boston Council, Navy League of the
United States; member, Membership Committee, Society of Mayflower
Descendants; appointed by Commandant of 1st Naval District to his
Advisory Committee on Naval Affairs.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Milton-Hoosic Club; Acoaxet Club,
Elephant Rock Beach Club, Westport Harbor, Mass.; Westport Harbor
Yacht Club; Westport Harbor Improvement Trust; Greater Boston Real
Fstate Board; Society of Industrial Realtors; Navy League of the United
States; Society of Colonial Wars of Massachusetts; Society of Mayflower

Descendants.

A LOT of water has passed over the proverbial dam since that

[ 1476 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

noontime twenty-five years ago when we suddenly sprang from

being mere undergraduates into being full-fledged alumni, and the
longer I contemplate the penning of this report, the more ominous
it looms. For this reason — and also to get that man Knowlton off
my neck —I hasten to set forth my account in a few not-so-well-
chosen words.

After a very pleasant trip abroad with Whit Dall during the
summer following graduation, I returned to Boston and entered
the family real estate business of J. D. K. Willis & Company as a
salesman strictly wet behind the ears. Here I still remain, although
in the capacity of proprietor following a dozen or more pleasant
years as partner with my father. Believe it or not, 1 have on occa-
sion left the fuzz-bill marts of State Street and have ventured boldly
into the wilds of far-flung places “on the other side of the Charles”!

With England at war and ominous clouds looming over our
heads, Uncle Sam’s real estate acquisition department of the US.
Army’s Corps of Engineers sought out a number of civilian real
estate specialists in the spring of 1941 to advise and assist in the
acquisition of all manner of real estate interests throughout New
England. The ensuing three years, during most of which I bore
the title of chief project manager for New England (real estate),
were some of the most interesting I have been privileged to spend
in this field. The pressure of war, particularly after Pearl Harbor,
slashed much of the government’s red tape, and we found ourselves
up to our elbows, virtually day and night, acquiring lands for canton-
ments, extension of runways, seacoast fire control points, bombing
ranges, and to our own amazement “avigation easements.” Up to
this time, one always thought that he owned everything above and
below his own property, but as has been said, “the king can do no
harm,” and Uncle instructed us to take air flights over a man’s land
in order to clear the approach zones of military airports. There

was no textbook on this new wrinkle, and the matter of formulat-
ing new appraisal techniques for a treetop, a chimney, or an in-
dustrial standpipe were intriguing indeed!

In the spring of 1944, I applied for a commission in the Navy.
Amongst other questions, the officer interviewing me asked w hat
I had majored in at Harvard. I think he must have been slightly
hard of hearing, for when I replied “Fine Arts,” he immediately said,
“Good, we need finance officers very badly.” When corrected,
his face fell and in a very disgusted tone he asked, “Well, what have
you to offer the Navy anyway?” At any rate, commissioned I was,

[ 1477 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 19395

Needless to say, probably our greatest hobby and certain

: I
most time consuming, is the running and rearing of af amily of for
teenagers. There is never a dul] moment in this department I
suppose that the year 1960, although a year of elections and National

importance, is destined to go down in the annals of history as be.
longing to the grand and glorious Class of 1935 — and its Twenty.
fifth Reunion! At least that’s the way we see it! And so be it!
We're off for the one and only Twenty-fifth! Nothing can gto,
it now (not that we want to!); nothing can erase those crow’s feet.
nothing can refluff that balding pate! Our United Gang, each and
every one, is looking forward eagerly and immensely to the whole
experience! As far as the old man is concerned, he expects to enjo
not only a very happy time — but a most rewarding and stimula:
Ing one swapping a quarter of a century of life’s stories with old
friends and classmates,

P.S. The above — circa November, 1959!

THOMAS FALES WILSON

 

FOME ADDRESS: 1654 Massachusetts Ave ;
rrce notes: Jon Trefry Cog Mlk Sees
* ass,

IRN: Af h 2] IOI
arc 3 9 35 Dorch ster, ass, PARE? TS: alter il J
N : W 1 son, 1

Allen.
EPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree Mass

ARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.

sRRIED: Regina Hughes, Oct. ; 5
5

SUPATION: Insurance,

1939, New York, N.Y

) questionnaire returned,

[ 1480 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PAUL SUMNER WINCH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 5 Edgerton 5St., Darien, Conn.

orFice AppREss: Parker Bros., Inc., 200 Fifth Ave., New York 10, N.Y.

orn: May 9, 1913, Somerville, Mass. parents: Cleon Stearns Winch, Amy
Fstelle Cotton.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935.

marriep: Olive Clarita Hutchins, Dec. 6, 1934, Boston, Mass. cuito: Walter
Atwell, July 27, 1941.

OccUPATION: Southwest sales representative, Parker Bros., Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Canaan.

B

IT is unfortunate that the Class budget does not provide for the

services of a ghost writer who could take the story of my life at

this critical point and for this conspicuous publishing venture do
what is necessary to keep the reader in suspense. In lieu thereof, |
shall say that in order to keep the wolf away for twenty-five years
I passed through a series of jobs from teaching school in Vermont
to selling games in Texas. If philosophy is appropriate here, my
conclusion is that the best time of one’s life is today, because today
is the only time given to us to do with what we will.

As Southwest sales representative for Parker Brothers, the old
New England concern that makes “Famous Parker Games.” | cn-
life ve vauunum job satisfaction that one should expect i‘ us
and ofr ° ne ining six months of travel with six months © mone
lemns of » It Is Impossible not to have a benign outlook on the pt

Oo everyday living.
the hae are Winch household, we are currently going throu
College son Wh " lod of Suspense pending nonficanen * to the

wenty-fift a ter will artend next year, As a sidchyht t

y 1 Class Reunion and all it signitics to me, Emit 6e

[ 1481 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

forget to mention that my wife and I shall also be celebrating our

twenty-fifth wedding anniversary.

Having only recently become a member of that commuter’s para-
dise known as Fairfield County, Connecticut, it has not been easy
to transplant roots in community affairs from the suburbs of Boston
to those in New York. Also, one of the handicaps of a traveling
career in this respect seems to be that one is usually away on a busi-
ness trip when an important meeting is scheduled. Fortunately,
my good wife has shouldered much of the burden of civic contri-
bution.

Beyond the never-ending task of home maintenance, the few
idle hours left over are spent largely with that marvelous gift of
our electronic age known as hi-fi. I regard hi-fi, however, not as an
end in itself, as a component enthusiast probably would, but as the
means to the end of reproducing the wonderful sound of music and

bringing the concert hall into our home. Alas! There is so little
time left for piano playing.

+ HARRY WINER

 

BORN: Oct. 2, 1913, Boston, Mass. parents: Louis Winer, Fannie Fleishman.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B, 1935.
pied: Killed in action, Sept. 15, 1944, in Belgium.

AFTER receiving an A.B. with our Class, Winer spent a year at
the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. In 1941 he received
an M.D. from the American University of Beirut, Lebanon, and
in the fall of 1942 became a diplomate of the National Board
of Medical Examiners. After a year’s internship at the Cambridge
City Hospital he entered the service in January, 1943, and served

[ 1482 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with the Medical Corps at Camp Mackall, North Carolina,
and Fort George G. Meade, Maryland. In October, 1943, he was

romoted to captain and went overseas with the Medical Detach-
ment of the 66th Armored Regiment. He was survived by his mother.

LUCIUS TOWNSHEND WING

 

BORN: May 31, 1914, New York, N.Y. Parents: Lucius Arthur Wing, Amy
Everett.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 7agna cum laude, 1935; M.D, cum
laude, 1939.

pieD: Killed in action, May 28, 1943, in the European area.

AFTER graduating from the Medical School, Wing interned at
the Presbyterian Hospital in New York City and then began train-
ing in neurology at the Neurological Institute in New York. In
May, 1942, he entered the service in the Medical Corps and went
overseas with the Presbyterian Base Hospital Unit No, 2, which
was located near the city of Oxford, England. At the time of his
death he held the rank of first lieutenant. He was survived by his
parents.

[ 1483 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

WILLIAM GARDINER WINKLEY

   

HOME ADpREss: 2 Whippoorwill Lane, Exeter, N.H.

orrice appress: Winkley Insurance Agency, 39 Front St., Exeter, N.H.

porn: May 21, 1912, Medford, Mass, parents: William Henry Winkley,
Grace Geneva Decker.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREE: A.B. 1935.

marrigp: Mfargaret F. Clapp, Dec. 24, 1937, Boston, Mass, cHILDREN: William
Clapp, Jan. 3, 1939; Sarah Wyman, Feb. 14, 1941; Margaret Allen, July

13, 1946.
HARVARD SON: William Clapp Winkley, ’61.
HARVARD BROTHER: Prescott Winkley, °31.
occupation: Owner, Winkley Insurance Agency, general insurance.
orrices HELD: Director, Exeter Relief Society, Exeter Industrial Corporation.
MEMBER OF: Exeter Lions Club; Star In The East Lodge 59, F. & A.M.;, Exeter
Relief Society; Exeter Industrial Corporation.

AT the time of graduation I had a pleasant and consuming interest
in literary composition, bolstered by a mild flutter with the Advo-
cate and Lampoon as publishers of material. I joined an insurance
company hoping that gentle mental stress would leave me free to
exploit the promise. The injustice of it all was that I soon was
married. We produced a family, an interest grew in the insurance
business, and that, as is its wont, was that. The war years found me
deferred at all points until I reached overage.

In 1942 I moved to New York and six years later to Exeter where
I made my headquarters for extensive traveling. The summer of
1952 brought a chance to purchase an insurance agency here, and
I have operated my business ever since. While there are countless
Opportunities in the world for those with drive and ambition, I
have found that within onesclf there can be reached a point of
diminishing returns when the effort and restlessness can make a

[ 1484 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

hooraw’s nest of living. I somehow feel that a balance may be

achieved by shifting the emphasis from ache and determination to
color and growth. This is not simple, but makes a fine goal,

My proudest inconsequential success is the adaptation of a labora-
tory device known as a separatory funnel to a cocktail dispenser.
It rests on a hoop attached to an upright screwed into a heavy
metal base. Cracked ice is admitted, the martini is poured through
the top opening, filters down and out the bottom by w ay of a
stop cock. Offensive melt-scarred dividends are avoided, as each
drink is joyfully chilled on its way, draining into the glass beneath
as perfection. With the cocktail you serve shrimp soaked in French

dressing for a couple of hours, then fancied with a toasted almond
sliver stuck in each one.

EDWARD WINSLOW

 

HOME apprEss: 37 Avon Rd., Wellesley 81, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New England Mutual life Insurance Co., Boston, Mass.

BorN: April 24, 1912, Brooklyn, N.Y. Parents: Walter Barrell Winslow, Julia
Wilhelmina Gremse.

PREPARED AT: Brooklyn Technical High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933. DEGREE: LL.B. (St. Lawrence Univ.).

MARRIED: Olga Powley, June 28, 1946, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada
Edward Bruce, July 21, 1950.

_ occuPaTION: Assistant counsel, Law Department, New Fngland Mutual Life

Insurance Company, handling particularly mortgage and real estate trans
actions.

« CHED:

BEING a relatively orderly individual, FE feel compelled ta coms
plete all blanks on the “Class Life” form which was submitted.
Hence the following: After two enjoyable and, to me. beneficial
years with the Class, managed in parte by scholarships, the decpen-

[ 1485 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

ing depression required me to leave Harvard and obtain work at
once. | commenced work with the New York law firm of Tanner,
Silleocks & Friend, with which I remained for the next eighteen
years until joining New England Life. The field selected was quite
remote from my intended field of concentration, bio-chemistry.
After the initial adjustment to the law and taking of a three-year
law course, | was admitted to the New York bar in 1939. In due
course, being reasonably healthy, I enlisted in the U.S. Army Sig-
nal Corps Reserve in 1942; there followed three years active service
in the Corps from 1943 to 1946, principally in northwestern Canada,
and I attained the rank of master sergeant. Subsequent to coming
to Boston, | was admitted to the Massachusetts bar. Employing
some of the terms of the form, my “points of view” and “convic-

tions” on general matters would add nothing to this Report, due to
my conservative nature.

+ CHARLES FREDERICK WISSENBACH

 

worn: Feb. 8, 1908, Frankfurt, Germany. parents: Fred Wissenbach, Susanna
Fischer.

PREPARED AT: Clinton High School, Clinton, Mass.
MARRIED, CHILDREN: two boys, one girl,

pip: July 12, 1959, Worcester, Mass.

CHARLES FREDERICK WISSENBACH spent one year with our
Class. He had not been heard from since our Second Report, when
he wrote that he was a draftsman for Fitchburg Engineering Corpo-
ration in Fitchburg, Massachusetts, was married and had three chil-

dren, At the time of his death he was a draftsman and a student
pilot. He was a resident of Worcester, Massachusetts,

[ 1486 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HENRY RESTARICK WITHINGTON

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 4308 N. 36th St., Phoenix, Ariz.

porn: Feb. 24, 1912, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: Paul Withington, ’o9g, Con-
stance Restarick.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935.

MarriED: Eleanor L. Jones, Oct. 3, 1935, Manchester-by-the-Sea, Mass. (divorced
1946); Jaqueline Hunt Isaacs, March 1, 1947, Honolulu, Hawaii. CHILDREN:
Sara Greenleaf, April 20, 1937; Wendy Restarick, Nov. 3, 19413 James
Restarick, April 27, 1948; Mary Manning, Oct. 22, 1950; Paul, zd, Aug. 6,

1952.

OCCUPATION: Investments.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Junior Chamber of Commerce of Waikiki, 1941;
founder and director, Purchasing Agents Association of Hawaii, 1949;
secretary, Honolulu Gas Company, 1951-56; assistant secretary, Pacific
Refiners, Ltd., 1952-56; secretary-treasurer, Hilo Gas Company, 1955-56;
chairman, Corporate Secretaries Association of Hawaii, 1956.

MY previous reports have described the nostalgic days in Hawaii
before the war. Work in those times was more like a vacation than
vocation and as a result my only worthwhile accomplishment was
the production of two daughters.

After the attack on Pearl Harbor, it took the Navy some time to
realize my potentialities. But in early 1944 I became the skipper of
the USS Chalcedony, known by many (including several of our
classmates) as the fightin’est yacht in the Pacific. Proof of this is
the documented fact that we landed on more uninhabited atolls
and caught more fish than any other warship of this class, But my
proudest moment was when as a sort of ComYachtPac I sailed into
Los Angeles harbor on October 22, 1945, leading a squadron of
war-weary yachts.

Upon the signing of the peace treaty I was allowed to resume

[ 1487 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935
al lite and returned to work with the Honolulu Gas Con
ctv Lh ing step by step up the executive Tada

: Hates, AgAt 3
and its aff jumped off and took my family to cide

-6 when I i
the fall of 1956 iod i. . Main~
vey Linired States, After a short period in New Jersey (ang 4.

ung discouraged after seeing us whaled by the Pr incetons) We
“rated to Alexico for a ear. I tf nought that fi ving’ in a f, Orej

ry would be broadening and mexpensive and that it would
ndertul for the children to learn a foreign langua Se. Asa re

Pany
unti]

-

\- now Spee k English with a Mexican accent and can’t speak
of Spanish. I spent my time teaching English at the Instj-
ces de La Laguna, prospecting for gold in the back
Zacatecas, playing golf in the high nineties, and discover.

17 In Mexico Is not inexpensive.

hildren wouldn’t learn Spanish, we returned to the
of North America and settled in Phoenix. We have
‘operty and I am hoping that some rich easterner
and buy it so I can afford to come on to our Re-

political and social convictions I would like to

1s a Republican governor and the best senator
OTESS,

HERMAN WITTENBORG

   

ngham, Mass,
gwood Ave. Boston 15, Mass.
78: August H, Wittenborg, Ida

iphis, Tenn,

MD, (Johns Hopkins Univ.);

 

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
ep: Harriett Johnson, May 25, 1943, Tucson, Ariz. cHiLowes: Peter, Oct.
ae 19443 Gretchen, Dec. 15, 1945; Karen, Dec. 14, 1948, Anne, Sept. 4,
’

199 ON: Physician, radiologist, Children’s Medical Center, assistant clinical
Ooo a essOT, Harvard Medical School.

ve wELD: Consultant in radiology, Good Samaritan Hospital, Boston, since
ore nsultant in radiology for World Health Organization, Insutute

1950; CO .
; ition of Central America and Panama, December, 1953, executwe

of Nu . . . .
board, Children’s Hospital Alumni Association, 1956, spectral consultant

to National Cancer Institute, 1956-59; secretary, Children’s Hospital Statt
Association, 1959-60; representative of American Roentgen Ray Society
on the National Research Council, July, 1960, to June, 1963.

memBer or: New England Roentgen Ray Society; Associanon of University
Radiologists; Society for Pediatric Radiology, Massachusetts Medical
Society; American Medical Association, United World Federalists, Johns

_ Hopkins Clubs of New York and Boston.

pusLicaTions: “Neuroblastoma in Children,” Radiology 54: 1950, “Radiology
Annual Review of Medicine, vol. 4, 1953; “Roentgenologic Aspects of
Congenital Heart Disease,” Circulation, vol. 11, 1935, “Nutrition in Rela-
tion to Growth and Maturation of Skeleton in Childhood, with Special
Studies of the Status of Children in Central America” Journal of Public
Health, El Salvador, 1954; “Anomalous Course of Left Pulmonary Artery
with Respiratory Obstruction,” Radiology 67: 1956, “Ventricular Sepa
Defects in Infants and Children—a Correlation of Clinical Physiologic

and Autopsy Data,” Circulation, 1958.

I HARDLY received a comprehensive education at Harvard — ts

through no fault of the College but rather a reflection of the hiatuses

in my background, and a preoccupation with the basic sciences,
However, three years at Harvard left me with many assets, mort

related to intellectual skills. 1 left with a somewhat statty-cyed
idealism, in the pursuit of science, shghty confused, but with a
strong conviction that between the desire and the goal, nothing lay

in my path that self-application and a bit of work could not con:
quer. I seemed more preoccupied with experience and things than
people. Twenty-five years later 1 am still, but in a more tempered
pursuit of science and I find myself working primary with people
and still occasionally mildly confused, But perhaps experience hay

led to understanding, understanding to tolerance, and comprehen:

“ton Is still to be pursued.
1 wandered through the precast medical curriculum at Jubas

Hopkins with adventures, misadventures and intermittent hand work
ind hard play in the old Hopkins tradition of acquiring the dicts
plines of the profession, Orher than showing a greater prattereney 1

| 148y |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

PAUL ALBERT WOGAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 102 Marshall St., Watertown, Mass.

orFice apprEss: A.C. Transportation Co., Inc. 160 Gould St. Needham
Heights 94, Mass.

BoRN: June 10, 1906, Watertown, Mass. parents: Michael James Wogan,

Emily Frances Dowd.
PREPARED AT; Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935. DEGREE: A.By 1935.
marRieD: Marjorie Adams, Jan. 24, 1942, Watertown, Mass. cHILDREN: Lowell
A,, Oct. 19, 1942; Susan E., Oct. 22, 1946; Marilyn A., June 28, 1948; Jef-
frey A., June 1, 1956.
OccUPATION: Sales representative, A.CE. Transportation Company.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Traffic Club of. New England; Foreign
Commerce Club.
LOOKING BACK: My seven years after graduation were enjoyed
as a bachelor. Working in transportation I was able to get enough
time off for a delightful winter vacation in Florida, or such enjoy-
able trips as to the Kentucky Derby, and Montreal and Quebec.
It was then back to work again. This completely ended in 1942
when I married Marjorie Adams. That was an eventful year for me,
I lost my status as a civilian when the U.S. Army invited me to
Texas. To make the year an outstanding one, my wife presented
me with a son. My tour of duty in the Army extended to the
“uropean theatre after one year in Texas. Two years spent in
‘ngland, France and Belgium convinced me that the good old
J,S.A. is the only place in which to live.
Returning home, I vacationed for a couple of months, then picked
D the threads where I had left off in transportation. My wife
‘esented me in quick succession with two daughters, Susan born

1946, followed by Marilyn, born in 1948. The succeeding years
[ 1492

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

went by uneventfully until my second son, Jeffrey, was born in

1956.

"TF OOKING AT THE PRESENT: Naturally, my job consumes
the major portion of my time, but fortunately I can combine busi-
ness with some golf. My family keeps me very busy, what with
checking homework during school sessions, and in the summer it
has been visits to the North Shore, although some vacations have
been spent on the South Shore, as my wife and children prefer the
warmer water for swimming. Committee work on the local P-T.A.
is an additional duty. In the winter months skating is most desired
by my family, although I must admit that I would rather watch TY.

My older son, Lowell, has applied for admission to Phillips
Academy, Andover, Massachusetts. He hopes to go to Harvard.
Susan is now in junior high, Marilyn is in the sixth grade, and

Jeffrey will not enter elementary school for a couple of years, so

it looks as though I have a lengthy program for their education
ahead of me.

FREDERICK TAYLOR WOLF

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2503 Kensington Pl., Nashville, Tenn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Biology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tenn.

BORN: July 11, 1915, Auburn, Ala. Parents: Frederick Adolph Wolf, Wynnette
Taylor.

TRANSFERRED FROM: University of North Carolina, Durham, N.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; aM. (Univ. of Wireonun),
1936; PH.D. (ibid.), 1938.

MARRIED: Virginia H. Martin, June 10, 1945, Austin, Texas, caitoars; Vargas
Ann, Oct. 22, 1947; Catherine Lee, March 17, 19st.

occuPaTION: Professor of botany, Vanderbile University.

OFFICES HELD: President, Tennessee Academy of Science, 1955, Vice-presalent,

[ 1493 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 10935

Association of Southeastern Biologists, 1956; former president, Kentucky-
Tennessee Branch, Society of American Bacteriologists.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Xi, Tennessee Academy of Science; Botanical Society of
America; Mycological Society of America; Torrey Botanical Club; Ameri-
can Society of Plant Physiologists; British Mycological Society; Scandi-
navian Society for Plant Physiology.

puBLications: The Fungi, co-author with father, F. A. Wolf, John Wiley &
Sons, New York, 1947; sixty to seventy technical papers in botanical

journals in U.S., Great Britain, France, Germany, Holland, Sweden and
Switzerland,

UPON graduation I entered graduate school at the University of
Wisconsin, taking my Ph.D. in 1938. Following one postdoctorate
year as a National Research Council fellow, spent at Harvard, I
started teaching as an instructor in the Department of Biology at
Vanderbilt, where I still am. The academic atmosphere was aban-
doned from 1942 to 1945, owing to a request from Uncle Sam,
which I was unable to refuse. After a short period in the Chemical
Warfare Service, | was assigned to the School of Aviation Medicine,
Randolph Field, Texas, where I saw the crude beginnings of things
now commonplace in this space age. One good thing to come out
of this was my marriage to Virginia Martin, University of Texas.
We returned to Vanderbilt in November, 1945, aS assistant pro-
fessor, promoted to associate professor in 1947 and professor in 1955.

Spent one year as an administrator and was not at all surprised to
find this not to my liking, after the comparative peace and quiet of
a laboratory. In addition to my own research, which, together with
teaching, normally takes up the greater part of my time, I have
turned out a few graduate students, three with Ph.D.’s and a larger
number with Master’s degrees. One of my Ph.D.’s is working at
Harvard.

About the only traveling I have done worthy of mention was
as a guest on a navy cruise in the summer of 1956, when I flew to
Newfoundland, the Azores, North Africa, Spain, France and Eng-
land, had a wonderful two-week cruise back across the Atlantic in
a battleship to Cuba and flew back from there,

Scientifically, one of my most rewarding experiences came last
summer, which I spent at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory.
Hobbies include theatre which | took up five or six years ago and
in which I have spent a lot of time, principally in set construction
and back stage work. Also stamp collecting which I had abandoned
at fifteen but took up again three years ago,

As a sure sign that I am getting old, I feel quite sure that the level

[1494 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of college students isn’t what it used to be. Also, research used to
be fun, but now it is all big business, and I wonder if there is any-
thing left now like a scientist who will devote his leisure time to
studying something — anything — without first obtaining a grant
of from five to fifty thousand dollars.

RICHARD EDWARD WOLF

#
Be
Bo
£

 

HOME ADDRESS: 115 Lafayette Circle, Cincinnati 20, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Children’s Hospital, Cincinnati 20, Ohio.

BORN: Jan. 28, 1914, Philadelphia, Pa. PARENTS: Lester Wolf, Florence Stein
Leopold.

PREPARED AT: Cheltenham High School, Elkins Park, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 7agna cum laude, 1935; M.d. (Univ.
of Pennsylvania), 1939.

MARRIED: Margaret Wertheimer, Dec. 22, 1938, Baltimore, AId. ceepreN:
Richard Edward, Jr., March 22, 1941; Susan Ellen, Oct. 31, 19423; William
L., Aug. 31, 1944.

OccUPATION: Pediatrician, pediatric psychiatrist, medical educator, director,
Pediatric Psychiatry Clinic, Children’s Hospital, Cincinnati, Ohio; asso-
ciate professor of pediatrics, College of Medicine, University of Cincinnati.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Mental Health Council of Cincinnati, 1954-56, mem-
ber, Overseers Committee to Visit Graduate School of Education, Harvard
University, since 1955; president of board, Babies Milk Fund Association,
1957-59; member, Advisory Council to Division of Juvenile Classification
& Training, State of Ohio; member, Advisory Committee, American Child
Guidance Foundation; member of board, Physicians Council, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Queen City Association; American Academy of Pediatrics.
American Psychiatric Association; Cincinnati Soviet ty of Neurology and
Psychiatry; Cincinnati Pediatric Society; Phi Beta Kappa; Sigma Nt

PUBLICATIONS: “Feeding Has Many Meanings,” Childcrafe Encyclopedia, Krell
Enterprises, 1953; “Fathers,” Pareuts Encyclopedia, Doubleday, tyt4. ~ Phe
Role of the Pediatrician in the Mental Health of Children,” co-author
with H. D. Smith, Pediatrics, 1956, “Emotional Growth and Development

[ 1495 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

The desk-base and its graceful secretary-top of shelves are united
again, and thirty years have added their patina. Filled with treasured
mementos of antiquing days instead of books, it deserves the place
of honor in our living room, Not portly, but mellowing in its mid-
dle years, it settles into the luxuriant permanence of carpeting,
makes the imprint of its feet in the pile.

The imprint deepens for there are no moves now, only the changes
taking place around it, of wallpaper, new color schemes, slipcovers.
On the wall opposite, the oil purchased in Paris in ’55 is rehung to
make room for a Wolf of ’56, for I am doing some painting now.
The drawer handles of the desk jingle to George Lewis’ recordings
of Dixieland music when several sets of feet are Charlestoning. It’s
in the blood for Ricky can outdo both of us. (And we are good!)

The desk has become the repository of things past. ‘The old re-
port cards of Ricky, Susie and Bill lying upon the baby books and
albums, The movies of the children and the vacations, now spliced
in middle-aged orderliness onto larger spools. It holds another album
of much older pictures, those that the oldest son receives when
family effects are sorted and which remain to be cherished, remi-
nisced over, carefully flipped back into the big drawer.

There have been, and still are, other desks — the one upstairs in
my den, the one at the office — but these are the work-bench va-
riety. No imprint there of early years, not bits of writing etched
into the finish by pen pressure. Though blurred by the frictions of
years, they keep memories alive. There may be more privacy at
the “work-bench” in the den, but when there are parodies to write
for anniversaries or “significant birthdays,” or a “Class Life,” I find
myself back at the Desk, my desk. Here is the inspiration, here the
links and associations that bring continuity through change; here
is Reunion.

[ 1498 ]

 

Spit h me
. cia cen sratiefteiried er

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4439 Waldo Ave., New York 71, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Babies Hospital, Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, 167th
Street & Broadway, New York 32, N.Y.

BORN: June 19, 1914, New York, N.Y. Parents: William Frederick Wolff,
Blanche H. Reitlinger.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; MD. (New York Univ.),
1940.

MARRIED: Janet B. Loeb, June 24, 1946, New York, N.Y. cHitpren: James
Alexander, Jr., Aug. 13, 1947; John Kendall, Dec. 18, 1949; Barbara Ann,
Dec. 26, 1951; Timothy Grant, Dec. 23, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Frederick Wolff, Jr., 33, Li., '36.

occupation: Physician, pediatric hematologist; associate clinical professor of
pediatrics, Columbia University; associate attending pediatrician, Babies
Hospital, New York City.

OFFICES HELD: Medical adviser, Riverdale Neighborhood House, New York
City; member, medical advisory committee, New York Chapter, National
Hemophilia Foundation, Cooley’s Anemia and Blood Transfusion Asso-
ciation; physician, Ethical Culture Schools, New York City, since 1982.

MEMBER OF: Society for Pediatric Research; Society for the Study of Blood,
American Association for the Advancement of Science; American Medical
Association; American Academy of Pediatrics; New York Academy of
Medicine; New York Pediatric Society; Harvard Club of New York;
American Board of Pediatrics (licentiate).

PUBLICATIONS: “Temporary remissions in acute leukemia in children produced
by folic acid antagonist,” Farber, Diamond, Mercer, Sylvester and Wollf,
New England Journal of Medicine, June, 1948; Holt Pediarrics, “The
blood and blood-forming organs,” Appleton-Century-Crofts, Inc. New
York, 1953; “Anemias caused by infections and toxins, idiopathic aplavtic
anemia and anemia caused by renal disease,” Pediatric Clinics of North
America, May, 1957; “Observations on the minor basic hemoglobin con
ponent in the blood of normal individuals and paticnts with thalassemia,”
Kunkel, Cepellini, Muller-Eberhard and Wolff, Journal of Clinical lroes-
tigation, November, 1957.

[ 1499 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

THE years since graduation can be separated into three periods:
postgraduate training, military service during the years of World
War II and finally the practice of medicine. Despite the acquisition
of a few additional pounds to remind me of the passage of time, I
think I have been able to retain much of the optimism of my college
day: s, as well as appreciation of the good fortune that has come my
way. Most of the credit for this should be ‘given to my wife and to
our four children.

After graduation from New York University College of Medi-
cine and completion of an internship at Lenox Hill Hospital in
New York City, followed by a three-and-one-half-year period in
the Army, mainly in the European Theatre, I returned to Boston.
At the time of our Tenth Reunion I was a resident at the Boston
Children’s Hospital and later went on to further training as a fellow
in hematology at the Harvard Medical School. In 1948 I returned
to New York City where I have lived since then. I have been on
the staff of the Presbyterian Hospital and at the present time I am
an associate clinical professor of pediatrics at the College of Physi-
cians and Surgeons, Columbia University Medical School. Until
this year, I had in addition a private practice of pediatrics, but now
limit my practice to pediatric hematology.

Our hobbies include snow skiing and water skiing. and travel.
Despite the admonitions of our friends, a trip through Greece, Italy
and Spain, with our three oldest children, when one of them had
just turned four, proved to be one of our happiest experiences.

CHARLES HENRY WOOD

 

HOME appress: 15 Ingraham Rd., Wellesley 81, Mass.
oFFice appress: Boston Five Cents Savings Bank, 30 School St., Boston 8 Mass

[ 1500 ]

ies pha 2 OE om

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BoRN: March 11, 1913, Milton, Mass. Parents: William Barry \WWood, 'o:,
Emily Niles Lockwood.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1033.

mMarRiED: Helen Nowell, Oct. 21, 1939, Winchester, Mass. cHitores: James
Nowell, March 20, 1941; Thomas Hancock, March 15, 1944; Charles Henry,
Jr., June 18, 1947; Benjamin Allen, July 21, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Barry Wood, Jr., 732.

OCCUPATION: Assistant treasurer, Boston Five Cents Savings Bank.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, since 1949, president, since 1956, Forsyth Dental In-
firmary for Children.

MEMBER OF: Duxbury Yacht Club, City Club Corporation.

ALTHOUGH I had only two undergraduate years at Harvard and
then transferred to Williams College, I am eagerly looking forward
to our I'wenty-fifth Reunion this June.

After fourteen years in the financial end of the textile business,
serving as treasurer of several mills associated with Wellington,
Sears Company, and an interim in the Columbian National Life In-
surance Company, I have happily settled down for the past seven
years as an assistant treasurer of the Boston Five. I am in charge of
purchasing and the general housekeeping of the bank and its five
branches with duties which may run from advertising or delving
into the mysteries of electronics to answering a complaint of a
janitor. There is great variety and I enjoy it.

For the past eighteen years Helen and I have lived in W cllesley
with summers in Duxbury where our family has enjoyed lots of
_ tennis and boating.

In 1952 we had to send our fourth and youngest son, Ben, away
from home due to a permanent brain injury received before birth
but not apparent until he was two, Our three older boys started
in the Wellesley schools but, realizing the increasing competition
ahead, we have turned to private schooling. Jim (cighteen) gradu-
ated from Noble and Greenough School in Dedham “and is a fresh-
-man at Williams College; Tom (fifteen) is at Vermont Academy
and Skipper (C. H., Jr., twelve) is at the Fay School in Southbere,

There are strong Harvard ties on both sides of the family andl
realize it was a privilege to be a member of the Class of 1935.

[ 1501 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

FRANK EDWARD WOOD, Jr.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2320 Victory Pkwy., Apt. 17, Cincinnati, Ohio.

OFFICE apprESS: Nichols, Wood, Marx & Ginter, 900 Tri-State Bldg., Cincinnati
2, Ohio.

BORN: June 10, 1913, Cincinnati, Ohio, parents: Frank Edward Wood, LLB.,
08; Leah Pulaski.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; LL.B., 1938.

MarRIED: Sarah Ross, Dec. 16, 1937, Hingham, Mass. (divorced 1954). cHiL-
preN: Lydia R., Feb. 16, 1940; Frank Edward, 3d, July 19, 1942; Ellen H.,
Feb. 19, 1944; Roberta M., May 2, 1950.

occupation: Lawyer; general partner, law firm of Nichols, Wood, Marx &
Ginter.

oFFices HELD: Director, vice-president, Hyde Park Savings and Loan Company,
director, Norwood-Hyde Park Bank and Trust Company, director, secre-
tary, Ames Mining Company and affiliates.

MEMBER oF: Cincinnati Country Club; Queen City Club.

AFTER graduating I entered the Law School and spent three years
there struggling to earn my degree. Each year I seemed to have
ane bad course and as a result my marks were nothing to get excited
‘bout. I passed the Ohio bar examination in 1938 and joined my
ather’s firm of Nichols, Wood, Marx & Ginter in Cincinnati, Ohio.
er since, I have been engaged in general practice with the em-
hasis on corporate tax problems, I use the word “emphasis” be-
2use I suppose at one time or another I have been engaged in almost
ery phase of the law from defending a numbers racketeer in
ew York to arranging a $7,000,000.00 loan within the space of
ree hours. It has been fascinating work and the only thing wrong
th it is that there aren’t enough hours in the day.

Chere have been excursions into other ficlds, however, some of
ch have been pretty amusing. For example, a few years back

[ 1502 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Cincinnati was infested with starlings, a small bird about the size
of a robin, which has a nasty habit of collecting in large groups
and roosting on downtown buildings with the inevitable results.
After a number of ways to drive the birds away had been unsuc-
cessfully tried, I asked to be given a chance to shoot them on the
wing as they came into the city at dusk. The authorities were will-
ing to try anything and as a result, on one quiet Sunday evening, I
led a squad of fifty-seven marksmen situated on the top of seven-
teen buildings in the heart of Cincinnati and we had the greatest
bird shoot ever held. The birds came in as usual and were greeted
by blasts of shot. Crowds gathered on the streets below and cheers
went up every time a bird was dropped. Unfortunately, this seemed
to have no effect on the survivors, who continued to roost as be-
fore.

We were not yet defeated, however. I was given permission to
try knocking them off their roosts by shooting at them from the
street. This sounded a little dangerous but we roped off an area
around the base of my building and, avoiding windows as well as
I could, I fired one shot into the roost. Seventeen birds came down
and we felt that we had finally found the answer. Thereafter,
every night for two weeks I roamed the streets of the city accom-
panied by a partner and a couple of convicts, who acted as caddies
and picked up the dead birds. At the end of this period you couldn't
find a starling in town. When they started to come back we would
pop at them all over again. At the end of the season (the birds stay
out in the country while the leaves are on the trees) we had killed
14,000 of them and although they have returned in subsequent years,
they are now pretty well under control.

During the war I volunteered in the Navy and served four years
in chairs mostly in Washington, with the exception of three months
in France and Germany shortly before VE day. I fooled the Navy
Department into thinking I was a mechanical engineer, for at the
end of the war I was running a department staffed by about fifteen
M.I.T. graduates engaged in the development of synthetic train-
ing devices, short-range anti-aircraft weapons and lead computing
gun sights. This is pretty hard to believe but I have a citation from
the Secretary of the Navy to prove it.

A few years ago we were in danger of losing our profesional
basketball team, “The Cincinnati Roy als.” to Rochester. I never
really cared too much about basketball until Oscar Robertyean
came on the scene with our local university, but when he did came

[ 1503 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF I935

at the city would go mad about the type of

cted th :
[ predicte ‘Accordingly I started a campaign to kee mal Playe,
surprise found myself President of team
Pro.

in the NBA.
here and somewhat to my un
fessional sports enterprise. My prediction about the gj

could not have been wronger. People stayed away in

bers and unless our creditors are extremely lenient we m,
in business long enough to draft the “Big O” next spring. tb
whole thing got to be such a headache that I recently resj ened hi
In spite of certain unfortunate events I have had a .

time with my children. I had my own plane until a few Years

nd whenever the children had a vacation from school we Ww ago
ake a trip to some interesting spot for some fun. We covered ©
of ground, for the “Bonanza” carried us as far as Florida north.
Wisconsin, New England and many other points in betwee :
bIy because of the airplane, my son, when quite young be.
interested in model aviation and we went all the way to
for a contest in which he was lucky enough to win in his
etting two children and me into a four passenger airplane

»- oy airhy
“A six fairly large models and enough luggage for a week’
I think, almost as much of a feat as young Frank’s win

s now a senior In a public selective high school here and
re high enough so that I have every hope that he will
as a member of next fall’s freshman class at Harvard.
of some help to the swimming team, for he is one of
school conventional breast strokers in the ci ty. The
‘y musical but in a social, not a serious way. It is

at [ might bring some of this tribe with me.

ty’s inte

[ 1504 ]

Tes
large num.

WOnderfy)

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE MALCOLM WOOD

 

apprEss: 99 Broadway, Boston 16, Mass.
BORN: June 28, 1905, Lowell, Mass. parents: George Henry Wood, Helen

Northrup.
TRANSFERRED FROM: Williams College, Williamstown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933.
occupaTION: Newspaper compositor.

NO questionnaire returned.

THEODORE WOOD, JR.

 

HOME abpress: 13 Talbot Ave., Tufts University, Medford 55, Mas.
OFFICE Appress; Dept. of Humanities, Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge 39, Mass.
BORN: Dee. 6, 1913, Medford, Mass, parents: Theodore Wood, Gladys Marte
dite,
PR ,
EPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N.Y,

YEARS IN COLLE
CE: 1931-1935, DEGREES: S.Bu 1935) AcMy 1941,
UNMARRIED, 935 > SB. 19355 4 194

[ 1505 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 193§

occupation: Associate professor of literature, Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology.

AFTER graduation, | toyed for a while with the idea of going into

medicine. This was a mistake, as I soon found out while struggling

with freshman courses in physics and chemistry. So I quit, very

wisely, just before the November hour exams and went off into

the country to learn how to ski.

Two years later, after a year of special graduate work at Tufts
College picking up some prerequisites, I came back to Harvard with
the announced intention of getting a Ph.D, in English literature.
I never did. War was blazing in Europe and a thesis on “The Repu-
tation of John Keats” seemed impertinent; so I left to teach at M.LT.
while awaiting my call to arms.

The next three years or so I spent in the old Air Corps, as a
weather observer at work which was neither arduous nor risky.
(I must admit here to having spent two and a half shamefully en-
joyable years in London, where the only combat I saw was an
occasional brawl in the local pubs.)

In the fall of 1945 1 was back at M.LT. teaching a distressing
variety of humanities courses, some of which I actually knew some-
thing about. During the summers I ranged widely across the coun- .
try, camping out in my car, taking a ridiculous number of 35mm.
slides, and getting a background for what had now become my
chief professional interest ~ American folklore. One summer I
taught a course in American folklore at Colorado College in Col-
orado Springs, for two summers I taught the course at Tufts in
Medford; and now I’m teaching such a course at M.LT.

Ever since my graduate days I've been collecting, learning, ex-
changing and singing American folk songs (my original twin in-
spirations were the records of Carl Sandburg and a course in Broad-
side Ballads by the late Professor Hyder Rollins) and what started
innocently as a social pastime has become a profession. For years
now I've sung on the local chicken-a-la-king circuit of women’s
clubs, church groups, college functions, and occasionally on radio
and TV, It’s fun and I make money at it—just enough to comphi-
cate my Estimated Income Tax form but not enough to warrant

hiring a C.P.A. to fill out the form for me,

That’s about it. It’s been an uneventful, usually
ways challenging life and, as we say,

rewarding, al-
changes, of course) if it were June,

I'd do it again (with some
1935, instead of 1960.

[ 1506 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES FULLER WOODARD

 

HOME apprEss: Millbrook Road, Medfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Gillette Co., Gillette Park, Boston 6, Mass.

BoRN: March 17, 1912, Dedham, Mass. PARENTS: John Varney Woodard, ‘07,
Anita Clark.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 1935; LL.B., 1938.

MARRIED: Gwendolen Livermore, June 29, 1937, Topsfield, Mass. CHILDREN:
Charles Fuller, Jr., Jan. 13, 1939; John Varney, Aug. 1, 1940; Thomas
Livermore, Oct. 7, 1946; William K., Dec. 25, 1951; Anne B., Oct. 10,

1956.
HARVARD SON: John Varney Woodard, ’62.

OCCUPATION: General counsel, Gillette Company, since 1954.

OFFICES HELD: Editor and manager, Law Book Department, Little, Brown &
Company, 1939-54; director, 1952-58, vice-chairman, since 1958, Boston
Chapter, American Red Cross; moderator, Town of Medfield, Mass.

since 1957.
MEMBER OF: Badminton and Tennis Club, Boston,

ONE of the most significant characteristics of the past twenty-five
years is the speed with which they have gone by. One way or
another, we were probably all warned of this — by parents and
other advisers hoping to inspire us to a fast and energetic start in
building our own lives. But forewarned is not forearmed, and as I
looked ahead in 1935, with no very definite ideas, there seemed to
be plenty of time for everything.

There is no doubt but that the impact of international events on
our lives is one of the reasons time seems to have gone by so fast.
We have had to absorb a great deal which has been bevond our
control, But neither I nor, for that matter, a great many other
Americans foresaw this in 1935. To be sure, when I visited Ber-
lin that summer after the Oxford-Cambridge meet, 1 did not bhe
some of the things I saw and heard about, but I did not tie ther in

[ 1507 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

There my work, though also stimulating, was of a more repetitive
nature — different books but the same problems. And if I retained
some nostalgia for the publishing world during this period, it was

appeased by service up to June of 1959 as an editorial adviser to
the law book department.

As the statistics show, I have continued during postwar years with
one wife, but have added three more children—two more boys
and a daughter. As the children arrived and proceeded to grow up,
there was much less time for other activities. In addition, the de-
mands of education, particularly with two boys currently in col-
lege (one at Harvard, one at Middlebury), have had a further cur-
tailing effect. Nevertheless, I have still managed to do many of the
things I like. I still ski, though less frequently as one boy after
another has started downhill too. And I have still managed to pur-
sue my “obsession” for partridge and woodcock hunting, aided
not only by my brother-in-law, but also, up until recently, by an
equally ardent and soundly performing English setter.

The picture would not be entirely complete without mention of
a certain amount of participation in activities in the nature of public
service. These have included a good many years of work with the
Boston Chapter of the American Red Cross, resulting mainly from
a favorable wartime impression, during which I have been a fund
raiser, service chairman and Chapter director and officer. More
recently, I have taken a step into town government, which has
turned out to be a surprisingly stimulating venture. A few years
ago, after some Sunday martinis had loosened some prior inhibi-
tions, I agreed to run for moderator of the Town of Medfield.
When I faced the evening of my first meeting of 500 townsmen
with the feeling it was all a mistake, | understood why I had been
unopposed. But I am still at the job and enjoy it thoroughly.

Although not exactly in the foregoing category, working for the
Harvard Fund has also been a challenging and interesting job, Not
only has this work increased my admiration for and strengthened
my relations with the College, but it has brought me into contact
with many classmates whom I didn’t know before.

It is these extra activities as much as anything that have made me
realize how fast time goes by, for they were things that I didn’t
have to do and at first approached with misgivings, Furthermore
they have, and still do, cut in on my desire to read or just relax and
in this way they accentuate the somewhat frustrating effect of the
rapid passage of time without being able to accomplish all one wants.

[1510]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

But the fun I have had notwithstanding, as well as with almost
everything else I have done, makes me wonder how much I have
missed otherwise. There is still time ahead, however, perhaps the

next twenty-five years won't go so fast.

FRANK HENRY WOODASON

 

ADpREsS: Perkins St., Wenham, Mass.
BORN: Oct. 8, 1913, Wenham, Mass. parents: John Lawrence Woodason,

Helen Tarr.
PREPARED AT: Beverly High School, Beverly, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

NO questionnaire returned.

JOHN DANE WOODBERRY

 

HOME AppREss: g Weston St, Danvers, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Roberts, Cushman & Grover, 31 Milk Se, Boston, Mas
BORN: April 16, 1913, Beverly, Mass. parents: Charles Dane Woodberry, ‘ya

Amy Bowden Haskell.
[sit ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: aB., cum laude, 1935; LL.B., 1938.

MarRIED; Constance Weston, 1938, Danvers, Mass. CHILDREN: Nathan Dane,
Oct. 14, 1940; Stephanie Page, April 8, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Haskell Woodberry, °32.

occupation: Lawyer; member of firm, Roberts, Cushman & Grover, specializing
in trademarks, patents and copyrights.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Danvers Chapter, Red Cross, 1949-54, Danvers Planning
Board, since 1952; trustee, Danvers Savings Bank, since 1958; past presi-
dent, Richmond School PTA; vice-president, Danvers Historical Society.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Bar Association; Boston Patent Law Association.

I AM grateful for this forced opportunity selfishly to review the
last twenty-five years. They have been good to me and while, in
retrospect, the way has been decidedly the middle path, I would not
have it otherwise.

The necessarily long and difficult chores of the struggling young
lawyer were interrupted by three and a half years at sea with
the Navy, covering more than one-half the world and a series of
events which may be characterized as wonderful to remember.

A safe return to my wife and young family developed a fleeting
effort to recapture a small portion of the life I felt I had missed,
but soon resulted in entanglement in the intriguing but nevertheless
engaging toils of the legal profession and in the ever-present maze -
of civic duties. I have struggled ever since to extricate myself from
this situation but am now resigned to the discovery that if I can
but strike some measure of balance, I will be forever happy.

If you add to the foregoing diligence in following the customary
pursuits of happiness — an assist in bringing up a boy and a girl,
keeping a home and a reasonably good golf game, raising a garden
to keep down the waistline, maintaining a fair degree of peace in
the family, and in general attempting to get into at least a few
minutes of each quarter of the game —I find that there is really little
more to say.

I suppose that I have worked and played reasonably hard, but
I do know that I have enjoyed every minute of it, and T only hope
that I may continue to be as fortunate.

[1512 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ ERNEST LESTER WOODMAN, JR.

 

BORN: June 16, 1912, Amesbury, Mass. parents: Ernest Lester Woodman,
Ada Mullins.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B., 1935 (36).

MARRIED: Ethel Hodge. cHiLprREN: Joanne; Nancy; Ellen.

pieD: Nov. 7, 1951, Marblehead, Mass.

wipow: Mrs. Ernest L. Woodman, Jr., 67 Pleasant St., Marblehead, Mass.

ERNEST LESTER WOODMAN, JR., practised medicine in
Lawrence and Marblehead, Massachusetts. During World War
II he served in the Navy Medical Corps. He was survived by his
wife and children.

ROBERT EWART WOODMAN

eI ENTREE TET AT ES IE PRES ET

ae FASE ag

 

__—IOME apprEss; Road’s Find Farm, Chesterfield, N.EI.

geemmmm@oRN: July 2, 1913, Concord, Mass. paresrs: Arthur L, Woodman, Rowena
H. Ewart.

ee REPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.EL.

[1513]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.
marriep: Eleanor L. Williams, April 22, 1939, Carlisle, Mass. cHitprEN: Gayle

Meredith, Feb. 25, 1947; Thomas Ewart, April 18, 1948.
HARVARD BROTHER: Lorrin Ewart Woodman, °37, s.M., '38.

occupation: Farming, owner and operator, teacher in elementary schools;
director and owner, horsemanship camp.

orFices HELD: Member, Budget Committee, 1947-53, 1956-60, Taxpayers Associa-
tion, 1947-50, School Building Committee, 1948-51, Town Selectman,
1953-36, Chesterfield, N.H.

MEMBER OF: Chesterfield Community Club; American Hackney Horse So-
ciety; New England Horsemen’s Council,

CRAIG DUMONT WOODRUFF, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: Hayward Road, West Acton, Mass.
OFFICE appress: Polaroid Corp., Cambridge, Mass.

porN: Feb, 11, 1914, Fort Plain, N.Y. parents: Craig Dumont Woodruff,
Mabelle Hoppough.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N-H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: S.B., 1935.

Marriep: Elizabeth Becker, Aug. 24, 1941, New York, N.Y. CHILDREN: Craig
Dumont, 3d, Feb. 27, 1943; Susan, April 7, 1947.

occupation: Director, International Division, Polaroid Corporation.

AS this is being written, I am getting ready for a trip to Hawaii,
Australia, the Philippines, Hong Kong and Japan, which, for some
unknown reason, I haven’t revisited since the hegira of the ball
club in 1934. Looking back over the past twenty-five years, I
guess the junket to Japan was the first impetus to a career of inter-
national business,

Immediately after graduation 1 began working for the Grace

Line in New York City, and by 1936 Thad begun traveling through-
out the Caribbean and South American areas, A couple of years

L 1514]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

later I landed in Panama as manager of the local office. The Canal,
at that time, was a delightful place — cruise ships galore, big mili-
tary bases, a mountain of work and a thousand parties.

By 1940 I was back in the States for a series of corrective opera-
tions after an almost disastrous appendectomy; but within a year I
was off again, this time to Peru. The business end in Peru ran the
gamut — sugar, paper, textiles, importing and exporting, including
such items as flax, beeswax, cube root, tara, shark fins and cochi-
neal.

In 1944 I joined the International Division of Smith-Corona where
the typewriter business was just as big a whirl in Tegucigalpa as
it was in Denver. As vice-president it meant negotiating with the
union in Canada, haggling for a good price on type in Belgium and
dickering for import licenses on parts to be assembled in Chile.

Each morning now I fight the traffic down Route 2 (an increas-
ingly formidable experience) to Polaroid where I am once again in
the process of building up an international business.

Since a normal year includes three or four trips abroad, I am par-
ticularly jealous of my time at home. My pet project (so I'm told)
is joining nothing I can possibly avoid. Vacations find me at the
camp at Bare Hull Pond in Harvard doing a little swimming, fish-
ing, boating and praying I won’t break my neck on water skis. The
number one project, however, is holding down the hammock.

All in all, it’s been a wonderful life. I wish I had the opportunity

to do it all over again.

+ DONALD FRANCIS WOODS

 

_BoRN: June 7, 1913, Lynn, Mass, parents: Charles Francis Woody Anna
Knollin.

[1515 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935
PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1936.
marrieD: Ruth Woods. cuitpren: Cynthia; Leslie.
piep: Oct. 25, 1948, Lynn, Mass.
wipow: Mrs. Donald F. Woods, 28 Elsmere Ave, Lynn, Mass.

AFTER leaving college Woods was a consulting engineer with
Stone & Webster in Boston and then served as an adviser on in-
dustrial economics in Japan for the U.S. government. He was a
member of the Harvard Club of Lynn and the National Engineer-
ing Society. He was survived by his wife and children.

++ JACK NELSON WRIGHT

 

porn: Feb, 16, 1911, Poughkeepsie, N.Y, parents: John Greenwood Wright,
Eva Kingkade.

PREPARED AT: Brooklyn Preparatory School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933.

piep: Aug. 29, 1934, Jamaica, N.Y,

JACK NELSON WRIGHT spent a year and a half with our Class.

He was survived by his father.

[ 1516 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM WEBB WRIGHT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 219 Chemung St., Corning, N.Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Corning Glass Works, Corning, N.Y.

BORN: Oct. 30, 1914, New York, N.Y. parents: William Wesley Wright,
Gertrude R. Webb.

PREPARED AT: Utica Free Academy, Utica, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., 19353 M.B.A., 1937-

mMarrigp: Angela Tracy Clarke, Sept. 20, 1942, Utica, N.Y. cuitpren: William
Wallace, Feb. 17, 1949; Elizabeth Tracy, Dec. 19, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Senior market analyst, Corning Glass Works, pressed and blown

glass.

MEMBER OF: American Statistical Association; American Marketing Associa-
tion; Harvard Club of New York; Corning Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Book reviews in Journal of Marketing and Journal of the
American Statistical Association.

I ARRIVED in Corning by a fairly indirect route. My first move
was across the river to the Business School. Graduating two years
later, I went to Washington as assistant in statistics at American
University. After a few months, I was fortunate enough to join the
Department of Justice, doing economic and statistical analysis for the
Anti-Trust Division. This provided nearly two years (19 38-39) of
interesting, highly instructive and often exhausting work as a statf
member on the anti-trust prosecution of the Aluminum Company of
America in New York and Washington. Lack of civil service status
led eventually to my leaving the Justice Department to become an
economic analyst with Dun & Bradstreet in New York. I supple-
mented this by a flurry of political activity. In addition to political
writing, I had several speaking engagements in Manhatran includ-
ing a debate with New York's pr esent mayor, Robert Wagner.
The debacle at Dunkirk prompted my joining the Seventh Regi-
ment of New York. Here to my surprise T became a corporal and

[1517 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

instructor of fire-control mathematics within four months. In
February, 1941, federalization of the regiment began five years of
military service, Early in our tour, the Seventh, with substantial
help from several Harvard men, put on a first-class army show, to
which I contributed a song. It took another year to become sergeant
and engaged. Later in 1942 I continued my progress and acquired
a commission and a wife on successive days. My bride and I went
to Texas for a year, after which I shipped to the ETO for twenty-
two months, The highlights of an uneventful war were the Bulge
— which I was north of —and Paris— where I bought my wife
a hat, visited the Louvre and attended a piano concert at the Salle
Playel.

Upon return to inactive duty in January, 1946, I rejoined Dun
& Bradstreet in New York to take up market research and begin
a Ph.D. program at Columbia. Three years later I switched in
frustration to F, W. Dodge. Arrival of my son also led to my aban-
doning my work at Columbia without a degree. In 1953 I again
switched jobs, this time to Architectural Forum and House & Home
as research manager. Here I spent an infuriating but highly instruc-
tive year and a half. My daughter also arrived just before Christ-
mas, 1953.

I finally parted company with Time, Inc., in 1954 and became
associated with Corning Glass Works as a senior market analyst.
Here my work is enjoyable, my associations stimulating and my
surroundings attractive. What time I can spare from my work I
give to my children, do-it-myself projects around my house, oc-
casional sessions as a jazz planist with several Glass Works col-
leagues — to Scouts, school affairs and the maintenance of my status
as a Reserve officer. My family seem to thrive under this regimen.
My wife and I now look forward with pleasure to the 1960 Re-
union,

[1518 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HENRY WILLIAM WULFFE, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 727 S. Chicago Ave., Kankakee, Il.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kankakee Co. Title & Trust Co., 151 N. Schuyler Ave. Kanka-
kee, III.

BORN: July 6, 1913, Chebanse, Ill. parents: Henry William Wulffe, Nellie
Porch.

PREPARED AT: Chebanse High School, Chebanse, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932.

OCCUPATION: Finance.

NO questionnaire returned.

WILLIAM KEBLINGER WYANT, JR.

 

HOME apprEss: 7801 Lafon Pl., University City 30, Mo.

OFFICE appRESS; St. Louis Post-Dispatch, St, Louis 1, Mo,

BoRN: May 1, 1913, Greensboro, N.C, parents: William Keblinger Wyant,
Rose Homan.

PREPARED AT: Boys’ High School, Atlanta, Ga.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREE: A.B, Cem laude, 1935.

[ 1519 ]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 19394

agarriep: Carita Laurence, July 23;
ary, fume 21, 1957 7
Rosemary, J ‘Anderson Wyant, ‘40; Dominic Homan Ww
Yanr, ?

HARVARD BROTHERS: Joseph
sz

LLB, $3-_
occupation: Newspaper

OFFICES HELD: V
Company, Adanta,
PUBLICATIONS: Articles an

IT és difficult to realize that a quarter century has passed since th
four pleasant and rewarding years in Grays pet all and Dunster Hou °
T have been exceedingly fortunate 1n the time since then, takin se ,
1 in all. [have seen much of the world and its peoples. My health
s been excellent, and I have some vestigial remnants of the ;
sctual curiosity and zest for knowing about things that Was
Zened in all of us during our stay at Harvard. °
‘hat brief and halcyon period after leaving college and before
War II, I worked a couple of years for the Savannah (Ga.)
7 News as a reporter, and another year or so on the co
he Atlanta Journal, Meanwhile I had joined the National
ty artillery unit was called into federal service early in
ra succession of southern tent camps and forays into
of Louisiana, I went overseas early in 1944, to North
ade the invasion of southern France as a staff officer
with Headquarters, Seventh Arm I’ aS secretary to the
intil about February, 1946.

Atlanta and the Journal, I worked as an editorial

as Washington correspondent for the Journal. It

mn that I met Carita Laurence, whom I persuaded

€, We were married in Washington in 1949; in
ional Cathedral, on a very hot day in July. For

in Atlanta, where I had returned as a member

rial staff. Early in 1951 we moved to St. Louls

We arrived in a blizzard, but since then St.
y for us and having been through a few St.
e learned to appreciate the winters. Out

Ww eight years old and learning to play the

f 1051,
0 house with blue trim, in the suburbs.

4 magnificent elm tree, The kitchen 35
r the washer and drier on the unheate

'never have been put there, of courses
porch seemed the right place. Our

reporter, St. Louts Post-Dispatch.
"ice-presid
Ga., since 1946.

d short stories in various publications.

1520 |

oF > W hi
1949 ashington, D.c, CHILp: Car;
Ita

? So,

enc and member of board, Wyant & Sons p
aper

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

dishwasher does not work, either. Planned obsolescence seems to
have caught up with us. We do not have a television set and conse-
quently have had no trouble with picture tubes. We have a dog
named Jacques and a cat whose name 1 cannot bring to mind. \t
is a very small cat, gray and not yet well-mannered.
My wife is a charming and attractive woman and a great comfort
to me. She did not attend Harvard but is able to point out, tri-
umphantly, that President Pusey was once a faculty member at
Scripps College in California, which she attended. We share a mild
detestation for organizations and the conviction that Adlai Stven-
son would have made an excellent president of the United States.
When I came up to Harvard twenty-five years ago as a callow
youth, I had the intention of becoming a newspaperman. it isa
source of satisfaction to me that I carried out that intention. The
trade is declining, I am afraid, but even so it is a most interesting
way to spend the working day, It requires a degree of optimism,
and I have that at John Harvard’s knee. When the Fiftieth Annm-
versary Report is made, I hope to be able to make a better one.
After all, we are rather young to be turning in our scores. Let us

favor progress, fight decay and not be premature.

STANLEY MOORE WYMAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 295 Marsh St., Belmont, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 575 Mount Auburn St., Cambridge, Massy Massachusetts Gen-

eral Hospital, Boston, Mass.
BORN: Aug. 3, 1913, Cambridge, Mass, parents: John Palinet Wyman, “34,
Lelia Cummings Moore, . |
PREPARED AT; Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-193§. DEGREES: A.B, 1935; MDa 1949.
MarnieD; Jessi¢ Elinor Brooks, July 23, 1945, Bologna, Valy, capa ys Stephen

Lugat |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935
Brooks, Aug. 19, 1946; Jean, Aug. 23, 1947; Martha, Feb. 11, 1950; Barbara
May 8, 1951. |
occupation: Radiologist, Massachusetts General Hospital.

OFFICES HELD; Secretary, 1952-55, president, 1959-60, New England Roentgen
Ray Society; assistant clinical professor of radiology, Harvard Medical

School, since 1955; councillor, since 1958, chairman, Section of Radiology,
Massachusetts Medical Society. -

MEMBER oF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
New England Roentgen Ray Society; American Roentgen Ray Society;

Radiological Society of North America; Cambridge Medical Improvement
Association.

pupLications: “Dissecting aneurysm of the thoracic aorta: Its roentgen recog-
nition,” American Journal of Roentgenology, 1957; “Angiocardiography
as an aid to identification of non-resectable pulmonary carcinomas,” with
E. W. Wilkins, Jr., Journal of Thoracic Surgery, April, 1958, “Use and
abuse of X-rays.” Chapter 10, Fractures and Other Injuries, The Year
Book Publishers, Chicago, 1958; “Periureteric fibrosis: Radiographic diag-
nosis,” with D. G. Millard, Radiology, February, 1959.

IN my daily life as a doctor I have learned the delights and merits
of an instrument, used in other professions and trades it is true, but
particularly valuable to a doctor and especially a radiologist. This
instrument is the “retrospectoscope,” a tool which allows one now
to see the past with greater clarity and perspicacity than was possible
when the past was present, This is a very selective instrument per-
mitting one to see only the things which one wishes. Through this
“scope” let us review the last twenty-five years.

Medical School is now a dim blur of whirling, intermingling labs
and lectures, exams and clinics with few outstandingly bright inter-
ludes. This picture merges into the greater confusion with even
less sleep known as internship and residency. What would have
happened if bombs hadn’t fallen in Hawaii in December, 1941, we'll
never know, but the following May, 1942, saw the end of higher
training in radiology and the beginning of four years of life as a
radiologist with Uncle Sam’s Army, most of the time (nearly three
years) spent on the sands of North Africa and in the icy mountains
of North Italy. This marked the beginning of my life, for during
it 1 met the lovely lady, an army nurse, who agreed to share my
problems from then on. It wasn’t the great privilege of X-raying
Sir Winston Churchill, then Prime Minister of Great Britain, or the
receipt of a Bronze Star for action with the Fifth Army in Italy
that thrilled me, but our marriage in Bologna, Italy, in 1945 that
marked the high point of my life.

The next major peak that the “retrospectoscope” shows is my

[ 1522 ]

a eee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

return to my medical alma mater Harvard and the Massachusctts

General Hospital as a member of the radiology staff at each institu-

tion, a happy union which has continued to date with increasing

reward and enjoyment on my part. Life has settled into a pleasant

routine of teaching, work and simple family life which seems to

move at a steadily increasing speed in all three fields, In this past

few years numerous points of interest can be seen such as the arrival

of our four children who now are entering into that magical age

known as teen-ageship, a phase which I find quite delightful. Joys
center around little things such as our pets which include a collie,
a golden retriever, a hamster, a parakeet and until recently a squirrel.
We are a close family sharing each other’s triumphs and disappoint-
ments, working and playing together. In the winter, occasional
weekends are spent skiing; in the summer, our little lake cottage
occupies the center of our lives. Most of all we seem to enjoy one
another’s company.

The most recent high spot has been my venture this past summer
from the ivory tower of university life into the relatively uncharted
seas of the private office practice of radiology. I have been unusually
fortunate in being able to retain my post as radiologist at the \fassa-
chusetts General Hospital and my role as assistant clinical professor
of radiology at Harvard Medical School. This is somewhat akin to
having one’s cake and eating it too and my only hope is that this
does not produce any form of indigestion.

What place has Harvard played in this pattern? It is presumptuous
to attempt to answer this but I believe that Harvard provided better
background training than might have been possible elsewhere.
Certainly the one outstanding lesson that remains with me from
those years is the value of independence of thought and action
which can be taught only in a true university. May this never cease
to be Harvard’s credo. When the time comes, I hope that my son
may feel the desire to be exposed to this atmosphere.

'

[ 1523 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

SHEPARD HENRY YESLEY

    

2

ida a

as Pr . * /
~ ft
‘ ,
HOME ADDRESS: 64 Varick Rd., Waban 68, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Yesley Bros. Sales Co., 302 Walnut St., Newtonville 60, Mass.

BoRN: June 10, 1913, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Louis M. Yeslawsky, Bessie
Hurwitz.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1935. DEGREES: A.B., Cum laude, 1935; M.B.A. 1937.

MarRieD: Barbara Cohen, June 4, 1941, Boston, Mass. comp: Nan Ellen, June
30, 1945.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Julian Leon Yesley, 29, LL.B., 32; Herschel Irwin Yesley,
"30, M.B.A., 732.

occuPaTion: Food broker.

oFFicks HELD: President, P.T.A., Religious School, 1954-56; program chairman,
P.T.A., Elementary School, 1956-57.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Business School Association.

AS I look back to Commencement Week of 1935, I can still visual-
ize the parade of the ever-so-old-looking men who comprised the
Twenty-fifth Reunion Class, It is amazing how, as the years passed,
the “boys” of the Twenty-fifth Reunion Class seemed to look so
much younger each year. Now as I look at my classmates they
hardly seem old enough to be out of college twenty-five years. But
here we are at that milestone.

Turning back the pages of history —my history — for twenty-
five years, I note a first phase of two years at the Harvard Business
School and five at Filene’s of Boston working up through the ranks.
Uneventful years they were except for developments that led to the
most important plunge into matrimony with Barbara Cohen,
Wellesley ’40, a very happy milestone in my life.

The war brought me back to Harvard — five months? residence
in Thayer Ng1 attending the Naval Communications School. There
followed thereafter two years of sea duty in the Southwest Pacific

[ 1524 |

nets C1 AAA LTE LECT IT TEE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

aboard the USS Octans, carrying fresh and frozen provisions for
the Seventh Fleet from New Zealand and Australia to the Solomons,
New Guinea and the Philippines.

Highlight of the late war period was the arrival of Nan Ellen
Yesley, now fourteen, pretty, tall, blond and blue-eyed — and
anxiously awaiting the Reunion.

The close of the war brought me into the food brokerage busi-
ness with my brother, specializing in vegetable oils, ripe olives and
popcorn, Most exciting has been our development of a handsome
export business of raw popcorn and popcorn machinery to Purope,
which requires frequent trips abroad. I have one request of my
traveling classmates — eat a lot of popcorn when traveling through
Europe. Every little bit helps.

As I look back over the postwar period my attention focuses on
the year 1952. That was the year we purchased a wooded lot in
Waban, Massachusetts, and built a new Georgian colonial home.
That was the start of many battles with nature — the hurricane that
knocked down many trees, the crab grass and weeds that pose their
challenge each year, the flowers that do not bloom on time and those
that spread too fast, etc. I feel we now have the upper hand.

For relaxation I look forward to a duffer’s game of golf during
three seasons and a little skiing during the fourth, At any time of
the year one is apt to see the three Yesleys bicycling through Wa-
ban, Frequent trips to various parts of this continent and Furepe

add spice to our life.

Our immediate objective is an exciting Reunion Week in Cam-
bridge and then to Europe for the summer (all three of us) to re-
cuperate — and to sell popcorn.

[ 1525 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

CURTIS ALBERT YOCOM

    

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Yocom Farms, R.F.D. 2, Chariton, Iowa.

BORN: Jan. 15, 1913, Chariton, Iowa. parents: Albert Lee Yocom, Jennie
Marie Curtis.

PREPARED AT: Chariton High School, Chariton, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1933. DEGREE: S.B. (Univ. of Iowa).

markiED: Shirlie Redetzke, Nov. 1, 1947, Chariton, Iowa, cHILDREN: Curtis
Albert, Jr, Nov.:22, 1949; Brandt, Aug. 14, 1952.

occupaTION: Farming, meat processing; restaurateur.

OFFICES HELD: President, Pan-Hellenic Fraternity Council, 1934-35; chairman,
Lucas County Young Republicans, 1936-38, Fourth District Young Re-
publicans, 1938-42; senior counselor, Chariton United Commercial Travel-
ers, 1950; president, Lucas County Shrine Club, 1950-51; member, board of
directors, 1951-6o, executive board, 1958-60, Iowa Restaurant Association,
Lucas County Republican chairman, 1952-58; sergeant-at-arms, Republican
delegation, National Republican Convention, San Francisco (lowa);
member executive board, Iowa for Eisenhower, 1952; member board of
directors, Chariton Rotary Club; Fourth District Republican chairman,
1958; member State Central Committee, Jowa Republican Party; member
executive board, Lucas County Shrine Club; president, Gourmet Club,
since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Delta Tau Delta Fraternity, Rotary Club of Chariton (senior
active); Masons, Knights Templar, ZaGay Zig Shrine, Des Moines, Iowa;
Lucas County Shrine Club; American Legion; United Commercial Travel-
ers; Lakeview Golf & Gun Club; Des Moines Club; University of Iowa
Century Club; University of Iowa I Club, Iowa Alumni Association, Iowa
City Gourmet Club; lowa Hereford Association.

PusLications: His Gourmet Secrets Cook Book.

AFTER graduation from the University of Iowa with a chemistry
and general science major, I founded the Yocom Laboratories. This
company manufactured and distributed drug and cosmetic products
throughout the country, with wholesale drug and beauty supply
houses as their outlet.

[ 1526 ]

A REET ELLEN CEL TEL ITI
. pany see
i AN

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

As a gay bachelor, I entered the U.S. Navy and was commissioned
an ensign. After attending several gunnery schools and complet-
ing thirty-seven months of active sea duty, I was released to in-
active duty from the Navy in February, 1946, as a lieutenant.

Returning to Chariton, Iowa, I took over the operation of our
family farms and at this writing I am still living here and above
all things really enjoying these out-door spaces.

Here at Yocom Farms we have the usual farm work of raising
lowa hogs, fat cattle, corn, and hay, and the many duties that com-

prise the day-to-day life of farming. However, we made a specialty
of raising turkeys, wild game birds (pheasants, wild mallards, geese,
Bob White quail, chukar partridge) along with a herd of registered
Herefords. Registered Herefords meant prize calves that had to be
pampered and taken to cattle shows to be shown and sold at auction.
Handling these cattle and their breeding papers meant plenty of
extra work. The problems of raising game birds, keeping breeder
flocks and operating a hatchery were minor compared to the chal-

lenge of processing, quick-freezing, packaging and then finding a

market for them. As these different game birds were finished on

Jowa corn and assorted grains just prior to Christmas time, it made

this business a natural for “farm fresh” gifts for those hard-to-please

business friends as Christmas gifts. We learned by experience that
these could be sold most successfully by using direct mail and de-
livery of the gifts beautifully wrapped and packed i in drv ice.

In January, 1951, we decided to handle our “farm fresh” food
by serving it, this meant the building of the Curt Yocom Restau-
rant at the University of Iowa in Iowa City. This restaurant fea-
tured “farm fresh” turkeys, pheasants and wild mallards, break-
fasts with Yocom Farm hickory-smoked ham, bacon, and country
sausage, thick U.S. choice steaks, hickory-smoked loin back pig
ribs and barbecued beef loins, along with other “farm fresh” foods
for the dinner menu. So now we ” hauled in refrigerated trucks a
hundred and forty miles to Jowa City our farm products that were
prepared and ready to be served to the people in the lively town of
Iowa City. With the actual farm murals as the decor, our Cure
Yocom Restaurant has shown a steady growth and, with several

expansions, we now have a seating capacity of 350 and on thove

big Iowa football days and special occasions our walls are bulging
with hundreds of customers. Being closely associated with the

University of Iowa athletic department has given me a great ad-
vantage to enjoy Big Ten athletics at the best. Yes, lowa won the

[1527 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1935

Rose Bow! game in Pasadena in 1956 and 1958 and this rooter was
on hand; and I have made a hobby of seeing every Iowa game at
home and traveling with the exception of three since 1951.

This fall right during the busy season of football and Christmas
packaging sales period, I found myself embroiled in my hobby of
working in politics, Due to the death of our Congressman (Demo-
crat), the Governor called a special election for December 15. As
the Fourth District Republican chairman, I found my time and
efforts being almost completely turned to helping in the campaign.
Yes, we regained the congressional seat for the Republican party,
and although the hobby of working in politics hurt my hobby of
December quail hunting, I feel the time spent worthwhile. I feel
certain that the time spent being interested in the operation of our
government is much more worthwhile than that spent looking for
those cute little birds and enjoying the thrill of a pointer working
at his best in the field, even though hunting does have its benefits
for our health.

As I am making this report for the Twenty-fifth, it makes me
realize how lucky this writer is so far in this life. Yes, even though
I was married far too late in life to a beautiful California girl, I still
feel that | may have a chance to catch up. My health at this stage
is still perfect, my two young sons, Curt, Jr., and Brandt, are rugged,
outdoor boys with keen desires for that body contact and all type
athletics, my wife Shirlie is most thoughtful of me, and my mother
and father celebrated their golden wedding anniversary on Christ-
mas Day. Yes, I feel that I am lucky at this writing.

NORMAN LESLIE YOOD

  

HOME ADDRESS: 1242 Knox Rd., Wynnewood, Pa.
orrice appress: U.S. Naval Hospital, Philadelphia 45, Pa.

[ 1528 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1935
MEMBER OF: Bear Hill Golf Club; East Middlesex Harvard Club; Massachu-

setts State Pharmaceutical Association; Boston Druggists Association:

Melrose Lions Club; Melrose Chamber of Commerce; National Associa.

tion of Retail Druggists.
INASMUCH as I have written for the Fifteenth and Twentieth
Anniversary Reports, some of this account may be repetitive, Gradu-
ating during the depression as we did, I was one of the lucky ones
whose father owned a small business. Consequently I was offered a
position in the family retail pharmacy, which was the one business
I had always said I would avoid. After a year of being general
handyman, I decided I had better study pharmacy. I enrolled in
night school in Medford, Massachusetts, and passed the State Board
of Pharmacy exams about sixteen months later. This, at least, gave
me a profession and assured me of being able to eat three meals a
day. I worked for my father as a pharmacist from 1937 to 1940.
When his health became poor, he turned over the management of
the store to me. This was excellent training, for he died in 1944
leaving the management and ownership of the business in my hands.
In 1951, I acquired a second pharmacy in my home town of Mel-
rose, owned it for four years, and sold it. In 1956, I conceived the
idea of a highway drive-in pharmacy, which I built on U.S. Route 1
in Peabody, Massachusetts. This store was one of, if not the first
of its kind in New England, and it has been successful enough so
that 1 have now sold the original family business. My activities are
now confined to this last and best location. Real estate has also been
one of my interests,

Enough of mundane matters; let’s get on with the more personal
chronicle. I continue to live a rather normal suburban life with the
same wife and the same two children. My older son, Leighton, Jr.,
is in his junior year at Lawrence Academy in Groton, Massachu-
setts, and my younger son, Herbert, is a freshman at Melrose High
School, The only other member of our family is a not-too-bright
boxer who is inclined to wander around the city at odd hours.

From the above list of activities, you can see that I have spent a
great deal of time in community work over the years. At present,
though, I am not particularly in any phase of this except School
Committee work. For some reason, I seem to have less time for

these outside interests each year and also seem to be busier with my
own business as each month passes,

Although I recall with pleasure my years at Harvard, I have
never wished myself back at college, I truly believe I have enjoyed

[ 1530 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my adult life far more than I ever did my student days. As we have
approached middle age, Marjorie and I have done a bit of traveling,
having gone through Florida and the south each winter for five

ears. Before that, we went on three cruises to the West Indies, all
of which has been educational and entertaining.

HORATIO JOHN YOUNG

ApDpREss: Bethel, Maine.
BORN: Nov. 20, 1912, Codrog, Newfoundland. parents: William Young,

Deborah House.
PREPARED AT: Governor Dummer Academy, South Byfield, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1931-1932. DEGREE: M.D. (Tufts Coll.) 1939.
MARRIED, CHILDREN: Two.
OCCUPATION: Medicine.

NO questionnaire returned.

i GEORGE DAVID ZIMMERMAN

 

BORN: Feb. 10, 1914, Reading, Pa. parents: Herman Webster Zimmerman,

Anna Ange.
PREPARED AT: Reading High School, Reading, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1935. DEGREE: S.B., Cu71 laude, 1935.
MARRIED: Maryon Elizabeth Stafford, May 30, 1936, New York, N.Y.
DIED: March 22, 1955, Bethlehem, Pa.
wipow: Mrs. George D. Zimmerman, R.D. 4, Bethlehem, Pa.

GEORGE DAVID ZIMMERMAN graduated with our Class.
While at college he was a resident of Winthrop House and held
a Harvard Club of Reading scholarship and the Parmenter scholar-
ship. For our Fifteenth Anniversary Report he wrote that he was
employed as a sales engineer for the Bethlehem Steel Company. He

was survived by his wife.

[1531 ]

